Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14768
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1496-IN
JUNE 29, 1995
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORTr
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUMI IRRIGATION  lI PROJI0r.   i!
(CREDIT 1496-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency: Rupee (Rs.)
Rate of Exchange:
Appraisal (February 1984):                    US$1   Rs.i n sIO
Intervening Years (1985-1993 average):        US$1 = Rs. 1 8 3f5
Completion Year (1994):                       US$! - Rs 31.'
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and GOG: April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC                             Area Development Commissioner
CADA                            Command Area Development Authority
CCA                             Cultivable Command Area
CDO                             Central Design Organization
CWC                             Central Water Commission
ERR                             Economic Rate of Return
FPI                             Foundation for Public Interest
GAU                             Gujarat Agricultural University
GOG                             Government of Gujarat
GOI                             Government of India
IDA                             lnternational Development Association
M & E                           Monitoring and Evaluation
MIP                             Medium Irrigation Project
MSDC                            Minor System Design Cell
NWRD                            Narmada Water Resources Department
O & M                           Operation and Maintenance
PAFs                            Project-Affected Families
PCR                             Project Completion Report
PPM                             Project Planning & Monitoring
QCU                             Quality Control Unit
R & R                           Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RWS                             Rotational Water Supply
SMS                             Subject-Matter Specialist
SSP                             Sardar Sarovar Projects
WALMI                           Water and Land Management Institute
WUA                             Water Users Association



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India
Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project (Credit 1496-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the India--Gujarat Medium
Irrigation 11 project (Credit 1496-IN, approved in FY84). Parts I and III were prepared by the
FAO/Bank Cooperative Program for the South Asia Regional Office and Part II by the Borrower.
The Gujarat Medium Irrigation II project (MIP II) aimed to complete 27 of 29
irrigation sub-projects not completed under MIP 1, its predecessor (Credit 808, approved FY78). MIP
II's appraisal estimated that 45 percent of the investments had already been made. Under the project,
Gujarat undertook to operate the sub-projects by "rotational water supply" (RWS) to improve the
equity and reliability of service. Rehabilitation provisions were added to bring the treatment of people
who lost or would lose property up to prescribed IDA standards. Progress in rehabilitating people
who lost property was modest until IDA began making credit extensions contingent on better
treatment; then it was substantial. Prior to the closing date, all the landed families had received land
or cash compensation; 12% of the non-landed families had received economic rehabilitation assistance
and an actioni plan had been presented for the rehabilitation of the rest within three years. However,
supervision ended with project closure.
Between 1985 and 1987, the borrower concentrated its funds and energy on drought
relief, and neglected the project. Designs were changed to divert water from farming to supply
drinking water. Even in noni-drought years, implementation was slow and difficult. In 1989, after
five years of debate, RWS began to be introduced. In 1991, with substantial IDA funds remaining
undisbursed, unfinished irrigation works from a cancelled project (Credit 1011, approved FY80) were
added to MIP 11. Nevertheless, 15.6 percent of the MIP II credit was cancelled. When the project
closed in FY94, four sub-projects were complete, 24 were expected to be completed within three
years, and one had been dropped. Real unit costs were 51 percent above appraisal estimates, and 16
percent of project costs went to sub-projects transferred from Credit 1011.
Estimated project benefits are based on the three completed sub-projects using RWS
and on one up-graded sub-project. Drinking water is priced conservatively at its value in irrigation. If
use of RWS continues to spread, uncounted benefits will be large. Project outcome is rated as
"satisfactory." The return to MIP II investments is estimated at 21 percent. However, the re-estimated
economic return to MIP I and MIP 11 combined is 9 percent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
Persuading the Irrigation Department (ID) to use RWS was a major institutional
achievement. Therefore, despite poor implementation, institutional development is rated as
"substantial." Due to minimal achievements in empowering irrigators or recovering costs, there are
doubts about future operation and maintenance. The commitment of the ID to continued use of RWS
is also open to question. Therefore, sustainability is rated as "uncertain."
The PCR provides an adequate assessment of this complex project. The means, and
expected positive effects, of introducing RWS, coupled with the project's unfinished rehabilitation
business justify an audit.
Attachment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1496-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................................................                                       i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .................................................... iii
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .................. ................... I
lI. Project Identity .
2. Background                                             .1
3.  Project Objectives and Description .1
4.  Project Design and Organization.                                                             3
5. Project Implementation.                                                                       5
6. Project Results .                                                                             1
7. Project Sustainability .13
8. Bank Performance.                                                                            14
9. Borrower Performance .17
10. Project Relationships .                                                                     17
11. Consulting Services .18
12. Project Documentation and Data .18
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..........                     ................. 19
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



PART 111. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ............................... 33
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .33
2. Project Timetable .34
3.  Loan/Credit Disbursements .35
4. Project Implementation                     ..35
A.    Key Indicators of Physical Progress Activity-wise .35
B .    CCA of Individual Sub-Projects and their Development Cost .38
5.  Project Cost and Financing               ..39
A. Project Cost .39
B. Project Financing .40
6. Project Results                        . . .40
A. Direct Benefits    ..40
B. Economic Impact .41
C.    Financial Impact              ........................-.----.41
D.    Studies ........................                 ----....------...--.--.--.-.-.41
7. Status of Covenants .42
8. Use of Bank Resources                  ..45
A. Staff Inputs .45
B.    Missions ................................................... 45
C. Costs ...
TABLES
i.    Economic Analysis-Overall (With Sunk Costs) ............................................   47
2.    Economic Analysis-Overall (Without Sunk Costs) ............................................ 48
3.    Economic Analysis-Und Sub-Project (With Sunk Costs) ..................................... 49
4.    Economic Analysis-Und Sub-Project (Without Sunk Costs) .................................. 50
5.    Economic Analysis-Sukhi Sub-Project (With Sunk Costs) .................................... 51
6.    Economic Analysis-Sukhi Sub-Project (Without Sunk Costs) .*--.---.---.-.--52
7.    Economic Analysis-Watrak Sub-Project (With Sunk Costs) .53
8.    Economic Analysis-Watrak Sub-Project (Without Sunk Costs) .54
9.  Economic Analysis-Shetrunji Sub-Project .55
ANNEX 1. ECONOMIC REASSESSMENT .57
ANNEX 2. ROTATIONAL WATER SUPPLY .84
ANNEX 3. RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION (R&R) .88
MAP IBRD 18107



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1496-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Gujarat Mediurr Irrigation II
Project (MIP II) in India for which Credit 1496-IN in the amount of SDR164.3 million (US$172.0
million equivalent) was approved on June 12, 1984. SDR15.0 million and SDR4.9 million were
cancelled on December 5, 1991 and May 1, 1993, respectively. The Credit was closed on March
31, 1994, four years and three months behind schedule. The final disbursement was made on
June 29, 1994 and SDR5.7 million was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission which visited India in June 1994. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. PCR
preparation which commenced in June 1994 was based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) and legal documents, supervision reports, project files and correspondence, field visits
and discussions with appropriate officers of the Narmada Water Resources Department (NWRD)
and farmers, and interview with Bank staff associated with the project.



I
I



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1496-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The five-year Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project (MIP II) (Credit 1496-IN)
followed the Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project (Credit 808-IN). At appraisal, the three main
components were: (i) completion of 23 ongoing medium irrigation projects (MIPs); (ii) completion
of ongoing modernization works in six sub-projects; and (iii) introduction of rotational water
supply (RWS), training, studies, monitoring and evaluation, and institutional strengthening. The
objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the standards of design and construction; and (b)
introduce an efficient, reliable and equitable water management system in each of the 28 sub-
projectsI in order to enhance crop production and farm incomes. The project has also sought to
improve the economnic rehabilitation of families displaced by the construction of dams prior to the
start of the project.
Project Implementation
2.        The Credit was approved on June 12, 1984, and became effective on September 21,
1984, with the original closing date of December 31, 1989. After five extensions, it was closed on
March 31, 1994, four years and three months behind schedule.
3.        Project implementation got off to a slow start primarily because of inadequate
budgetary allocation, which in turn was caused by extensive and successive droughts for three
years from 1985 to 1987, preceded by unprecedented and destructive floods in 1983 (leading to
redesign of spillways at all dams), and diversion of Department staff to drought scarcity programs.
Project implementation continued to experience further delays and considerable difficulties. One of
the sub-projects (Zankhari) was dropped and the implementation schedules were revised by
NWRD at regular intervals, starting from March 1987 and stretching to September 1988, March
1990, September 1991, and finally to April 1993. The revision in February 1991 involved
restructuring of the project which expanded its scope to include items that were included as
components under Gujarat Irrigation II Project (Credit 1011-IN), which closed on April 30, 1989.
The additions included: (i) continued support to the Water and Land Management Institute
(WALMI); (ii) completion of the Karjan Irrigation Scheme with a command area of 56,200 ha; (iii)
completion of the Saurashtra Coastal Salinity Ingress Control Scheme; (iv) completion of the
Machhu II Scheme covering 9,900 ha; and (v) Machhu I Dam strengthening. This revision was
intended to utilize credit savings arising from the MIP II project.
4.         All the 28 sub-projects continued from Credit 808-IN, and new additions in
September 1991 from Credit 1011-IN persistently lagged behind targets. Problems in land
acquisition for dams (particularly for Sipu) and canals (Panam, Watrak and Kalubhar), forest land
clearance (Mazam, Bhadar and Hadaf), problems with contractors (Kelia and Jhuj), reluctance of
1   One sub-project (Zankhari) was deleted from the project.



iv
NWRD in accepting the RWS criteria in initial years, delays in sanctions by the Government of
Gujarat (GOG) for tenders (Sipu and Machhu 1), price escalation following the Gulf crisis, and
late inclusion of some sub-projects like Karjan and Machhu II, were major factors in the slow
implementation of the project.
5.         Despite these difficulties. the physical achievements have, by and large, progressed
well. Dams and spillways were complete in all sub-projects except Sipu where they were 96
percent complete. Similarly, canals have been completed in 23 sub-projects, 93-99 percent
complete in four sub-projects and 59 percent complete in Kelia. However, the distribution
network has been complete in only seven sub-projects, 94-99 percent complete in 13 sub-projects,
80-89 percent complete in four sub-projects and below 40 percent complete in the rest. Field
channels have only been completed in seven sub-projects, 90-99 percent complete in nine sub-
projects, 80-90 percent complete in eight sub-projects and below 80 percent complete in the other
four sub-projects. Rotational water supply (RWS) has been fully implemented in Uben,
Dantiwada and Aji II and would be implemented in another nine sub-projects by 1995. By the
closing date, it was expected that the project would require an extra one to three years for
completion of remaining works.
6.         The economic rehabilitation component for project affected persons (PAPs) began
very late in the project. This has limited the full achievement of the rehabilitation objectives.
However, since 1990, the implementation record of the rehabilitation component, as agreed with
the Bank, has been fairly satisfactory. GOG has implemented all the actions specified in the SAR
in terms of institutional strengthening, rehabilitation planning on agreed lines, land for land to the
extent possible, alternative packages for rehabilitation -- fisheries development, project
employment, vocational training -- as well as evaluation studies of five sub-projects.
Project Results
7.         Only five sub-projects (four MIPs and one modernization scheme) have been
completed fully and the remaining 23 are at various stages of completion. Dams and canals were
virtually complete but the distribution network and field channels lag behind targets. They are
expected to be completed in the next three years. The total cultivable command area of the 28 sub-
projects was estimated at 354,100 ha at appraisal but revised to 340,500 ha (excluding sub-projects
transferred from Credit l01 1-IN) when actual land surveys were completed. It is reported that
areas receiving water are able to achieve better cropping patterns and highier crop yields. Expansion
of irrigated agriculture throughout the command area would generate increased agricultural
production and farm incomes for participating families. However, major cost increases are evident
in almost all sub-projects. The re-estimated economic rate of return of the project as a whole, with
and without sunk costs, which is detailed in Part 111/6B was about 9 percent and 21 percent, as
compared to the appraisal estimates of 30 percent and 43 percent respectively. To simplify and to
make it comparable with appraisal, both the costs and benefits of newly transferred sub-projects
from Credit 101 I-IN were excluded from economic evaluation.
8.         The lower Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at PCR was due to: (a) high cost increases
in both nominal and real terms; and (b) prolonged delays in accrual of benefits, which were not
offset by modest increases in yields of certain crops.
Project Sustainability
9.         Project sustainability basically hinges on the continuity of production benefits, which
are largely determined by a combination of better cropping patterns and intensity, higher crop
yields and a shift to a more remunerative crops. These in turn are influenced by the availability of



v
irrigation water. An assured supply of irrigation water would depend on: (a) having trained staff in
place together with adequate equipment to maintain the system; (b) ensuring that operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs are fully met; and (c) obtaining not only local acceptance but active local
support for the project to realize water use efficiency, minimize the risk of neglect, deterioration
and vandalism. The likelihood of meeting these requirements is a major challenge facing the GOG.
10.       Salinity and waterlogging problems have arisen in at least two sub-projects -- Watrak
and Panam -- and remedial measures have been taken. It is essential to monitor the environmental
impact of each sub-project and devise remedial measures as required.
Bank Performance
11.       In February 1991 when the project was restructured it was already two years beyond
initial Closing Date. Rather than loading this project with new components, it would have been
preferable to cancel the funds. However, this was not done because it was part of a broader
readjustment under the Gulf initiative.
Lessons Learned
12.       The main lessons learned from the implementation experience of the project are as
follows:
(i)        The inclusion of sub-projects in the later stages of the project period,
which is one of the main reasons for delay in the completion of MIP I is a
lesson already learnt but has not been applied to the follow-on MIP II
project where some five sub-projects were added when the project was
already two years beyond the original Closilg Date. While utilization of
credit savings is a major objective of this addition, owing to the
difficulties in counterpart funding it would have been prLudent to have had
them funded from other sources, instead of transferring theim to MIP II,
thereby delaying completion of other sub-projects and accrual of benefits
therefrom.
(ii)       Allocation of 0 & M funds by sub-project since 1992 is an innovation
and a significant improvement over the absence of allocatioi, in the past.
It should be encouraged in all future projects.
(iii)      As a priority activity, provision of drinking water was introduced into the
project in its later stages on a much larger scale than envisaged at
appraisal. This has led to some sub-projects not providing irrigation
water in one or two years, e.g. Und and Shetrunji.  The loss of
command area and expenditure on originally planned and constructed
distribution systems are difficult to quantify now but could have been
avoided by realistic forward planning. Overall water use planning as part
of the sub-sector study would be a useful input in future projects of a
similar nature.
(iv)       Solutions to some project problems depended on the willingness of GOG
to address difficult sub-sector and state-wide issues which could not be
resolved at project level, e.g. water rates, 0 & M funding, and staffing.
The Bank should ensure that agreed policies and conditionalities are
realistic and implementable. If during implementation they prove



vi
otherwise, these should then be amended or deleted from the Legal
Agreements.
(v)        The need for upgrading technical performance is clearly demonstrated by
the project, particularly in the area of ensuring adequate maintenance,
better water management, good quality of construction, and securing full
economic rehabilitation of communities displaced by the construction of
dams.  The Bank needs to pay more attention to design and
implementation of training components and set up firm M&E criteria in
project design.
(vi)       Some of the reforms implicit in "command area development", initiated
by GOI several years before the project was approved in 1984, covered
more extensive lining of canals, improved construction standards,
regulated outlets serving irrigable areas on larger than 8 ha on average,
compulsory land development below that outlet, rotational water supplies
and increased water charges. While it is hard to know at this time
whether the reform measures were successful or not in the context of
MIP II, the Bank's positive support to investment in irrigation proved
valuable to Gujarat's (or India's) drive to increase foodgrain output.
Irrigation costs were also large enough for this sector to provide an ideal
channel for resource transfer.
(vii)      A five-year implementation period was for too optimistic, given the
unprecedented flood in 1983 and severe droughts during 1985-1987.
During future preparation of irrigation projects in drought prone states
like Gujarat, it is desirable to include an allowance of time for shortage of
funds resulting from droughts and floods.  Competition with other
projects which may get higher priority for availability of scarce resources
need also be adequately assessed (e.g. SSP and domestic, municipal and
industrial water).
(viii)     The appraisal had overestimated the capability of the NWRD to complete
the required implementation of distribution networks in accordance with
RWS principles within five-year project period. The complete shift from
the "Shehpali" system (followed by the Gujarat State for many decades)
to  RWS  system  required several follow-up steps including the
overcoming of inertia and reluctance associated with a full changeover,
modification of state-wide legal framework, mobilization of farmers'
willingness to accept and participate in the new system, training of
planning and design staff as well as farmers, and establishment of
farmers' organizations for active participation. Given this reality of
managing the widely dispersed sub-projects, a more realistic
implementation period should have been prepared at appraisal and the
Bank should have looked into the possibility of improving the existing
system rather than dictating a complete change.
(ix)       There is a need to address all R  &  R and environmental issues
comprehensively at preparation and appraisal of the project and to arrive
at agreed actions to address these issues in a manner consistent with the
Bank's operational directives.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1496-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name     :     Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project
Credit No.             1496-IN
RVP Unit               South Asia
Country               India
Sector           :     Agriculture
Sub-sector            Irrigation
2. Background
2.1        The Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project (Credit 1496-IN) was a follow-up to the
Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project (Credit 808-IN) which enabled Bank involvement in the
development of medium irrigation projects that individually are too small to justify Bank
participation. The follow-up (Phase II) project was to support the completion of 29 sub-projects
(23 medium irrigation projects and 6 modernization schemes) initiated under the (Phase I) Gujarat
Medium Irrigation Project, and the introduction of an efficient, reliable and equitable water
management system in each medium irrigation project (MIP).
2.2        The Bank Group has provided significant support for Gujarat's irrigation
development with four credits. The first credit in 1961 of US$4.5 million financed the
construction of Shetrunji's canal system. This was followed in 1970 with another credit of US$35
million for Kadana Irrigation Project. The subsequent projects -- Gujarat Irrigation Project for
US$85 million and Gujarat Irrigation II Project for US$175 million -- together financed about 80
percent of Gujarat's annual irrigation investments outside the Narmada Development. The
Narmada Sardar Sarovar Water Delivery and Drainage Project (US$150 million) and the Narmada
Sagar Dam and Power Project (US$300 million) (SSP) were approved in March 1985, less than
one year after approval of this project and implemented concurrently.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The project was to complete the construction of the 29 sub-projects initiated under the
Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project (Credit 808-IN) to adequate standards and adopt in sub-projects
a rotational water supply system based on predetermined scheduling and equitable water allocation.
The project also sought to improve the economic rehabilitation of families displaced by the



2
construction of dams prior to the start of the project. As appraised, the main project components included:
I .    Construction Activities
1.     Medium irrigation projects. Each of the 23 MIPs was to include the
following works:
(a)    a storage dam, usually earthfill with a gated reinforced concrete spillway and
canal headworks;
(b)    a fully lined canal network that delivers water through outlets serving 8 ha
sub-chaks; and
(c)    a drainage network connected to natural drains.
These works were at various stages of construction on all sub-projects
except Zankhari, where only site investigation and construction of access
roads had started.
2.     Modernization. Modernization works that were underway in six schemes
included the lining of existing main and branch canals of the existing,
unlined distribution system originally designed to serve 40 ha chaks. The
systems were being extended with fully lined minors to supply regulated
outlets serving 8 ha sub-chaks. Improved control structures were included
to allow better regulation. The modernization works also included a major
modification to the Dantiwada storage facilities involving the construction of
an auxiliary spillway;
3.     Field channels and field drains. Unlined field channels linking the 8-ha
outlet in non-paddy areas with each individual holding, or where the holding
is smaller than I ha, to groups of holdings averaging about I ha which
would be constructed as a part of the project. Field drains would also be
provided where necessary;
4.     Main drainage. Out of the 29 sub-projects, six required improved drainage.
Provisions had been made for drainage improvements over the 30,000 ha at
an average cost of Rs.2,000/ha;
5.     Roads. All-weather access roads were to be provided along all main and
secondary canals down to the 40-ha chak outlet. Motorcycle access would
be provided to the 8-ha sub-chak outlet;
6.     Communications. Provision was included for a radio telephone network for
each sub-project;
7.     Equipment and vehicles. Equipment was to be financed covering heavy
construction plant, small-scale compaction machines, operation and
maintenance (O&M) equipment, general maintenance equipment,
communications equipment and equipment for training.



3
II.    Training. Studies. Institutional Strengthening and Introduction of Rotational
Water Supply (RWS)
I.     Training. Funds were to be provided for training in mechanical plant
maintenance, rotational water supply, and vocational training for displaced
persons. In addition, provisions had been made for improving the facilities
of the demonstration farm at Thasta in order to make it suitable for training
farmers in RWS. Water management study tours would also be funded;
2.     Studies. Provisions had been made for studies on Zankhari sub-project,
monitoring and evaluation, and dam fisheries potential;
3.     Institutional strengthening. Provisions had been made for the creation of a
new minor system design cell; strengthening the quality control unit of the
Irrigation Department (ID) at Ghandinagar, creation of a Water Management
Unit under the Chief Engineer, Command Area Development Authority
(CADA); strengthening the Project Planning and Monitoring Cell of the ID,
and assistance with planning and monitoring of construction activities;
4.     Technical services. Provisions had been made for using the services of
universities and other specialized institutions and groups for the introduction
of computerized systems, data analysis and other specialized tasks;
5.     Introduction of R WS. Provision of Rs.350/ha was made for the
introduction of a rotational water supply in the project area; and
6.     Rehabilitation of the displaced persons under the project, including
vocational training and infrastructure works.
3.2        The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, was estimated at
US$344.1 million (Rs.3,716 million). The IDA credit of US$172 million was to finance the
foreign exchange component (US$45 million) and about 42 percent of local costs or nearly 50
percent of total project costs. The remaining portion of the cost was to be met by the Government
of Gujarat (GOG) from its development budget which included a GOI contribution.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        Project Design. The Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project design followed that of the
Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project which was conceived as a 'line-of-credit' project for the
construction of MIPs. The line-of-credit approach was adopted under MIP I as the only practical
way that IDA could support a project with a large number of scattered sub-projects. The MIP II
project did not require a line-of-credit approach as all the sub-projects were identified and appraised
under the MIP I project. The project design reflected the lessons learnt by GOI and the Bank under
the MIP I project and also from the Gujarat Irrigation II Project (Credit 101 1-IN) which was being
implemented at that time particularly with regard to RWS. The four critical lessons identified
during the first project were related to the management of implementation, long-term planning,
operational planning, and resettlement.
4.2        The main justification of Bank support to irrigation development in India was to assist
with the establishment of reliable, equitable and efficient irrigation systems which would satisfy the



4
requirements of modern agriculture. The project had sought to achieve this by construction
activities to adequate standards and introduction of improved water management practices to ensure
that each farmer would obtain a timely and reliable water supply. To fully realize the potential
created by the previous project, it became essential to finance the Phase II and complete
construction of the sub-projects initiated under the Phase I of the Gujarat Medium Irrigation
Project, and introduce RWS in Phase II.
4.3        The Phase II project also recognized that the main criterion for determining the
success of each sub-project and the project as a whole would be the implementation of a system
satisfying the water management objective. Similarly, the main criteria for assessing the success of
the construction activities were thought to be design to standards that would facilitate system
management and minimize operational costs and high quality of works to ensure their durability
and minimize maintenance costs. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) specified the criteria,
standards and procedures required to be followed by GOG regarding project planning,
construction and operation. It also required the establishment of a Dam Safety Panel of
independent experts: (a) to review the plans and designs of the dams and related structures under
the project and their adequacy; (b) to periodically review dams and related structures during design
and construction to see whether any new grounds for making changes have become apparent; and
(c) cause dams and related structures constructed under the project to be periodically inspected in
accordance with sound engineering practices. The SAR also provided for the rehabilitation and
resettlement of displaced persons in accordance with its guidelines. There was also a requirement
to create a Water Management Unit to carry out water management of completed sub-projects under
RWS principles. The overall project framework was thus responsive and appeared well-defined
for achieving the ultimate project objective vis-a-vis ensuring a reliable and equitable supply of
water to individual farmers under agreed RWS operations for enhanced production. However,
with hindsight, the capacity of the implementing agencies (both in human and financial resources)
was over-estimated at appraisal, resulting in delays.
4.4        Construction methods were broadly set out in the SAR. Although canal and dam
foundation excavation and canal and road embankment construction were to be carried out mostly
by manual labor, other works like compaction of dams, canal and road embankments, paving of
roads, some excavation (especially for drains) and stone-breaking operations were planned to be
done using mechanical equipment.
4.5        Project Preparation. The project was prepared by GOG with the participation of
GOI's Central Water Commission (CWC).  Descriptions and specifications for the main
components listed in the SAR were generally adequate as most project activities were a
continuation of works started under MIP I. Special attention was given to water management
based on rotational water supply, and resettlement. However, the appraisal report has over-
estimated the capability of the implementing agencies to complete the required implementation of
distribution networks in accordance with RWS principles within the time-frame of five years and
the Borrower's seriousness in implementing dam safety and rehabilitation.
4.6        Project Timing and Implementation. Timing of the project was opportune as the
phase I project closed on June 30, 1984. Implementation arrangements have generally followed a
pattern established under the phase I project though the lessons learned were still not fully
understood.



5
5. Project Implementation
5.1        General. The Credit was approved on June 12, 1984, and became effective on
September 21, 1984, with the original closing date of December 31, 1989. After five extensions,
it was closed on March 31, 1994, four years and three months behind schedule.
5.2        Project implementation got off to a slow start primarily because of inadequate
budgetary allocation, which, in turn, was caused by extensive and successive drought for three
years from 1985 to 1987, preceded by unprecedented and destructive floods in 1983 (leading to
redesign of spillways at all dams), and diversion of Department staff to drought scarcity programs
and to the newly-established SSP Projects. Project implementation continued to experience further
delays and considerable difficulties and competition for counterpart funds became acute with SSP.
One of the sub-projects (Zankhari) was dropped and the implementation schedules had to be
revised by Narmada Water Resources Department (NWRD) at regular intervals, starting from
March 1987 and stretching to September 1988, March 1990, September 1991 and finally to April
1993 because of lack of counterpart funds resulting in slow implementation. The revision in
February 1991, which was done two years after the original closing date, involved restructuring
of the project which expanded its scope to include items that were included as components under
Gujarat Irrigation II Project (Credit 1011-IN) which closed on April 30, 1989. The additions
included: (i) continued support to Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI); (ii)
completion of the Karjan Irrigation Scheme with a command area of 56,200 ha; (iii) completion of
the Saurashtra Coastal Salinity Ingress Control Scheme; (iv) completion of the Machhu II Scheme
covering 9,900 ha; and (v) Machhu I dam strengthening. The revision was intended to utilize
credit savings arising from the MIP II project and was part of the "Gulf Initiative" whose objective
was to enhance the Borrower's access to hard currencies. In retrospect, the restructuring did not
fully achieve the expected physical and financial results.
5.3        All the sub-projects -- 28 continued from Credit 808-IN and new additions in
September 1991 from Credit 1011-IN -- persistently lagged behind targets. Problems in land
acquisition for dams (particularly for Sipu) and canals (Panam, Watrak and Kalubhar), forest land
clearance (Mazam, Bhadar and Hadaf), problems with contractors (Kelia and Jhuj), reluctance of
NWRD in accepting the RWS criteria at initial stages, delays in sanctions by GOG for tenders
(Sipu and Machhu I), and late inclusion of some sub-projects like Karjan and Machhu II were
major factors in the slow implementation of the project together with chronic shortage of
counterpart funds. Despite these difficulties some project components have been completed or
nearly completed during the extended project period. As shown in Part IIV14A, dams and spillways
are complete in all sub-projects except Sipu where it is 96 percent complete. Similarly, canals have
been completed in 23 sub-projects, 93-99 percent complete in four sub-projects and 59 percent
complete in Kelia. However, the distribution network has been completed in only seven sub-
projects, 94-99 percent complete in 13 sub-projects, 80-89 percent complete in four sub-projects
and below 40 percent complete in the rest. Field channels have been completed in only seven sub-
projects, 90-99 percent complete in nine sub-projects, 80-90 percent complete in eight sub-projects
and below 80 percent complete in the other four sub-projects. RWS has been fully completed in
only three sub-projects -- Uben, Dantiwada and Aji II --, and would be completed in another nine
sub-projects by 1995. By the closing date, it was expected that the project would require an extra
one to three years for completion of remaining works.
5.4        The economic rehabilitation component, which began one year after the project's
expected Closing Date, has received increasing attention since 1990 due to conditionalities for
extending the credit further. This has limited the full achievement of the economic rehabilitation
objectives. However, since 1990, the implementation record of the rehabilitation component, as
agreed with the Bank, has been fairly satisfactory. GOG has implemented all the actions specified



6
in the SAR in terms of institutional strengthening, R&R planning on agreed lines, land for land to
the extent possible, alternative packages for rehabilitation -- fisheries development, project
employment, vocational training -- as well as evaluation studies of five sub-projects. The status of
the main elements of MIPs and modernization schemes are presented in Part III/4A and
summarized below.
5.5        Dams in 10 of the 22 sub-projects were completed prior to the start-up date, 11 were
completed under MIP II and only one dam (Sipu sub-project), which was 96 percent complete by
March 31, 1994, is expected to be completed by March 1995. The actual completion dates of the
21 completed dams are given in Part 111/4A.
5.6        Canals: The main and secondary canal systems in three sub-projects were completed
under MIP-I (Credit 808-IN), and 16 under MIP II. The canal systems of the three remaining sub-
projects are expected to be completed (Kelia, Deo and Watrak) between December 1994 and June
1995.
5.7        Distribution System: The distribution system and minor network in most of the sub-
projects (16 out of 22) was incomplete on March 31, 1994 when the credit closed. The level of
completion was 100 percent in 6 sub-projects, 80-99 percent in 14 sub-projects and less thall 50
percent in 2 sub-projects. The six sub-projects in which the distribution network was completed
are: Machhanala, Bhadar, Ver II, Kalubhar, Uben. and Demi II.
5.8        Field Channels: The progress on field channel construction was generallv slow and in
only four of the 22 MIPs was construction completed by March 1994. In the remainilng 18 MIPs.
the level of completion was: less than 50 percent in 2 MIPs; 50-80 percent in 2 MIPs: and 81-99
percent in 14 MIPs. The delay was due to a combination of factors, including farmers' reluctance
to provide land, free of cost, but mostly GOG's change in financing arrangemlents. Initially, it
had been agreed with the Bank that GOG would bear the cost of field channels, blut in JLIIY 1990,
GOG required that farmers should pay for the cost of constructing field clhannels. As a resullt, the
construction of field channels halted. It was under the Bank's pressure that GOG subsequently
(August 1991) revised its policy and started paying for the cost. Limited field level coordination
between ID and CADA staff was also a serious handicap.
5.9        Modernization:  The modernization of six sub-projects included u!'2er MIP II
consisted mainly of upgradingAining the conveyance and distribution systems and the construction
of field channels. Only one sub-project (Dantiwada) also required completion of the additional
spillway. The conveyance system was modernized at four of the six sub-projects (Dantiwada,
Fatehwadi, Kharicut and Bhadar) and at the other two (Shetrunji and Machhu 1) the completion
level was 93 percent and 99 percent respectively. The distribution system was completed in only
one of the six sub-projects, namely Kharicut. In the remaining five sub-projects the level of
completion was 80-99 percent at three (Dantiwada, Fatehwadi and Shetrunji), 10 percent at Bhadar
and 0 percent at Machhu I. The field channel modernization was completed at three of the six sub-
projects and in the remaining three the level of completion ranged from 84 percent to 95 percent. It
is to be noted that the modernization works were seriously hampered by the fact that the
introduction of the RWS principle involved the reconstruction of all control structures from the
distributory level down to the field channel. The redesigning and reconstruction created a lot of
confusion in the minds of irrigation engineers.
5.10       Equipment and Vehicles. Small equipment manufactured locally have been procured
albeit with major delays in most cases. However, the procurement of large O&M equipment like
hydraulic excavators, diamond drilling machines and tippers requiring ICB were not procured at all
due to lack of approval by the GOG's Finance Department.



7
5.11       Training and Studies: The project provided for training of about 26 mechanical
technicians, and training in RWS for 200 professional level, 400 field level, and 8,800 progressive
farmers, study tours for six senior officers in India and abroad, and vocational training for
displaced persons. The training of professional staff through study tours overseas has not been
carried out. This was mainly due to restrictions by the Central and State authorities who have to
approve each individual application. Training in local institutes has progressed well with staff
trained in RWS atWALMI numbering 2723 (professional staff) and 971 (non-professional staff).
Similarly, about 915 professional and technician grade staff were trained in O&M of construction
and hydraulic equipment during 1984-1994 at existing training centers in Gujarat and at project
sites. In addition, about 9,850 farmers have received training during the project period. About six
studies have been completed, covering irrigation intention surveys, dam fishing potential. R&R
study for Sukhi sub-project and evaluation of the status of R&R in all 22 sub-projects. Due to
delay in full completion of MIPs, two studies on evaluation of MIP schemes and RWS could not
be initiated. More details are given in Part III/6D.
5.12       Central Design Organization (CDO): The CDO was strengthened with the creation of
a Minor System Design Cell (MSDC) headed by a superintending engineer and supported by one
executive engineer and three deputy executive engineers. The MSDC has succeeded in introducing
some uniformity in the design standards of minor systems, training of staff and monitoringa of
designs prepared by the field design units. The quality of minor system design has improved as a
result of the strengthening of the CDO.
5.13       Quality Control Unit (OCU): The QCU has been strengthened by increasing the
number of executive engineers by three. Most of the staff in QCU are generalist civil engiineers
who need to be trained in quality control and construction methods.
5.14       WALMI: The construction of WALMI buildings at Anand was completed with some
funding from MIP II and it moved to its new campus on May 1. 1990. The WALMI has built up
adequate training facilities for both professional staff from the NWRD and the agriculture
department as well as the farmers. It has also acquired appropriate computer hiardware and
software for training, especially in RWS.
5.15       WALMI is in the process of establishing three regional trainin. centers at
Ghandinagar, Rajkot and Surat for "lower level functionaries" of the NWRD. 1 ,e need for
"regional WALMIs" is questionable as these may, in the long run, dilute the standards of training
and its quality, especially due to the limited manpower and fir,ancial resources available to maintain
them (they are being established with financial assistance from USAID). If the aim of establishilg
these regional centers is to train lower level functionaries at, or close to, their place of work, then
this aim could also be achieved by operating well-equipped mobile training units from the WALMI
at Anand. At present, WALMI is being staffed by a small core of permanent staff (about five or six
professors and subject matter specialists), but the majority of the total professional staff of 28 is on
secondment from the NWRD for fixed periods of one to three years. Therefore, the majority of
trainers can only be described as ad hoc specialists who are themselves trained by the WALMI
before they become trainers. WALMI should employ more specialists on a permanent basis and
enhance the quality of training. However, it is to be noted that WALMI has conducted some
interesting and valuable seminars on farmer participation in water management shortly before
project Closing Date.
5.16       Rotational Water Supply (RWS): The training of professional staff from the irrigation
and agriculture departments at the WALMI and elsewhere in India, together with the training of
farmers, has not been as effective as was originally envisaged. A number of factors contributed to



8
the delays in the introduction of RWS and the lack of effective training at WALMI: (i) RWS was a
new supply-oriented system of delivering water to farmers which was totally different from the
traditional demand-based "shehpali" system which the farmers practiced in Gujarat; (ii)
considerable time taken by GOG in evolving design guidelines for RWS and their fool-proof
implementation in the field; (iii) due to delays in the construction of distribution networks and field
channels, the total area covered by RWS varies from 0 percent in Sukhi and Shetrunji sub-projects
to 100 percent in Dantiwada and Und sub-projects; (iv) the legal issue of supplying water and
charging it has not yet been sorted out; and (v) the farmers have not yet been adequately trained in
RWS and they are not yet used to the idea that they will receive water automatically following the
fixed turn schedule.
5.17       Generally, the farmers seemed to welcome the RWS and a number of them reported
increased crop production as a result of RWS. However, in some sub-projects (e.g. Und), the tail-
end farmers complained that they were unable to receive the allocated water either due to breaches
in the canals or the farmers in the upper reaches diverting most of the water on to their fields. Most
of the farmers' problems, either pertaining to RWS or on-farm water management, could only be
solved through in-situ training and the establishment of Water Users Association (WUA). At
present, only one such association has been established in the Uben sub-project, although it is yet
be registered.  Annex 2 provides details on the implementation of RWS and possible
improvements.
5.18       Economic Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons (PAPs): Of the 28 sub-
projects, 22 have rehabilitation components. A total of 140,352 PAPs belonging to 23,392 Project
Affected Families (PAFs) would have to be involuntarily resettled and rehabilitated. Of these,
15,461 families lost at least one fourth of their agricultural lands, and were entitled as per GOG
policy to be compensated with land equal to the amount acquired from them with a minimum grant
of five acres (two ha) or cash compensation in lieu of land. By the project Closing Date,
approximately 5,799 landed PAFs were compensated with land, and 9,662 had received cash
compensation in lieu of land. However, the 7,931 landless PAFs were not entitled to any
economic rehabilitation as per GOG norms.
5.19       The objective of the rehabilitation component was to ensure that after a reasonable
transition period, the displaced persons regain at least their previous standard of living. Project
strategies included: (i) land for land within limits imposed by the Indian Forest Act of 1980 and
cash compensation in lieu of land; (ii) fisheries development (1,000-1,500 PAFs); ciii) right to
cultivate land in the draw down areas of the reservoirs (1,500 ha and 1,000- 1,500 PAFs); and (iv)
project employment, vocational training and small business ci cdit.
5.20       The SAR and legal documents required that GOG: (i) prepare an integrated overall
plan for rehabilitation; (ii) prepare detailed economic rehabilitation plans for nine priority sub-
projects; (iii) maintain a rehabilitation committee within each sub-project; and (iv) rehabilitate
displaced persons in accordance with the guidelines set up in Schedule A of the SAR.
5.21       In 1989-90, the problem of the landless PAFs who had not received economic
rehabilitation assistance, and who had not recovered their previous living standards even after a
decade of resettlement, was highlighted by Bank missions. Particular attention was paid to women
of PAFs who faced specific problems. A participatory assessment of the status of rehabilitation
was carried out by an NGO in 1991. As a result, it was agreed to prepare accelerated economic
rehabilitation plans, targeting below poverty line PAFs, including marginal and landless families,
women, scheduled tribes, and castes. In accordance with the Credit Agreement, nine sub-projects
were taken on first priority, as these had the maximum number of target groups (4,893 PAFs).



9
5.22       The economic rehabilitation plans prepared by GOG, in association with NGOs, were
implemented in 1992. They included, for the first time, NGO participation in organizing and
facilitating beneficiary participation and implementing economic development programs for
women, in association with GOG, and subsidized credit for productive asset creation for PAFs
below the poverty line, through the District's Rural Development Agencies.
5.23       By the Credit Closing Date, 1,000 PAFs below the poverty line had been assisted
under the accelerated economic rehabilitation plans. GOG continues to provide support for the
economic rehabilitation of the remaining PAFs below the poverty line in the nine sub-projects
under regular government poverty alleviation programs.
5.24       While economic rehabilitation efforts for PAFs below the poverty line were
undertaken since 1990, and these are being sustained in the nine sub-projects, the economic
rehabilitation of PAFs below the poverty line in the remaining 13 sub-projects continues to be
inadequate. Overall, the economic rehabilitation component began late, and this has hampered
achievement of its objectives in total. Annex 3 provides further details on the implementation of
the Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) Component.
5.25       Dam Safety: The Bank supervision missions monitored closely the implementation
of the recommendations of the Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP), in particular those relating to the
structural safety and integrity of the dams. In pursuance of the Bank's recommendations, GOG
established a Drilling and Grouting Unit to implement the recommendations of the DSRP
regarding: (i) the leakages of the spillway sections of the dams through drilling and grouting
operations; and (ii) the maintenance of internal drainage systems through systematic inspections of
the foundation galleries and unclogging of drains so that the uplift pressures in the dams could be
kept within the design limits. This Unit proved to be very useful in checking leakages and seepage
and thus contributed in an efficient manner to the overall safety of the dams.
5.26       Initially, GOG was slow in implementing the recommendations of the DSRP. In
1992, GOG established, at the request of the Bank, a Dam Safety Review Committee to accelerate
the process. Whereas, 76 out of 166 recommendations had been implemented in November 1992,
126 recommendations had been implemented in May 1994, and the balance 40 were in various
stages of implementation. At the time of the PCR mission, all recommendations were expected to
be implemented by December 1994.
5.27       Quality Control: Quality control (QC) is the primary responsibility of one of the
several construction divisions of each sub-project. In addition, a special QC unit in NWRD under
a Chief Engineer (CE) is in charge of overall QC of irrigation schemes in Gujarat. The CE is
assisted by nine executive engineers who make surprise visits to construction sites for random
checks on the quality of materials and the methods that are being used in construction.
5.28       Field visits to some five sub-projects indicated variances in QC from site to site. If the
quality of construction and materials used were adequate at sub-projects Dantiwada and Watrak,
then at Und the overall quality of construction was well below expectations. It appears that the
downstream slope of the earth dam has not yet been fully turfed according to the design and, as a
result, there are visible signs of erosion all along the slope. Since some of the distributary and
minor canal embankments have not been well consolidated, there is some evidence of canals
sinking along with the embankment. Also, the joints holding the pre-cast slabs used in canal lining
have cracked in several places allowing water to seep through the embankment. The farmers also
indicated that because of frequent breaches in the upper canal reaches, water was not getting to the
tailenders in time or not at all.



10
5.29       As in other Indian states, QC and construction management are not treated as
specialities in Gujarat. The same generalist civil engineer who surveys, designs and builds a
project also monitors the quality of construction. Engineers in charge of QC have not received any
formal training in QC methods and procedures and in construction management. Although India
has pioneered the techniques of construction using appropriate technology (AT) over the last fifty
years, the engineers are not usually taught or trained in AT. Attempts are now being made to
'develop national guidelines on QC and also to train engineers in QC and AT.
5.30       Opration and Maintenance: One or two sub-divisions under an executive engineer
are responsible for O&M on a day-to-day basis. Invariably, the entire canal system along with the
headworks receive annual maintenance in September/October each year prior to the commencement
of the irrigation (Rabi) season. Extra staff are employed for cleaning of the canal debris and
maintenance of control structures. The annual O&M expenditure seemed to vary from sub-project
to sub-project but the NWRD is planning to spend at least Rs.270 per hectare on annual O&M. At
present, there appears to be no uniformity in O&M procedures at different sub-projects. At one of
the sub-projects visited (Und), the mission observed that the galvanized iron housings of the gate
control mechanisms, the cat walks and the railings are rusting badly because they have not been
painted for the last five years or so. Since 1992, the superintending engineer in charge of a group
of sub-projects is allocated O&M funds sub-project-wise instead of a blanket allocation of the
past.
5.31       TestinglCommissionin of Structures: Some of the canals and canal structures were
not tested for their performance prior to their commissioning because of the defect liability period
of one year which the Indian contractors are given at present. This has happened because in some
sub-projects the headworks and canal systems were built by two separate contractors and the
headworks were not completed, say, even after one year of canal completion. As a result, the
defect liability period of the contractor who built the canal elapsed without adequate testing of the
canal performance. The contract provisions regarding contractor's liability should be suitably
amended to overcome this problem.
5.32       Agricultural Extension: The supporting services provided by the Department of
Agriculture (DOA) through agricultural extension and by Gujarat Agricultural University (GAU) in
the training of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) are somewhat weak in respect of on-farm water
management and need to be strengthened if the irrigation potential created in all sub-projects is to
be realized.
5.33       There was good interaction between DOA and NWRD at higher levels. However, it
needs to be improved at the lower level functionaries. The SMS for water management is available
only in sub-project areas, since GOG is not planning to fill their vacancies. All SMSs (Agronomy)
in the project area should be trained in water management.
5.34       Monthly zonal workshops are conducted by Master Trainers from GAU to the SMSs
of DOA. The messages passed on to them are not sub-project-specific and are not adequately
water management-oriented. Participation of ID project staff in the zonal workshops and
integration of irrigation activities and agricultural field activities should be encouraged.
5.35       Land Levelling in Command Area: About 14 percent of the total cultivable command
area (CCA) amounting to 25,100 ha still requires land levelling. These were expected to be
completed within the next three years.
5.36       Water Users' Association (WUA): Organization of WUAs began rather late and one
WUA has been established in the Uben sub-project, though it is yet to be registered. Chak-level



11
farmers' groups have been established in Dantiwada and Karjan sub-projects. Farmers are reluctant
to come forward and take the responsibility for operation for a number of reasons. They have to be
adequately motivated with the possible involvement of NGOs. The GOG's Draft Gujarat Policy
Resolution on Irrigation System Turnover, which seeks to turn over irrigation schemes to farmers'
organizations with NGO's involvement is a welcome step forward. The GOG should take urgent
steps for the implementation of its policy through legislation, if necessary.
5.37       Monitoring Role of the Central Water Commission (CWC): In addition to the
monthly monitoring by the Project Planning and Monitoring Cell (PPMC) at Gandhinagar, the MIP
II was monitored annually by the CWC. This was usually done by one or two engineers of Deputy
Director to CE rank from the Project Monitoring Divisions of the CWC who visited the sub-
projects from 1986/87. In only three years since then (1988/89, 1989/90 and 1993/94) were they
able to visit all 28 sub-projects.
5.38       Project Costs: The final cost of the project is estimated at Rs.9,780 million (US$473
million) which translates to Rs.28,723/ha, compared to the appraisal estimate of Rs.3,716 million
(US$344 million) which translates to Rs.1 1,060/ha. This represents a cost overrun of 160
percernt in nominal Rupee terms and 51 percent in real terms. Expressed in US$ which reflects the
devaluation of the rupee against the dollar, the total overrun was only 37 percent. The final cost
includes costs incurred up to March 31, 1994 (Rs.7,607 million) plus costs to complete (Rs.2,173
million). The cost overrun was partly due to quantity increases including expansion of project
scope and revision of spillway capacities, and partly due to unit cost increases including price
escalation following the Gulf crisis. The major portion of the cost increase was attributable to
construction of MIPs whose cost increased by about 140 percent over the appraisal estimate, but
accounted for nearly 65 percent of total project cost compared to 70 percent at appraisal. The cost
increase registered by the modernization schemes was 40 percent over the appraisal estimate, but
accounted for 14 percent of total project cost compared to 27 percent at appraisal. Appraisal
estimates of local price and physical contingencies proved to be underestimates. Total project costs
at appraisal and completion are given in Part III/5A.
6. Project Results
6.1        General:  The project was, by and large, successful in achieving increased
agricultural production and improved farm incomes in the three sub-projects, out of the 28 which
were completed in all respects, and whose RWS is being implemented. Based on these results, it
is estimated that ultimately, when all sub-projects are completed, the project objectives would be
achieved. Attainment of physical targets, though considerably delayed particularly in respect of
distribution networks including field channels, has largely been achieved (dams and canals) or
would be achieved in the next three years (distribution networks and field channels). The aggregate
area to be irrigated by the 28 sub-projects has been revised downwards from 354,100 ha at
appraisal to 340,500 ha, when land surveys were completed. When the cultivable command area
(CCA) of newly added sub-projects (Karjan - 56,200 ha and Machhu II - 9,900 ha) is added, the
total CCA under the project would become 406,690 ha. The physical achievements of sub-projects
under MIPs are set out in Part III/4A. At full development, the project would generate higher
incremental agricultural production than projected at appraisal in respect of cotton production
64,800 tons (SAR 37,200 tons/year) and oilseeds 202,000 tons (SAR 101,300 tons/year), but a
slightly lower foodgrain production 517,600 tons (SAR 573,000 tons/year).
6.2        The project has generated several positive benefits, namely:
(a)    Although late in the implementation period, RWS concept has started making
impact in some sub-projects like Uben, Dantiwada and Karjan.



12
(b)    The implementation of the distribution network under RWS principles has
progressed well, though belatedly in accordance with principles as per SAR
and subsequent implementation plans.
(c)    The much needed storage of water was successfully achieved with the
completion of sub-project dams, a great boon for the drought-prone state of
Gujarat in future years.
(d)    Groundwater development through additional bore wells in the project area
and sale of water by farmers would contribute to increased production.
6.3         Crop Production: Most of the increased crop production from the project is expected
to result from higher crop yields, and cropping intensity, and a shift to more remunerative crops
during rabi and hot weather seasons. Yield levels of all crops except sorghum, groundnut, maize
and sugarcane are estimated to exceed those predicted in the SAR with paddy, pearl millet, wheat,
mustard, cotton, castor and vegetables, exceeding the SAR yields by 3-33 percent, whereas those
of other crops are assumed to be same as the SAR yields. The PCR crop yield estimates for re-
evaluation of the project are based on crop yield data provided by the Area Development
Commissioner (ADC) and confirmed by farmer interviews in the field. Overall cropping intensity
is assumed to increase from 109.6 percent to 138.4 percent at full development, about the same
level of increase assumed in the SAR.
6.4        Income Effects and Employment: Farm budget analysis shows that incremental farm
income expressed in 1993 prices would be about Rs.22,390 (2.5 ha farm), Rs.38,440 (4.5 ha
farm) and Rs.26,200 (5 ha farm), reflecting real increases of 4 percent, 5 percent, and 6 percent
respectively, compared to incremental farm incomes envisaged at appraisal. With a farm family size
of six persons, per capita incremental agricultural income for the smallest farm size (2.5 ha) would
be about US$120 at full development. The project is expected to directly benefit some 95,500
farm families, 1.300 families more than envisaged at appraisal.
6.5        Economic Rate of Return (ERR): As presented in Part 111/6B, economic rates of
return (ERRs) have been re-estimated for the project as a whole with and without sunk costs and
for a sample of four sub-projects (3 MIPs and one modernization scheme) with and without sunk
costs as well, based on cropping patterns, updated costs and prices of commodities. To simplify
and to make it comparable with appraisal, both the costs and benefits of newly transferred sub-
projects from Credit 101 1-IN were excluded from economic re-evaluation. Opportunity cost of
land in agricultural production was included in the analysis to account for land lost due to
construction of dam and distribution system including land. Similarly, water diverted from the
project reservoir for drinking purposes was valued at opportunity cost of agricultural production
foregone as a result. This loss is not material as it would involve a total CCA of 10,200 ha, less
than 3 percent of the project's CCA, on the assumption that one million m3 of water would be
required for 150 ha and that about 68 million m3 would only be diverted for drinking purposes.
6.6        The PCR estimates of ERRs with sunk costs are 9 percent (project as a whole), 13
percent (Und sub-project), 10 percent (Sukhi sub-project), and 8 percent (Watrak sub-project)
compared with appraisal estimates of 30 percent (project as a whole), 12 percent (Und), 13 percent
(Sukhi), and 14 percent (Watrak). The PCR estimate of ERRs without sunk costs are 21 percent
(project as a whole), 25 percent (Und), 33 percent (Sukhi), 21 percent (Watrak) and 21 percent
(Shetrunji) as compared with appraisal estimates of 43 percent (project as a whole) and from 17
percent-48 percent for MIPs and 53 percent (Shetrunji modernization sub-project). The lower
ERRs at PCR is mainly due to:



13
(a)    High cost increases in both nominal and real terms, ranging from 2 percent
(Und) to 133 percent (Jhuj and Bhadar). The nominal per ha cost has
increased from Rs. 11,060 at appraisal to about Rs.28,723 at PCR (160
percent);
(b)    Delay in the accrual of benefits. At appraisal, it was assumed that the
benefits would start flowing from 1984 and full development benefits would
be attained by 1992; but the benefits commenced only from 1985-89 and the
full benefits would hopefully be attained by 1996/1997.
These are not fully offset by the higher yields of certain crops (from 3-33 percent) than were
envisaged at appraisal.
6.7         Sensitivity Analysis: There could be three main factors which are likely to change the
project ERR without sunk costs. These include variations in assumed benefits, variations in O&M
funding and the inability of the NWRD to operate and manage the MIPs as designed. The results
of the analysis show that: a reduction in benefits of 20 percent would lower project's ERR to 17
percent; a reduction of 50 percent in the O&M funding (assuming that future benefits would be
reduced by 50 percent) would lower ERR to about 10 percent and NWRD's ineffectiveness
(measured by ineffective RWS operation lowering benefits by 20 percent) would lower ERR to
about 17 percent.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1         Project sustainability depends on the continuity of production benefits, which are
largely determined by a high and stable level of crop revenues. These, in turn, are influenced
critically by the availability of irrigation water. Overall, project sustainability would depend on:
(a) having trained staff in place together with adequate equipment to maintain the system; (b)
ensuring that O&M costs are fully met; (c) obtaining not only local acceptance but active local
support for the project to realize water use efficiency, and minimize the risk of neglect,
deterioration and vandalism. The likelihood of meeting these conditions is a major challenge facing
the GOG.
7.2         Cost Recovery: At appraisal, water rates in the State were expected to be increased to
cover the full O&M expenses plus a reasonable portion of capital cost, and reviewed every March
31 and, if required, revised to reflect the investment and operational costs as well as the repayment
capacity of the farmers. No revision had taken place since 1984. Water charges, which are among
the highest in India, are uniform throughout the State. They vary by crop and season, ranging
from Rs. 120/ha per irrigated ha of paddy in kharif to Rs. 1,250/ha for sugarcane. The result of this
non-revision of water rates in Gujarat has been a growing gap between O&M expenses and the
cost of irrigation service, although the rise in output prices does not justify stagnant water rates.
7.3         Crop yields from irrigated land and prices of agricultural commodities have risen
during the period 1986-1994. Simultaneously, O&M expenses also rose sharply. During this
period, gross receipts' (as well as receipts per ha) from irrigation in the State rose from Rs.73
million in 1985/86 to Rs.241 million in 1993/94, an increase of 230 percent. However, revenue
from water charges alone increased to a considerably smaller degree and their average share also
declined from 85 percent to 47 percent during the same period, indicating that relatively small
1    Gross receipts include revenues from water rates and other receipts.



14
portion of the increase in total receipts is attributable to receipts from water charges. As a result,
the recovery ratio, for example, in 1986/87 (gross receipts Rs.123 million to total O&M expenses
Rs.170.5 million) was 72 percent', representing an annual subsidy of Rs.48 million from GOG,
on the assumption that 1986/87 would be a fairly representative year.
7.4        It is important to recognize that the scale of water rates needed to recover O&M costs
would not have a significant impact on net farm income. For example, the results of analysis
indicate that the present rate would imply an annual payment equivalent to one percent of gross
farm income. As prescribed by the Irrigation Commission, optimum levels of charges for use of
water for irrigation as a percentage of gross farm income was estimated at around 5 percent for
food crops and 12 percent for cash crops. But actual receipts average one percent of gross farm
income per ha of irrigated area in Gujarat, compared to 2.9 percent in Uttar Pradesh.
7.5        There is thus a clear need to increase water rates but it would be difficult to increase
them substantially in the short-term.
7.6         Raising water rates is thus a necessary step but not sufficient to establish the
accountability between the Irrigation Department and its farmers, which is essential for sustained
provision of quality irrigation service by the Irrigation Department. Building such accountability
linkages requires the imposition of financial accountability on the Irrigation Department and
involvement of farmers directly and significantly in decision- making relative to system operation
and maintenance. The formulation of water users association proposed under the project is a step in
the right direction, although its evolution is likely to take a longer time than was envisaged at
appraisal.
7.7         The environmental impact of the 28 sub-projects has not been monitored but the
available evidence indicates that salinity and waterlogging problems have arisen in two sub-
projects, namely Panam and Watrak, and some remedial measures have been taken at Panam. It is
essential to monitor the environmental impact of each sub-project and take immediate remedial
measures.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        The Bank's performance throughout the project cycle was generally sattisfactory.
While recognizing problems in the irrigation sector and state finances that made progress in
completing project works on schedule necessarily slow, stipulation of covenants did not
consolidate improvements (for example, the establishment .,f water charges to recover the full
O&M cost and a reasonable portion of the capital cost) necessary for long-term stability. Certain
misunderstandings about the advantages and possible problems of RWS, which have delayed the
issue of directive by GOG until January 1988, had been clarified by the Bank Supervision staff.
The supervision mission of August 29 to September 2, 1988 reported that the principles of RWS
as defined in the SAR have been accepted by the GOG and later applied to specific sub-projects,
although the Irrigation Act has still to be amended for legal operation of RWS. Despite this, the
Bank supervision missions have noted that the practice of inviting applications from farmers had
not been completely dispensed with until early 1994. Although the Bank was aware of the
problems of PAFs (who had not received land for land, and the overall decline in their living
standards), no specific action was taken until 1989 to work out comprehensive solutions in
agreement with the Borrower. Since 1989, the Bank worked with the Borrower to identify the
1    Based on report (April 1988) of study group to arrive at the norms for realistic 0 & M cost and
0 & M funding by GOG for irrigation projects.



15
major problems and time-bound action plans to resolve them. The Bank used the credit extension
as a vehicle for improved support for economic rehabilitation of PAPs. As late as April/May 93.
the Bank expressed its continuing concern for the need for priority action in construction of
distribution networks, implementation of RWS, allocation of adequate O&M funds, training in
water management, preparation of agricultural development plans and the establishment of WUA.
8.2         The Bank Supervision missions visited NWRD with reasonable frequency, on
average once every 7 months in the years 1985 to 1994. There was good staff continuity and they
performed well concentrating on major problem areas in construction, water management and
R&R. As a result of suggestions made by the Bank during supervision, improvements were made
in progress reporting, implementation of RWS, implementation of the recommendations of the
Dam Safety Review Panel, training in water management, improvements in budgetary allocations,
and improved design, implementation and monitoring of R&R activities. The supervision mission
in April 1986 voiced strong concerns over, inter alia, poor budget allocation. Similar concerns
were expressed with varying force through March 1994.
8.3        The Bank was also flexible in agreeing to reallocating resources, increasing
disbursement percentage for civil works and expanding project scope by adding certain items from
Gujarat Irrigation II Project.
8.4        The main lessons learnt during project implementation are:
(a)        The inclusion of sub-projects in the later stages of the project period.
which is one of the main reasons for delay in the completion of MIP I is
a lesson already learnt but has not been applied to the follow-on MIP II
project where some five sub-projects were added when the project was
already two years beyond the original Closing Date. While utilization of
credit savings is a major objective of this addition, owing to the
difficulties in counterpart funding it would have been prudent to have
had them funded from other sources, instead of transferr-ing them to
MIP II, thereby delaying completion of other sub-projects and accrual of
benefits therefrom.
(b)        Allocation of O&M funds by sub-project since 1992 is an innovation
and a significant improvement over the absence of allocation in the past.
It should be encouraged in all future projects.
(c)        As a priority activity, provision of drinking water was introduced into
the project in its later stages on a much larger scale than envisaged at
appraisal. This has led to some sub-projects not providing irrigation
water in one or two years, e.g. Und and Shetrunji. The loss of
command area and expenditure on originally planned and constructed
distribution systems are difficult to quantify now but could have been
avoided by realistic forward planning. Overall water use planning as
part of the sub-sector study would be a useful input in future projects of
a similar nature.
(d)        Solutions to some project problems depended on the willingness of
GOG to address difficult sub-sector and state-wide issues which could
not be resolved at project level, e.g. water rates, O&M funding, and
staffing.  The Bank should ensure that the agreed policies and
conditionalities are realistic  and  implementable.   If during



16
implementation they prove otherwise, these should then be amended or
deleted from the Legal Agreements.
(e)        The need for upgrading technical performance is clearly demonstrated by
the project, particularly in the area of ensuring adequate maintenance,
better water management, good quality of construction, and securing full
economic rehabilitation of communities displaced by the construction of
dams.  The Bank needs to pay more attention to design and
implementation of training components and to set up firm M&E criteria
in project design.
(f)        Some of the reforms implicit in "command area development", initiated
by GOI several years before the project was approved in 1984, covered
more extensive lining of canals, improved construction standards,
regulated outlets serving irrigable areas on larger than 8 ha on average,
compulsory land development below that outlet, rotational water
supplies and increased water charges. While it is hard to know at this
time whether the reform measures were successful or not in the context
of MIP II, the Bank's positive support to investment in irrigation
proved valuable to Gujarat's (or India's) drive to increase foodgrain
output. Irrigation costs were also large enough for this sector to provide
an ideal channel for resource transfer.
(g)        A five-year implementation period was far too optimistic, given the
unprecedented flood in 1983 and severe drought during 1985-1987.
During future preparation of irrigation projects in drought prone states
like Gujarat, it is desirable to include an allowance of time for shortage
of funds resulting from droughts and floods. Competition with other
projects which may get higher priority for availability of scarce
resources need also to be adequately assessed (e.g. SSP and domestic,
municipal and industrial water).
(h)        The appraisal had overestimated the capability of the NWRD to complete
the required implementation of distribution networks in accordance with
RWS principles within the five-year project period. The complete shift
from the "Shehpali" system (followed by the Gujarat State for many
decades) to RWS system required several follow-up steps including the
overcoming of inertia and reluctance associated with a full changeover,
modification of state-wide legal framework, mobilization of farmers'
willingness to accept and participate in the new system, training of
planning and design staff as well as farmers, and establishment of
farmers' organizations for active participation. Given this reality of
managing the widely dispersed sub-projects, a more realistic
implementation period should have been prepared at appraisal and the
Bank should have looked into the possibility of improving the existing
system rather than dictating a complete change.
(i)        There is a need to address all R&R and environmental issues
comprehensively at preparation and appraisal of the project and to arrive
at agreed actions to address these issues in a manner consistent with the
Bank's operational directives.



17
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        The project was prepared adequately by GOG with the participation of GOI's Central
Water Commission. However, during implementation, project performance suffered largely due to
inadequate and late budgetary allocation.
9.2        The dams and canals were virtually completed, but the implementation of distribution
networks lagged in terms of their readiness to distribute water in accordance with agreed RWS
procedures and criteria despite cost overruns and five extensions spanning four years and three
months. The initial delays were caused by severe floods in 1983 and successive droughts from
1985 to 1987. The floods brought about costly remedial works in redesign of the spillways and
the prolonged drought caused hardships and diverted key staff to implement the drought scarcity
programs. The delay was also caused partly by the reluctance of NWRD in accepting the RWS
criteria in initial years. There were also increasing concern over the implementation of R&R.
9.3        The rapid expansion of irrigation projects under IDA Credits -- Credit 1553-IN,
Credit 1552-IN, and Credit 1496-IN -- about the same time would be difficult to absorb
administratively even for the best managed institutions and it has predictably placed NWRD under
serious strain. The contribution of the MIP II Project in improving the capability of the NWRD is
hard to isolate since NWRD has gained from concurrent implementation of two projects as well as
from interaction with Bank staff and expatriate consultants provided under these projects.
Nevertheless, the performance of the NWRD is creditable, given the problems caused by natural
and man-made causes. It is noteworthy that three of the sub-projects have received national
awards -- Uben and Aii II, best performance award, and Dantiwada, certificate of merit in the
agriculture sector.
9.4        Compliance with covenants was, by and large, satisfactory. Four were partially
complied with and the fifth was not complied with. The first two of the partially complied
covenants relate to the establishment of WIUA in at least three sub-projects, and establishment of a
system of bulk sale of irrigation water within the selected three sub-projects. Only Uben has
formed its WUA which has yet to be registered. However, the bulk sale of irrigation water has yet
to take off. The third covenant is concerned with minimizing the risk of malaria and other water-
borne diseases in the command areas. The fourth covenant relates to the economic rehabilitation of
project-displaced persons, which is not yet fully implemented. The fifth covenant, which has not
been complied with, relates to the establishment of water charges to recovet the full O&M cost and
a reasonable portion of the capital cost, and the review of such charges every March 31, if
required. This issue encompasses the irrigation sub-sector as a whole and would need to be
resolved at the highest government level.
10. Project Relationships
10.1       Through long association with NWRD extending over three decades beginning with
Shetrunji Irrigation Project -- Credit 13-IN in 1961 -- the Bank has developed a cordial working
relationship, allowing its supervision staff to become familiar with the country, the state, its issues
and concerns. While most project-specific problems were eventually resolved, the crucial issues
such as water charges were not resolved.
10.2       The Bank and Borrower relationships with other relevant parties have been generally
satisfactory.



18
11.  Consulting Services
11 .1     In general, satisfaction was expressed by NWRD over the performance of the
consultants engaged during the project under review. The construction was carried out by private
contractors and their performance was variable.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The Staff Appraisal Report, the Project Agreement, and the Development Credit
Agreement were detailed enough to provide a basic framework for the Bank and NWRD during
project implementation.
12.2      During supervision missions, there was not much difficulty in getting data on the
status of project implementation. The supervision reports and the relevant project documents
available at the Bank contained some information for the preparation of the project completion
report. In addition, NWRD and the ADC were able to meet the remaining data requirements
required by the PCR mission.



19
PART II
GUJ.'R T MEDILH Irl.IG.:TION-II PrtOJ.3CT
(Cr. no.149b-INT)
Part-lI of P.C.R.
Project Review from Dorrower's Perspective comm. nt on Part-I
Ere_aLnDle:
1.      An FAQO/!ORLD BL'W  Co-operr.tive Progr-mme Team with the
participation of three staff members from tl13 '3rlrl Bank
Resident Mission, New Delhi, visited GujFret from.3-14 July,
199L. to review imvlerlentation performance of the Gujarat Medium
Irrig-.tion-II Projeet (mIP-'I) &nd orepared :  Part-I of the
Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Project.  The Mission
hsd discussion witf'the officials and the Secretary, Narmade &
Wrater iResources.Departmant on 4th July .'94+ prior to their visit
to selectesi sub-projects viz. Dantiwadea, Watrak, TJnd, Sukhi
Sipu and Shetrunji.  Thereafter, the Mission had a wrap-up
p.eting on 13th July '94 'ith the Ieptt. officials e in which
the Flssion pressnted an Aide 1e3moire of PCR. The Borrower
(GoG)'s views/comments on the Part-I, are given as under:-
2.      (Ref.       )
3-I-C
.The content-here in is incomplete. Provi7-ion in SAR
for FielI Channels and-Field Drains was mede for Fbout 2,00,000ha.
of 23 sub-projects.  In case of Panam, Dantiwe&a, lhadar,
Shatrunji  .nd Machhu-I, the FCs E: FDs wcre to be constructed
by GoG under its own plan-progr.mmne.  Provision for FC/FDs
was made at Rs.1000/ha. and Az.600/ha. respectively.
3-      (Ref- Para- 13-I-E)-
The content is mis-leading.  The construction of such
access roads was to be done by GoG under its own plan-progremme.
4.      (Rif. Para-3 -II-C)
The strengthening of PPM Cell was to'be done only for the
aspect of monitoring of Rehabilitation.
5.      (TDIf. Parr 3-2)
Though the amount of ID.: credit in US .!172 M is correct,
however, the credit Agreement was made for SDR 164.3 Et.



20
Propjact Design nnd Org-anistion:
6.       (Ref. P.-ra 4.3)
The DIFter N{anFSemint Unit was meant tz) c.rry out
mcnitoring of tthe waLer management of completed sub-projects
whereas the actua1 water mvnagement is to be done by field
stEff on tha projects.
7.       (Ref Para 5.2)
i) Budget z'rovisioin of ".;-788 F` w: s m;ode during
198Lh.-5 ,s p-r E-reed sch:-.-ule.
ii) The projact imT)l ementFtion wJrs not hampered by
the counterp;rt provision for SSP.
iii) The sub-Drojoct of Madhhu-I(Dem str.--ngthening)
wzas mlso includ1edi alongi-rth other four sub-projects.  It
would not be prop-r to say that addition of new 5 sub-projects
was made only for- utilisation of savings in credit.  The
main aim. wAs to compl-te the belince works of these projects
after the closure of earlier credit-1011-Ir. ETch subproject
has been giv;en individual allocation.  Therefore, the
original sub-projects did not suffer budgatory deficiency
due to this inclusion, Ps otherwise the allocation for original
sub-projects would remoin same.
i8.      ( Re f Para: 5.3  'onl Anex- 2  )
Para 5.17        Part-III
The credit was approved on June 29, 1 931s and the
Agreements were signed, bcina effective from Sept.21, 1984.
Ubiile it is true thet implement,.tion wes hampered by varicus
problems, it would be worthwhilo to note tie long and
cubersome exercise done by the Govt. of Gujarat towards the
finalisation of RI-IS principle undcur the guLdrnnco of the
NWorld Bank Review lissions  and Experts/Consultants sent
by the Resirdent Mission fror; time to tine.
In 1984, at the time of Agreement, the canals
end distribution sy,stem und:er b.'IT-I was ready in 48,o60 ha.
as per traditional method.  The_ same was yet to be
constructed in 2,64.750 ho. (in original sub-projects).



21
T11e ?grea  ' n t provided to introduce RTMS -in the tott1l area
of 3,Wf,101 ha.   Tho DrincipiM  of  14\'. wAs defined undere
pe?rn 6.03, sche.dule-B of Sf,r, riport No.5082-IDT of May 18,
1934 and Sch:idul.-1+ of Project, Agreement. Though the
principle was dt'fined in this  socument, it did not give any
c^'ncrete guideline or methodology t o transform  the same
on field.  To that e-xtent ambi fuit.r regrrding- actual imple-
inentation of RI'!S prev-il_d, - Subsequently, the Eenk produced
c Supplm_.:ntatv Data Volumei (SU ) in Feb. 1985.  Ly this
tim,e a Pilot Aria wes developed on ths R1IS prirfciple in
Panam sub-project Area under the guiJance of '.'FjB. Consultant.
Upto Dec. '85, th._ W.D. rviview Mlissions as woll -:s the
consult nnts were unable to clear doubts raised by the GoG
Officers.  As a result, GoG continu,:d constructirig systems
on corvontional pattern.
This facb was brought to the notice of the Resident
f ission by thc tHen Secrotary (Irri.). The Extract of his
lettar Noo.tWfl/3067/96/Kb :t. 6th Jan. '88 is reprod-uced
h_rein-under:-  ".Sinco then a number of tW.brld Bank
Supervisory Mlissions ha-ve been visiting the sub-projects
covered under this Agr-:cmint and the advice offer .d by them has
bren faithfully accepted from time to time.  For example,
on Ponam Project, the T'srl  PI B,nk -Consultant Mr. Shanan
spent about 60 days in 20 differnt visited apread over e
period of four years from June '80'to June '81+ to pvolve
tlmmodels on_ aft. r the other, the latest one bcing the
*&-nsoli patt.?rn having a structural layout of canals.
Such a layout has b-zen adopte:d in at least 10 projects
(i) Deo, (ii) Sipu, (iii) SukhbhF r,r (iv) Venu-II
(v) Aji-II, (vi) Aji-IlI  (vii) IJn.1, (viii) Ubon (ix)Domi-II
and (x) Kalubhar, though all of them are not thc szme as
stipulated in the Project Agrc.mi,ent for  credit 1496-IIT,
fof sevcral reasons. .I.
Thus till Oct. 1W'07, a mcjor confusion regc rr.ing
iurplementsition of n.JS nrcvailod, even with th  Banlk
Supervisory Mlissions Flso. As - first step in this
direction, GoG issuad a guidelines for introduction of RIW'S
on July 18, 1987 which were rcviawod by the B,-n3x,
consequently the final revised guidelinc s were issued
in'Jan. 189 and tlhosa for structures in July '89.  This
reveals that till July '89 1P-f. as well as GoG werre at
a strge of finalisation of RWS nrinciplcs.



22
Subsequently, b.-s;s. on an TJnderst. nrlinG r: ,.ched with
the Feb. '89 I4ission, Gos  estab!ishNe: a Water Mnagement
Tasl Group (WITG) headcd by 1Director, WA.LMI, to gear-up the
progress on R1.JS and to cnnstnntly mbnitor the same. Th-
'.-MTG evolved a system of preparing Pilot Area in first
priority 9 sub-projects and intrd&uced RI-S in these Pilot
Are?s first, then it was extzinded to the rcmaining sub-
projects.  Stage by stage this long pending task wos
achi-'ving substantial progress after March '89.  This
should be considered as a resl take-off stage in the
introduction otD RWS.  Thereforc, the achievoment (65%) in
intrvduction of RI!S hes b_.en done during 3/89 to 3/9L-
period only.  Here it may further be added th^t by 'March '89
the distribution system was completed in substcntiaSl aren                 -_.
an. .msoificptions had to be made to suit t. the RIHS
requirements evolved by Marfh&'.89.
Tha capability of GoG to complete rec!uLred imple-
mentation of distribution of network in accordFnce with the
:TV"S principle within the time frame of five years had been
advcrsely affected because of non-specific definition of
7'\.S nrhncipl, s  in the project agreement and also dlue to
various time consuming experiments carried out by- the
torld  h-,nk, which caused delyed.... imnlmentstion of RWS
principles.  It is worthy to note that the considerable
time was reauired to finalise the network planning and to
construct micro-structure.  Eowev7r, from March '89 to
March '94 , GoG could achieve a remarrable progress on R14S
in original sub-projects to the tune of 1,91,418 ha.
Cut of 2,94,604 ha. (657). T--ot only that efforts also
have b-n made to introduce RWS in newly includ-d sub-
projects and progress achieved is 20,770 ha. out of 66,190 ha.
The overall achievi6nent is 59%.  This achievement inspite
of sev*,ral bottl2nccks, and uncertainiti2s, Ps s'eted
above, is commendable by any standards.
Out of total CCA of 2,90,044 ha. of 24 sub-projects,
the systeni in 1,90,671 ha. (i.e. 65,,) is rcoily for N fl4S.
Four sub-prljccts viz. Vc-r-II, F;r1.A,t Fatewadi and I'haricut
are not sidtable for R1J!S, which is also acceptoed by the Bank.



23
Though in Sinu sub-pra'ject, Ps ps,r original agreamont, RWS
was ts b-. in'Lri uc '-1' in 3000 bh.. only, 1u,- to further
cxtmnti :n of tbz crelit bavyon1 '89, ?.lJT hb-s b-en introducad
in  12,14b3 b.- till 3/ol,,  The r.,mnining balance worl of
rvr. is r.1,Lnly in P?n,n,- , .m --r(), Shotrunji(M) and
Uzchhu-I (01) only.  The P,nor  sub-rr bj,ct hps a problom
of in,- il&qu't- int'ke of -liisch -rge in main canal which
is being r2p< irad  at nr3sent.  The log in romii14ng three
mo-7,- rniF-ation subproj ;cts is mcinly duo to worl,s .rc
t^, be cnrri,d out during crn,l closure condition, as
constcnt irrigition is '.;iing d:-ne on thesc -Bub-rprojects.
Tho -2tsons for d_lny in 'R-S impleriient tion
h:v  been d^iscuss.cd.  How-.vur, the aidditional r<-sons are
discussed zs un,-7r:-
(a) I-gal issuez of supplying water ?nd ntater
chrrgos thcr2on.
i) GoG has Dr'2pnre-i a Draft Irrigation  1l1  which
is umnecr stu-v for conniAer,,tion of Legislative
I ssambly Committee.
ii) t!att.r ch:'rgns issue is also not a problem
c n fi n .  t s TIrorlA 3ank .i .10d prs j ect only.
Tho somae is being tpckled at the Stnte lavle &
by Pticing Cor'itt;)e of Planning Commission
et :kational J uv;l.
(b)F:rm: rs' Tr::ining i n MIS.
P.s Der original -gree3.ment, it was pplanned to
train 8800 farmers of Danti!nda,. Panam, Watrak -nd Mazan
sub-projects only.  lgainst this, GoG h.s tr-ineld 10,833
farmers from all sub-pr: j 2 cts.  This is a continuous
process and GoG is paying sufficient attontion  to this
-spcct.  The observation on Un,! sub-pr:-ject is just a
lcPlised pr'.)blenm and h;3ncs- rnay not be ganerdlised.



24
9.    (Ref. Par2 5.6, 57, 5.8, 5.9)
.;ctivitiL:s of cpnals, Dist. system C. FCs. rre
completed 100% in 7 subprojects end more than 9C-: in 16
sub-Drojects.  T'n  percantsga progrcss achieved by 3/94
for. the legging sub-prnjocts  'longwith axpect:nd corTpletion
dlates sre as under:-
Sr.   Sub-Pro4 ct                 Canals  mDst.    Field
no.                                         system  I channels
1.    Pnam_-                        100     94          93
Expected Complletion(EC)   -         3/96        3/95
2.    Jhuj                         100      29          18
EC         ,                   ~     3/96       3/96
3.    Kelia                         59      40          100
EC                           6/95    6/95
4+.    Sukhi                       100      89         84
EC                          -        6/96        6/96
5.    Deo                          98       97         63
:.; c                       3/95    3/95        3/96
6.   14Fe:chhundri                 100      99         55
E:C                             -  -3/95         12/95
7.     1ketrek                     98       87         82
12/94 .3/95        3/96
8.    Guhei                        100      96         77
IilC                        -        12/94      3/96
9.    Venru-II                      100     98         91
EC          :               -        12/94      3/95
10.   Aji-II                       100      94         83
.  EC                        -       3/95       3/95
11.   Au-hI                        100      99         86
EC                          -        3/95       3/95
12.  Sapu                          100      81         145
EC                           -       6/9 5      3/97
13.   Fatewadi (M)                 100      94         88
EC                           -       6/95       3/95
14..   Ehedr(fl)                _  100      10         SI
E ,   M:C                    -       3/97        12/95
15.   Shetrunji(M)                 93       30         95
EC                          3/95    3/95        3/95
16.   Mechhu-I(M)                  99       0          100
EC                           12/9 5   3/97       -
--___--__------------------------...---   ----------  -----------------



25
Thee above rv;y-inricrtor shows thct only r;o.k%rnisation
sub-projDcts h&cX  reletively less schiavemennt-.  This w-s
maintely -due to grcat opposition of farairs o . theso
sub-nrojdcts t!o accept th, new principle of f'i0 anr works
Would bo  c.rricd out only during canel closure pvriods.
The Disty. System/Field Channnel cornooncnts of aLpu Proj.:'ct
w-s to be cornplottd iln 3000 h.r. out of 16000 hs. as per
originel rgreamcnt, whila- thr;, achievcteint is much more.
Tt is- also not propc-r to say that there islno c--
-or1in 'tion b:tween C.D.A eni ID wings.  Those two wings
are0 integral parts of "? haeled by ^ne Secratary.  Thore
exists' coM-0l:ta_ c-or.lination between two wings within
the ]-3ptt. for ',11 inter-rolpted activities.
10.   (Ref. Para: 5.11)
The abro,,d training wps not arranged uidar the
B.13. credit 11+96-IN because it wps already available
und.er similar credit of USAID which was unrder implementation
through WAULl-I.
19 Professional. Staff heve been sent abroz-d for
tr.-ining un#,er TOT (Training. of Trainers) Pro,r:-nmne of
TJ&.ID till thie closur;z of thnt credit in Snt. 'S2.
- -lj.    (fdf. .a-. 5.12, :  5.13, 5.29)
Tha strengthening  of .xisting Professionel staffing
was done by croe2ting the following additional ccll/units:-
i) M4inor system  TD3sign Col, in CDO h_aded by
one S.3 cnt sup,rorte.. by two :3Es and 8 DZs.
ii) W.!ater Man.ngement Unit, in Sachivilayn headed
by ona SV(0Ms) and two 2:!:s(DS) with four D13s.
Iii) Throe Quality Control Units headed by -f,s
stationed oach @ Suret, Ganr1hinagar and Rajkot.
iv) Two Field Nonitoring Units fir M&R nspects
haded by EMs stetioned er'ch -9 Rajlcot ansl Vadodarn.
* ,;.



26
Though the staff in QCU arv from generalist Civil
Zngina_ering crdro, thuy .rc Triinad ir. Stnff TrAning
C.;legn locF t d a t G.?n-1hinag-r.  The syllabus of the
training cov;irs  IC ispects clso.  Cnly experioncod E.nd
trained persons who heve sufficient experience of Quality  -
-C:)ntrol -ind ara well convGrannt with Govt. standrrd
sp.3cificr-tions of ':Cs. , Govts. rules/ Circul -rs-and
QC-check-lists zire postaid in Q.C. Us.  The porf.rnif.nlc
of (CUs is quitoi above the mark and satisfaction.-
12.   (Ref. Parv- 5.28)
The r.C orgsnisation at State Level headed- by Chicf
Thngineer is functioni.ng ve ry effectively.  At construction
site, it is the resporlsibility of a independent 'C
sub-Dn. which is under the Direct C(ontrol of sub-project
Sup.rintending Engineer.  So far v;rious W. B. Ilissions
have visited almost all sub-projects more than 3 to 5
times and h.-ve exborcssed their satisfection.  The
sugge3stions g;enerally  %f 11 O3. R nsturc which were well
tak3n immc-diately when brought to tha notice of GoG.
The deficiencies noticod by the Vission on Minor
14/L of Und sub-Dr-ject wzere of M & R type like some
disturbed pointings in bl.ock-lining andl slope of banks,
some filling Pni ovarfl2rking in conal.  Th-,sa will be
rectified befor3 the roxt irrigation su -.son.
Tnere is no prorvisi^n of pitbhing or turfing
in D/S slopq of Un; dam. Tlhe work of surfa.co dr.in-ge
is, in progress.  Hovtevor, suggestion of thc PCd  Mission
will be taken caru of.
13.   (Ref. Para 5.31 )
Tho defect liability pllrio I of one year after.
project complotion is adcqusto.  Duo to several factors,
the oxtention of this peri.o for a longer timo is
un-workable.



27
14.   (      Plef. P?ra. 5.36)
'A -Iigh Level Iorlcing Grcup h3a-tad by Cnief Secrotvry
has b. en constitut.d which looks aftcr the issue of
Fartmirs' i. rticipc.tion in Irrig^tion Minrgement.
15.   (El!f. Pora:537)
In caldition to Field Vllnitoring by C'.JC in-li-II Area,
thc St-te PPM  Cell is clso inm.lved in close monitoring of
th3 project.  Two.Pr:-ject Monitoring Units h3cdcd by :E
and st^tioned et Gandhinz.g r, rogulerly visited  all sub
proj cts, to  nonitor physic,'l progress.  P1M C1 3.l is a
Stato Lavel Cell responsibl. for monthly & quartarly
mor:it2ring of  .ll compon.Jnts, inclu:ding financial, of all the
sub-rrojocts.  It kecps day to day liasion  idth Fieil
Offic:rs, 1. 3B. Officers ind with GOI. The PPM4 Cell has been
v3ry  ffrective in-completion of this Project and earlier
proj.ects.1.11 -locumin.nt:Ctions of Project informntion as
prrnscribedl by ".orld Bink hIve be'en excellantly _lone by
I7PI Call right from  the comu0nccment till the completion
of the Project.
16.   (11ef- P - ra- 5.3E)
The ostimatod cost hils b:'ei increrscd due ts (1)
1-'gh2r price escn1tinn thvn what wzns estimatd1 (2) Increaise
in quantities of work -1uo to rovisi')n of hyftrology,
impl-;mentation of suggGstion of D-S.,. S    . and modification
of cinal and distribution system,  1lr?dy consLructedi
for intro-iuction'af Fiw-S.
prjct_&eLilts:
17.   (Rcf. Pare. 6.1)
The revise:d CC."' of 23 sub--projects is 3365j-i5 hr.
Out of 23 sub-pr:4jects 5 -sub-pr-jects are c=.1;1l8tcd by 3/94
a-nd rem;ining 11, 8 znl 4 sub-pr -jocts ere '?.ctccl to be
completed by end of 3/95, 3/96 ann 3/97 r6-spectively.



28
18.   (Re f. Pr ra 7.1)
Th2 Projcct susteinability of any project depends
upon its economical ani technical viability'. -All the
Faspi.-cts envisaged during the Appraiscal of this Projoct have
b;.en ccrefully attended to right from its commcnccment
till completion.  IHumb.r of Bank's R-view Missi2ns htave
visited almost all sub-projects nearly 4 to 5 Fimes and
have expressed their satisfaction.  In fact GoG is proud
to state that the Uben sub-projoct, in which the concept
of RIIS has boan introducad, is the recAipent of the First
Prize of "N-'tizia-l Productivity Council  .w..r:r.1 of the
year 1993. GoG is putting  -ll out efforts to ipplement
all other sub-projects to achiavb simil.'3r objectives.
Inspbte of sov2ral obstaclos an-1 hindrinces, GoG has very
well looked after all aspects like design, engineoring
including Commanc1 Area Development; implementation
end maintenance of those projects with best possible
standrris end expertise evaiibble.  The project is
therefore, tachnicclly as well as economically viable
and sustainable.
19.   (Ref. PRra 7.2, 7.3, 7.4,  7.5., 7.6)
.llocation of adequate O &'Mi funlg' is also a
Nationi-  ii1  problem  an.i not confined to 'W. B. ltdded
projects bnly. 'AS  efforts are being made to enhance
the allontion every year.  It will be seon from the
data .supplied to the PCR Mission, that out Of 30 sub-
pro jects, 15 sub-7projeots have bedh given O fi M Fti.ds for
last mor:o than five xyo* rs, 14 sub-projects have been
given 0 & 14 Ftuds during last ; two years.  Therefore
GoG is wcll awere of this issue-. The December 11p8 G.R.
is based on thea .ndings of previous two high level
study Groups.. Its, full implomnontration is hamp-irod only
by the ftnancial,constr;int of thc State. Efforts have
also been made to spere some fund1 from  allocrntion for
original works to keep tho systoms in operating
con,dition.



29
GoG hnrl revisci w.'ter rates in 1983 but duo to great
opposition of farmers it could not be implemented.  As said
e^rli2r, this is a N-Mtionawice issuc, not only rclnted to
this cre.Iit or Gujnrit State only.  GoG is weLl aware of
the situation-  Th3e Pricing Committee of the Planning
Commission of GoI h.as boon working on it.  Once the matter
is finali s,  at ;a11 India Level, GoG wi11 act rccordingly.
The issue of O c IN fun-ling has boon discussed
h, roinbcfore.  This is a Notion-wide problem ann  can be
solved a.t appropritte time backed by a legal resolution
for cnhbncing water chorgcs.  As mTentioned *earlier,1
GoG hes madc efforts to alloc^te require,, fun-l for O& M.
Though the prosent finmzing s;sems inadequate, the regular
It & i1 activities do not suffer as the ssme is being done
through sparing a part Fllocation from original works.
It may bc point,-1 out th.t procurcelent of 0 & 1-l eqtdDMients
is for special repair work and this hc s not effected
norm.al M & R works.
20.   (Ref. P,ra- 7-7)
The parcn.tcrs of S.alinity ann  wnttr-logging are
boing monitorcd for all pr )jects of the State by a full-
fluclgc Soil Survey Orgariisation stationod at Rarorla.
This org- risnti.on, he..-lcdc by S.3. (Soil )nd Drninlge &
Roclamation), takes regular pre-andl post monsoon
obsorv.-.ti ons in all projocts.  It elso publish s yearly
Roports pro ject-wise ?nd sends to all concerned projact
authorities for any measures to bo tcken.  Such -teports
wore shown & *discussed with the PCr. M4ission. Therofore,
GoG is well -xx; awa.re for this subjeict also.   FLowever,
any measure for a pa.rticular sub-project csm- s to the
notice, the sam: will be attendcl to.
21.   (Rcf. Para 8.4 (iii))
As pcr the informintion collected, it is seen that
drinlking wpter hbs been suppli.-d fromn 16 sub-projects out
.of 30 sub-projacts.  The provision of drinking water
suoply was alr av1y msde in two sub-prejects viz. Panamn
@ 58.50 2Im3 end Shotrunji @ 10.35 Mni3 *i-d Abpraisal
7teport.  How.wlor, luring 93-94, the planned annual



30
orovision for Parirm w^s inm.e @ 54..78%l3 onn  for Sh2trunji
@25.10 M3. ~Out of r:~naining 14sub-projects such
provision hos b-o'n ma-ic in 10 proj.lcts ?.t a much later
staog a-1uo to prevailing   ocute shortage of drinking
watc~r anl C. C. A. of tho!se sub-pr.'jects h;-via been reducod
accordingly.  The four sub-project viz. Deo, Wntra1J-
Mazam, and Mr.chhun1ri are such, wherc water supply was
r_stricteQI for occcsionol supply only.  The totnl:
quantity of wator supplied from thc-se sub-proj,2cts
during 1993-94 is of thu order of 133.36 YLI;3 and tbhe
revenue roalisuct1 is Pz.16.49 M'. Thus tha baljnc~.) non-
eorrncrked Quentity supplicd thit may have affuctod the
irrigation will work cat to be 133.36- 54.78- 10.35 =
68.23 M1r,3.
!kssuming a cons2rvntive rate of 150 hr.. of area
irrigate.! per one i1r..3 of wcter, the loss of irrigotion
would work cut to 68 x 150 = 10,200 hia.   This areo is
hriar-ly 3% of the totc.l CC^. of 2;,0,044 ha. of the project.
gainist this, such wrater supply during water scarcity
perio-1, provr-2  a boon to n populmtion of about 3.5 to
4.0  41llion s^uls.
Th!r'rofore, tho opportunity cost of foregone loss
in cr -production may not, b. that high .s feared by the
PC", Mission.  It may be point:d out that all sub-projects
were planned and ,e signeo  before about 15 to 20 years
rs per prevailing  situotion an.! accordingly provision
,f cdrinking water suoply w.^s not msle.    How?vvr, tho
suggdstion of tlle aMi ssion rugrr.,ing Forwvard Planning
is consi-.lored useful for futuro pro jects and is very
wc.ll t..kon by G oG. This is welcomctd.
_essons L;arnt:
22.   (1laf. Pnra7 8.4 - vii, viii)
':.hile thore wore no start-up  1clays in MIP-lI,
th rc were s wvQr. 1 other ruasons for delay in implementntion.
(1) The primn; r ..son w-s non-specific R'TS Principle
in Praject Agreerient.  Consequently, thle Worli Bsnk hai
to c, rry o^ut cx-prinonts through consultcnts confusing



31
GoG .nl r_ sultin. into delay in implomontation till Oct.'87.
It wis only in Jan. '88 that GDG cDuld issuo a final
guil -line for introducing RS13.
(2) I.-ithout enviscaging thas abovr-rentionc'J factor,
t'h-< tirJe frimrn  of ftve- years for Projc-ct compl. tion was
oci1. Thus t.is time fr-me was un-realistic.
(3) Z.ftcr the M1achhu-fi disaster in 1979, rovision
of by lrnlogy for  l1 diams bec .me evident.  The additiona1
waorks Iuc to suc.h rFvioion, (enhEnced thetot.tal Project
cost as we!11 as 1linye.d its inplemntrtion.
(4) GaG epWri-nc_n1 thr-2e consecutive dreught  years
of 1985, 86, an-I 87,  GoG coul< not provile sufficient
bulge tory support to thG Project -uring th3 se years.
-4ore-over, most of the establishment of thc Project was
required to be Aivertc-l to the scarcity works hnmeoring
the imlorlent'tion ^f the prs ject.
(5) The rfte of increase in For3ign Exchangc for
Do lDrs against Rupdes, was more than the rate of increase
in Project cost. Consoquently, more input rupee-wise
was requir::.1 for utilisition of the crediit.
(6) There was no problem of staffing. The progress
has not suffered due to shortage of staff.
Elorr-ow Lr ' s Perforn.onco
23.   (Rcf- Para 9.1)
..s regor:ds lagging Project Perfnrrmanc,i, r. . soning
has been givcn in eorlier P-lra 7, 8, anl 9. Ther,fore,
efter the reel take off in March '89, a.dequ,Ii:e bulgiatory
elloc'tion was given. Thus less bu4agat provision is
not the only reason for lagging p-erforrmancc.
24.   (Ref- Ppra 9.2)
The reluctr nca of  .'112IFD in accepting Ri'S criteria
in initial years has bcrn Qxplained in details in
par.- 7, 87  jnd 9 above.



32
25.    (',Iif:- Par;F 9.3)
GsG's roaction  he s b        ner t n-tu. in  Pnrei 1 bovc.
2b.    (Rc2f: P,-ra 9.4)
.-Coynaint 1 Qc2:
Tlhcse rarc pertir-1ly  c6rnpli.b   WT  is fS Drmrn.A  in  Uben
but thc' f,rm-Ors Io not cnre forwor-I for its  roJi str-Ition.
Iioitvcer farnv;rs Prc w ll mnnaging the distribution  of wpter.
Efforts vre bAng tn}cen to form  AJA in  Dantiwad.dl  'a Karjan
sub-DrIjOcts. Th. bulk  s,'li of wate~r is ? .k  policy matter
to be backsd by Irrig - tion Act which is un-1er considarati-on
ot highest level in Gov1TT1t Idso the formntion of  TJAts nre
ot prlI iminery  str'ge z-ind so the matter of bulk wator
supply h.va3 not been initiatod.
This is regariing IMal-ria Elazar-ls in  Command Alrea.
A 14*l,ria  pecialist lcnutud by thc WoTrll 'hnk hbs
visited  the proj; ct er.  As pur his report rio scrious
Cituvtion is notice:1.  GoG has prepared the M.nuol for
prEpc-.ring  tho3 Dr-.inr.gc- Mlnstcr Pl-n onvd th;>  ir.ingc- network
will bie implemented, wherZvcr Irainr'ge is required. .-nd
this will help  to  solve th1 problem  of nolari. h; z-rls
if arrisecd.  The State..-L1th D ptt. is  monit;.ring  wiole
State  n..1 r solvus sucb probler.is r-altec1 to   ala.ril,
hcncz, no extr- actions necGi to  be t3ken by 1IJ..D.
C:-venzint- 4
cDnonric fI-h,-bilit-tion of oust-cos.
This is . continous process ;znd hence under inrple-
m .nt.: ti Dn .
Cc,ven.'nt- 5
i.s rocr porF-19  nbove.                               ,



33
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Let/Credit ritle   Purpose                            Yewr of    Loe/Credit   Status         Commcnts
AppsdAI   Amount
Shetrunji          It was the Bank's first Credit for  1961       USS4.5 M      Information  Sherrunji project failed
Irription Project   irrigation development in India                             not readily  to achieve its agri-
(Cr.13IN)          which financed the construction of                           available    cultural potential due
Shetrunji's canal system.                                                 to an inadequate irri-
gation infrastructure
and weak agricultural
supporting services.
Kadana Irrigation   Expand & stabilize agricultural   1970        USS35 M       Completed   Full credit disbursed.
Project            production in rain deficient areas;                          in 1979      There was a delay of 3
(Cr.176-11N)       complete irrigation facilities where                                      years in completion due
past investments had brought only                                        to two eKtreme floods.
partial realization of agricultural                                       Project achieved its
potential. & complete ongoing irri-                                       objectives &
gation scheme under construction                                          agricultural support
since 1948.                                                               services were greatly
strengthened. Kadana is
now one of the most
advanced farming areas
in India.
Gujarat Agri-      Support development of Sround-     1970        USS35 M       Credit       Objectives were largely
cultural Credit    water in the State through the                               closed       achieved.
Project            construction of 41.000 wells and
(Cr.191-IN)        about 450 tubewells & installation
of about 45.000 pumpsets.
Gujarat Medium     Promote invcstments in medium-    1978         L'SS8S M      Closed       Of the 22 new MiPs,
Irrigption Project   sized irrigation projects (MIPs)                           June 30.     only one sub-project
(CrO8.I-N)         through: financing construction of                           1984:        (Panam) operational in
2? medium irrigation projccts, the                           Project      1984 & that too having
modernization of 6 project already                          fully         problems. Six moderni-
in operation. establishment of a                            disbursed     zation sub-projects
network of automatic discharge                                            were still in various
measuring stations and providing                                          stages of construction
technical scrvices needed for                                             at Credit Closing Date.
monitoring & evaluation studies.                                          Ifence. the benefits
would only accrue
under follow-up project
when completed.
Gujaro  Irrigaation   Achieve an economic use of scarce   1980    USS17SM       Credit       Except for some
ll Project         surface water resources and ensure                           closed.      specific work &
(Cr.1011-1N)       a reliable and equitable supply to                           April 30,    components which
individual farmners through                                  1989         moved ahead
construction of two new irrigation                                       reasonably well, overall
systems, reconstruction of one                                           implementation fell
dam. rehabilitation of irrigation d                                       well short of achieving
water supply scheme and improve-                                          project's established
ment of RWS.                                                              goals & objectives.
USS15.7 M of Credit
was cancelled.



34
Lmn/Credit Title   Purpose                           Year of     wOan/Cftdit  Status        Comments
Approval   Amount
Narmada River      Harness the Narmada river         1985       USS150 M      Credit        PCR issued, dated
Dev.- Gujarat      through a series of dams. for                              closed        July 1. 1994.
Water Delivery &   irrigation, water supply and                               July 1.
Drainage Project   energy.                                                     1992
(Cr.1553-IN)
Narmada River      Hamess the Narmada river          1985       USS300 M      Project       Credit was fully dis.
Dev. - Gujarat    through a series of dams. for                               closed        bursed and loan was
Sardar Sarovar     irrigation. water supply and                                March 29,   closed at borrowers'
Dam & Power        energy.                                                     1993        request. PCR isued
Proj.(Cr.1552-IN                                                                           July 1, 1994.
& Ln.2497-IN)
National Agric.    Strengthen location-speciric      1985       USS72.1 M     Ongoing       -
Research Project   research at the level of the agro-
(Cr.1631-lN)       climatic zones of India including
Gujarat. providing needed fieid-
oriented research support to the
ongoing projects.
National Agric.    Follow-up of Cr.1523-IN to provide  1985     USS49 MI       Closed 1993  PCR under
Extension 11      further support to 3 already                                              preparation.
Project            participating states (Gujarat.
(Cr.1569-IN)       Haryana. Karnataka) under Cr.862-
IN and introduction of T & V
system in Jammu and Kashmir.
2. Project Timetable
Activity                            Date Planned             Date Revised               Date Actual
Identirication/Preparation                 -                                            Oct. 19831/
Appraisal                                  -                       -                   Jan/Fcb.190,4
Negotiations                        May 1, 1984?!                  -                  May 8-11, 1984
Board Approval                     June 12, 19842/                 -                   June 12, 1984
Credit Signaturc                                                   -                   June 29, 1984
Credit E[fectivcness                                               -                   Sept. 21, 1984
Credit Closing                      Dec. 31, 1989           Dec. 31, 1990             March 31, 1994
Dec. 31, 1991
Dec. 31, 1992
Mar. 31, 1993
Mar. 31, 1994
Credit Completion                   June 30, 1989                  -                  June 29, 1994
1/ Prepared by the Government of Gujarat wilh the participation of GOl's Central Water Commission.
2/ Decision memo dated April ?. 1984.



35
3. Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulatnc ud Acta  DWburacment
(USS miUioo)
FY85    FY86    F87    FM             F8        FY90    F          FY        FY        FY94
Appraisal estimate      35.4     76.3      1113     141.7    164.8    17.0    172.0    172.0    172.0          172.0
Revised estimatel/     22.7      45.2      49.8      75.4     82.0      97.4    124.6    146.3    161.9        175.6
Actual                  22.7     45.2      49.8      75.4      82.0     97.4    124.6    146.3    161.9        175.6
Actual as % of          64        59        45        53       50        57       72        8S        94        102
appraisal
Actual as % of         100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0
revised
Date of Final         June 29, 1994
Disbursement
l Cancellations as of December 5, 1991: 15.0 million (SDR equivalent).
Cancellations as of May 1, 1993: 4.9 million (SDR equivalent).
Cancellations as of July 31, 1994: 5.7 million (SDR equivalent).
4. Project Implementation
A. Key Indicators of Physical Progress Activity-wise
(ending March 1994)
S.No.    Sub-Project Name          CCA (Rcvied)              Dam             Canis   Distnb. System    Field Channels
(ha)
ms
1.       Panam                              36,405
- Progress to 3/94 (%r)                              100              100               94                93
- Date Completed/                                June 77          May 80
- To be Completed                                                                 March 96         March 95
2.       Machhanala                          2,463
- Progress to 3/94 (%)                               100              100               100              100
- Date Completed/                                May 84         March 84           June 87         March 94
- To be Completed
3.       Hadaf                               5,238
- Progress to 3/94 (%)                               100              100               97                97
- Date Completed/                              March 84         March 88
- To be Completed                                                                 March 95         March 95
4.       Bhadar                              8,000
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100              100              100                98
- Date Completed/                                June 84        March 92          March 94
- To be Completed                                                                                  March 95
5.       Ver.ll                              3,558
- Progress to 3/94 (%)                               100              100              100               100
- Date Completed/                                June 84        March 87          March 87         March 94
- To be Completed
6.       Jhuj                                4,180
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100              100               29                18
- Date Completed/                                June 83        March 93
- To be Completed                                                                 March 96         March 96



36
SNo.    Sub-Projct Name             CCA (Rcvised)             Dam            Canals   Distrib. Systcm    Field Clannela
(ha)
7.       Kelia                               2A86
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100               59                40              100
- Date Completed/                                June 88                                            March 94
- To be Completed                                                 June 95           June 95
8.       Sukhi                              20.368
- Progess to 3/94(%)                                 100              100                89               84
- Date Completed/                                 July 88         Sept. 92
- To be Completed                                                                   June 96          June 96
9.       Deo                                 6.475
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100               98                97               83
- Date Completed/                                June 87
- To be Completed                                                March 95         March 95          March 96
10.      Kalubhar                            4.702
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100              100               100               96
- Date Completed/                               March 93         March 83           June 94
- To be Completed                                                                                   March 95
I.       Sukhbadar                           5.410
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100              100                99               95
- Date Completed/                                 July 87          Dec. 92
- To be Completed                                                                 March 95           June 94
12.      Machhundri                          7.182
- Progress to 3/94(&7c)                              100              100                99               55
- Date Completed/                                June 84           Oct. 90
- To be Completed                                                                 March 95           Dec. 95
13.      Uben                                2.497
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100              100               100               96
- Date Completed/                                June 83         March 90           Junc 92
- To be Completed                                                                                    June 94
14.      Watrak                             16.798
- Progress to 3/94 (%)                               100               98                87               82
- Date Complited/                                Dec. 84
- To be Complcted                                                  Dcc. 94        March 95          March 96
IS.      Guhai                               7.111
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100              100               96                77
- Date Completed/                                Nov. 90          June 93
- To be Completed                                                                   Dec. 94        March 96
16.      Mazam                               4.717
- Progress to 3/94 (%)                               100              100               99                98
- Date Completed/                                 May 84         March 87
- To be Completed                                                                   Dec. 94          Dcc. 94
17.      Venu 2                              4.955
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100              100               98                91
- Date Completed/                                May 88           June 90
- To be Completed                                                                   Dec. 94        March 95
18.      Und                                 9.450
- Progress to 3/94(%)                                100              100               99                88
- Date Completed/                                May 87           Nov. 91
- To be Completed                                                                   Dec. 94        March 95
19.      Demi 11                             3.108
- Prgress to 3/94(%)                                 100              100               100              100
- Date Complcted/                               March 87          June 90           Dec. 91        Match 92
- To be Completed



37
S.No.    Sub-Projcct Name          CCA (Revised)            Dam             Canals   Distnb. System    racid Chaa_ck
(ha)
MIPS
0.       Aji 11                             2.384
- Progrcss to 3/94(%)                               100              100               94               U3
- Date Completed/                               June 85         March 91
-To be Completed                                                                 March 95         March 95
21.      Aji III                            6.635
- Progress to 3/94(%)                               100              100               99                86
- Date Completed/                              March 88           May 91
- To be Completed                                                                March 95         March 95
22.      Sipu                               16.000
- Progess to 3/94 (%)                                96              100               81                45
- Date Completed/                                                 May 89
- To be Completed                              March 95                           June 95         March 97
ModernizAtion (ME)
23.      Dantiwada (M)                     44.517
- Progress to 3/94(S)                               100              100                99              100
- Date Completed/                                Oct. 93          Dec. 84                         March 93
- To be Completed                                                                  Dcc. 94
24.      Fatehwadi (M)                      29.792
- Progress to 3/94 (%)                          Existing             100               94                88
- Date Completed/                                                 May 86
- To be Completed                                                                 June 95         March 95
25.      Kharicut (M)                       14.619
- Progress to 3/94 (%)                          Existing             100               100              100
- Date Completed/                                               March 84         March 94         March 93
- To be Completed
26.      ihadar (M)                         26-587
- Progress to 3/94 (%)                          Existing             100                10              84
- Date Completed/                                                Aug. 87
- To be Completed                                                                March 97           Dec. 9S
27.      Shetrunji (M)                      34.473
- Progress to 3/94 (9)                          Existing              93               80               95
- Date Completed/
- To be Completed                                               March 95         March 95         March 95
28.      Machhu I (M)                       10.409
- Progress to 3/94 (%)                          Existing              99                0               100
- Date Compicted/                                                                                 March 91
- To bc Completed                                                 Dec. 95        March 97
TOTAL                            340,501



B. CCA of Individual Sub-Projects and their Development Cost
MIP                                                               Estimated         Estmated Bqend.        Estimated Cost    E,qenSture up to       Cost to      FRl Costs       Fbl Costs    Ovai Cost
Map          CCA            Totd Cost          to 0sxa 84 (MIP I)        MIP  N         Mrch 31. 1994        Complete           WIP           W I I +      Irease
(MP H)           (LIP)                           MIP A
No.         (Ha)           (Rs mnilon)           (Rs mUon)             (Rs mNlon)         (Rs mEUlon)      (As milan)       (Ha m11An)    (Rs wmon)          (')
1. Panam                             132         36,405            565.35               465.65                 99.7               290.2             213.4           503.6          969.3           72
2. Machhanata                        131          2,463            90.47                 81.07                  9.4                82.9              5.6             88.5          169.6           87
3. Hadaf                             128          5,238            126.04                89.24                 36.8               149.8              23.1           172.9          262.1          108
4. Bhadar (P)                        124          8.000            206.20                162.00                44.2               301.3              16.9           318.2          480.2          133
5. Aml (VerI1)                       153          3,558            107.84                93.44                 14.4               137.5              16.1            153.6         247.0          129
6. rJhuj                             163          4.180            185.36                111.96                73.4               240.3              79.8            320.1         432.1           133
7. Ketla                             164          2.486            102.16                74.56                 27.6               114.2              18.2            132.4         207.0          107
9. Sukhl                             161         20,368            709.30                470.00                239.3              576.2             153.5            729.7        1.199.7          69
10. Oeo                               125         6.457            275.79                203.89                 71.9               314.5             61.8            376.3          586.2          112
11. Kaluthar                           90         4.702             139.39                68.09                 71.3               148.7             10.0            158.7          226.8           63
12. Sukhbhadar                        156         5.410             153.50                73.10                 80.4               149.3              8.8            158.1          231.2           50
13. Machhundri                        106         7.182             136.01                78.91                 57.1               137.4              8.6            146.0          224.9           65
14. Uben                              111         2,497             88.20                 63.50                 24.7               76.1              0.03             76.1          139.6           59
15. Wat,ak                            150         16,798           376.24                207.54                168.7               345.5             91.9            437.4          644.9           72
16. Guhal                             147         7,111            330.80                109.70                221.1               423.3            209.1            632.4          742.1          124
17. Mazam                             149         4.717            170.20                107.05                 62.7               211.8             16.4            228.2          335.3           97
18. Venul I                           146         4,955            164.63                 75.83                 88.8               151.3             17.9            169.2          245.0           49
19. Und                               101         9,450            301.24                137.94                163.3    .          253.1             35.6            288.7          306.6            2
20. Demi II                           139          3.108            82.71                 48.81                 33.9                67.1              6.1             73.2          122.0           48
21. AP II                             135          2,384            101.89                52.49                 49.4                86.3              6.5             92.8          145.3           42
22. Al Ill                            136         6.635            234.99                104.99                130.0               182.1              7.9            190.0          295.0           25
23. Slpu                               79         16.000            700.38               121.38                372.0               766.2             105.8           872.0          993.4           42    G
24. DanUwada (Mod)                     7          44.517            344.32               132.62                211.7               306.7              29.7           336.4          469.0           36
25. Fatehwadl (Mod)                     1         29.792            325.22                97.32                227.9               271.6             56.7            328.3          425.6           31
26. Kharicut (Mod)                     2          14,619            126.63                30.03                 96.6                55.7               -              55.7           85.7          (32)
27. Bhadar (Mod)                       50         26.587            190.71                48.31                142.4               152.6             51.1            203.7          252.0           32
28. Shetrunp [P3)(Mod)                 14         34,473            282.98                49.76                233.2               240.6             113.3           353.9          403.7           43
29. Macchu-I (Mod)                     56         10,409            83.74                 16.94                 66.8                75.3              34.0            109.3         126.2           51
TOTAL                                            340.501          7,567.27              3,386.92              3,382.2             6,307.6           1.397.8         7,705.4        11.092.3         47
Nomemy kihjed Sub-Proccts
1. Kar)an                                         56,200                                                                           658.1             412.8          1,070.9
2. Saurashtra coastal salinity Ingress              -                                                                              401.5             272.3            673.8
control scheme
3. Machhu I (Dam strengthening)                                                                                                      9.4              0.8             10.2
4. Machhu ll                                      9.990                                                                            116.2              21.9            138.1
5. WALMI                                                                                                                            86.2              11.6            97.8
GRAND TOTAL                                      406.691                                                      3,382.2             7,579.0          2,117.2          9,696.2



5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
Pro)ect Compents            Appralsd Estimate"          Cost Incurred up    Cost to Complete      FWia Cost       Cost Incurred up    Cost to Complete      FWuS Cost        AcaM  as % of Apprrsal Estimate
to Larch 31, 1994                                         to March 31. 1994
(Rs million)   (USS melon)  . ................... (Rs milon) ....................    .................... (usS milion) ...................               ()              (USS)
Construction of MIPs     2,619.4          242.5            5196.9              1.113.6            6.310.5             295.3                35.5              328.8              241              136
(22)
Modernization of          993.8            92.0             1,102.4              284.8             1,387.2              59.6                9.1                68.7              140               75
6 Schemes
Newly-transferred           -               -               1.275.3              768.5             2,043.5              49.3                24.5               73.8
Sub-projects from
Cr.1011-IN
Training                   19.2             1.8               13.9                 4.4               18.3                0.5                0.1                 0.6               95               33   '
Monrtorng,                 83.6             7.8               18.1                 2.3               20.4               0.94                0.07                1.0               24               13
Development and
Studies
TotW Proect Cost         3.716.0          344.1             7,606.6             2,173.6            9.780.2              403.6               69.3               472.9             263               137
1/ Including contingencies.



40
B. Project Financing
Source                                                      Planned in Credit Agreement                Actual
............... (USS million) .
A. IDA                                                                    172.0                         175.61/
B. Domestic (GOG)                                                         172.1                         2973
Total                                                                344.1                          472.9
/ SDR 138.7 million.
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                                 Unit         Appraisal Fstiimatc  Full Dcwlopment
Pstimate
1. Benecituing farm familics                                No.               94,200             95,500
2. Cultivable Command Area expected to receive              ha                354.100           340,500
irrigation
3. Increase in foodgrain produclion                      tons/year               573.0             517.6
4. Increase in cotton production                         tons/year                37.2              64.S
5. Increase in oilsced production                        tons/year               101.3             202.0
6. Generation of farm labour required                 man-days/million            18.6              18.8



41
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return                      Appraisal Estimate                 PCR Estimate
with sunk costs                 with sunk costs
(%)                             (%)
MIPs
Und                                                  12                               13
Sukhi                                                 13                              10
Watrak                                                14                              8
Zankhari                                              16                           Dropped
Modernization (Shetrunji)                            53                               21J/
Project (weighted)
- including sunk costs                               30                               9
- excluding sunk costs                               43                               21
Assumptions
Project life                                       30 years                        30 years
Unskilled labour valued at CF of 0.66             Rs8.5/day                        Rsl9.80
Standard conversion factor                           0.8                              0.8
Civil works:
- dam and main canal                                 0.77                            0.77
- distribution system                                0.75                            0.75
- drainage                                           0.79                            0.79
- equipment                                          0.80                            0.80
- engineering                                        0.80                            0.80
/ This is without sunk costs.
C. Financial Impact
(Not Applicable)
D. Studies
Studics             Purpes s Defined at              Sita                  ImpaCt or Study
Appriil
1. Irrigation Intention Survey  To carry out irription  Study complctcd. Report  All farmers are willing to adopt
(in 11 sub-projects)    intention surveys in each sub-  finalized.                 canal irrigation.
project to estimate the
percentage of farmers who
intend to use irription and
those who do not plan to
irripte. To take steps to
remove contmaints to full
irrigption.



42
Studie                 Purposc at Derlacd at               Siatats                 Impect or Study
App"l
2. lrription Intention Survey   - do -                    Study completed. Repor to be             - do -
(in another 11 sub-projects)                             finalized.
3. Evaluation of rehabilitation  To review the rehabilitation    Study completed. Report to be i) Living standards at new sites
proces.                    process in each of selected  finalized.                   havc not deteriorated
(five) MIPs and analyse the                               compaTed to standards before
propontion of ousnes whose                               rmhabilitation:
standard of living was found to                           ii) In somc cases standards
be higher, the same or lower                              have improved.
than before rehabilitation. To
analyse the adequacy of
compensation package
(especially for purchase of
alternative land).
4. Dam fishing potential study. To determine reservoir    Study completed. Report to be Major bottleneck for fisheries
potential for suppofting a fish  finalized,               development is shortage of
capture indusny (in S sub-                                seed supply rather than water
projects)                                                 quality or other infrastructurc.
S. Interim evaluation surveys in To carty out interim socio-  Not yet due. lowevcr, recently
MIPs                       economic survey for two years  it has been decided to initiate
after the beginning of irription this study in Dantiwada sub-
project.
6. Establishing and Monitoring To accelerate the development WUA has been established in  With recent actions, awareness
of Water Users' Association  of water users association and  one sub-project (Uben) and    for farmer participation has
study the problems involved in  two are in pricess.       been observed.
their successful establishment.
7. Effectiveness of RWS in at  Special study aimed at     This will he initiated after
least three sub-projects   evaluating the effectiveness of  implementing RWS in all the
RWS would be conducted in at sub-projects in the full
lest three sub-projects.     command are.
8. R & R Study for Sukhi sub- Identify below poverty-linc  Completed                    New action plan prepared;
project                    project-affected family                                   NGO implementation plan;
problkms. gender concerns and                             economic assistance to women:
prepare action plans.                                     improved access to resources;
training and women group
formation.
9. Evaluation of the status of  Independent evaluation and    Complcted                 Preparation of 9 sub.,1roject
R & R in all 22 sub-projects  plan preparation.                                       plans. implementation. NGO
participation.
7. Status or Covenants
Sacticam            S_meqacy Decaiption           Typc of   Levl of    Oraiiol    Revied                     Rcmanrb/
Coenat Complianoce Cpompiace Compliane
1/        2/         Dte       Date
2.01     Carry out project with diligence and       M/F         I          ||          II    GOG committed to enhance FY93-94 budget
efficiency, and in conformity with                                                   outlay to Rsl.150 M but allocation has not
appropriate admin., financial, engineering &                                        been enhanced so far due to financial crunch
agricultural practices. and provide funds,                                          in State.
facilities, staff & other resources as needed.
202      Employment or consultants to evaluate       M          I          |/          /
R & R programmes.
2.03     Procurement of goods and services according  rrr       2          /           /      Part of 0 & N equipment purchased;
to Schedule 1.                                                                      balance of equipment like hydraulic
esavatons not procured.
204      (a) insurance of imported pods; and (b) use   M        I          //          1
pods and serces procurement only for
project.



t3
Scction            Summary Description           Type of  Lcvel of   Original    Revised                   Rcrnarks3/
Covenant Complitnce Compliance Compliance
1/        2/        Date       Date
2.05(a)  Planning. design. construction and 0 & M   T          1         //          //
with criteria acceptable to IDA.
2.05(b)  Operate and maintain sub-projccts          T          I         //          1      POM manuals of the sub-projects have been
adequately.                                                                        prepared by WAPCOS & WALMI.
2.05(c)  Application of micro-computer based PERT    M         1       10/01/85      /
techniques of managment to one sub-project
and exchange of views with IDA on its
replicability to other MiPs.
2.05(d)  Provide required staff for agricultural    M          I          //          /     Generally satisfactory, however, continuous
extension service.                                                                 coordination is needed between agriculture
and irrigation staff.
2.06     Strengthening of Irrigation Department's  M/T         1          //         II    WALMI and CDO have been duly
capability to plan. design, operate, maintain,                                     strengthened.
manage, monitor and evaluate irrigation
schemes.
2.07     Furnish to IDA by 12/31/87, a plan and     T          1          /I          /
implementation schedule for feeder road
network.
2.08(a)  12 months prior to commencement of         M          I          //         II    Arca Dcvclopmcnt Commissioncrs have
irrigation system operation. appoint a                                             bcen appointcd and madc rcsponsible for
qualificd officer for efficient management.                                        efficient watcr management.
2.08(b)  12 months prior to commencement of         M          I         ||          /I    Water Management Committces have been
irrigation system operation. establish water                                       established in the sub-projects where
management committces.                                                             irrigation has commenced: in progress, for
others.
2.08(c)  12 months prior to commcncement of         M          I          /|         |/    In progress: whercver alrcady established.
irrigation system operation. establish service                                    these are being reactivatcd.
area committees.
2.09     Adopt and supply rotational water supply   T          I         ||           I     RWS works complcted in 64% of CCA in 24
management (RSWM) system according to                                              original suh-projects. Furthcr work is in
Schedule 4 in projects under Part A.                                               progress. Acceptance of RWS by farmers
continues to he very cncouraging.
2.10     Adopt and apply RWSM system according      T          I          II         II     RWS nctwork in Dantiwada. Bhadar,
to Schedule 4 in sub-projects under part B                                         Shetrunji & Machhul (Mod.) is completed i
(modcmization projects), in any 2.000 ha                                           about 62% of CCA. :arther work is in
portion compieted.                                                                 progress.
2.11(a)   Prepare and furnish to IDA. a draft      M/T         l       12/31/84      //    FTCs havc been crcatcd.
programme for on-the-job taining in RWSM
systems for farmers, project staff and
committee members.
2.11(b)  Implement programme mentioned in Section  M/T         1       07/01/87      //    FTCs have bcen strengthencd.
2.11(a).
2.12(a)   Maintain a rehabilitation committee on each    M     1 /
sub-project.
I 12(b)  Implement programme mentioned in Section    M         2      07/01/87   03/31/94  R & R programme is satisfactory on land
2.12(a).                                                                           acquisition, payment of compensation. dev.
of new village sites and relocation. However,
eco. rehabilitation component which was
earlier lagging. is now being seriously
addressed through initiation of econ. rehab.
action plans.
2.12(c)   Prepare an integrated plan for resettlement    M     1       12/31/84      //
and rehabilitation.
I.12(d)  Prepare and adopt rehabilitation plans for  M         2         /1       03/31/94  Detailed eco. rehabilitation action plans for
specified 9 ongoing sub-projects.                                                  Sukhi and 8 others prepared. Action plans
for 13 more are in progress.
2.12(e)  Prepare and adopt rehabilitation plan for  M          3       12/31/85      //    Zankhari sub-project deleted.
Zankhari sub-project.



44
Scclion             Summary Dcscription            Type or  lxevl of    Original    Revised                    Rcmarktl
Covenant CGompliance Compliance Compliance
1/        2/         Date        Date
2.13     Carry out monitoring and evaluation of       T          I          //           /
project activities in accordance with
programme satisfactory to IDA.
2.14(a)   Promote establishment of water users'       M          2       04/30/88    03/31/94  GOG is committed to establishing WUAs
associations in at least 3 sub-projects.                                              and has initiated steps. One WUA has been
established in Uben sub-project.
2.14(b)  Establish a system of bulk sale of irrigation  M        4       09/03/88       //    The system is still under study.
water within the above 3 sub-projects.
2.15     Maintain Project Preparation and             T          I          //          t/
Monitoring Cell, ID, headed by qualified
officer, assignment with required funds,
staff, cunctions and responsibilities to
monitor and evaluate R & R.
2.16(a)   Fumish promptly to IDA. plans, specs.,     T/M         I          //          //
repons. contract documents and workd &
procurement schedule.
2.16(b)   Maintain records of progrcss and of goods/   T/M       I          //          //
services purchased; enable visits of facilities
and inspection of goods & documents:
furnish regularly information about projects.
2.16(d)   Prepare completion report.                 T/E         3          //          //
2.18(a)   Establish and maintain a Dam Safety Panel.    T        1       12/31/84        /
2.18(b)   Periodic inspection of completed dams and   T          I          //          //
related structures.
2.19     Acquire all land and rights necessary for    M          I          //          //
project.
2.20     Efricient maintenance of buildings and       T          I          //          //
equipment provided under project.
2.21     Minimize risk of malaria and other           T          2                             Ba //  Iank fielded a Consultant to provide
watcrborne diseases.                                                                  additional guidance to GOG on health
aspects.
3.01(a)(i) Maintain separatc records & accounts.      M          I          //          //
3.01(h)(ii) Furnish IDA with copics of cenified       F          I          //          //    Submission of FY92-93 accounts. though
accounts and financial statementss as                                                 delayed by GOG. is no'w completed.
audited not later than 9 months.
3.02(a)(i) Obtain auditing of accounts and financial  F          I          //          //
statemenits each year by independent
auditors.
3.02(b)(ii) Furnish audit account, immediately following    F    I          //          //    Same as 3.01(b)(ii)
finalization, to IDA.
3.03(a)   Furnish IDA with results and                T          1       09/03/87       //     GO   approved enhanced funding norms for
recommendations of ongoing study on                                                   0 & M through GR of December 20, 1988.
0 & M costs.
3.03(b)   Based on results of 3.03(a) above, make     F          2       04/01/88       //    Actual 0 St M allocations are still short of
adequate financial allocations for 0 & M.                                             approved enhanced norms due to financial
crunch in the State.
3.04     Maintain water charges to recover full       F          4          //           /     Waier charges last revied in 1984; upward
O & M costs and reasonable portion of                                                 revision is urgently needed in order to
capital cost. Review every March 31 and, if                                          recover 0 St M expenditure.
required. revise level of water charges.
1/ E  = Economic:  F - Financial: M  a Managerial: T  * Technical.
2/ 1= Fully complied; 2 - Partially complied with;  3 - Needs to be revised: 4 - Not complied with.
3/ If not fulfillcd. give reason.



45
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Idcatirtion/Prcpnrtion       Appisal         Negotiations    Supervision   Prject Compiction       Totai
FY82                          3.3                                                                                        3.3
FY83                          0.2                                                                                        0.2
FY84                          10.2                  64.3              18.1                                              92.6
FY85                                                                                 2.6                                22.6
FY86                                                                                 34.5                                34.5
FY87                                                                                 51.1                               51.1
FY88                                                                                  17.8         ,                     17.8
FY89                                                                                  13.9                               13.9
FY90                                                                                 20.1                                20.1
FY91                                                                                 12.5                                12.5
FY92                                                                                 10.6                                10.6
FY93                                                                                 12.1                               12.1
FY94                                                                                 12.4             17.31/            29.7
otal                          13.7                  64.3             I1.             207.6            17.3             321.0
1/ Including 15.1 staff weeks by FAO/CP mission.
B. Missions
Sla  of Projct    Month/Year        No. of     Days in      Spccialbd SLaft Skills   Perfornancc       Type of
Cycke                              Pcrsons      Facid          Rcprescnted11        Rating Statu&21    Probicn31
Preparation         Oct. 834/         -
Appraisal          Jan/Fcb. 4         -           -          AG. EC(2). EN(2)              -
Supervision I      Jan/Fcb. 85        4           9             AG. EN(3)                  2              M. T
Supervision 2        Sept. 85         4           5           AG, EN(2), WM               3             F, M, 0
Supervision 3    April/May 865/       7          12       AG. EC EN(2). FA. RR,           4             F, M. 0
WM
Supervision 4     Sept/Oct. 86        5          10         AG. EC. EN(4). RR             3             F. M. 0
Supervision 5    April/May 875/       12          17     AG. EC, EN(3). RR, SOC.          3              M. 0
WM(2)
Supervision 6        Oct. 87          6          12        EC, EN(2). RR. WM(2)           3              M, 0
Supetvision 7     Aug/Sept. 88        5           5         EN(2), SOC. WM(2)             3             F M. 0
Supervision 8        Feb. 89          7          14        AG. EN(2), SOC, WM             3             F. M. 0
Supervision 9        Oct. 89          6           7       EN(2), RR. SOC. WM(2)           2             F. M. 0
Supervision 10      April 90          5           9         EN(2), SOC. WM(2)             2             F. M, 0



46
Stage of Projcet    Month/Year      No. of     Day in       Specialized Stafr Skills  Perfonnan=e        Type Of
Cycle                              Persons      Ficid          Representmd1'        Rating SaturiZ/    Probkrl3/
Supervision 11       Oct. 90          6           4       AG. AR. EN(2). WM(2)             2             M, 0
Supervision 12      April 91          6           5      AR. EN(2), PE. SOC. WM            2            r M. 0
Supervision 13     Oct/Nov. 91        5          15        AG. EN(2), RR. SOC              2             M. 0
Supervision 14      April 92          3           6            AG, EN, SOC                 2            F. M. 0
Supervision 15     Nov/Dec. 92        4          11           AG, EN(2), SOC               2              M. 0
Supervision 16    April/May 93        2           9                EN(2)                   2            F. M. 0
Supervision 17    Ian/March 947/      4          16           AG. EN(2). MC                2            r. M. 0
Completion        June/July 94        4          11          AG. EC, EN. SOC
1/ AG - Agriculturalist; AR - Agricultural Research Specialist;  EC - Economist:  EN = Engineer; FA    Financial Analyst; MC = Malaria
Control; PE - Procurement Engineer RR - Rehabilitation & Resettlcment Specialist: SOC = Sociologist: WM = Water Management Specialist.
2/ 1 = Problem-ftree or minor problems: 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major pmblems.
3 F - Financial: M - Managerial; 0 - Other. T = Technical.
4/ Details not available.
5/ Including Cr.1011-IN.
6/ Includes supervision of Gujarat Irrigation II Project.
7/ Includes supervision of other projects. including Irrigation Management Project (Cr.1483-IN).
C. Costs
(Not Available)



INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
(Cr.1496-IN) - Project Completion Report
Table 1.   Economic  nalysis - Overall (I ith Sunk Costs)
(Rs mitlion)
....................... .............................................................................................................................................................
1979     1980     1981      1982    1983      1984     1985      1986     1987    1988      1989    1990       1991     1992    1993    1994        1995      1996 1997-14
....----.-.   ...--....-..--.-.--..------.-.....................-..-..--.-----..------.----        ------.------.--.....--...------.-----.--..    ....--................   .....---                   ...--..-..
NET BENEFITS
. ...........
Incr.net benefits-MODERN.            -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -   571.5   243.7    62.8   119.7  1157.1   565.4   1065.1   657.9   941.0
Incr.net benefits (NIP22)            -        -                           -        -   178.5   151.9   150.9   239.8   386.7   409.2   384.5   613.3   626.1   558.0   923.2  1211.9  1314.0
Total benefits (Overatl)             -        -        -         -        -        -   178.5   151.9   150.9   239.8   958.2   652.9   447.3   733.0  1783.2  1123.4  1988.3  1869.8  2255.0
2/
Arunual Expenditure -           422.9   592.5   712.4  1023.4  1175.9  1640.0                                   -            -        -                  -             -        - 
Civil works                          --                          -        -        -   845.4   468.1    477.9   418.5   355.0   372.7   390.3   408.8   387.8   345.1   442.7   442.7                       -
Equip. trafn.t Eng. Aopin            .        -         _        .        ,        - 229.1    199.3   197.0   188.6   209.5   185.7   179.0   171.4   171.5   178.3    95.1                    95.0
Opport. cost of twad a/              *                                              -    10.1      16.0    21.9    28.0    33.5    39.9    47.7    56.3    65.6    73.6    94.7    94.7    94.7 $-
Operation  maintenance 4/           -        -         -        -        -         -     3.8       4.8      3.9      7.2      9.5      12.2     11.5     18.3      19.5    22.4    27.5    36.4    36.4 -
Total Overatl Costs             422.9   592.5   712.4  1023.4  1175.9  1640.0  1088.4   688.1    700.8   642.3   607.5   610.5   628.5   654.8   644.4   619.4   660.0   668.9   131.2
Net Incremental Benefits
Net lncr. ben. OVERALL-79  -422.9  -592.5  -712.4 -1023.4 -1175.9 -1640.0  -909.9  -536.2  -549.9  -402.5   350.7    42.4  -181.2                         78.2  1138.8   504.0  1328.3  1200.9  2123.8
0l) Econ. conv. factors: c=o0.77; Equip & others=0.80; adj. to 1993 prices
<2> From Table 3 of HIP I PCR.
<3' At Rs9000/ha on rainf. land: canal area=8426/ha and mod. schea,2099/ha
<4, At Rs. 270/ha.
IRR - 9.02



INDIA: Gujarat Mediun Irrigation II Project
(Cr.1496-IN) - Project Completion Report
Table 2.   Econovmic Analysis - Overall (without Sunk Costs)
(RS million)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996 1997-14
NET BENEFITS
Incr.net benefits-MODERN.             -        -            -   571.5   243.7    62.8   119.7  1157.1   565.4  1065.1   657.9   941.0
Incr.net benefits (MIP2Z)   178.5   151.9   150.9   239.8   386.7   409.2   384.5   613.3   626.1   558.0   923.2  1211.9  1314.0
Total benefits (Overall)    178.5   151.9   150.9   239.8   958.2   652.9   447.3   733.0  1783.2  1123.4  1988.3  1869.8  2255.0
COSTS
Annual Expenditure 21                      -        -                -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -
Civil works                   845.4   468.1   477.9   418.5   355.0   372.7   390.3   408.8   387.8   345.1   442.7   442.7
Equip. train.6 Eng. Adin   229.1   199.3   197.0   188.6   209.5   185.7   179.0   171.4   171.5   178.3    95.1    95.0                  -
Opport. cost of land 3/        10.1    16.0    21.9    28.0    33.5    39.9    47.7    56.3    65.6    73.6    94.7    94.7    94.7
operation a maintenance 4/   3.8         4.8      3.9     7.2      9.5    12.2    11. 5    18.3    19.5    22.4    27.5    36.4    36.4
Total Overall Costs (85)   1088.4   688.1   700.8   642.3   607.5   610.5   628.5   654.8-  644.4   619.4   660.0   668.9   131.2                      co
Net Incremental Benefits
Net incr. ben. OVERALL-85  -909.9  -536.2  -549.9  -402.5   350.7    42.4  -181.2    78.2  1138.8   504.0  1328.3  1200.9  2123.8
<1> Econ. conv. factors: CW=0.77; Equip & others=0.80; adj. to 1993 prices
2> From Table 3 of HIP I PCR.
<3> At Rs9000/ha on rainf. land: canal area=8426/ha and mod. schem=2099/ha
<4> At Rs. 270/ha.
IRR - 21.4%



INDIA: Gujarat Mediua Irrigation II Project
(Cr.1496-lh1) - Project Coeptetion Report
Table 3.   Econoic Analysis - Ukd Sab-Project (WIth Surk Costs)
(Rs willion)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1967    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994  1995 1996-08
MET BENEFITS
Net Iner. benefits(IJN)           -                                             -            -                -    60.1    60.9    62.2    65.3    79.5    40.0  94.0   107.1
Total net benefits                -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -             60.1    60.9    62.2    65.3    79.5    40.0  94.0   107.1
COSTS
Civil works                    15.2    24.4    14.8    17.2      8.1    38.2    38.0    24.6    20.2    14.5    11.2    17.9    13.0    13.7    15.0          7.3  27.4
Equipoent             2                                   -0.0   2.7      2.8     0.2        -     0.4     0.4        -       -      0.0     0.0        -       -      -
Opport. cost of land -                -            -             0.1      0.1     3.8      4.1     4.4     4.4      4.4     4.4      4.4     4.4     4.4      4.4   4.4      4.4
operatlon & maintenance 3_'                                .        -       .       -        - -              -     0.6     0.6      0.7     0.8      1.2     1.2   1.7      2.0
Engineering & Adulnistrat         -       -              0.7     0.9      2.8     3.3      5.7     6.0    10.7      7.7     4.3      4.1     8.8     8.3      7.0      -
Total Costs (UJD)             15.2    24.4    14.8    18.0    11.7    44.0    45.3    34.4    31.0    30.1    23.9    27.2    22.3    27.8    29.0    19.9  33.6             6.5
Met Incrrmental Benefits
.............. ..  ..
Net incr. ben. (UND)          -15.2   -24.4   -14.8   -18.0   -11.7   -44.0   -45.3   -34.4   -31.0   -30.1    36.2    33.7    39.9    37.5    50.5    20.1  60.4   100.6
----------.                                                                               ----------------------------------------------------------------------.....-...-...-
1> Econ. conv. factors: CUWz0.77; Equip I others=0.80; adj. to 1993 prices
,2' Opportunity cost of land updated to 1993 prices.
c32 At Rs. 270/ha.
IRR - 12.7S



INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation If Project
(Cr.1496-IN) - Project Completion Report
Table 4.  Economic Analysis - Und Sub-Project (Uithout Sunk Costs)
(Rs million)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993   1994    1995 1996-14
-------------------------------------.---------------------.-....... ....-----..------.-.-.--. .....- ..........-.--------.
NET BENEFITS
Ne.  incr.    e t
Net incr. benefits(UND)         -               -       -   60.1    60.9    62.2    65.3    79.5    40.0    94.0   107.1
Total net benefits              -       -       -       -   60.1   60.9   62.2   65.3   79.5   40.0   94.0   107.1
COSTS V
Civit works                 38.0    24.6    20.2    14.5    11.2    17.9    13.0    13.7    15.0    7.3   27.4          -
Equipment            2        0 2       -    0.4      0.4       -       -    0.0      0.0               -       -       -
Opport. cost of land  /       3.8     4.1     4.4     4.4    4.4    4.4       4.4     4.4     4.4     4.4    4.4      4.4
Operation & maintenance 3/      -       -       -       -    0.6      0.6     0.7     0.8     1.2    1.2      1.7     2.0
Engineering & Ackinistrat    3.3      5.7     6.0    10.7    7.7      4.3    4.1      8.8    8.3    7.0         -       -
Total Costs (UND)            45.3    34.4    31.0    30.1    23.9    27.2    22.3    27.8    29.0    19.9   33.6      6.5
Net Incremental Benefits
Net incr. ben. (UND-85)     -45.3   -34.4   -31.0   -30.1    36.2    33.7    39.9    37.5    50.5    20.1    60.4   100.6
<1> Econ. conv. factors: CW=0.77; Equip & others=0.80; adj. to 1993 prices
<2> opportunity cost of land updated to 1993 prices.
<3> At Rs. 270/ha.
IRR - 24.5S



INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project
(Cr.1496-IW) - Project Coplet*on Report
Table S.   Econmeic Antlysis - Sukhi Sbr-Project (Uith SUnk Coets)
Cft million)
..................................................................... ...................................................................................... ............................................................................ ..............................
1979    1980    1981    19i2    1983    1964    1985    1986    1967    1968    1989    190    1991    1992                                                                      1993    1994  1995    1996 1997-08
........................................................... ........................................................................................................................ ...............................................................
MET SENEFITS
............
Net incr. beneftts(SUKNI)                                                   -                                                                     128.2   136.0   130.6   137.9   141.5   167.5   159.0   162.4  196.9   259.7   259.7
total  net  benefits                               -           *                                                         -                        128.2       136.0        130.6        137.9       141.5        167.5        159.0        162.4   196.9         259.7        259.7
COSTS -
Civil  works                                  56.2         80.4        54.7        133.6       178.1        102.1         90.3         76.9        61.9         39.6         24.2        21.2         34.6        30.6         43.0         24.7    59.1           59.1              -
Equipmnt                          /             1.8         0.5          0.6         3.6          3.2          1.2          2.2         0.0         0.0              -           -            -                               -              0.3
Opport. cost of tand2                                                                             9.1          9.0          9.0         9.0          9.0         9.0          9.0          9.0         9.0          9.0          9.0         9.0    9.0             9.0          9.0
Operation  Al m intenance 3/                                          -                               -           -                  -               0.3          0,5         0.4          0.7          0.8         1.9          1.6          1.7       3.2          4.4         4.4
Engineering  &  Administrat                     6.1         5.3          3.7        13.7         20.1        20.1         18.5         20.0        19.0         15.1         17.3         16.3        13.4         12.9        12.6         12.4
Total  Costs  (SlIHE        )                 64.1         86.2        58.9        151.0       210.5        132.4        120.1       105.9         90.2         64.3         51.0        47.2         57.8        54.4         66.3         48A.1      71.4        72.5         13.4
Net Incremental Senefits
........................
Net  incr.  ben.  (SINHI)                    -64.1       -86.2        -58.9   -151.0    -210.5    -132.4    -120.1    -105.9                       38.0         71.7         79.6        90.7         83.7       113.1         92.7        114.3   127.5          187.2        246.3
....................................... ................................................................................. .. ...... .. .................... -. .......... .--... .....                                                                                                 .
o1, Econ. cony. factors: CIJo.??; Equip & others-0.I0; adj. to 1993 prices
<2> Opportunity cost of land updated to 1993 prices.
'3v At Rs. 270/ha.
It - 6.12



INDIA:. Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project
(Cr.1496-IN) - Project Completion Report
Table 6.   Economic Anrlysis - Sukhi Sib-Project (Without Sunk Costs)
(Rs million)
1985    1986    19U7   1988    1989    190    1991    12    1993    1994    1995    1996 1997-14
NET 8ENEfITS
Net incr. benefits(SUKHI)       -        -   128.2   136.0   130.6   137.9   141.5  167.5   159.0   162.4   198.9  259.7   259.7
Total net benefits              -       -   128.2  136.0  130.6   137.9  141.5  167.5   159.0   162.4   196.9  259.7  259.7
1/
COSTS -
Civil uorks                  90.3    76.9    61.9    39.6    24.2    21.2   34.6    30.6    43.0    24.7   59.1    59.1
Equipment                     2.2     0.0      0.0       -       -       -       -                -    0.3        -               -
Opport. cost of land _        9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0     9.0     9.0     9.0     9.0     9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0     9.0
Operation I maintenance_/       -        -    0.3      0.5     0.4     0.7     0.8     1.9      1.6     1.7    3.2      4.4     4.4
Engineering & Administrat    18.5    20.0    19.0   15.1    17.3    16.3    13;4    12.9   12.6   12.4            -       -       -
Total Costs (SUK:Is-85))    120.1   105.9   90.2   64.3    51.0    47.2    57.8   54.4    66.3    48.1    71.4    72.5    13.4
N,
Met Incremental Benefits
Net incr. ben. (SUKHI-85)  -120.1  -105.9    38.0    71.7    79.6    90.7    83.7   113.1    92.7   114.3   127.5   187.2   246.3
..... ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> Econ. conv. factors: CU=O.77; Equip & others=0.80; adJ. to 1993 prices
<2> Opportunity cost of land updated to 1993 prices.
<3> At Rs. 270/ha.
IRR - 32.6%



INDIA: Gujarat Iedibn Irrigation 11 Project
(Cr.1496-IN) - Project Comptetion Report
Table 7.   Economic Analysis - Watrek Sut-Project (With Sunk Costs)
(Rs milLion)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995    1996 1997-08
WET BENEFITS
WATRAK-Increm benefits            -       -        -        -       -        -     3.1     7.1      9.9    70.0    28.2    46.4    36.3    77.3    75.4   109.8  133.9   159.5   159.5
Total benef. netos                -       -        -       -        -              3.1     7.1      9.9    70.0    28.2    46.4    36.3    77.3    75.4   109.8  133.9   159.5   159.5
COSTS -
Civil works                   31.7    31.6    39.3    45.9    47.8    54.9    73.3    26.0    28.6    15.2           8.0    14.8    20.9    25.5    27.7    19.5   35.4    35.4            -
Equipment             2/        1.6     1.7      2.4     3.3      3.2     3.3      3.9     5.2      0.0        -     0.2     0.2      0.2      0.3     0.1        -               -        -
Opport. cost of land -3           -       -        -        -       -     8.4      8.6     8.8      9.1     9.2      9.2     9.2      9.2      9.2     9.2      9.2    9.2      9.2     9.2
Operation & maintenance -         -       -        -                         -     0.1     0.2      0.2      1.7     0.7      1.1     0.9      1.9     1.8      2.7    3.2      3.6     3.6
Engineering & Acdministrat    12.2    11.5    12.7    13.3    18.6    18.7    17.9    17.1          6.3     6.1      6.3     7.3      7.1      7.4     7.4      7.8      -        -        -
Watrak-Totat Costs             45.6    44.8    54.4    62.6    69.7    85.3   103.8    57.2    44.2    32.3    24.3    32.7    38.2    44.3    46.2    39.2   55.6    56.0    20.6
Net IncrementaL Benefits                                                                                                                                                                    Lw
Net incr. ben.-UATRAK1        -45.6   -44.8   -54.4   -62.6   -69.7   -85.3  -100.7   -50.1   -34.3    37.7          3.9    13.7    -1.9    33.0    29.2    70.6  78.3   103.5   138.9
<1> Econ. conv. factors: CW=0.77; Equip & others=0.80; adj. to 1993 prices
c2> opportunity cost of Land updated to 1993 prices.
<3> At Rs. 270/ha.
IRR - 8.0t



INDIA: Gujarat Medlum Irrigation 11 Project
(Cr.1496-IN) - Project Completion Report
Table 8.   Econoaic Analysis - Uatrak Stb-Project (Without Sunk Costs)
(Rs million)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996 1997-14
NET BENEFITS
...A- nf9431.
WATRAK-lncrem benefits         3.1      7.1     9.9    70.0    28.2    46.4    36.3    77.3    75.4   109.8   133.9   159.5   159.5
Total net benefits             3.1     7.1      9.9    70.0    28.2    46.4    36.3    77.3    75.4   109.8   133.9   159.5   159.5
COSTS
Civil works                   73.3    26.0    28.6    15.2       8.0    14.8    20.9    25.5    27.7    19.5    35.4    35.4
Equipment            2/        3.9      5.2     0.0              0.2     0.2      0.2     0.3     0.1        -
Opport. cost of land-          8.6      8.8     9.1     9.2      9.2     9.2      9.2     9.2     9.2      9.2     9.2     9.2      9.2
Operation 6 maintenance -      0.1      0.2     0.2     1.7      0.7     1.1      0.9     1.9      1.8     2.7     3.2      3.6     3.6
Engineering & Acdministrat    17.9    17.1      6.3     6.1      6.3     7.3      7.1     7.4     7.4      7.8       -               -.n
Watrak-Total Costs           103.8    57.2    44.2    32.3    24.3    32.7    38.2    44.3    46.2    39.2    47.8    48.2    12.8
Net Incremental Benefits
Net incr. benefits-WATRAK  -100.7   -50.1   -34.3   37.7         3.9    13.7    -1.9    33.0    29.2    70.6    86.1   111.3   146.7
<1> Econ. conv. factors: CW=0.77; Equip & others=0.80; adj. to 1993 prices
t2> Opportunity cost of land updated to 1993 prices.
c3, At Rs. 270/ha.
IRR - 21.0%



INDIA: Gujarat Mediuin Irrigation 11 Project
(Cr.1496-iN) - Project Completion Report
Table 9.   Economic Analysis - Shetrunji Stu-Project
(Rs mitlion)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999 2000-14
NET BENEFITS
Increment. benefits               -        -       -        -    44.7    42.4    46.1         -   147.6    51.8    77.7    45.0    60.8    59.1    75.0   250.3
Total net benefits                -        -       -        -    44.7    42.4    46.1              147.6    51.8    77.7    45.0    60.8    59.1    75.0   250.3
COSTS -
Clvil works                     8.6     5.0    35.0       4.7     3.7    11.4    15.7    21.4    13.6    14.9    30.8    87.2             -
operation & maintenance 2/    8.1        8.1     8.1      8.1     8.1      8.1      8.1     8.1      8.1      8.1     8.1      8.1     8.1      8.1      8.1     8.1
Engineering & Administrat    16.5        9.6     9.0      9.5     9.6    10.3    11.1       9.1    10.4    13.3          -       -        -                -        -
Increm. production costs          -        -       -        *    14.4    16.8    12.4         -   -15.2       5.4   -26.7    13.7    -5.6    -3.7   -23.3    43.9
Total Costs                    33.3    22.7    52.1    22.3    35.8    46.7    47.3    38.6    17.0    41.7    12.3   109.0            2.5      4.4   -15.2    52.0
Net Incremental Benefits
Net incr. econ. benefits    -33.3   -22.7   -52.1   -22.3         8.9    -4.3    -1.2   -38.6   130.6    10.1    65.4   -64.0    58.3    54.7    90.2   198.3
<1> Econ. conv. factors: CU=0.77; Equip & others=0.80; adj. to 1993 prices
<2> At Rs. 270/ha.
IRR - 21.2X



57
Annex 1
ECONOMIC REASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
General
1.       At appraisal, the three main components of the MIP It were: (i) completion
of 23 ongoing MIPs; (ii) completion of ongoing modernization works in six schemes;
and (iii) introduction of rotational water supply, training, studies, monitoring and
evaluation, and institutional strengthening. The project was restructured in September
1991, expanding the scope to include: (a) completion of the Karjan irrigation scheme;
(b) completion of the Saurashtra Coastal Salinity Ingress Control Scheme; (c) completion
of the Machhu II dam reconstruction and irrigation rehabilitation scheme; and (d)
continued support to WALMI. These four items were transferred from the Gujarat
Irrigation 1I project (Cr.1011-IN) which closed on April 30, 1989. One of the MIPs
(Zankhari sub-project) was deleted from the project. The total cultivable command area
(CCA) of the 28 sub-projects and the newly included sub-projects is now estimated at
406,691 ha (340,501 ha for 28 sub-projects plus 66,100 ha for Karjan and Machhu [I sub-
projects). Four MIPs and one modernization sub-project are reported as complete and
the rest are at various stages of completion. The PCR estimates have relied on a few
sub-projects that have been under operation as the detailed survey is to start after two
years of operation. The economic re-evaluation of the project should therefore be
considered as broadly indicative.
2.        Project costs. All investment costs from the start of construction of the
22 MIPs and costs still to be incurred to complete the sub-project works have been
included in the cost stream. For the six modernization sub-projects, all investment costs
incurred from the beginning of modernization and costs to complete works have been
included in the cost stream. Future expenditures to complete ongoing MIPs and
modernization schemes are based on Government projections made in June 1994.
Expenditures were all brought to 1993 price levels using wholesale price indices and
financial costs have been adjusted to economic costs using conversion factors given in
Part III/6B. 0 & M costs of Rs270/ha have been included in the cost streams reflecting
the likely operational expenditure on MIPs as designed. The opportunity cost of land
submerged or used for construction of the distribution system was treated as a recurrent
project cost as done at appraisal and updated to 1993 price levels. To simplify and to
make it comparable with appraisal, both the costs and benefits of newly transferred sub-
projects from Cr.1011-IN were excluded from the economic evaluation. The analysis has
been done for the project as a whole (Table 11), and for each of the four sub-projects
(3 MIPs and one modernization): Table 12 - Und, Table 13 - Sukhi, Table 14 - Watrak
and Table 15 - Shetrunji.



58
INIDIA: Gujarat Medium Irription 11 Projcct
Annex 1: EPconomic Reassessment
Projcct Completion Report
Overall Crop Development
3.        The data on annual crop production in the project area have been
systematically recorded except on the area that received irrigation. Little effort was
made to quantify the impact of crop production by the Bank supervision missions.
Therefore, the data used for compiling crop development which has taken place since
1985 in the project impact areas are largely based on various data estimated by the Area
Development Commissioner (ADC), the staff of the Department of Agriculture (DOA),
the District Statistics and discussions with farmers.
Cropping Pattern
4.        The overall estimated cropping intensity with project at PCR (138%) does
not vary much from the SAR estimate (140%). Cropping intensities however vary by
sub-project as shown in Tables 1 to 4 and summarized below:
jWthout        With Project at
Project       Full Development
Und                              106               121
Sukhi                            110                133
Watrak                           107                114
Shetrunji                        108                118
5.        The total area irrigated under kharif has increased whereas the area irrigated
under two seasonal crops has decreased. No substantial changes from the present
situation were assumed in the future "without project" cropping patterns. Changes in
overall cropping patterns are reflected by the replacement of low value by high value
crops and the increased area under high value crops. The area under non-food crops
like mustard and castor has increased substantially.
6.        It is estimated that overall cropping intensity has increased from  110%
without project to 140% with project at full development. This increase is due to the
increased area under paddy in kharif, wheat and mustard in rabi and castor as two
seasonal crops. The estimated cropping intensity is almost the same as that of appraisal.



59
INDIA: Gujarat Mcdium Irrigation 11 Projcct
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Repon
7.         Crop yields. Tables 5 to 8 sets out "without" and "with project" at full
development yields for the four sub-projects. Assessment of' yields were based on:
(i) information provided by ADC; (ii) discussions with local staff and farmers; and
(iii) district statistics. Socio-economic surveys were not carried out in each sub-project
area. Yields "without project" based on present agricultural practices were adjusted
slightly upwards in some crops to take account of past productivity increases.
8.        Irrigation had commenced in different years in different sub-projects. For
example, in Panam and Watrak, irrigation commenced in the first year (1985), whereas
in Guhai and Ver.II, it commenced in 1993 only. In Sipu, it is expected to commence
in 1996. The farmers had adapted the projected cropping pattern of the 'with project'
situation to water availability, since many farmers are familiar with well irrigation
practices which are similar to the projected 'with project' cropping patterns.
9.         With regard to the yield development period, the appraisal report assumed
that farmers would achieve the projected full development yield level over five years.
The present estimates show much earlier attainment of the current high yield levels.
This fast achievement of high level is probably due to farmers' good management
techniques and the fairly effective services provided by the Department of Agriculture.
10.       Providing irrigation alone cannot increase the yield to projected levels.
Effective support services through DOA and Gujarat Agricultural University (GAU) on
water management, the effective operation of RWS with adequate training to farmers
and completion of land levelling in all sub-projects would further increase the yield levels
of many crops.   The operation of RWS and completion of land levelling (about
25,100 ha to be levelled) would probably take up to three years to meet desired levels.
The projected yields at full development at PCR compared with SAR is presented in
Table 9, which increases ranging from 3-33%.
11.       Build-up of benefits. To simplify the re-evaluation of the economic rate of
return (ERR) of the 28 sub-projects, it has been assumed that "with irrigation" crop
yields would be achieved in the first season that full irrigation is supplied to an area.
This simplification has been offset by adjusting the build-up period over which rainfed
converts to irrigated area (see Table 10).



60
INDIA: (ujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
Annex l: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
B. FARM INCOMES
12.         At appraisal, three representative farm  models had been used to calculate
the project impact on farm incomes at the then prevailing financial prices to value
outputs and inputs. The results were as follows.
Net Farm Incomes at Appraisal
Future without       Future with       Increment due to
Farm Model                Project             Project              Project
(Rs)               (Rs)                 (Rs)
Mainland Gujarat (2.5 ha)        3,810               14,400               10,590
Saurashtra (4.5 ha)               7,170              25,110               17,940
Modernization (5.0 ha)           11,380              23,480               12,100
Restated in 1993 prices, incremental incomes would be as follows.
Incremental Farm Income (Rs)
l  |    2.5 ha        4.5 ha            5.0 ha
Incremental income in 1984 prices           10,590           17,940            12,100
Incremental income in 1993 prices           21,570           36,540            24,460
Incremental income per ha in 1993 prices     8,630            8,120            4,930
Similar calculations were made to derive farm income at full development, based on
PCR estimates in 1993 prices. The results are detailed in Table 11 and summarized
below.



61
INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Net Farm Income at PCR
Future without      Future with        Increment due to
Farm Model               Project             Project              Project
(Rs)               (Rs)                 (Rs)
Mainland Gujarat (25 ha)        7,740              30,130               22,390
(Sukhi)
Saurashtra (4.5 ha)            14,550              52,990               38,440
(Und)
Modernization (5 ha)           23,100              49,300               26,200
(Shetrunji)
Incremental Farm Income (Rs)
[                                            t2.5 ha          4.S ha          S.O ha
Incremental income                         22,390           38,440          26,200
Incremental income per ha                   8,956           8,542            5,240
13.        The above table shows that real income increases of 4% for the 2.5 ha farm,
5% for the 4.5 ha farm and 6% for the 5.0 ha farm, compared to appraisal estimates.
The rise in income is due to higher cropping intensity, better crop yields and a shift to
more remunerative crops than projected at appraisal.
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
14.        At appraisal, a sample of five representative sub-projects (4 MIPs and one
mod.) was analyzed with ERRs estimated at 13% for MIPs, over 50%  for modernized
schemes, and about 30% for the project as a whole. Without sunk costs, ERRs ranged
from 1748% for MIPs and averaged 35%, resulting in a weighted average for the project
as a whole of about 43%.



62
INDIA: Gujarat Mcdiumn Irrigation 11 Project
Annecx 1: Economic Reassessment
Projcct Compcltion Report
MIPs                            ERR with sunk costs (%)
Und                                        12
Sukhi                                      13
Watrak                                     14
Zankhari                                   16
Modernization                              53
Project                                    30
15.       This analysis was based on the following assumptions:
Project life of 30 years, including an implementation period of five
years;
F ull development reached in Year 3 for cropping patterns and in
Year 5 for yields after completion of investments;
Traded agricultural outputs and inputs were valued on the basis of
IBRD projected 1990/95 World Market prices, expressed in 1984
currency values with adjustment for freight handling and processing.
The financial prices of non-traded cost and benefit items including
labour have been adjusted by appropriate conversion factors: dam,
main canal 0.77; distribution system 0.75; drainage 0.79; equipment
0.80; engineering 0.8; farm labour 0.66 and SCF 0.8.
No substantial changes in production were expected in the area
without the project.
In the case of MIPs, capital costs included sunk costs;  for
modernization of sub-projects, capital costs include costs incurred
from the beginning of modernization;
Opportunity cost of land in agricultural production was included in
the analysis to account for land lost due to construction of dam and
distribution system including land.



63
INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 1: Economic Rcassessmcnt
Project Compiction Report
PCR Estimates
16.       The recalculation of ERRs follows the SAR methodology.  The main
differences are:
Actual costs were used for the period FY79-94; past expenditures
have been inflated to 1993 prices using Indian wholesale price
indices (see Tables 12-17).
Investments still needed to complete the sub-projects were estimated
based on cost estimates provided by the Irrigation Department.
All values were expressed in terms of 1993 price levels.
Traded agricultural outputs and inputs were valued on the basis of
IBRD projected 1995 World Market prices, expressed in 1993
currency values with adjustment for freight handling and processing
(Table 18).
Economic Rate of Return
17.       As presented in Part III/6B, economic rates of return (ERRs) have been re-
estimated for the project as a whole with and without sunk costs and for a sample of four
sub-projects (3 MIPs and one modernization scheme) with and without sunk costs as
well, based on cropping patterns, updated costs and prices of commodities. Opportunity
cost of land in agricultural production was included in the analysis to account for land
lost due to construction of dam and distribution system including land. Similarly, water
diverted from the project reservoir for drinking purposes was valued at opportunity cost
of agricultural production foregone as a result. This loss is not material as it would
involve a total CCA of 10,200 ha, less than 3% of the project's CCA, on the assumption
that one million m3 of water would be required for 150 ha and that about 68 million m3
would only be diverted for drinking purposes.
18.       The PCR estimates of ERRs with sunk costs are 9% (project as a whole),
13% (Und sub-project), 10% (Sukhi sub-project), and 8% (Watrak sub-project) compared
with appraisal estimates of 30% (project as a whole), 12% (Und), 13% (Sukhi), and 14%
(Watrak). The PCR estimate of ERRs without sunk costs are 21% (project as a whole),
25% (Und), 33% (Sukhi), 21% (Watrak) and 21% (Shetrunji) as compared with
appraisal estimates of 43% (project as a whole) and from 17%-48% for MIPs and 53%
(Shetrunji modernization sub-project). The lower rates of return at PCR is mainly due
to:



64
INDIA: Gujarat Mcdium Irrigation 1I Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessmcnt
Project Completion Report
(a)    high cost increases in both nominal and real terms, ranging from 2%
(Und) to 133% (Jhuj and Bhadar). The nominal per ha cost has
increased from Rs11,060 at appraisal to about Rs28,723 at PCR
(160%);
(b)    delay in the accrual of benefits. At appraisal, it was assumed that
the benefits would start flowing from 1984 and full development
benefits would be attained by 1992; but the benefits commenced only
from 1985-89 and the full benefits would hopefully be attained by
1996/1997.
19.       These factors were not fully offset by the projected higher crop yields at PCR
than were expected at appraisal.
Sensitivity Analysis
20.       The three factors which are likely to change the ERR are: (i) variations in
assumed benefits; (ii) variations in funding of 0 & M; and (iii) the inability of the
Irrigation Department to operate and manage the MIPs as designed. The results of the
analysis show that: a reduction in the benefits of 20% would lower ERR to 17%; a
reduction of 50% in the 0 & M funding (by assuming that future benefits would be
reduced by 50%) would lower ERR to about 10%; and that ineffective operation of
RWS would lower ERR to 17% on the assumption that the ineffective operation of
NWRD would depress project benefits by 20%.



65
INDIA: Gujarat Mcdium Irrigation 1I Project
Annex 1: Economic Reasscssment
Project Compleiion Report
Table 1. Cropping Patterns - Und Sub-Project
CCA = 9,450 ha
Present and Future        Future With Project at Full Development
Crops              Without Project
Rainfed                Irrigated
I_,_(                                                      %)_...................................
Kharif
Sorghum                         28.40                    17.5                    12.0
Pearl Millet                    21.10                                            20.0
Groundnut                       41.30                                            50.0
Pulses                           0.20                                             3.0
Sesame                           2.30                    2.5
Sub-total                        93.30                    20.0                     85.0
Rabi
Wheat                            3.30                                             9.0
Garlic                           0.80                                             2.5
Vegetables                       0.10                                             0.1
Fodder                           0.70
Gram                             0.70
Sub-total                         5.60                                             11.6
Two Seasonal
Cotton                           6.40                                             4.0
Sugarcane                        0.20                                             0.1
Fruit                            0.10                                             0.1
Sub-total                         6.70                                             4.2
Total________________             20.0         1100.8
Total                            105.60                              120.8



66
INDIA: Gujart Medium Irrigation IU Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 2. Cropping Patterns - Sukhl Sub-Project
CCA = 20,368 ha
Present and Future        Future With Project at Full Development
Crops              Without Project
Rainfed                Irrigated
I__._               __              -~                        ... . . . .... ......----... . .... .............
Kharif
Paddy                           8.20                                            20.0
Maize                           9.60                    4.0                      5.0
Sorghum                        14.50                    5.50                     5.0
Groundnut                      10.40                                            10.0
Sesame                         14.00                    5.0                      7.5
Sub-total                        56.70                    14.5                    47.5
Rabi
Wheat                           1.00                     1.0                    24.0
Pulses                         11.10                    0.5                      4.0
Vegetables                      0.40                                             2.0
Groundnut                                                                        9.0
Maize                                                                            2.0
Sub-total                        12.50                    15                      41.0
Two Seasonal
Cotton                         35.50                    2.0                     21.0
Sugarcane                       1.00                                             1.0
Fodder                          4.20                                             4.00
Sub-total                        40.70                    2.0                     26.0
18.0                   114.5
Total                           109.90                               132.5



67
INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
Annex l: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 3. Cropping Patterns - Watrak Sub-Project
CCA = 16,798 ha
Present and Future        Future With Project at Full Development
Crops              Without Project
I__ _    Rainfed                Irrigated
........                                             ........
Kharif
Sorghum                          2.0                                              2.0
Pearl Milict                     12.2                    12.2                                  l
Paddy                            3.0      .                                       4.0
Maize                            16.9                    0.9                     16.0
Gram (Fodder)                    2.1                      2.1                                 |
Groundnut                       27.9                                             28.0
Minor Millet                      1.6                     1.0
Sub-total                         65.7                    16.2                    50.0
Rabi
Wheat                            6.3                      1.0                    15.0
Vegetables                       0.1                                                          l
Pulses                           2.2                     0.5                      5.0
Mustard                                                                           5.0
Sub-total                          8.6                     1.5                    25.0
Two Seasonal
Cotton                          32.5                     5.0                     10.0
Vegetables/chillies                                                               2.0
Castor                                                                            5.0
Sub-total                         32.5                     5.0                    17.0
Total_______________              21.7                     92.0
Total                            106.8                                113.7



68
INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 4. Cropping Patterns - Shetrunji Sub-Project
CCA = 34,473 ha
Berore Modernization      After Modernization (at Full Development)
Crops                                  |         Rainfed                 Irrigated
___________~~~.. ..... ............  .......  . . .     . ...... %) ..............-...................
Kharir
Groundnut                        27.4                     7.4                     20.0
Pearl Millet                     30.1                    26.0                      5.0
Sorghum                          13.8                     11.0                     2.5
Others (Pulscs)                  6.3                      6.3
Sub-total                         77.60                    50.7                     27.5
Rabi
(a) Wheat                          7.6                                              22.0
Vegetables                     1.0                                               2.0
Sub-tota1                          8.6                                              24.0
(b) Hot Weather
Groundnut                     13.70                                            12.50
Sorghum/Pearl                  0.60                                                           |
Millet
Sub-total                         14.30                                            12.50
Two Seasonal
Cotton                           2.00                                             2.50
Lucerne                          2.30
Chillies                         0.60
Sub-total                         4.90                                              2.50
Perennial
Sugarcane                        1.50
Fruit                            0.80                                              0.5
Sub-total                         2.30                                              3.0
Total_______________               50.7                    67.0
Total                             107.7                                117.7



69
INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation [i Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 5. Crop Ytelds - Und Sub-Project
.Without Project                       With Project
Crops                   Rainfed             Irrigated     J    Rainfed          Irrigated
l _ . ___ .......... __ ......-           -  -  - (tontha ) ..... -  --- ----._. ..... ...__
Kharif
Sorghum                           0.5                   1.1               0.8               1.2
Pearl Millet                      0.7                  2.0                4.8               2.3
Groundnut                         0.9                   1.4               1.0               1.4
Pulses                            1.1                   -                 1.2               2.0
Sesame                            0.8                                     1.0
Rabi
Wheat                             0.7                  2.3                0.8               3.5
Garlic                                                 0.8                                  1.0
Vegetables                                             22.0                                27.0
Foddcr                                                  1.5                                 1.7
Gram                              0.7                                     0.8               1.5
Two Seasonal
Cotton                            0.7                   13                0.7              2.2
Sugarcane                                             65.0                                 85.0
Fruit                                                  2.0                                 2.5



70
INDlA: Gujarat Medium Irigation 11 Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 6. Crop Yields - Sukhi Sub-Project
Future Without Project        |  Future With Project at Full
Development
Crops                  Rainred            Irrigated          Rainfed    I   Irrigated
________________         .........(ton/ha~. . ....... . .
Kharif
Paddy                            1.2                 2.1               1.2              2.1
Maize                            1.1                  -                1.1
Sorghum                          0.5                 1.1               0.6              1.3
Groundnut                        0.9                 1.4               0.9              1.4
Sesame                           0.9                 1.1               0.9              1.4
Rabi
Wheat                            0.7                 2.3               0.7              3.1
Pulses                           0.7                  -                0.7              1.5
Vegetables                                          22.0                -              28.0
Groundnut                                            1.6                                1.6
Maize                                                1.9                                2.0
Two Seasonal
Cotton                           0.7                 1.3               0.7              1.2
Sugarcane                                           65.0                               72.0
Fodder                                               7.0                                8.0



71
INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 7. Crop Yields - Watrak Sub-Project
Present and Future Without Project         Future With Project
I_______________    ________________         at  Full  Development
Crops                                                         PCR             PCR
Rainfed            Irrigated
Rainfed        Irrigated
.   . .. ............ .... (ton/ha. .
Kharif
Sorghum                         0.5                  1.1               0.8             2.5
Pearl Millet                    0.7                 2.0               0.8             2.8
Paddy                           1.2                  2.1               1.3             3.8
Maize                           1.1                   -                1.1            2.5
Fodder                          3.0                                   6.0                      |
Groundnut                       0.9                  1.4              1.1              1.9
Minor Millet                    0.6                  -                0.6                      |
Rabi
Wheat                           0.7                 2.3               0.8             3.4
Vegetables                       -                 22.0                  
Pulses                          0.8                 1.5               0.8              1.5
Rapeseed Mustard                0.8                 1.1                1.0             1.6
Two Seasonal
Cotton                          0.7                  1.3              0.8             2.0
Vegetables                      1.0                  1.7              12.0           30.0
Castor                          1.2                  1.6              1.4             2.4



72
INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 1: Economic Rcassessnient
Projeci Completion Report
Table 8. Crop Yields - Shetrunji Sub-Project
Without Project                  With Project at Full
Development
Rainfed            Irrigated         Rainfed        Irrigated
. ..........  (ton/ha) ....
Kharif
Groundnut                       0.7                1.8               0.7             2.1
Pearl Millet                    0.7                2.2               0.8             2.3
Sorghum                         0.5                 1.2              0.5             1.4
Pulses                          0.7                0.7               0.7             0.8
Paddy                           1.2                3.0               1.2             3.5
Maize                           1.1                2.2               1.1             2.6
Vegetables                       -                 0.8                               0.9
Rabi
Wheat                           0.7                2.6               0.7             3.3
Mustard                         0.8                1.1               0.8             1.6
Groundnut                        -                 1.6                               2.1
Vegetables                                         25.0                              30.0
Sorghum                          -                  1.6                              2.0
Two Seasonal
Cotton                          0.7                1.6               0.7             2.0
Castor                          1.0                1.8               1.0             2.4
Onions                          1.2                2.5               1.2             3.0
Fodder                           -                 7.0                               9.0
Perennial
Sugarcane                                          70.0                              75.0
Fruit                                              2.0                               2.4



73
INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation ll Project
Annex 1: Economic Rcassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 9. With Project Yields at SAR Compared with PCR for the Project as a Whole
Total Project
Crops                             SAR                               PCR
l _____________________________                 (ha)                              (ha)
Kharif
Paddy                                          3.4                              3.7
Pearl Millet                                   2.6                              2.8
Sorghum                                        2.5                              2.5
Groundnut                                      1.9                              1.9
Maize                                          2.6                              2.6
Vegetables                                     1.3                              1.3
Rabi
Wheat                                          3.2                              3.3
Mustard                                        1.4                              1.6
Gram                                           1.4                              1.5
Groundnut                                     2.1                               2.1
Vegetables                                    27.0                             30.0
Two Seasonal
Cotton                                         1.7                              2.0
Tobacco                                       2.3                               2.3
Castor                                         1.8                              2.4
Perennial
S ugarcane                                    85.0                             85.0



INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Tabte 10.  Conversion of Rainfed to Irrigated Area
(ha)
Sub-Projects                195        196         1987       1          1989       199O       19W91       1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       1997
UhJd Sub-project                                               -        2,748       2,885      3,098      3.648      5,500                  8,000      9,450   -l
Sukhl Sub-project             -                   1,162      2,402       1,724      3,143      3,573      8.893      7,266      7,933      15,000     20,368   -
Watrak Sub-project           341        796       1,114      7,836      3,167       5,190      4,067      8,439      8,659      12,299     15,000      16,798   -
Shetrunji Sub-project       2,598      1,115      3,750                 34,473      7,945     27,036      2,954      14,490     13,354     25,000     34,473   .          _



75
INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 11. Estimated Financial Farm Budgets
Without Project  With Project
(Rs)            (Rs)
2.5 ha Farm Mainland Gujarat
(Based on Sukhi Sub-project)
Gross value                                         15,160          44,800
Hired labour                                        1,860           3,100
Other inputs                                        5,560           11,570
Total inputs                                        7,420           14,670
Net value                                           7,740           30,130
Incremental income (Rs)                                                           22,390
Incremental income/ha (Rs)                                                         8,956
Increase due to project (%)                                                         389
4.5 ha Farm (Based on Und Sub-project)
Gross value                                         29,550          75,110
Hired labour                                        2,760           4,520
Other inputs                                        12,240          17,600
Total inputs                                        15,000          22,120
Nct value                                           14,550          52,990
Incremental income (Rs)                                                           38,440
Incremental incomc/ha (Rs)                                                        8,542
Increase due to project (%)                                                         364
Modernization 5.0 ha
(Based on Shetrunji Sub-project)
Gross value                                         42,440          71,570
Hired labour                                        3,410           5,450
Other inputs                                        15,930          16,820
Total inputs                                        19,340          22,270
Net value                                           23,100          49,300
Incremental income (Rs)                                                           26,200
Incremental income/ha (Rs)                                                        5,240
Increase due to project (%)                                                         213



INDIA:  Gujarat Nedlu.  Irrigation It Project
Amnex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Coapletion Report
Table 12. Econolmc Costs of KIP tl m a Whole
Fiscat Year           Arums  ExpendiLture'         CIvit Works        Equipent, Training. Monitoring       operation I saintiWmWe    opportuilty Cost of la
* Engineering Administration
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Rs mitlion) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1979                      422.88
1980                      592.51
1981                      712.37
1982                     1,023.39
1983                     1,175.93
1984                     1,639.96
1985                                              845.37                       229.10                             3.82                         10.11
1986                                              468.09                       199.27                             4.77                         15.99
1987                                              477.95                       197.05                             3.91                         21.87
1988                                              418.55                       188.56                             7.20                         27.99
1989                                              354.99                       209.49                             9.51                         33.54
1990                                              372.67                       185.73                            12.20                         39.90
1991                                              390.32                       178.98                            11.52                         47.46
1992                                              408.83                       171.42                            18.27                         56.31
1993                                              387.84                       171.47                            19.55                         65.56
1994                                              345.09                       178.28                            22.41                         73.58
1995                                              442.71                        95.06                            27.55                         94.72
1996                                              442.71                        95.05                            36.44                         94.72
I                             I
I/ From Table 3 of NIP I PCR.
2/ Measured at Rs9,000/ha on rainfed land over canal area of 8,426 ha and about 2,099 ha in modernization schemes, and pro-rated on the basis of annual cumulative
expenditure on civil works.



INDIA:  Gujarat Nediu  Irrigation II Project
Armex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Coqpletion Report
Tabte 13. Economic Costs - tid Sb,-Project
Fiscat Year              Civil Works            Equipent    i        GOartunity Ctst of LEd           Operation * ftintenwice    Engineerlng Aikinistration
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Rs wittion) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1979                    15.22
1960                    24.36
1981                    14.85                    e
1962                    17.24                  0.04                                                                                      0.70
1963                     6.08                  2.68                        0.06                                                          0.91
1964                    38.23                  2.85                        0.14                                                          2.77
1965                    37.97                  0.19                        3.82                              -                           3.33
1986                    24.58                    -                         4.13                              -                            5.71
1967                    20.23                  0.41                        4.36                              -                            5.97
1986                    14.49                  0.41                        4.44                              -                           10.73
1989                    11.17                    -                         4.44                             0.59                          7.66
1990                    17.92                                              4.44                             0.62                          4.25
1991                    13.04                  0.04                        4.44                             0.67                          4.14
1992                    13.72                  0.04                        4.44                             0.79                          8.64
1993                    15.03                    -                         4.44                             1.19                          8.30
1994                     7.32                                              4.44                             1.19                          6.98
1995                    27.40                    -4.44                                                      1.73
1996                      -                                                4.44                             2.04
I                            .  I



INOIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation it Project
Amex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 14. Economic Costs - Sukhl Sub-Project
Fiscat Year               Civil Works              Equipent            Opportunity Cost of Land         Operation & Naintenwace    Engineering Administration
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Rs million) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1979                     56.17                    1.82                                                                                     6.10
1980                      80.45                  0.49                                                                                      5.30
1961                      54.68                  0.58                                                                                      3.66
1962                     133.63                  3.62                                                                                      13.73
1983                     178.10                  3.22                         9.08                                                         20.12
1964                     102.11                   1.22                        9.02                                                         20.10
1965                     90.30                    2.22                        9.02                                                         18.53
1986                     76.90                   0.04                         9.02                                                         19.99
1967                     61.86                    0.01                        9.02                           0.25                          19.04
1968                     39.65                                                9.02                            0.52                         15.11
1989                     24.24                                                9.02                            0.37                         17.35
1990                     21.16                                                9.02                            0.68                         16.35
1991                     34.59                                                9.02                            0.77                         13.44
1992                     30.57                                                9.02                            1.92                         12.88
1993                     43.05                                                9.02                            1.57                         12.64
1994                     24.73                    0.27                        9.02                            1.71                         12.40
1995                     59.10                     -                          9.02                            3.24
1996                     59.10                                                9.02                            4.40



INDIA: Gujarat Nedium Irrigation It Project
Annex 1: Econormic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Tabte 15. Economic Costs 1      s -btrok Stb-Project
Fiscal Year              Civil Works            Equipment    |     OpportLanity Cost of Land 2       Operation 4 Nainteewice -    Engineering Administration
. .. ..   .   .. ..   .   .. ..   .   .. ..   .   .(Rs mittion).                        .              . .
1979                    31.74                  1.65                                                                                       12.22
1980                    31.64                  1.68                                                                                       11.51
1981                    39.32                  2.36                                                                                       12.70
1982                    45.92                  3.34                                                                                       13.35
1983                    47.82                  3.24                                                                                        18.62
1984                    54.93                  3.30                        8.4                                                             18.70
195                     73.28                  3.89                        8.6                               0.07                          17.94
1966                    25.96                  5.16                        8.8                               0.17                          17.11
1987                    28.56                  0.05                        9.1                               0.24                          6.28
1966                    15.25                                              9.2                               1.69                         6.13
1989                     7.97                  0.24                         9.2                              0.68                          6.26                -J
1990                    14.80                  0.22                        9.2                               1.12                          7.32
1991                    20.89                  0.19                         9.2                              0.88                          7.09
1992                    25.52                  0.26                         9.2                              1.87                          7.44
1993                    27.72                  0.08                         9.2                              1.82                          7.37
1994                    19.52                                               9.2                              2.66                          7.79
1995                    35.40                                               9.2                              3.24
1996                    35.40                                               9.2                              3.63
Financial costs converted to economic values using conversion factors - civil works = 0.77, equipment = 0.80, and engineering administration and operation and mintenance
- SCF of 0.80; they are then adjusted to 1993 prices using whole sale price indices.
-  Opportunity cost of lnd updated to 1993 prices.
At Rs270/ha.



80
INDIA:. Gujart Medium Irription 11 Project
Annex 1: Economic Reessesment
Project Completion Repont
Table 16. Economic Costs - Shetrunji (Modernization) Sub-Project
Civil Works      Operation & Maintenance   Engineering Administration
Fiscal Year
l_____________ _ _(R(Rs million).                      .    _     _
1985              8.64                   8.12                        16.55
1986              535                    8.12                         9.62
1987              4.66                   8.12                         9.02
1988              3.66                   8.12                         9.49
1989             11.44                   8.12                         9.59
1990             15.67                   8.12                        10.35
1991             21.44                   8.12                        11.09
1992             13.64                   8.12                         9.06
1993             14.88                   8.12                        10.44
1994             30.85                   8.12                        13.26
1995             87.22                   8.12
1996                                     8.12



81
INDIA: Gujamt Medium hrription It Project
Annex 1: Economic Reasessment
Project Completion Repon
Table 17. Exchange Rates and Wholesale Price Indices (WPI)
Ye-ar             Exchange Rate:1                     WPJ 1'
l ____Year_____             Rs  =  US$1         a    _--_--
1979                                                    60.0
1980                                                    72.0
1981                                                    80.9
1982                                                    82.8
1983                                                    89.4
1984                                                    95.6
1985                    12.369                         100.0
1986                    12.611                         105.6
1987                    12.962                         112.9
1988                    13.917                         122.7
1989                    16.226                         131.1
1990                    17.504                         142.9
1991                   22.742                          162.2
1992                   25.918                          181.4
1993                   30.493                          194.7
1994                   31.371
J/ IMF Statistics.



INDIA: Gujarat Uedium Irrigation It Project
Amex 1: Economic keasessmmnt
Project Completion Report
Table 18. Derivation of Eemmoc Plrices of Tr.  lble Co dities wnd Fertilizers
|   Unit         Paddy    |      ,eat   |   Cotton      G rounmInut    Su|earcane  L_ a_Ze    I    tro_          Phosphate       Potash
Projected 1990 world m*rket         USS/ton         338            182        1.707           800          239           116            137           129            106
price In 1993 constant USS 
Ouality adjustment                     X              90           100           90           100            95           80            100           100            100
World m_rket equivalent             USS/ton          304           182        1,536           800           227           93            137           129            106
International shipping              USS/ton          0            0           (140)           0                          0              50             65             65
CIF/FOS price Bombay                USS/ton          304           182        1,396           800           227           93            187            194           171
CIF/FOS price Boobay                Rs/ton        9,537         5,710        43,794        25,097         7.121        2.918          5,866         6.086         5S364
Domestic handling and transport    Rs/ton            671           567        (464)        (1,032)        (410)         (410)           774           774            774
Processing ratio                       X              66           100           35            68            10           100            46            48             60
Value of by-product                 Rs/ton           0            0           2.200                         0            0              0             0              0        x
Processing ratio by-product            X             0            0              65           0             0             0             0             0              0
Processing cost                      Rs/ton        (284)          0          (1,032)       (1.135)       (1,040)          0             0              0             0
Wholesale price raw product          Rs/ton        6.453        6.277         15.564        15.329          567         2,508        14,434         14,291         10,230
Transport from farrgate              Rs/ton        (129)        (129)         (335)         (181)            50            50           0              0             0
Faregate price                      Rs/ton        6.324         6,148         15.229       15,148           517        2,458         14,434
Farmgate price (rounded)            Rs/ton        6,320         6,150         15,230        15.150          520        2.460         14,430         14.290         10.230
2' IBRD comodity price forecast of June 1994, adjusted by WON Index to obtain price in 1993 constant terms.
Converted at the current exchange rate of USSI = Rs31 .371.



INDIA: Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project
Annex 1: Economic Reassessment
Project Completion Report
Table 19. Sumary of Prices for Financial *n Economic Analysis in 1993 Prices
f  '  I                            I                                   I                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seeds
Financial                          Economic                           Financial                          Economic
(Rs/ton)                           (Rs/ton)                           (Rs/ton)              I            (Rs/ton)
Crops
Paddy                                             4,490                              6,320                              8,000                             11,260
Wheat                                             6,500                              6,150                              10,000                             9,460
Pearl 1illet                                      4,000                              3,200                              18,000                            14,400
Sorghum (local)                                   3,520                              2,820                              12,000                             9,600
Sorghum (fodder)                                  1,000                                800
Sorghum (hybrid)                                  3,300                              2,640                              19,000                            15,200
Cotton (medium staple)                           18,000                             15,230                              20,000                            16,920
Pigeon Pea                                       16,500                             13,200                              17,500                             14,000
Gram                                             15,000                             12,000                              23,000                             18,400
Groundmit                                        25,000                             15,150                              17,500                             10,605
Mustard                                          10,400                              8,320                              20,000                             16,000                 o
Sugarcane                                           600                                520                                 300
Chilltes                                         18,000                              14,400                             35,000                             28,000
fions                                             6,000                              4,800                              12,000                              9,600
otatoes                                          4,750                              3,800                               8,000                              6,400
Mize                                             5,500                              2,460                              12,000
astor                                            9,050                              7,240                              60,000                            48,000
Other Pulses                                     14,000                              11,200                              9,000                              7,200
Inputs
Nitrogen                                          3,320                             14,430
AP (P)                                           8,250                              14,290
Muriate of Potash                                 4,800                              10,230
Copost                                              80                                  64
Labour (person-day)                                 30                                   19.80
Bullock (pair-day)                                   60                                  48
Tractor hire per hour                               125                                 100
Rent for Thresher per hour                          150                                 120



84                                Annex 2
Second Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project
Rotational Water Supply
Background
1.    The introduction of RWS and its impact on agricultural production was one of the
major objectives of the project. The Bank staff, for various reasons, (see the Gujarat
Major Irrigation II PCR) laid much emphasis on the proper implementation of the RWS
and, to that effect, gave a detailed description of its technical and operational
specifications in the SAR. The Legal Documents had also several covenants relating to
RWS implementation. The reason for such insistence was that the introduction of RWS
under the project represented a major departure from the Shejpali water management
system prevailing in Gujarat (and Maharashtra), both in terms of its method of water
allocation to farmers as well as of its design and construction principles. In addition, the
implementation of RWS required a major recasting of the Gujarat's Irrigation Act, and
the issuance of new directives and guidelines to Irrigation staff. It also required
awareness campaigns and intensive training to ID staff and farmers. Though Gujarat
had already been exposed in a small way to RWS under the previous MIP, it is clear that
the Bank staff and the SAR overestimated Gujarat's ability to undergo such profound
changes in all 28 sub-projects over the five year implementation period of the project.
As the result, RWS could be fully implemented in only three sub-projects while, in the
remaining 25 sub-projects, it is still in various stages of development.
2.    As no independent evaluation of RWS could be conducted under the project, this
Annex will make some general comments on its implementation and evaluation based on
discussions with Gujarat Irrigation staff, Bank consultants and farmers, and also on field
observations. While doing so, this Annex will attempt to draw some lessons for future
projects in Gujarat and other states where RWS has been recommended by the Bank.
The comments concern the impact of RWS on: (i) designs; (ii) construction; (iii) O&M;
(iv) farmers; and (v) productivity.
3.   Impact of RWS on Designs. Under RWS, irrigation systems are divided into
three parts: a first part from headworks to a point of structuring, usually the heads of
distributaries, where water flows in a continuous and regulated manner, a second part
from the point of structuring to the head of the chaks where water flows "on-off' in a
system of canals running at full capacity during the "on" period. The higher level canals
deliver water to the lower level canals through ungated distributors which release a flow
exactly proportional to the area served, and a third part within the chaks where water is
delivered through weekly rotations schedules to the individual farmers. As part of
project implementation, Gujarat has prepared a Manual on RWS based on these
principles and approved by the Bank.
4.   In new projects, the canal systems can be designed according to the RWS
specifications without difficulty. However, in existing schemes, the second part of the
systems, i.e., from structured point down to the chak, must be redesigned to meet the
new specifications while the designs of the first and third parts can remain as is.



85
Annex 2
5.    As per RWS principles, all farmers should receive a share of water exactlv
proportional to the size of their holdings. A disadvantage of the system, is that it does
not accommodate any differences in water requirements due to soil types and the
cropping patterns, e. g., a farmer cultivating paddy in a lowland area would receive the
same amount of water as a farmer cultivating upland crops on light shallow soils. As
most schemes under GMI II have largely undulating topography, variable soil types and
cropping patterns, it has been difficult to implement systematically RWS: (a) in the
upper reaches of command areas where slopes are high and consequently size of chacks
are small, and (b) in areas where the upper reaches of a distributory serves light soils
whereas the lower reaches serve heavy clay soils.
6.   Impact on Construction. New schemes being constructed according to RWS
principles do not require any special construction techniques and can be constructed as
any other irrigation schemes. However, the introduction of RWS in exiting schemes
requires the replacement of all gated outlet structures below the structured point by
ungated proportional distributors to deliver the exact proportional discharge. This has
created some confusion in the minds of many Irrigation Engineers who found it difficult
to shift to RWS while part of the system had already been implemented under a
different concept. In some schemes, the gates were kept in place (and locked into their
open position) while the existing structures were adjusted to deliver the proportional
discharge, but, in the majority of the schemes, all existing structures were dismantled
and replaced by RWS distributors. It is clear that the replacement of existing structures
led to extra costs and could have been avoided by implementing adjustments to the
existing structures as was done in a few schemes.
7.   Impact on O&M. The introduction of RWS has simplified and reduced the task
of O&M staff by requiring less adjustments to flows, less bureaucracy for collecting water
applications and, therefore, less administrative charges and personnel. The introduction
of RWS has also allowed to reduce the inequities in water distribution between head and
tail end farmers to some extent. However, the implementation of strict water delivery
schedules at the distributory level has not allowed to take fully into account the
variations of water requirements during the irrigation seasons. This is particularly true
during the monsoon season when water requirements depend on the amount and timing
of rainfall, and it is also true at the beginning and end of the dry season which is not
predictable. An option, would have been to install simple "on-off' gates (or to keep the
existing ones as was done in some schemes) as part of the proportional distributors so
that farmers could reduce or stop the flow of water into their fields when not required.
8.   Impact on Farmers. In most schemes, the introduction of RWS has allowed water
to reach the tail end of distribution systems and, therefore, was welcomed by the
tailenders. Both head and tailenders were pleased to be able to grow crops of their
choice without having to go through the tedious crop application and sanctioning system.
However, they complained about the rigidity of RWS which did not allow them to adjust
the flow of water to their individual needs and cropping patterns. Though RWS has
enabled more equity in water distribution below the structured point, some inequities
still persist above the structured point between the head and lower reaches of some
command areas.



86                               Annex 2
9.    Impact on Productivitv. In general, areas irrigated and yields of deprived
tailenders have increased to a large extent whereas that of privileged farmers at the head
of the systems have declined. Nevertheless, the improved water distribution throughout
the irrigation systems has resulted in an overall increase in water and agricultural
productivity.
Options for Improving RWS
10.   It is important to determine whether the current design of RWS could be
improved to overcome some of the constraints noted above such as: (a) inability to cater
for variations in topography and soil characteristics below the structured point, (b)
farmers' complaints on the rigidity of the scheduling, (c) lack of control in the
distribution of water below the structured point, and (d) additional cost in reconstructing
new outlet structures in existing schemes. Options for further improving RWS were to
be studied under the project in three pilot areas through the introduction of water users
associations (WUAs) and the establishment of a system of bulk sale of irrigation water
within these associations. The concept of farmers' participation was partially
implemented in the latter part of project implementation by the creation (but not
registering) of one WUA out of three at Dantiwada. However, the concept of bulk sale
of irrigation water within the WUAs was not implemented.
11.    A Consultant recruited by the Bank to review the introduction of WUAs under
the project, rightly noted that, under its present design, RWS clashed with the concepts
of farmers participation in water management and bulk sale of irrigation water to
individual farmers. The reasons for his observations were that: (a) the free flowing
ungated canals below the structured point does not permit any adjustment within the
structured service area, and (b) the predetermined scheduling does not allow any
adjustments at the head of the service area. The Consultant noted that to be successful,
WUAs must be given the opportunity to actually and effectively organize water
distribution as they wish within the areas under their jurisdiction. The consultant,
therefore, recommended that simple "on-off' gates be provided as part of the
proportional distributors so that farmers would have at least the option of not taking
water when it is not needed or adjust the flow to their needs.
12.   The implications of adding simple "on-off' gates within the structured area will
have a number of repercussions on canal operation and design. Frst, on canal
operation, it will: (a) allow farmers to adjust water allocations to amounts actually
needed, (b) avoid the wastage of water when it is not needed, and (c) permit the
introduction of volumetric water distribution. However, these improvements will require
the introduction of a more flexible method of irrigation scheduling such as the use of
pre-arranged scheduling. Second, on the design of the canal system above the structured
area, the more flexible scheduling will require the introduction of a certain degree of
canal automation and a larger number of escapes along the main and branch canals.
Third, on the design of distribution system within the structured area, the introduction of
simple "on-off' gates will require the construction of water control structures such as
long-crested to control water levels when the canals are not running at full discharge and
the use of escapes at the tail end of the distribution systems to release excess water flows
to cater for any mismatch between water allocation and actual use.



87
Annex 2
13.   The introduction of these improvements to RWS should result in a more efficient
use of water and a higher agricultural production than under the present RWS design. It
has been demonstrated by some authors in the USA that, for the same amount of water,
productivity can increase by 10-15% when farmers are allowed to apply irrigation water
as and when needed. The introduction of the proposed improvements to RWS should
allow farmers to follow more closely crop water requirements particularly during the
critical stages of crop growth which has the most impact on yields.
Lessons Learned
14.   Overall, the introduction of RWS under the project has allowed to spread water
over larger areas and increase, on average, both water and crop productivity. However,
in view of the constraints of RWS under its present design, it should not be strictly
implemented in all parts of new and existing schemes and some flexibility should be
allowed. RWS should, therefore, be considered as an intermediate step to remedy
inequities in water distribution and improving overall productivity only in schemes where
water management is anarchic and productivity very low. However, in schemes where a
well established system has been in place for many years, such as in the case of shejpali
in Gujarat, it would have been preferable to improve upon the existing system rather
than to apply RWS in a streaky manner. The shejpali system could have been improved
by incorporating to it some of the RWS principles to such as gated proportional
distributors and time-based rotations at the chak level, rather than introducing the
drastic changes advocated under the project.
15.  In future projects, it would be advisable to advocate the introduction of an
improved RWS design including a certain degree of canal automation above the
structured service area and the provision of simple "on-off' gates together with some
additional control structures within the structured area. These improvements would
need to be complemented by the introduction of WUAs and volumetric water supply.
16.   At the insistence of the Bank, Gujarat has issued a Government Regulation (GR)
in 1988 to enforce the strict application of RWS principles under the project. However,
this GR was never fully implemented and, in hind sight, Gujarat was correct to delay the
revision of its Irrigation Act. On the basis of the recommendations of a High Level
Expert Committee, new concepts of water management have now emerged based on a
greater participatory approach to water management. Gujarat has recently issued a new
GR advocating the formation of water users associations and the distribution of water on
a volumetric basis. These concepts are quite in line with the present trends of other
projects in India and should be encouraged by the Bank under the proposed National
Water Management II project.



88
Annex 3
Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project II (Cr. 1496-IN)
Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R
R&R Aspects Inherited from Earlier Projects
(i)   Displaced Persons. The Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project H (Cr. 1496-
IN) is a follow-up (Phase II) to the Gujarat Irrigation Project (Cr. 808-IN).
Under Phase I, about 8500 displaced families were rehabilitated as of November
1983 and about 44% were compensated in land. There were considerable
difficulties with land acquisition due to farmers' objections, until Government of
Gujarat (GOG) introduced in 1979 improved rehabilitation standards application
to all major and medium irrigation projects. The number of families still
requiring compensation (as of November 1983) was estimated at 10,600. At
appraisal of the Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project II, the total number of Project
Affected Families (PAFs) yet to be rehabilitated, were found to be 10,712.
However, during project implementation, the total number of PAFs were
identified to be 23,392 including landless families. These included increases in the
number of major sons due to some persons being left out earlier inadvertently and
also delays: imposition of Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act in some sub-
projects as well as the inclusion of Karjan sub-project with 1605 PAFs.
(ii)   Status of Land Acquisition. As of November 1983, about 80% of the
private land required for dams, and 34% of the land required for the canal
system had been acquired. Of the 24 dams financed under earlier credits, land
acquisition had been completed in 17, over 70% completed in three, and upto
50% in four.
2.    Project Objectives. In the Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project II, under
Rehabilitation, the objective was to ensure that after a reasonable transition period, the
displaced persons regain at least their previous standard of living. The SAR recognized
that since "practically all cultivable land is occupied and there are strict restrictions on
conversion of forest lands, it will not be possible to provide direct land .compensation in
many cases". However, displaced persons would be compensated with land to the extent
possible. In addition, compensation alternatives offered to PAFs would include the
following:
(i)   Develop fisheries potential in the reservoirs and allocate fishing rights to
oustees. It was estimated that 1000-1500 families could be rehabilitated in
this way;
(ii)   Allocate to PAFs, the right to cultivate the peripheral areas of the
reservoirs (15,000 ha to 1000-1500 PAFs), and preferential employment in
maintenance works on the sub-projects;



89                                 Annex 3
(iii)  PAFs to get first right of participation in project construction works
executed departmentally (4m. mandays); and
(iv)  Establish programs for vocational training and small business credit for
oustees who would like to be rehabilitated in non-agricultural sectors.
3.   In addition to the above, oustees were to be rehabilitated in accordance with the
following provisions:
(i)   Village units would be resettled jointly at a new site.
(ii)  Infrastructure and housing plot would be provided at no cost to the
oustees.
(iii)  Adequate compensation facilities would be provided to all landless oustees.
(iv)  Level of compensation for land would be based on current market value of
land of equivalent quality in the adjacent area, or on Gujarat's current
provision for compensation, whichever was higher.
(v)   Where land was allotted to a displaced person under the project in lieu of
the land previously owned by such displaced person, 50% of the
compensation to which such displaced person was entitled would be
applied towards the cost of the allotted land, subject to a maximum of the
value of land allotted, and the balance of the cost of such allotted land
would be treated as an interest free loan repayable over 20 years. Where a
displaced person was not allotted land in lieu of the land previously owned
by such displaced person, and was instead paid cash compensation, and
such displaced person wished to buy land, such displaced person would
receive, in addition to the compensation to which he was entitled, a grant
pursuant to Gujarat's current provisions.
(vi)  In respect of all those displaced persons to be exclusively compensated in
cash, Gujarat would take all such action as would be necessary to advise
those displaced persons to invest such compensation in acquiring
alternative sources of income, which advice would be given before the
compensation was paid.
(vii)  The balance of any outstanding debts owed by the displaced person under
the Project to Gujarat's departments or agencies, would not be subtracted
from the amount of the compensation.
4.    The scope of compensation was to be expanded to include full compensation to



90
Annex 3
all landless oustees, including artisans, storekeepers, landless workers, etc. Moreover, to
the extent possible, oustees who had already been compensated would benefit from
provisions 3 (i) to 3 (iv) above.
5.    GOG would take all possible steps to guide oustees who were compensated in
cash in the use of the compensation to restore their earning capability. The main
instrument would be a new Guidance Cell which would be established within each
Rehabilitation Committee by December 31, 1984. The Guidance Cell would advise
oustees on how to use the cash compensation in order to create alternative source of
income and employment.
6.    The project included special provisions of Rs. 54 million (US$ 5.0 million) for the
construction of roads, water supply, waste disposal facilities, schools, community centers,
and other facilities where oustees were resettled in groups.
7.    Under the project, the planning and monitoring of the rehabilitation process
would be considerably improved. Rehabilitation Committees had been established for
each sub-project. Each Committee would be strengthened with a social worker, and a
Guidance Cell. The Project Planning and Monitoring Cell (PPM Cell) would have the
responsibility for:
(i)   preparation of an integrated overall plan for R&R;
(ii)  preparation of detailed rehabilitation plans for each sub-project in which
the rehabilitation of more than 300 PAFs had not been completed by June
30, 1984; and
(iii) monitoring the rehabilitation process.
8.    Provision had been made for the engagement of a social institute in an advisory
capacity, for the planning, implementation and monitoring of rehabilitation. Finally, the
project would finance evaluation studies of rehabilitation in five sub-projects, Und,
Watrak, Sipu, Deo and Guhai. The studies would review the rehabilitation process in
each of the selected Major Irrigation Projects (MIPs) and analyze, on the basis of the
random sample survey, the proportion of oustees whose standard of living was found to
be higher, same, and lower than before rehabilitation. The adequacy of the
compensation package would be analyzed, especially its adequacy for the purchase of
alternative land. The studies would be completed by December 31, 1986.
9.    The project included provisions for strengthening of the Project Planning and
Monitoring Cell of the Irrigation Department (ID) to assist monitoring of rehabilitation.
10.   Agreements reached with GOG included:
(i)  it would maintain within each sub-project a Rehabilitation Committee;



91
Annex 3
(ii)  by December 1984 prepare an integrated overall plan, agreed with IDA for
rehabilitation and resettlement of displaced persons, which would include
inter alia, development of fisheries, cultivation of peripheral reservoir
areas, participation of oustees in project construction works and plans for
vocational training;
(iii)  prepare and adopt in consultation with IDA detailed rehabilitation plans
for ongoing sub-projects in which the rehabilitation of more than 300
families had not been completed by June 30, 1984;
(iv)  rehabilitate displaced persons in accordance with the guidelines set up in
Schedule A (SAR).
11.   Changes in Project Objectives during Implementation. During project
implementation, certain changes took place with regard to project objectives and
strategies in R&R. The SAR had as the major objective the recovery of their previous
living standards by PAFs after a reasonable transition period. This objective did not
change in the course of implementation. However, the strategies spelt out in the SAR
for economic rehabilitation (land for land, cash compensation, ex-gratia payments,
resettlement grants, fisheries development, peripheral land cultivation rights, project
employment, vocational training, and small business credit) were found to have been
inadequate for 8487 PAFs who even after approximately a decade of resettlement, had
not recovered their previous living standards, and were below the poverty line, and for
women of PAFs who had not been considered for rehabilitation assistance in their own
right as oustees. Below the poverty line PAFs comprised both landless PAFs as well as
those who had lost land, and who had been compensated with land for land, or had
received cash compensation in lieu of land.
12.   The reasons for the inability of these PAFs to recover previous standards, or rise
above the poverty line were several:
(i)   Landless PAFs were provided with housing plots and resettlement grants.
There was no systematic program to provide economic assist-ance to
landless PAFs, to develop in agricultural and allied sectors. The project
did mention the need to develop vocational training and small business
credit for such PAFs, but this was not adequately reflected in the project
budgetary provision for R&R, and was not picked up by the goverrnent in
a systematic broad based manner. Some vocational training was provided
in some sub-projects, but there was hardly any tie up with credit and
business support for such activities.
(ii)   Among 15,461 PAFs who lost land, only 5799 were to be provided
replacement lands. The remaining 9803 PAFs were given cash
compensation in lieu of land, as no government lands were available for



92
Annex 3
GOG to provide to these PAFs. Various independent evaluations and
Bank missions confirmed that such PAFs, particularly tribal PAFs, were not
able to buy adequate amounts of land and in several cases could not buy
any land. The overall decline in the landholding size, fall in productivity,
and the increased dependence upon wage labor, across the board, bore
witness to the intensification of poverty among such PAFs.
13.   Even for PAFs who had received replacement lands, the quality of the land in
several sub-projects such as Sukhi, Watrak, Guhai, among others, was not comparable to
land lost. PAFs experienced low productivity. For instance in Sukhi, in several oustee
settlements, replacement lands consist of erstwhile denotified forest lands, which are
highly undulating and eroded. There was no land levelling done, and no irrigation
provided. PAFs could not undertake such activities on their own due to their weak
resource base.
14.   Due to such factors, substantial numbers of PAFs were below the poverty line in
1989, more than five years after appraisal. It was then agreed with GOG, to design an
Economic Rehabilitation Plan for such below the poverty line PAFs and women, in all
the projects. An NGO, Foundation for Public Interest (FPI) was asked to carry out a
study of the status of resettlement and rehabilitation, and recommend new approaches
towards R&R. The FPI carried out a Rapid Rural Appraisal study of all the sub-
projects, and helped the GOG to design an Economic Rehabilitation Plan. As a result
of the study, the sub-projects were divided into two categories of priority. The first
priority projects were those with high concentration of below the poverty line PAFs and
with preponderance of tribal and other marginalized groups. R&R plans were prepared
for these nine sub-projects to provide for economic assistance for income generating
schemes forbelow the poverty line PAFs, women, NGO participation to enhance PAFs'
informed participation in the rehabilitation process, and to facilitate the two way flow of
information resources between Government and PAFs.
15.   Another new area of attention in R&R that emerged during project
implementation was on women of PAFs. During Bank supervision missions in 1989-90,
poor women were found to have paid a very heavy price for resettlement, in the shape of
a reduced household resource base, increased work loads to earn incomes to meet
subsistence needs, as well as to provision households with fuel, fodder and water. In
many of the sub-projects, water supplies, as well as sources for fuel and fodder had not
been adequately developed at all. Women were not regarded as "project affected" in
their own right, and were only counted as dependent members of PAFs. Therefore, it
was felt necessary to identify project affected women's (PAW) needs and priorities, and
to design interventions to support these. The subsequent research study, as well as the
plans for the nine sub-projects, particularly in the Sukhi sub-project, reflected these in
terms of improving women's independent access to credit, training, income earning
opportunities, as well as improved support services for water, fuel and fodder and
childcare.



93
Annex 3
16.   The objectives and strategies of the project were influenced during
implementation by the OD 4.30 of June 1990, which provided a detailed framework for
R&R planning acceptable to the Bank standards. Steps were taken to meet the
requirements of OD 4.30.
17.   Project Responsiveness to Borrower Circumstances. The Project has been
responsive to the changes in circumstances and priorities of the Borrower in the area of
R&R. The Project had been extended three times due to delays in completion of project
objectives and the Borrower's compliance of project issues raised by successive Bank
Missions. In 1991, GOG responded to the Bank's recommendation to appoint an
independent agency to carry out an evaluation of the status of R&R on all the 23 sub-
projects and prepare an action plan for accelerated R&R. The subsequent report, and
the identification of the nine priority sub-projects, which were the worst affected, due to
the presence of large numbers of below the poverty line PAFs belonging to
disadvantaged sections, and the incomplete state of infrastructural development, created
new priorities for the Borrower. GOG was keen to implement an Accelerated Economic
Rehabilitation Plan for below the poverty line PAFs of these sub-projects, as a precursor
to preparing such plans for the remaining 13 sub-projects. GOG approved the action
plans for the nine sub-projects in December 1992. The economic rehabilitation plans for
the nine sub-projects were included within the Project budget. GOG was interested and
agreeable to working with NGOs, to improve the design and implementation of R&R
action plans, and the project provided support for this. Self Employed Women's
Association (SEWA) was brought in by GOG to work in one of the sub-projects, and the
project provided support for this (November 1992).
18.  In response to these changing priorities and circumstances of the Borrower, the
project was extended for a fourth time, for three months (December 31, 1992 tv March
31, 1994), and for a fifth time from April 1, 1993 to 31 March 1994. The fifth extension
was provided in response to positive steps taken by GOG, to improve the benefits
package for below the povery line PAFs, provide irrigation support to PAFs, as well as to
improve mechanisms for settling outstanding compensation issues.
19.   Achievement of Project Objectives. The Project has been fairly successful in that
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) have been helped, particularly since 1990, to recover
their earlier standard of living, and in some instances, have now improved their living
standards. (It would not be possible to compare with concrete data pertaining to living
standards prior to displacements as no study had been carried out in the pre-
displacement situation to determine levels of living, etc.) while admittedly considerable
delays took place in these improvements taking effect at ground level. The Borrower has
been responsive to the changing climate of R&R in the state, and has strengthened and
broadened its policies and approach, since 1990, to improve the benefits package for
PAPs. NGOs have been involved in R&R planning, implementation and monitoring.
Gender concerns have been brought to the centerstage of R&R planning.



94
Annex 3
20.   Resettlement. Land acquisition has been completed. In keeping with the Project
objectives, as well as the Borrower's policies for providing benefits to PAFs for their
resettlement, GOG resettled approximately 70% of PAFs in 199 government developed
sites. The rest have settled in the same villages at higher reaches, or have settled down
in existing villages. Approximately 20,000 PAFs have been provided with house plots
free of cost and the remainder are in the process of being covered by this provision.
Relocation of oustees still remains to be completed in two sub-projects, Sipu and
Watrak. In Sipu, the delay is due to a political stalemate on the issue of land acquisition
in a host village. Efforts are on at the highest level to break the deadlock. In Watrak,
two villages which are outside the FRL, but inside the HSL have refused to move.
Efforts are ongoing here too. Infrastructure as per GOG policy have almost been fully
provided free of cost in all the sub-projects except for some remaining ongoing work on
improving drinking water supplies (wherever original schemes have failed), access and
internal roads, and electrification.
21.   Compensation. Compensation for land and houses lost, has almost been totally
provided to 23, 392 PAFs except for some marginal amounts outstanding, which are
being paid. Compensation for houses appears to have been fairly acceptable, whereas
for agricultural lands, the rates for compensation appear to have been low compared to
prevailing market prices. However, PAPs have gone to courts for judicial review of the
compensation. Despite repeated Bank missions recommending the setting up of Lok
Adalats, to arrive at mutually acceptable compensation values, GOG was not able to
institute such a mechanism. As a result, the court cases still carry on, and GOG is
paying additional amounts as per court orders every year.
22.   Land Purchase. With regard to the Project objective of assisting PAPs losing
land, to pay for replacement lands with 50% of the compensation amount being invested
as part of the cost, and the remainder being treated as a 20 year interest free loan, this
approach has been followed everywhere. Oustees who received only cash compensation
were given cash grants upto a maximum of Rs. 10,000 to buy lands privately.
23.   Guidance Cells. Guidance Cells advised PAPs to invest compensation moneys in
productive assets. However, such advice may have lost much of its relevance where
compensation was paid in installments. As regards prohibition of deductions of earlier
outstanding institutional loan amounts from compensation, this approach was not
adhered to. The 1991 FPI study revealed that compensation had been paid through
banks and outstanding loan amounts had been deducted before the release of the funds.
24.   As per the project SAR, Rehabilitation Committees had been set up in all the
sub-projects, with Guidance Cells. However, social workers were not appointed, and by
1989, these Cells had almost become defunct. These were revitalized from 1991 onwards
following Bank recommendations, and with the renewed emphasis on participatory
functioning. Guidance Cell meetings were thenceforward held in oustee villages, to
ensure better functioning.



95
Annex 3
25.   PPM Cell. The PPM Cell had been strengthened for R&R planning, coordination
and M&E. From 1990 onwards its role was extended to coordinating economic
rehabilitation with the Department of Rural Development, and with NGOs and banks.
26.   NGO . In 1991, an NGO, the FPI, was recruited in an advisory capacity for the
planning and implementation of R&R. In 1993, a social sciences institute, Sardar Patel
Institute of Public Administration, was recruited for the independent monitoring of
rehabilitation, initially for Sukhi sub-project. GOG is expected to extend its scope to all
the sub-projects but following the closure of the Project, there is no guarantee that this
will be followed up.
27.   Rehabilitation. In specific terms, the achievements can be analyzed as follows:
(i)   Land for land with a minimum of 5 acres per PAP has been provided to
4,799 PAPs, and another 1000 PAPs are in the process of being provided
land. The Borrower has made efforts to provide land even after the 1980
Forest Conservation Act, from non-Forest sources to the extent possible.
The remaining 9,803 PAPs who lost land and are eligible for replacement
land, have been provided with cash compensation and cash grants upto Rs.
10,000. Such PAPs have largely purchased lands privately. However, there
had been a sharp decline in the average holding size, and such PAFs have
to combine wage labor with self cultivation. Women's labor participation
rates for such PAFs has increased considerably. Their dependence on
common lands (govt, panchayat) has increased while such resources are
much less available in the new oustee settlements. The decline in
landholding has been due to (a) high market prices; (b) use of
compensation moneys for other needs such as household consumption,
house construction; and (c) fragmentation. Productivity of replacement
lands was lower than the lands going under submergence. There was no
imnrnediate help for development of irrigation facilities. However in the
period 1990-94, a serious effort has been made to increase access to
irrigation facilities through lift irrigation schemes in eight sub-projects and
subsidized well construction in all sub-projects under a state program. A
water market has been emerging in the rural areas with well established
water rates and buyer-seller arrangements. In Sukhi where the lands are
eroded, and suited to agro-forestry, efforts are now ongoing to link this
area with the Bank assisted Watershed project, in order to provide
appropriate technical support to PAFs in land development.
(ii)   The Project objective of providing alternative compensation packages for
PAFs in terms of fisheries development, peripheral land cultivation rights
and project employment, has been fulfilled to a large extent. Fisheries
have been developed in all the sub-projects, and cooperatives have been
formed with PAPs. Approximately 2000 PAFs have been rehabilitated in



96
Annex 3
this way. Preferential employment has been provided to eligible PAPs in
all sub-projects. The right of PAPs to cultivate peripheral areas of the
reservoir has been implemented in all the sub-projects through priority lists
maintained with the Revenue Department.
(iii)  As regards the SAR objective of provision of vocational training and small
business credit for interested PAPs, vocational training was provided to
PAPs opting for such training under a regular state program, in all the sub-
projects. Concessional credit was provided for economic activities in a few
sub-projects.
(iv)  Below Poverty Line PAFs: Post 1989-90. In 1989-90, successive Bank
missions found that substantial numbers of PAFs had not improved their
living standards and complained of being worse off than before
displacement. At this point a socio-economic study (1991) revealed that a
substantial number of PAFs (approximately 5000) were below the poverty
line (annual family income of approximately Rs. 12,000). These comprised
landless PAFs, artisans and wage laborers, as well as PAFs whose
cultivator status had declined to marginal farmers. The study also revealed
that women PAPs' concerns had been totally neglected in R&R planning
till then, yet they had had to pay a heavy price for resettlement. Their
workloads had been increased both for subsistence and wage earning.
They had suffered from gaps in infrastructure, loss of access to forests, and
other common property resources (CPRs), lack of access to productive
resources, and reduction in household resource base.
(v)   As a result of this study, R&R plans for economic rehabilitation were
prepared and implemented for nine priority sub-projects which had large
concentrations of below the poverty line PAFs who were otherwise also
disadvantaged (scheduled tribes/castes, backward communities). In these
nine sub-projects a total of 4,893 PAFs were found to be below the poverty
line, and by March 31, 1994, approximately 1000 PAFs had been assisted
with subsidized credit for income generating asset creatio.l.
(vi)  After the closure of the Project, GOG has continued to provide support for
the Economic Rehabilitation of the remaining below the poverty line PAFs
from ongoing state programs on priority basis. The same approach is being
adopted for the 3,594 below the poverty line PAFs in the remaining 13 sub-
projects.
(vii)  Women. The Project has been successful in bringing women oustees within
the ambit of R&R, by focussing on their practical and strategic gender
needs. Improvement in infrastructural support has been addressed as a



Annex 3
priority from the point of view of women fulfilling their practical gender
needs. Women's access to productive resources has been addressed as an
issue and in the nine sub-projects, women have been targeted as
beneficiaries of economic rehabilitation. In a single sub-project 1,614
women oustees are being benefitted directly through improved access to
resources, training and organization. Linkages have been established in all
the nine sub-projects with government programs for women -
Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas, Mahila Samakhya,
ICDS, etc.
(viii) In associating one of the best known women's NGOs, SEWA in
Ahmedabad with the R&R study, and subsequent R&R planning, the
project has established upfront the importance of the participatory process
in planning sustainable project interventions, as well as of the importance
of addressing gender issues upfront in R&R planning and implementation.
The lessons learnt in this Project are influential in the design of R&R in
new Bank assisted projects in India.
28.  Implementation Record and Major Factors affecting Project. The rehabili-tation
component in its totality began very late in the project. This hampered achievement of
the R&R objectives in their entirety. However, since 1990, the record of implementation
of the Rehabilitation component, as agreed with the Bank by the Borrower, has been on
the whole fairly satisfactory. GOG implemented all the actions specified in the SAR in
terms of institutional strengthening, R&R planning on agreed lines, land for land to the
extent possible, alternative packages for rehabilitation (fisheries development, project
employment, vocational training), as well as evaluation studies of five sub-proJects.
29.   GOG was consistently responsive to recommendations of Bank missions from
1989 onwards for accelerated economic rehabilitation for below the poverty line PAFs
and women. All these recommendations were complied with, and this allowed for the
fourth and fifth extensions of the Project.
30.   However, delays in implementation have been experienced with regard to the
following:
(i)   Satisfactory construction of drinking water schemes in several sub-projects.
There were particularly long delays in Sukhi and Sipu sub-projects.
(ii)   Approval of the Economic Rehabilitation Plans for the nine priority sub-
projects.
(iii) Constitution of Special Courts to deal with compensation questions.



98
Annex 3
(iv)  Preparation of Economic Rehabilitation Plans for the remaining 13 sub-
projects
(v)   Delays in filling up vacant posts.
31.   The delays were due to two major factors: (a) rates being quoted by contractors
for drinking water schemes being higher than the schedule of rates (SOR); and (b) inter-
departmental coordination problems in getting financial approvals for R&R plans, and
legal approval for setting up Special Courts. On the whole these factors were within
government control, and could be surmounted in most cases in order to get the work
completed. Delays in filling R&R posts still continue in some cases.
32.   Project Sustainabilit . The Project is likely to maintain the achievements
generated in relation to R&R objectives.
33.   Factors ensurinz sustainability: Borrower commitment. GOG has consistently
shown commitment towards the achievement of rehabilitation objectives. The R&R
policy framework has been a dynamic one, responding to changing needs and priorities.
There has been continued support for the objective of PAFs not only recovering their
previous living standards but improving these. To this end, efforts are continuing to
build up infrastructure, irrigation facilities in oustee settlements, and income generating
assets among marginal and landless PAFs. The project officials both in the PPM Cell
and at sub-project level are responsive to PAP problems and regard them as their first
charge. GOG has continued to provide support for the involvement of SEWA in project
activities.
34.   Incentives for Participants to sustain the Project. The participants in this context
are the PAFs, who have the greatest incentive to sustain the project activities, as they
stand to benefit from the ongoing GOG support to rehabilitation activities. The positive
impact of the economic rehabilitation plans on below the poverty line PAFs in the nine
priority sub-projects has generated awareness among other PAFs similarly placed. The
activities of SEWA in the Sukhi sub-project has created interest among other PAF
groups to involve SEWA in their communities. There is also a likelihood of the oustee
settlements in Sukhi being brought under an ongoing Bank assisted Watersheds
Development Project in Gujarat (IWDP - Plains). This has generated interest among the
PAFs to see to it that the Project activities and approach are sustained.
35.   Policy Environment. The policy environment for R&R in Gujarat in the context
of Medium Irrigation Projects (MIPs) is a positive and dynamic one. From 1979
onwards, GOG has been making positive changes in its R&R policies, enlarging the
scope of economic rehabilitation infrastructural support. The policy framework has been
responsive to Bank recommendations, and this has facilitated the inclusion of new
components within rehabilitation under the Project. Two extensions, (fourth and fifth)
have been provided to the Project on this basis.



99
Annex 3
36.  Institutional/Management Effectiveness. The Project Management has been fairly
effective in:
(i)  implementing the agreed R&R plans between 1986-89;
(ii)  adapting to the concerns expressed by the Bank in 1989-90 regarding PAFs'
poverty, gender concerns, and the state of essential support services such as
drinking water, and access roads;
(iii)  starting a new relationship with NGOs, which had not existed previously;
(iv)  participatory planning;
(v)   coordination with other departments and agencies to establish the
economic assistance programs for below the poverty line PAFs, and
women;
(vi)  responding to Bank missions' recommendations, and facilitating five
extensions for the Project, including two on the grounds of improved R&R
planning and implementation; and
(vii)  continued support for R&R, after Project closure despite resource
constraints, in coordination with ongoing state programs for poverty
eradication, and women's development.
37.   Social Impact and Local Participation. The levels of social impact and local
participation in the project, are key factors in ensuring sustainability. The studies carried
out by FPI and SEWA, were done in an entirely participatory manner with study teams
spending time with the communities, and holding unstructured discussions with them, and
with women. This provided the background to heightened interest among PAFs, GOG
and NGOs, to work among these communities, using resettlement as a development
opportunity.
38.   SEWA became involved with an action plan for Sukhi, with emphasis on working
with women of PAFs, and this has resulted in a high degree of confidence building
among the women, their organization into economic activity based groups, and their
participating in training, institutional financing for their micro enterprises, and land
based activities.
39.   NGO interest in R&R is now there to stay in Gujarat, and SEWA and FPI are
interested to develop long-term working arrangements with GOG in R&R activities.
40.  In addition, it needs to be stated that the staff of the Irrigation Department have



100
Annex 3
developed close links with PAFs, particularly in the context of completion of
infrastructural works. PAPs do not hesitate to approach them, and regard them as
sympathetic to their problems. The Guidance Cells have been functioning regularly, and
while these could have been more efficient in problem resolution, the PAFs are certainly
aware of them, and participate through their representatives in the meetings.
41.   Bank Performance. The performance of the Bank has undergone changes during
the Project. At appraisal, R&R was based upon the prevailing policy framework of
GOG, which was an improvement on past practices. During supervision in the early
years, attention was repeatedly drawn to the problems of PAFs who had not received
replacement land, and the decline in overall PAF living standards. However, no specific
action was taken to identify the magnitude of the problem of poverty among PAFs,
gender concerns, and to help the Borrower to prepare concrete plans to address the
totality of the R&R problem. The Bank during this period apparently did not push hard
enough for improvement in R&R planning and implementation.
42.   From 1989-90, the Bank repeatedly drew attention to these issues, as well as the
lack of a developmental perspective among R&R staff, and the need for NGO
participation in planning and implementation, and monitoring of R&R. At this stage,
the Bank became more assertive about the need for proper R&R. The Bank insisted on
independent participatory studies of R&R status project-wise and the preparation of time
bound action plans to meet the required criteria. Provisions were made in the project
budget to finance these plans, and NGO activities. These aspects were closely supervised
and most supervision missions had R&R specialists. Special R&R missions in between
the regular supervision missions were mounted. The Bank also played an important role
in facilitating GOG-NGO contacts, by bringing them into contact, and supporting studies,
workshops and training programs. A lot of effort was put in by Bank staff to facilitate
the last two extensions for R&R.
43.   On the whole the Bank provided the necessary backstopping, facilitation and
guidance to the Borrower to develop new approaches, and widen the arena of R&R
issues and solutions.
44.   The rehabilitation of landlosing oustees with land has been observed as far as
possible, with the limitations of government non forest land availability, and preferences
of the PAFs. Landlosing PAFs who were given only cash compensation were also
provided cash grants for land purchase. Most of them have purchased lands, although
there have been reductions in quantity and quality. To the extent possible, GOG has
rehabilitated PAFs in government developed sites, and has attempted to respond to PAF
preferences for new sites, etc. wherever possible. In most cases it has been amicably
done. Infrastructure as per the Bank agreement with GOG, has been provided at no
cost. Efforts are on to complete any outstanding work. Wherever PAFs have resettled
on their own, in "self settled sites", GOG has responded to Bank recommendations, and
PAF demands, to extend infrastrucural support to such sites, also with a view to build up



101
Annex 3
positive relations with host communities, and to avoid undue pressure on host village
facilities.
45.   Borrower Performance. The performance of the Borrower has been fairly
satisfactory in the preparation and implementation of the project. At preparation, the
magnitude of the then problem had been identified, and R&R planned on the basis of
new and improved GOG policies. During implementation, the policy environment was
extremely dynamic, and responsive to Bank mission's concerns and recommendations.
Efforts were made to deal with problems of delays in approvals, fund releases, filling of
posts, but the implementing agency was always putting in visible effort to deal with the
problems, which were often not within its control, but concerned other departments and
agencies.
46.   Assessment of Outcome. The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory with
regard to R&R. The objectives as laid down in the SAR which were fairly modest have
been fulfilled. The new objectives and strategies identified during supervision are in the
process of being fulfilled and are expected to be satisfactorily achieved with some delays.
GOG has taken steps to provide new economic assistance to below the poverty line
PAFs, and PAWs, in keeping with the findings of the 1991 study. The fourth and fifth
extensions of the project facilitated the ongoing support of the Bank to GOG's R&R
efforts. Efforts were also made to obtain a sixth extension to enable further achievement
of objectives, but this was not possible. However, despite project closure, GOG efforts
to provide economic assistance to below the poverty line PAFs from regular government
programs is ongoing. Some progress has also been made in efforts to link up some R&R
settlements with an ongoing Bank assisted Watersheds Development Project to provide
solutions to soil and moisture losses in highly eroded soils.
47.   Future Operation. The project's R&R activities are expected to be sustained in
future in the following ways:
(i)   GOG support through regular government programs for below the poverty
line PAFs;
(ii)   NGOs' continued support for rehabilitation of below the poverty line PAFs
and PAWs;
(iii) Linkages expected to be forged with the ongoing Watersheds project in
Gujarat, supported by the Bank; and
(iv)  Some attention by Bank missions to Gujarat on other projects, to R&R
activities.
48.   Key Lessons Learnt.



102                           Annex 3
(i)   Need to identify the entire magnitude of R&R during preparation.
(ii)   Need to prepare comprehensive R&R plans prior to appraisal, as a
condition for appraisal.
(iii)  Need to provide adequate financing for R&R activities except land
purchase, in project budgets.
(iv)  Need to focus on gender concerns in R&R planning during preparation,
appraisal, and supervision.
(v)   Need to start a participatory process with displaced (or to be displaced)
communities at preparation by the Borrower, so that all plans and policies
can be based on dialogue with communities likely to be affected adversely.
(vi)  Need to involve NGOs in this process from the outset, and the Bank to
insist on NGO participation.
(vii)  Need to provide adequate funds to NGOs on advance basis, to insulate
R&R activities from sudden shocks such as suspensions, or decisions to
close projects due to Borrower problems.
(viii) Need to closely monitor R&R activities through regular missions, and
special thematic missions.
(ix)  Training for R&R staff, NGOs' groups, and PAP groups in participatory
R&R planning and implementation.






BRD 18107
INDIA                                                         AX          -                     -                                                             -G                             <4    5
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION H PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                I NDCA
MAJOR AND MINOR IRRIGATION SCHEMES
L..                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TJ   8/ ''-~-                                   '                                                                9..9.c.9Ve2
'~~~~~~-is-,V-'-  0.                                                                                                                -4t'S-r
<   -t o--\ ;W   - /zzOw   7 /  a ff F                    f   X                            Sl                          tA                     T oW-G.iU.l A 
Ms l rriciio  Scems   .  >     E       /1           -- )4/.-Tn                                       \                                                                   /     _       
~ 4Oen231n\/                                                                                                                                  ( '   ~59 /2>(   '~ 2~ C                 ~             ~AJ5T1
Ongo.ng \>_ / ~~~~~ i -                                                    y                                                                      .935 s'(%t4 G33C&    
I),~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I
'-0                O     n     o     n    9 )' '3 '/a QL;\b/X 0                                                                      1-                                                -,                       4 '<_
-rH ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~c2
*40 009                                                                                        o'A...... C \. ,"'  1sK1   t_/   _e
If  ~~~~~~~~~~j                                                                                                                          PR1   /-.j4ADEHY
OThECT SCHEMES                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :L \-
NA.   r, S<r,    -                                  - j      N4-,
Molor Irr.o1Olglo Schemes\.  C/I  ,,   |
Meor- I..l.on c.h_s..                                                                           -   , L          / s~he-              rAG_4GR
-      Modern,sol,on                                                   K  ~ItI/A 
~ cor rgorog                                                                            SchmsPo              Oe rnhocs(o-p"ro'c)NtolHhos+  0999  t .1   ,, 
-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
_______D                                                    fl ESRsror  vtetHeqetr  A5"C /    -/-4                                                  'fs72
C'S-Ek SCHEMES 02000 HeCover                                                               S -o 4--                                                                            . I
CMob, lg8r Schemes - -|.
Medo   -c,gt- onShme                                                                                                                                                                        1      m.7         L       MA/-A PA5/-TRA
_Scems no roges                                 Se  Wc             ~ aer                   .sC /                                                                                                                                   .
OToER SCHrEAES  <20001Herore                   res                                                                                                                          r
M.d- -9.t- khe-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    --
-  Mooe- bo-ron
FUTURE SCHEMES                               ProPosed Norm-do Mo- C-1o rr-r-priecrl
Moor -rgor-  Sch.ms           -             ProPosed Broch Cone, {nrrpriecfl           -        Noron-l H grr-ys
- Med-,r  -rgoo -coemes--                     P.ck -p We's                                -        Selecred Store -rgh..,s                       N
CMMAND AREAS                                Rese-os-                                            Drr,wcr                                                            DA M.tes                                                      55           -
P roIecr                                    Roers                                         8    Swror Coptol1
Coc,toScHem-                          Stoso-                                              D.- 0r,c  Boundcr-,
Screme    *r   Progr-s                       Soit W orer                                                                        __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _                                      --s-.
-Sodor Sorooo (Nor-dol Proiecr                Fr-sr Worer                                                                                  -C4ETERSc                                                                                  4









C'-I
4:
I.
2- -:-
;L  
<                     t-I  -
X~~              1, ~~~;,,-
re              ~~~~~~~:~  . i'



