Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3823-I]
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOEMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EX ECUTIVE D IREC TORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 164.3 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
May 21, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1.6, 1984)
US$1.00      =  Rs 10.995702
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.0909446
Rs 1 million = US$90,945
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 10.8.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AC      -   Appraisal Committee
AE      -   Assistant Engineer
CAD     -   Command Area Development
CADA    -   Command Area Development Authority
CWC     -   Central Water Commission
EE      -   Executive Enginieer
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
GAU     -   Gujarat Agricultural University
GOG     -   Government of Gujarat
GOI     -   Government of I:ndia
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
ID      -   Irrigation Department
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
MIP     -   Medium Irrigation Project
O&M     -   Operation and Maintenance
QCU     -   Quality Control Unit
RWS     -   Rotational Water Supply
SE      -   Superintending Engineer
WALMI   -   Water and Land Management Institute
wMC     -   Water Management Committee
f



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                           -iii-
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:              Government of Gujarat (GOG).
Amount:                   SDR 164.3 million
(US$172.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
On-lending Terms:         From the Government of India to the Government of
Gujarat as part of Central assistance to States for
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:    The proposed project is a follow-on to the Gujarat
Irrigation Project (Credit No. 808-IN of July 17,
1978), which assisted the Government of Gujarat to
start 23 new medium irrigation projects (HIPs) and to
modernize six others. It would: (i) complete con-
struction of the 29 sub-projects begun under the
first time slice, including a lined canal system to
the 8 ha subchak level and field channels leading
to individual fields; (ii) introduce efficient,
reliable, and equitable water management systems in
each HIP; (iii) establish an appropriate institu-
tional framework for extending improved water manage-
ment activities in the State; (iv) strengthen the
project organization for quality control and the
design of minor networks; (v) provide mechanical
skill training; (vi) provide training for farmers;
and (vii) provide vehicles, plant, and communications
equipment for the construction, maintenance and
operation of the MIPs. The project would create
about 241,000 ha of additional irrigated area and
provide a more reliable water supply for 133,000 ha
of existing irrigation. Possible risks to the
project include a possibility of GOG prematurely
diverting financial and manpower resources to the
Narmada project, 1/ resulting in implementation
delays. However, given the substantial sunk costs,
GOG's commitment to the project and farmers'
1/   A large irrigation project expected to cost more than US$6,000 million
over 20 years.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-iv-
pressures, GOG is highly unlikely to follow such a
course. Another risk is that Rotational Water
Supply (RWS) may not be effectively adopted thus
reducing irrigation benefits.  However, given GOG's
conviction of the merits of RWS and the assurances
IDA intends to seek from GOG, it is expected that GOG
would adhere to the project design.
Estimated Cost 2/:
(US$ millions)
Local         Foreign         Total
Construction of MIPs (23)                   167.8            24.7          192.5
Modernization of Projects (6)                62.2            10.0           72.2
Training                                       1.2            0.3            1.5
Monitoring and Studies                         6.4            0.3            6.7
Total base cost                           237.6           35.3           272.9
Physical Contingencies                       20.6             3.6           24.2
Price Contingencies                          40.9             6.1           47.0
Total Project Cost                          299.1            45.0          344.1
Financing Plan:                                        (US$ millions)
Local         Foreign         Total
GOI/GOG                   172.1            -            172.1
IDA                       127.0          45.0           172.0
Total               :299.1          45.0           344.1
Estimated Disbursements
(U'S$ millions)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual              35.4    40.9    35.0    30.4    23.1         7.2
Cumulative          35.4    76.3   111.3   141.7   164.8   172.0
Rate of Return:    About 30%.
Appraisal Report: No. 5028-IN, dated May 18, 1984.
Z/  Includes taxes and duties which are insignificant.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
Credit to India for SDR 164.3 million (US$172 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms, to finance an irrigation project in order to increase crop produc-
tion and farmers' incomes through implementing the State Government's invest-
r           ment program for medium scale irrigation projects throughout Gujarat and better
water utilization. The proceeds of the Credit would be channeled to the
Government of Gujarat in accordance with the Government of India's standard
terms and arrangements for financing State development projects. The exchange
risk would be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1!
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project
(No. P-3804-IN), dated May 3, 1984.



-2-
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.       In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on



-3-
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GD?
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83.  This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82. declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
eff iciency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in



-4-
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important
that India maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82.  The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of



-5-
suppliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-84 India contracted
commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and suppliers' credits of over
US$1,020 million, This borrowing has been used for specific development
projects in the public and private sectors (mainly for petroleum exploration
and development, steel, aluminum and shipping). India also reached an agree-
ment with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund
Facility for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 3.9 billion have already been drawn.
The transfer of funds under this arrangement has stemmed the use of foreign
exchange reserves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage
in 1981/82. In January 1984, India announced that it would not utilize the
remaining SDR 1.1 billion because her external accounts have adjusted more
rapidly than was envisaged at the time the arrangement was formulated.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fifth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,



-6-
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-
ing to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will. be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources.  Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growtth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further                     *
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the



-7-
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
inxdia is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that T.ndia has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982f83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
2$J.    A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 685.2 million, or about 14 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern.  The expectation of
a measurable decline in the population growth rate has not materialized. The
results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health
and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the
proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
60% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of tLhe poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the 'Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
ev,,idence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prcspec-s for India's poor.



-8-
PART 11 - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The coutinued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short



-9-
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance to India, both
to offset the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to
sustain the relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the
first four years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures.
India imports relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competi-
tiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign
exchange component tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly
the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports of goods and services and receipts of
current transfers was about 12.9% in 1983/84. Over the next several years this
ratio is projected to rise to about 20% and remain around that level through
1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank
totalled US$3,932 million, of which US$2,100 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN GUJARAT
Background
29.       The State of Gujarat which covers an area of 18.8 million ha, has a
population of 36 million (1983) growing at the rate of 2.5% per annum.
Between 1960 and 1982, the State's GDP grew at an annual rate of 3.7%, and in
1983 per capita income reached a level of US$320 compared with the all-India
level of US$250. The State has a large and fast growing manufacturing
sector. Agriculture, however, accounts for more than 30% of the State's
income, and more than 60% of the working population. Furthermore,
agriculture-based industries account for more than 50% of all factory
employment. Since much of Gujarat is characterized by low and highly vari-
able rainfall, agricultural production largely depends on weather conditions.
Unreliable rainfall coupled with limited irrigation facilities have made the
State susceptible to drought and famine. Consequently, the Government of
Gujarat (GOG) has given high priority to irrigation development.
Irrigation
30.     Only about 54% of the ultimate irrigation potential of the State has
been developed, and about 75% of the undeveloped potential is located in the
Narmada Basin, which will be the focus of irrigation development in the
second half of the 1980s and in the 1990s. Presently, however, GOG gives
priority to completion of on-going major and medium irrigation projects.
Utilization of the capacity created in major and medium schemes is unsatis-
factory and was estimated at about 56% in 1983. A special working group
established by GOG to investigate the situation, recommended that:
(i) planning of new projects be improved and more realistic assessments be
made of the net irrigable areas to be served under each project;
(ii) conveyance efficiency of canal systems in completed schemes be improved;
(iii) field channels be constructed at Government cost; and (iv) operation of
existing schemes should be improved.
The Project Area
31.     Background.  The project area is about 375,000 ha, of which about
135,000 ha (36%) are commanded by modernization schemes. Water is the major
constraint to increasing agricultural production in the project area which
experiences recurrent water shortages, due to low and highly variable
rainfall. Access to most of the project area is good because of a well-
developed road system of national highways, and district and village roads.



Climate. Topography and Soils.
32.     The State has a tropical monsoon climate with temperatures suitable
for year-round cropping. Mean monthly temperatures range between 18 and 23
degrees centigrade in January, and 32 to 34 degrees centigrade in May.
Annual rainfall ranges from less than 300mm in the northwest to over 2,000mm
in a small area in the southeast. Most parts of the State receive between
4         500mm and 800mm.  About 95% of the rainfall occurs during the June-September
monsoon. Because of the wide variations in amount and timeliness of the
rainfall, supplementary irrigation during the kharif season is necessary for
stable and high crop yields. Intensive cropping in the rabi and hot seasons
is feasible only with irrigation.
33.     The area is flat and forms a gently inclined plain from west to south
with a land slope range of between 0%-3%. The soils vary from clay loam to
clay in texture. Most of the area is provided with a network of natural
drains and the soils are thus well drained. The soils are free of salinity
and alkali problems, and are suitable for food and non-food crops under
irrigation.
Population, Land Tenure and Land Use
34.     The population of the project area is estimated at about 866,000
(1981), comprising about 112:000 households with an average family size of
about 7.7 persons. The mean farm size is 3.4 ha. The farmers in the low
rainfall areas possess more land than in high rainfall areas. Of the 18.8 mil-
lion ha of total geographical area in the State, about 9.6 million ha (51%)
is under cultivation. Forests occupy about 2 million ha (11%), barren or
uncultivable land accounts for about 3.5 million ha (18Z), cultivable waste-
land accounts for 2 million ha (11%) and the remaining 1.7 million ha (9%)
are either fallow or used as permanent pastures and grazing land. There is
little scope for increasing the net cultivable area. Cropping intensities
between 1970 and 1980 were low, averaging about 109%. The most widely grown
cereals are pearl millet and sorghum. Under rainfed conditions, yields
average about 0.6 tons per ha, and about 1.8 tons per ha under irrigated
conditions. Yields of sorghum under rainfed and irrigated conditions are
about 0.5 and 0.9 tons per ha respectively. About 8% of the total cropped
area is in paddy, and about 50% of the cropped area in Shaurastra carries
kharif groundnuts, grown mostly under rainfed conditions. Maize is an impor-
tant crop of the tribal areas and is grown under rainfed conditions. Wheat,
mustard and a variety of vegetables are grown under irrigation and pigeon and
chick peas are grown under rainfed conditions. About 18% of total cropped
area is planted with cash crops including cotton, tobacco and castor, of
which cotton accounts for about 90%.
Supporting Services
35.     Agricultural Extension.  The Agriculture Department is responsible
for extension work in the project area. The IDA-assisted Training and Visit
system of agricultural extension was introduced in Gujarat in 1979 under the
Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.No. 862-IN). Regular demonstra-
tions and up-to-date advice on farming practices are provided to farmers
through regular visits from trained village extension workers (VEWs). The
system calls for increased staff to provide adequate coverage. However, a



-12-
number of subject matter specialists and village extension worker posts
remain vacant. These posts would be filled by December 31, 1984 (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.05(d)).
36.     Agricultural Research.  The Gujarat Agricultural University (GAU)
is responsible for agricultural research through its four campuses at Anand,
Dantivada, Junagadh, and Navsari, each campus representing four broad
agroclimatic zones of the State. GAU maintains 13 main research stations
specializing in different crops. Their main work involves selection and
testing of superior varieties, improved cultural practices and plant
protection. Each campus conducts locality-specific research to meet the
needs of the farmers in the area and coordinates the research activities of
these stations. Research findings of the main stations are tested through a
network of 38 substations located throughout the State before dissemination
to the farmers. The technical breakthrough achieved by GAU in pearl millet,
cotton, and castor in particular, has helped to improve the productivity of
these crops in the State and other parts of the country. GAU, since its
inception in 1972, has released 77 improved varieties of different crops
having better yield and quality characteristics. Research on irrigated
agriculture is carried out in 16 trial-cum-demonstration farms. The main
focus of this research has been to determine water requirements in relation
to soil types, climate and critical stages of crop growth.
37.     Agricultural Credit.  Cooperative banks provide short- and medium-
term credit to farmers, and are organized on a three-tier basis with the
Gujarat State Cooperative Bank at the State level, 18 central cooperative
banks at the district level, and 6,800 primary cooperative credit societies
at the village level. The Banks collect interest at the rate of 12% a year.
The State Land Development Bank with its 182 branches provides long-term
loans at an interest rate of about 11%. The Statewide recovery performance
of the primary cooperative credit societies was 52% in 1981. The commercial
banks also provide all three types of credit. They now account for about 40%
of institutional credit.
38.     Agricultural Inputs.  Gujarat has -a well-developed system for dis-
tribution and sale of seeds, fertilizers, and plant protection chemicals
throughout the State. The Gujarat State Seeds Corporation and the Gujarat
State Cooperative Marketing Federation are two agencies engaged in the
production and distribution of improved seesds. There are four fertilizer
companies in Gujarat. They produced about 400,000 tons of nitrogen and
250,000 tons of phosphate in 1980/81. This level of production is about 18%
and 30% of nitrogen and phosphate produced in all India. The distribution of
fertilizers in the State is largely through the cooperative network.  Out
of about 6,000 distributors, over 80% are cooperative units. There are about
9,600 agrochemical sale centers in the State, mostly in the rural areas.
About one-third of these centers are operated through cooperative units.
About 7,000 tons of chemicals are being sold to the farmers annually. In
general, agricultural inputs are available within easy reach of the farmers.
39.     Marketing, Processing and Storage.  Some 422 agricultural markets
operate in Gujarat, of which 141 are regulated. As Gujarat has about half of
its cultivated area under cash crops like oilseeds, cotton, tobacco, and
sugarcane, most of the trade in these crops is through regulated markets that
serve a specified area, usually within a 10 km radius. Gujarat has a large
number of processing facilities mainly for commercial crops. There are over



-13-
800 private oil extraction units with monthly crushing capacity of nearly
0.8 M ton of groundnuts. In addition, there are 17 oil mills owned by
cooperatives. All 15 sugar mills are in the cooperative sector with daily
crushing capacity of about 2,000 tons. There Xre 970 ginneries, 200 cotton
presses and over 1,300 textile units in the State that process lint into
yarn. There are nearly 6,100 godowns operated by primary cooperatives that
provide a storage capacity of about 850,000 tons and the Gujarat State
Warehousing Corporation maintains 74 storage centers in the State having a
storage capacity of about 220,000 tons. The present system for marketing,
processing and storage is highly competitive and has responded quickly to
increased output of both foodgrains and cash crops.
Bank Group Lending for Irrigation in Gujarat
40.     The Bank Group has assisted Gujarat to finance a number of projects
for irrigation development. The first Credit (Cr. 13-IN, 1961,
US$4.5 million) financed construction of Shetrunji's canal system. The
project failed to achieve its agricultural objectives because of inadequate
agricultural supporting services and lagging construction of field channels
and drains. The lessons learned were taken into account in preparation of
the Kadana Irrigation Project (Cr. 176-IN, 1970, US$35 million), which
emphasized on-farm development and the agricultural support program. Due to
extreme floods and other construction problems, the project was completed two
years behind schedule. However, the project area now is one of the most
prosperous and productive areas in Gujarat.
41.     Two IDA assisted projects presently are under implementation in the
State: the Gujarat Irrigation Project (Cr. 808-IN, 1978, US$85 million) and
Gujarat Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1011-IN, 1980, US$175 million). The two
credits financed about 80% of Gujarat's annual irrigation investments. The
projects include operational improvements and modernization of existing
irrigation systems, construction of new schemes, small scale watershed
development, reclamation of saline coastal lands and establishment of a water
management training institute. New planning procedures and improved stand-
ards for design and construction of irrigation projects have been introduced.
Initial project implementation suffered from weak management and lower than
expected quality of design and construction, partly due to the complex and
innovative nature of many components. However, implementation performance is
gradually improving and the two credits are expected to strengthen the
capacity of the Irrigation Department in Gujarat to design, construct and
operate projects which can deliver timely and reliable water supply.
42.     Credit No. 808-IN was a first time-slice operation to support medium
irrigation projects (MIPs) which individually are too small to justify Bank
participation. The time-slice was to finance: (i) construction of new MIPs;
(ii) modernization of existing schemes; (iii) a network of automatic dis-
charge measuring stations; and (iv) establishment of a Water and Land
Management Institute (WALMI). The distribution system was to be designed for
rotational water supply (RWS) and to be lined to the 8 ha outlet. Individual



-14-
MIPs were to be appraised by an Appraisal Committee (AC) especially estab-
lished for this purpose in the Central Water Commission. The AC was
authorized to approve MIPs meeting the technical criteria, costing less than
Rs 70 million and having a benefit/cost ratio higher than 1.O. All others
were to be approved by IDA.
43.     In 1978 the US Government approved US$30 million of USAID funds for
the project. Accordingly, the project scope was extended to cover an
accelerated MIP program. The actual cost of most MIPs have proved to be
higher than estimates due to: (i) a revision of hydrology and dam design;
(ii) an increase in the cost of cement; and (iii) a higher than estimated
cost of lining. By mid-March 1984, IDA disbursements amounted to
US$79 million (about 93% of the credit) and GOG expected to complete by the
end of March 1984 works to fully utilize both IDA and USAID funds.
44.     Twenty-nine MIPs have been cleared by the AC.  In most of the MIPs
work concentrated on headworks. Consequently, secondary canals in some of
the MIPs, and works on the minor distribution system in most of them are
lagging behind schedule. Construction of the dams in some MIPs was delayed
because the flood hydrology had to be revised following an unprecedented
cyclonic storm in 1979 in the Sahrashtra region. This has delayed completion
of many of the dams by about a year. During the first two to three years of
project implementation, the most serious constraint was shortage of staff,
which was substantially resolved at the beginning of 1982 through recruitment
of new staff. Technical standards which were initially inadequate have also
improved considerably following Bank intervention and training courses at
WALMI. Quality control and construction standards were also improved after
the issuance of new standards by GOG. The project has suffered from poor
management. A study aimed at improving planning through the use of small
computers has been undertaken by the Operations Research Group (a consultancy
group). The network of automatic discharge measuring stations has been
completed.
45.     Overall, the project achieved most of its objectives.  The Bank
assisted with the design of the minor system through establishment of pilot
water management areas and training courses for design engineers were
conducted. In addition, GOG has initiated pilot RWS activities with assis-
tance from the Water Management Team at the Bank's New Delhi Office. A WALMI
has been established in temporary buildings and a permanent campus is being
constructed near the Agricultural University at Anand.  Sub-projects were
appraised in accordance with Bank guidelines. The MIPs started under the
project cover a total area of 213,300 ha of cultivable command area, and in
72,800 ha, over 50% of the distribution system was completed, which compares
favorably with the appraisal target of 63,000 ha. Modernization works have
been completed over about 22,000 ha, and similar works at various stages of
completion are underway in another area of about 140,000 ha, which also
compares favorably with the appraisal estimate of 55,000 ha. Finally, the
water management studies conducted under the project resulted in development
of detailed design and operation criteria which have been incorporated in
Phase II.



-15-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.     The project was appraised in January/February 1984.  Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. in May 1984, with an Indian delegation coor-
dinated by Mr. S.P. Bajpai, of the Government of India's Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report,
No 5028-IN dated May 18, 1984 is bping circulated to the Executive Directors
separately. A supplementary Data Sheet is a.tached as Annex III.
47.     The focus of the project is on the introduction of an RWS system
which would constitute the first serious attempt to test RWS on a large scale
beyond northern India and to demonstrate its advantages. The project would
provide the basis for expansion of RWS within Gujarat and throughout India.
Introduction of RWS and the need to adhere to strict water scheduling would
be innovative. Bank involvement in the initial stages would be essential to:
(i) introduce the RWS system which is the most suitable under conditions in
most of the sub-projects; (ii) ensure adoption of proper operational prac-
tices for RWS from the outset; (iii) establish an appropriate institutional
framework for efficient implementation of RWS; and (iv) extend the experience
to be gained with this project regarding improved design and improved system
operations and water management to the upcoming Narmada project.
Project Objectives
48.     The main objectives of the project are to: (i) complete the construc-
tion to adequate standards of the sub-projects started under the first time
slice; and (ii) adopt in the sub-projects a rotational water supply system
based on predetermined scheduling and equitable water allocation. The main
criterion for determining the success of each sub-project would be implemen-
tation of system management satisfying the water management objective. The
main criteria for assessing the success of the construction activities would
be: (i) design to standards which would facilitate system management and
minimize operational costs; and (ii) high quality of works to ensure
durability and minimize maintenance costs.
Project Description
Construction Activities
49.     Medium Irrigation Sub-Proiects.  Funds would be provided for comple-
tion of 22 on-going MIPs and to start implementation of one additional sub-
project, the Zankhari MIP. Works on each of the 23 MIPs include:
(i) construction of a storage dam, usually earthfill with a gated reinforced
concrete spillway and canal headworks; (ii) full lining of the canal network
which delivers water through outlets serving 8 ha subchaks; and



-16-
(iii) construction of a drainage network. These works are at various stages
of construction. Of the 23 dams, 16 have been substantially completed and
work on 6 is underway. All except the Zankhari and Sipu dams are expected to
be completed under the project. The Zankhari main works are expected to
start in 1986 and to be completed in 1992.
50.     Modernization.  Funds would be provided to complete modernization
works now underway on six sub-projects. The works include the lining of
existing main and branch canals, and the unlined distribution system
originally designed to serve 40 ha chaks.  The systems are being extended
with fully lined minors to supply regulated outlets serving 8 ha subchaks.
Provision would be made for improved control structures and also for
modification of storage facilities involving the construction of an auxil-
liary spillway.
51G     Field Channels.  Under the project, unlined field channels would be
constructed to link the 8 ha outlet with each individual holding or where the
holding is smaller than one ha, to groups of holdings averaging about one ha.
52.     Drainage.  The project would finance drainage works in 6 of the 23
sub-projects which have heavier soils and are located in the higher rainfall
area to the south. Provision has been made for drainage improvements over
30,000 ha.
53.     Roads.  All weather access roads will be provided along all main and
secondary canals down to the 40 ha chak outlet, and motorcycle access to the
8 ha subchak outlet. GOG plans to construct 2,100 km of rural roads in the
7th Plan period giving priority to roads serving the project area. GOG
would: (i) by March 31, 1985 furnish to IDA for review and comment a plan
including an implementation schedulea for development of project rural roads
during the project implementation ptsriod (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.07). Provision would be made for constructing roads, water supply,
communication centers and other infrastructural needs in areas where group
resettlement is undertaken.
54.     Communications and Equipment.  The project would include provision
for a radio telephone network for each sub-project. Communication within
each sub-project would be possible from the dam or diversion down to the
2,000 ha level. Funds would also be provided for equipment including heavy
construction plant, small scale compaction machines, operation and main-
tenance (O&M) equipment for spillway standby diesel generators, general
maintenance equipment, communications equipment and equipment for training.
Training and Studies
55.     Training.  The project would provide funds for training activities.
Practical shop floor courses would be conducted for about 26 mechanical
technicians in the maintenance of construction plant. The training would
provide key maintenance personnel with direct contact with manufacturers
approved maintenance, overhaul and repair methods.  Short training courses
would also be conducted for those concerned with irrigated agriculture in the
sub-projects. About 200 professional level, 400 field level and 8,800 progres-
sive farmers would be trained. The facilities of the demonstration farm at
Thasta would be improved to make it suitable for training farmers in RWS.



-17-
Vocational training will be given to displaced persons who wish to acquire
skills outside the agricultural sector.
56.     Studies.  Under the project, studies would be carried out concerning
the Zankhari sub-project and would cover alternative concepts such as linking
the reservoir with the Doswada reservoir; preparing detailed soil surveys;
and examining the feasibility of fishery and high value crops like sugarcane
and irrigated eucalyptus. O&M costs for all projects and monitoring and
evaluation activities would also be reviewed.
57.     Technical Services.  The project would provide funds to finance the
services of universities and other specialized institutions and groups for
introduction of computerized systems, data analysis and other specialised
tasks. Specialist technical services of individual short-term consultants
are also expected to be provided.
Organization and Project Implementation.
58.     The primary responsibility for implementation of the project would
rest with the Irrigation Department (ID), which would plan, design and con-
struct the sub-projects and would have responsibility for their operation and
maintenance after completion. The ID has an adequate cadre of well-trained
engineers already in post to carry the project work load. The head of the
department is the Secretary of Irrigation who administers the department
through two special secretaries and six chief engineers. The ID has been
recently divided into three wings: (a) Irrigation Projects - responsible for
all design and construction to the 8 ha outlet (under the direction of a
secretary), (b) Command Area Development (CAD) - responsible for Command Area
Development Authorities (CADAs) and all CAD works as well as for O&M of all
irrigation projects (under the direction of a secretary); and (c) Narmada
Development - under the direct control of the Secretary of Irrigation. The
most important feature of the new organization is the separation between O&M
and construction functions.
59.     Under the project, the ID would be strengthened, especially the
sections dealing with design of the minor distribution system, quality con-
trol and operation. A new Minor System Design Cell would be created in the
Central Design Organization to: establish uniform design standards for minor
systems; monitor regularly the designs produced by the field design offices;
and conduct training workshops on the layout design of the minor systems.
Where necessary, consultants would assist. Quality control over the entire
State is undertaken by the central Quality Control Unit (QCU) at Gandhinagar.
Under the project the QCU will develop a methodology for random checks of the
quality of minor system works and conduct such checks through regular
biweekly visits of each sub-project. The QCU will be provided with ten
additional Executive Engineers (EEs) and support staff and vehicles (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.06).
60.     GOG would establish a Water Management Unit (WMU) under the Chief
Engineer (CADA) consisting of one SE and five EEs assisted by support staff.
The unit would oversee the introduction of the Rotational Water Supply
procedures. The rotational schedule among the farmers would be fixed for
each season and every farmer would know in advance the hour and the day of
each week he would receive water. GOG would: (i) begin irrigation deliveries



-18-
to Village Service Areas (VSAs) and chaks, only if appropriate rotational
water allocation procedures agreed with IDA are in place, and establish such
procedures as soon as construction of field channels has been completed in
chaks where water deliveries have already begun; and (ii) in modernization
sub-projects establish appropriate rotational water deliveries agreed with
IDA in VSA and chaks promptly after completion of modernization works (draft
Project Agreement, Sections 2.09 and 2.1C).
61.     Sub-projects would be managed by an Assistant Engineer (AE) and
support staff. The AE and his staff would be assisted by a Water Management
Committee (WMC) consisting of: (i) farmer representatives; (ii) relevant GOG
officers; and (iii) the Chairman of the Planchayat Samiti (local elected
body). The project AE would be the Chairman of WMC. A Service Area
Committee comprising representatives of each chak would also be established
in each VSA. The committee would resolve disputes between farmers and VSA,
oversee water scheduling and allocation principles, supervise RWS discipline
and organize maintenance of filed channels. GOG would: (i) maintain a
suitably qualified assistant engineer at each sub-project; (ii) establish and
maintain a WMC not later than 12 months before the beginning of irrigation,
and if irrigation has already begun, by I)ecember 31, 1984; and (iii) estab-
lish and maintain a Service Area Committee in each VSA not later than
12 months before the beginning of irrigat:ion or by December 31, 1984 if
irrigation has already begun (draft: Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
62.     The Central Water Commission (CWC) is the highest technical authority
for water resources development in India. Its responsibilities include
review of all major and medium irrigationi projects before they are submitted
for approval to the Planning Commission of GOI. Under the project, the CWC
will increase the intensity of its supervisions and extend the duration of
supervision visits to individual sub-projects to enable greater coverage of
minor system design and construction, system operation and introduction of
RWS. GOI and GOG would ensure thal: the progress of each sub-project would be
monitored by CWC using procedures and staffing agreed with IDA (draft Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02).
Operation and Maintenance
63.     For new irrigated areas in which RWS is being introduced the current
total budgetary allocation by GOG for O&M is over Rs 200/ha which is adequate
for the next two to three years. For thes long; term, GOG is conducting a
detailed study to determine the appropriate composition and level of O&M
expenditures in the project's MIPs. GOG will: (i) submit its findings to IDA
for comments by June 30, 1985; and (ii) starting April 1, 1986, base O&M
budget provisions for MIPs on the recommendations of the study (draft Project
Agreement, Section 3.03).
Cost Recovery
64.     Gujarat is one of the most progressive States in India with regard
to the collection of water charges, and has ariong the highest rates in the
country. The charges are uniform throughout the State, varying by crop and
season and currently range from Rs 120/ha of paddy in kharif season to
Rs 1,250/ha of sugarcane. The level of water charges takes into account



-19-
capital and operational costs as well as farmers' capacity to pay. GOG aims
at collecting 5% and 12% of the value of food and cash crops respectively.
An inter-departmental water review board reviews the structure of charges
every two years. In addition to water charges, farmers pay land tax and
cesses of between Rs 10-22/ha of dry land and about double that amount for
irrigated land. Sales tax is levied at 4.4% for cash crops, and a purchase
tax of 6% is levied on sugarcane.
65.     GOG plans to establish, wherever possible, water-users' associations
which would purchase irrigation water from ID on a volumetric basis and sell
it to the farmers, thus undertaking the main water charge collection
function. Initially, management capability is likely to be the major con-
straint to large scale establishment of effective associations.
Consequently, the development of the water users' associations would be
closely monitored in order to accelerate the establishment of these
associations. GOG would: (i) review the level of water charges annually;
(ii) maintain water charges at levels sufficient to cover O&M expenditures
and to the extent possible, capital costs; and (iii) by September 30, 1984
select three sub-projects in which water users' associations are to be
established as soon as possible (draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.14 and
3.04).
Rehabilitation
66.     Under Phase I of the project about 8,500 displaced families (as of
November 1983) were rehabilitated. The number of displaced families still
requiring compensation is estimated at 10,600. Negotiations with many of
these are at an advanced stage. GOG aims at ensuring that the displaced
persons regain at least their previous standard of living. However, because
of shortage of land, many of the oustees will be paid cash compensation which
will enable them to purchase land at their own preferred locations. Under
the project, arrangements for compensation would include full utilization for
rehabilitation purposes, the fisheries potential in the reservoirs, the
cultivation potential in the peripheral areas of the reservoirs and employ-
ment opportunities in project construction work. The project would finance
vocational training for oustees who would like to be rehabilitated in non-
agricultural sectors. The scope of compensation would be expanded to include
full compensation to all landless oustees. IDA approval of comprehensive
resettlement plans in respect of the nine most affected MIPs, where there are
more than 300 families per MIP requiring to be resettled, and Zankhari MIP,
in which works have not yet started, would be a condition of disbursement for
these HIPs (Paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 of the draft Credit Agreement). GOG
would maintain a Rehabilitation Committee in each CADA (Section 2.12(a) of
the draft Project Agreement). Monitoring of rehabilitation would be under-
taken by the Project Planning and Monitoring Cell which would be strengthened
by an economist and a sociologist. In addition, evaluation studies of the
rehabilitation process in five Project Planning sub-projects would be under-
taken by a qualified institution.



-20-
Monitoring and Evaluation
67.     The ID, through its Project Planning and Monitoring Cell, would
coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities. The monitoring and evaluat-
ing activities would focus on: (i) assessment of progress and constraints in
the sub-projects; (ii) carrying out and/or supervising studies;
(iii) rehabilitation of displaced persons; (iv) preparation of annual work
plans; and (v) preparation of progress reports. The performance of the water
users association would be closely monitored, a special irrigation interim
survey would be conducted and special studies aimed at evaluating the effec-
tiveness of the RWS would be carried out in at Least three sub-projects. An
interim evaluation survey would be conducted in each sub-project two years
after the beginning of irrigation focussing on: reliability and equity of
water supply; utilization of the irrigation potential; and irrigation
benefits. Evaluation of the rehabilitation process would include analysis of
the standard of living of the resettled persons after rehabilitation. GOG
would submit semi-annual and annual progress reports (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.16(b)(iii)) and would submit to IDA a project completion
report within six months after the closing; date (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.16(d)).
Project Cost and Financing
68.     Total project costs are estimated at US$344.1 million equivalent
including taxes and duties which are insignificant. Foreign exchange costs
are estimated at US$45 million (about 13% of total costs). Physical contin-
gencies amount to about US$24.2 million while price contingencies of about
US$47 million are based on expected annual price increases for local
expenditures, of 8%, 7%, 7%, 7%, 6% in the years from 1984-88 respectively,
and 3.5%, 8%, 9%, 9%, 9% for foreign expenditures for the same years.
69.     The proposed IDA credit of US$172 million equivalent would finance
about 50% of total cost including 100% of foreign expenditure and about 42%
of local costs. The balance would be borne by GOI and GOG. In order to
avoid interruption in works between Phase I and II, retroactive financing not
exceeding US$15 million would be provided for eligible expenditures incurred
after February 1, 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
70.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which items would be
procured under the project. Civil works (US$269.4 million) would be packaged
wherever possible. However, none of the construction activities could be
grouped in packages of a size that would interest foreign bidders and hence,
these works would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB) proce-
dures satisfactory to IDA. Some works would be done departmentally up to an
aggregate of 20% of the disbursement for civil works. Equipment and vehicles
(US$11.1 million) would be procured under ICB in accordance with IDA
guidelines (domestic manufacturers would receive a domestic preference of
15%). Light equipment and vehicles (US$5.3 million) are readily available
domestically.  Because of the existing servicing and spare parts facilities
considerable advantage would be derived from procuring locally manufactured
light equipment and vehicles. These goods would be procured locally under
LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA. All bidding packages for works estimated
to cost US$0.5 million or more and all ICB packages would be subject to IDA's



-21-
prior review of procurement procedures. The balance of contracts would be
subject to IDA post-action review.
71.     Disbursements would be made for (i) 50% of expenditure for civil
works; (ii) 100% of expenditure for field channels and drains by completed
blocks; (iii) 100% for rehabilitation infrastructure up to a limit of
US$5 million; (iv) 100% of imported equipment and ex-factory costs of local
equipment, 70% for other locally procured equipment; (v) 100% of additional
costs for introducing rotational water supply; (vi) 100% of the costs of
training, pilot operations, monitoring and studies.
Benefits. Justification and Risks
72.     Quantifiable benefits from the project would derive from an increase
in irrigated area by 336,000 ha. The annual incremental agricultural produc-
tion at full project development would be for foodgrain about 573,000 tons,
cotton 37,200 tons and oilseed 101,300 tons. The total value of production
would increase by about US$146.1 million per year. About 94,200 farm
families would benefit directly from the project. The project would generate
an additional 18.6 million mandays of farm labor employment and project
construction activities would generate about 3.7 million mandays of construc-
tion employment. About 54,300 farm families in the project area would move
out of the poverty classification (about US$114 per capita in 1979/80
prices).
73.     The economic rate of return (ERR) for MIPs is about 13% and over 50%
for modernization schemes. The overall ERR is about 30%. The results of the
sensitivity analysis to determine how deviations from the main assumptions,
including incremental benefits and construction costs, would affect the ERR,
indicate that only very large deviations would make the project economically
unviable.
74.     Project benefits, however, could be significantly affected if GOG
prematurely diverts financial and manpower resources to the Narmada projects,
resulting in implementation delays. However, given the magnitude of the sunk
costs, pressures from the project farmers and GOG's commitment to the
project, such a premature diversion of resources is unlikely. A second risk
would be GOG not effectively launching RWS, resulting in unequitable and
unreliable water supply and reductions in the level of irrigation benefits.
However, GOG has agreed to execute the project as designed (Section 2.21 of
the draft Project Agreement).
Environmental Impact
.
75.     Construction of drainage facilities and lining of canals in the new
schemes would reduce areas of stagnant water which are breeding grounds for
mosquitoes. Moreover, GOG would take all measures to minimize the risk of
malaria and other water related diseases within the project area (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.21). Therefore, the project would have no
adverse environmental effect.



-22-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AgD AUTHORITY
76.     The draft IDA Credit Agreement beitween India and the Association, the
draft Project Agreement between the Associatioia and the State of Gujarat, and
the Recommendation of the Comittee provi.ded for in Article V, Section l(d),
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
77.     Special conditions of the project are Listed in Section III of
Annex III.
78.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit: would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
May 21, 1984



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES) / 6
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMA';''' b
"'O/b  RECENT                LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
I960-b      197      STMAl              ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
'OTAL                                3287.6       3287.6       3287.6
4GRICULTURAL                         1760.7       1780.5      1811.3
GNP PER CAPITA (0S$)                      70.0        100.0        260.0               276.7                      102.1.6
ENERGY CONSUNPrION PER CAPTTA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENO)        114.0        165.0        210.0               398.4                       792.r
POPULATION AUD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          18.0         19.8         23.7                21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               1001.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILT.)                                1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KMO.                        132.3        166.6       205.3                161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              247.0        307.5       372.7                363.1                      1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            40.9         42.7         39.7                36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                            54.5         54.2        57.2                 59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.6          3.1          3.0                 4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.8          2.3          2.1                 1.9                         2.3
URBAN                                 2.5          3.3          3.7                 4.0                         3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           43.7         40.0         35.4                29.3                        31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THO'S)           21.8         16.7         13.3                10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.9          2.7          2.4                 2.0                         2.0
FAMTLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            64.0       3782.0      6826.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         12.0        23.0                 48.1                        46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(196q-71=100)                          98.0        102.0       107.0                111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0         90.0         87.0                98.1                        14.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             54.0         50.0        47.0                 56.7                        57.9
OF WHICH ANLMAL AND PULSE           17.0         15.0         13.0/c              13.9                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            26.2         20.7         17.0                12.2                         7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          43.2         48.1         52.2                59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         165.0        139.0       121.2                 96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%PoP)
TOTAL                                  ..         17.0         33.0/d              32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                  ,,         60.0         83.07W              70.8                        54.8
RURAL                                  ,           6.0         20.07W              22.2                        26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ,          18.0         20.0/e              18.1                        41.4
URBAN                                  ..         85.0        87.0/e               72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                  . .         1.0          2.07;               4.7                        33.4
*                       POPDLATION PER PHYSICIAN             4850.0       4890.0       3640.0/f            3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             10980.0/g    8300.0        5380.0/f            4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2180.0       1650.0      1310.0/d             1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..       370.07W              298.4                      651.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..     10410.07W             5941.6                     2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..           ..                  ..                        27.0
HOUSN EG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2          5.6          5.2/e
URBAN                                 5.2          5.6          4.87T'
RURAL                                 5.2          5.6          5.37;
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.6          2.8
URBAN                                 2.6          2.8
RURAL                                 2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                       SOCIAL [NDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b           lb  RECEST                LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCCME
1960-    _ 1970/b  ESTlATSLJ              ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      61.0          73.0         76.0/f               96.1                        101.2
MALE                      80.0          90.0          0.07'f             107.8                        106.0
FEMALE                    40.0          56,0         51.07T               82.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      20.0         26,0          218.0/f              30.2                         44.9
MALE                      30.0         36,0          37.0d7               37.3                         50.0
FEMALE                    10.0         15,0          .8.077               22.2                         44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)               2.8          1.,O         0.7/e                2.3                         18.5
PUPlL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               46.0         41,0          43.0/f               34.4                         32.7
SECONDARY                             16.0         21.0            ,                  18.4                         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (9)                 27.8          33.4        '16.0                 53.5                         72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6           1.1          1.3/f                1.6                          9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             4.9          21.5         44.4                 96.8                        113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 0.0          0.0          1.7                  9.9                         50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                10.6          16.2         19.7                 16.4                         54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           3.2          4.1          3.7/e                3.6                          3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           195951.0    219194.0    271179.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      30.7         32.5          31.8                 33.3                         33.6
AGRICULTLURE (PERCENT)                74.0          74.0         69.3                 69.0                         50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    11.0         11.0          13.2                 15.8                         19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8         40.0          39.3                 42.5                         18.6
MALE                                  57.0          52.4         51.9                 54.4                         50.7
FEMALE                                27.3         26.9          25.9                 29.8                         26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.1          1.1          1.1                  1.0                          1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 51 OF HOUSEHOLDS              26.7         26.3/h        22.2/e               16.5                         22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7         48.97h        43.47ie              43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1           6.777        7.o7e                6.9                          6.4
LOWEST 40Y OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6          17.27h       15.27i               17.5                         15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        13'2.0               133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                    .            . .       114.0                111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                   ..                       178.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                   ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (1)
URBAN                                    ,            , .        40.3                 43.8                         24.4
RURAL                                    . .          .          50.7                 51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/ /a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year betw.een 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1S79 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1964-65.
May 1983



ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
ihyiIfilT~S 0t SOCIAL IN'DICATORS
totes  i ottgh th  dateera deat fn   sorces- Areo  ipjdgat the eatat            -tatcadtllai,fshod lo he totedthat they say not be t-teoatoni.   ly
sof tttoot  eeaep    It  Hgh I, --n" ol   aore'gtpaetItdl  Int-e North Adtic. and Mtddl. F `L   1- fle'bstoe    aeosa.  of srne   o  ttl a
Ito-pnan  afa  on tat  adiat .            h tata .a...ag   ot tott a_ togt ltd tcte dped  ot the   taabtait  otHt  and I o  onfos  toto   bosh
--nit.lteti-oLI          enagsoot            dtar foteae.  Thaeae-ag-eaa- otlyta-efoLIl-plnuaoitoth.tenaIufonetditat....at.lt -eaastgtetospst
MAtt  ~lt....andan.-n.                                                                                    Poplolt oaI,rlote-Po               ,a  o  dlolded  hy tast P  f pe-cot atto
Tota   -oTtl. suface area cnsoil              . ad area and inlatI  -atet  1960,                          pytaaqoife Cntasdoaetoltofosty ee.
.910)1 etc  i98  dat.                                                                                 dood    po ee  itn   Person-            at aodinitded hy naher of pesoslitog
~rlc.ltiri-taiastoCug,uolur -asne            Asdte-p--aiinreroenl                                  slattsate... oa. enoI_e,  _ai-tentI...e A,patiinrasd
it,- orns , petaeet .  akaf and k-ncten no-ie-  o, to liU flla   19b,                            n-rtiN  ato ll lane
*                         10111~~~~~q;  set IffS aa8o1lto   atdsls  ta  -toal  orhan. en- otl...I                                                                                                    ltonitai
-rtn,andtoaldio led b  hr iseteptto   noIe  o  htp l beds
GNP pt   orr   191-   f ran napat  et ,Is,ee    unt-ent nlethe  picet.,                                     oalable  In potnad pninate ganers   n  seiler    opia   t
IdO   11.  n  f1  dens.                                                                         by et1 .e.. nor physIcIa.,  tttbllshn...ts  p-oading atinolpally c-stdia1
tare are  an  ittided.  toeI hospitlsl, heset.e  tolada hasta  . td
ENlaIdY I1.ttdntii PIt, CoPil  -  otAI         parn  nntaoo   ofoeselta-I                                   ted me1 center  netpeesenntl tafed Hy a phytitian  fbat bK' a sed t.
into, 1970  and 1980 date,b-h . than                                                                             1not         -it nlda Idle prnoai e-       elhsptl,A  sad rural
OPUPihT K     Mtt IiTli iTATISTICS                                                                          tyaialitad hap -o         r  inInlded nItly ondet toa.
Tota  roa i-to, Mid-teat (thoi  oAd-h   fJI   1   b.11,adIt                                         doistiontoa  toapte    ed - Totl  oaeeo Idistototlshe
data,                                                                                                  testaltala  dialled by ent et-te  oftds
rotonp-ojenn~i-                                                                                    -    osll   otALa_ fagruof Lodniot Z.ft  shareItotn                           _ _rt
total Poplaln   nsoy        tOta   nd  hemI .o.. iy   t  feetf: itt                                   h  huend   o   tal c . Ib.  po--t..
teplta  icc..a  -enl, and fettle  life esace  a-atLielod  en d7.h                                    d_tlng,repcini.Oahtgs ati.dann-I__                           annttttnorsad
yer.M        eproeradrerli'rtalntrtreiel                                                              c-ecultdaft               
aln   he ~beth  coc  i  snol an, nt deont rae,an  olsn  thEg dUnloIii
ratI_     osan.Ti nit aci,end ol te   fertilt    ee                                   doidnninioto
den ice no tn   en-     etn   lanai nd oin t -    eep   ito-         oe,din                             ae ......     - n....   ailt end ftesale-en   tone  -slo  ond resale
Zooa .o  t   oa  et ooed..ttta.hntat  noicic..r.te                                                              pa ..Pnlnlon-   -oaIld   ,,Innoe  chailde   agdhI
1~inatnef nt  npino   inth  dar00                 I ad ennofdcleofoainALlte   fr dulfeetI eghs  fp                                                          dsn    adotaLo; fo
ttoiny tntnpaeetlanai.                                                                               --oant-a-hInnn_ora-daannnne..annen-dilieret
toalacd   lot,1  lOl, ! ndlyf d    ataAcriOacualy                                                                    -f I  i        f nearsondary)o.epntna             oea   r
pcPuIan, io; 19t0, 1970, ann  f191 dot.                                                              nuo-oc n   a  o     ncea.                tnd- ae- To-Ial tdant  ea         LtdIn
y02latocnotn_toE.phsttlcotI-tn-aldo-tnOrtteoftotoftd-                                              li-eary   -inonodany  anela dlildedhby no-heraofleaoh-teet                h
porlatnt  on 9-ti- if ,O-I,an   970fl                                                               erop ndot  te-al
.. lritInth Rtan  I rano-t  --bron-    Aulfontfsof 1rantu-.lnetyranh  -cet     Untate adolis  let I  to  tea- ad  o-itlas
n     I.,tcs  o  195D-60, lf6i-71, and19-f.opreng   on  -ctal aduLt                                                                  lno   attn  15 pears sod ocer
Iouano; 1962, 1970, end   f    aa                                                                  oasaiolt   httgtptOt   o  ne ISolauet -                               eare  a 
tee  n-roa  nepr~.I...ic   perIo   I at   oneeltce   pc_eta _-             ifucndnfoaor   nnmuo    coduaLeni -ll tnpa  of  -eaelrafor radio
ttat    I_olytcara    -neat   -nd'ig  an 1h, f9Oi, snd                                                     --anataaeae   poolic  per  ...tadIo   ouain;tnu             n
of~ ~ ~~~~~Ie tln-cnrldnio    cdratpfito r1 at on L  tool   - plnnn -ccnele,...ihe   I mi,tIn.Hei
aoornofhlid-hsnlntoe  'It-..tan.   Nhooti.inn                    oltl'ii" 'L-cnl  nI .rttenoon                                                   f1 oo,a    lntfcn
accoo   lnanno -         i   cdnaoi;t               rdooo-d-dt  aoadi  h  'al'Ifi   pena ye.an Coon iledto                                                         tlti     --.
t    Ie'nll,ocn     _Nd I'hy Ihrbo      LbIs Condtecaepltaroo- at..ioaoancnoLIoitondnict                                        b rrri-aonoar-hag                dota-insts -o
intolo   ogr   11hot   dtl   n  nnol   unitala.tika  tl    iti   te   oa.Icldogaostnoidtt-ntesas
-ecnitaeuo plyotaoto  cacn  nfe_touLratoi -a -cnpa                           -to                    -oIT.,        trecI....s-toiocalA-ta-   enosLn-LdlnoIg t
enegy eq.aooofntfo  tp.t...lhaitotr    e   11t   e                                                      oct   n    onpoe   o.tclnn...ela    hoet   he,ctri
day.iniaiBrntotptediatccdotn,sptoispcuaint all eat.lefinu.onI.lnIrioLeon__ele  on  not
P""nir  an   tfn   oodecontiecioseeoa   iyotto                                                            ihc   as- petcAnta0   of71  coral uco   oro   f6,11  adI1    aa
*                        ogeodit~~...   .en  Plt-loif-otynolLinn                dniloanllrritnb      feoae-iuoe   -porttnt-taneoenb-   I otntnA,contr -nino,tasfc fr--
ttnohdlAn  eAl;1061-hf,  19      - ad 10    data,                                                and -.  -   .,blA lit-l ii t y -nao  end   L.00t LIeatt   f  ne   on    ndn,lO
rae_apin...........otnn brett  Ian  Iec) - ye ftin content of preIc-ies                            fOIl7end  ff1 doto
tat sopir o  food  ae da.   tat  oeplyof fod  itotio ae_t aid .                          trlipti  Bi   retI    -ttL,  -elaS,on  teeaafupat.a
nIsepo.in, ofohIoteIIfrt a                          Pu ",ena   prtI.  These                             IntO 1970, and 198   noH ao-     haeaebse-nI-.aor  nplnae
annadoaoatanha    fl0atftna    eti    nf~stnoHntctrtaiurooo   tpplnnH                                                                               nlnosted 
o. an.t.     oatato   ort   irtn   o  d pnnoooaadd  hy P00-pAb mitt                                     roeoet-ot-  an~ f--n nai onal.-eAnf-
AIII_doohnnrItf _-t,lI-And bydUDAno  -uonoaE.,con't..                                                            ati-ati            -nnalini-derlt.n.              n ndIoatpI
conties,i dat   deme   fo  lif  tolot   9ifil,            A loll                                                             ." and 19f8-d lena.  hi5ctdh-er
atSre       lI.171ld18 _p - " h lana.                                                                 oh,,     heinippetedaelt nntudeae-ootIon
Hnfatncea -ltoactrtehifiaondl-d.          19elntinanO f. ntoone_  one                           Ent hao 1dtanntirilcol.aioi.cpoi-na    nrrl
occttocfiatndonnleenconn -f cop -l-cnoi   -rota,    lnai    fntra..l- ,                        Ionnoaloauc    iiuotetonnfn                                    ottNta  LyAnot d
tanntoaI ho   a  prunl  t-oe       1h it  96nlnoocaetn -,iolotlet-.  in-n o                               -oca   inie-  II et lnuni y.ltan lea-  it  amed 0l rotl thAoa
uNanttn0OlcfotaI-attdnil)et or"                                 coha   bc ca-aelcainsotaatehatr tt lci iihnra.
oestoa cltelcuor.n-Irnc  hectIcf tpend1lnptcnriloi-- roref                                       dncn
car encuida roe  ci loncoon. nod noopraul~~~~~~,.emo.d eiteooer   tyf                                                              irnta    n  Oca7dc7looo
hiate-orrO   ae-ceatoantat    rpnniolnuyiodtIcinbpton
p-Iie   an(cto   ie               --a un                                                                                                                      na ft



ANNEX I
Pogs 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$260 a/
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982/83 b/                                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (i, Constant Pricee) c/
1955/56-1959/60  1960/6t-1964/6~ 1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75  1975/76-1979/Bj
US$ xin. '
GDP at Market Prices                  170.74   100.0                       3.7                3.6                3.7               2.9                4.1
Gross Domestic Investment              41.99    24.6
Gross National Saving                  38.12    22.3
C1'rreoat Account Balance            -  3.87   - 2.3
OUITPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added (at factor cost)          Labor Force i/       V.A. Per Worker
USS  ln.                  1           Mil.        1        US$    % of National Average
Agriculture                            51.7                   35.1         172.7      70.6       299        50
Industry                               35.2                   23.9          31.6      12.9     1114        185
Services                               60.6                  41.0           40.3      16.5     1504        249
Total/Average                         147.5                  100.0         244.6    100.0        603       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government  e/                                 Central Government
Rs. Bln.             X of GDP                      Ra. BIn.              X of GDP
1982/83      1982/83    1978/79-1982/83            1982/83      1982/83    1978/79-1982/83
Current Receipts                        333.34       20.3            19.5                  175.61        10.7            10.5
Current Expenditures                    340.09       20.7            19.0                  188.59        11.5            10.8
Current Surplus/Deficit                -  6.75      - 0.4             0.5                 - 12.98       - 0.8          - 0.4
Capital Expenditures f/                 131.28        8.0             8.1                   95.13         5.8            5.7
External Assistance (net) d/             19.30        1.2             1.0
MO0NEY, CREDIT AND PRICES              1970/71  1975/76  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  February 1983Feray18
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                   109.8    224.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    555.5    624.9    723.8              711.7           845.7
Bank Credit to Goverrment (net)          54.6    106.3    137.3    159.3    200.1    257.2    309.1    352.4              353.5           406.6
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector         64.6    156.2    212.2    255.3    310.1    363.5    430.5    504.5              487.7           576.4
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                Apr-Feb 1982/83  Apr-Feb 1983/84
Money and Quasi Money as a x
of GDP                                 27.3      30.3     36.7      41.1      44.1      43.6      42.0     44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                      100.0    173.0    185.8    185,8    217.6    257.3    281.4    288.6              288.1                314.8
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                     7.7      -1.1       5.2      -        17.:      18.2       9.4       2.6          2.3                 9.3
3-ank Credit to Government (net)         15.0      22.7      16.3     16.0      25.6      28.5      20.2      14.0         21.0 g/             18.9 h/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector         19.4      22.7      12.6     20.2      21.5      17.2      18.4      17.2         15.5 g/             17.9 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, using World Bank Atlas methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central,Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including, one obsetvation before first year and one observation after last year of
listed period.
d/  World Bank estimates of net disbursement  of concessional aid and IBRD.
a/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
U All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
/   Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
h/  Percentage change frob end-March 1983 to end-February 1984.
Y/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from 1981 Census.  Excludes data for Assam.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                         1980/81   1981/82   1982/8-3ail  1983/841'           MERClANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1982/83) I/
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                                        US$ Mmn.       z
Exports of Goods g/                          8,504      8,519      &.,001     8,466              Engineering Goods r/                980        12
Imports of Goods j/                        -16,204   -15,500   -14,249   -14,412                 Tea                                 455         6
Trade Balance                              - 7,700   - 6,981   - 6,248   - 5,946                 Gems                                779         9
NFS (net)                                    1,365        974         940        856             Clothing                            573         7
Leather and Leather Products    480            6
Resource Balance                           - 6,335   - 6,007   - 5,308         5,090             Jute Manuf,ctures                   333         4
Iron Ore                           380         5
Interest Income (net) k/                       600        286   -   415   -   648                Cotton TextUles                     328         4
Net Transfers 1/                             2,771      2,318      1,849       1,790             Sugar                                86         1
Others                           3,849        46
Balance on Current Account                 - 2,964   - 3,403   - 3,874   - 3,948
Official Loans & Grants                                                                          Total                            8,243        lo0
Gross Disbursements                          2,651      2,570      3,086      3,441              EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1983
Amortization                               -   700   -   674   -   701   -   783
US$ billion
Transaction with IMF (net)                   1,035         690      1,980      1,295             Outstanding and Disbursed                      19.6
All Other Items o/                         -   367   - 1,581           12        531             Undisbursed                                    11.1
Outstanding including Undisbursed             30.7
Increase in Reserves (-)                       345      2,398   -   503   -   536
Gross Reserves (end year) 2/                 6,859      4,461      4,964      5,500              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982/83 J/  n/          10.1 per cent
Net Reserves (end year) m/                   6,532      3,497      2,088       1,449
IBRD/IDA LENDING, MARCH 31, 1984 j/
Fuel and Related Materials
IUS$ million
Imports (Petroleum) _/                       6,672      5,590      4, 613     3,395                                                      IB_D      IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed               1,826      7,924
Undisbursed                             2,081      4,331
Outstanding including Undisbursed   3,907    12,255
RATE OF EXCHAGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 - Res 7.50
Rs 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972         US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-March 1983                   US$1.00 - Rs 10.0301
Rs 1.00 - IUS$0.0997
Spot Rate end-March 1984                   US$1.00 - Rs 10.7181
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0933
J/  Estimated
k/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to IMF, and major receipts is
interest earted on foreign assets.
1/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within official loans and grants, and
non-resident deposits which are included within all other items.
m/  Exclude net use of I14F credit.
n/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of total current receipts.
0/ Includes exchange rate adjustments to the valuation of reserves and financing of imbalances in rupee trade.
p/  Excluding gold.
g/  Net of crude petroleum exports.
r/  Including iron and steel.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                              1,688.0          -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        4,759.0            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                       -           30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -           83.0           6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                       -           27.7           6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -           16.4         -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                   -          105.0           3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                 -          150.0          3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0          3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -           44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds 1                     25.0          -            15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0          -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0         13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0          3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power               -          150.0           7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0         10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -             4.08
712-IN    1977     M.P. Agric. Development                -           10.0          0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -          23.0           6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0          3.96
736-IN    1978     Maharashtra Irrigation                 -           70.0          4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                     78.5          -            2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -         107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -           87.0          6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -           8.0           5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0         -             2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0         -             8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -         117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                    -         200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture            -          14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -          85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -          17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -           16.0          8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0         -            22.27
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                         -         150.0          76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -          190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0         18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0          7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Develcpment
Corporation                         -            30.0           5,S1
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0          -             50.()0
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -          200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -          129.0           61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -           48.0           15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -          175.0          21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forest:ry         -           23.0            8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0          82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -           37.0           15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -           20.0          17.'90
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -           46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -           32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -          175.0         121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -           22.0          18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -          300.0         213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extenslon          -           10.0            8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -           56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -           54.0          41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -              80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0          -            10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -          225.0         170.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0          -            23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0             -              7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -           35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -           83.0          72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -           42.0          29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -          140.0         128.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -          314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -           54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -          400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -           23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -           28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -           37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -          125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II         -          400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -          220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0          -            61.58
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -           29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -           25.0          21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0          -           104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal F'ower II         300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0          -           121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -               6.0            5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0          -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III            304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3          -            20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0          45.33
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -           72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                 -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -          127.0        121.37
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration         165.5          -          158.92
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &.
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         197.01
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development        222.3         -           219.01
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                  -         150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II               -         101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power            -          170.0        170.00
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4          -          156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III*        -         147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          -           32.0         32.00
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         22.7         -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission*          250.7         -           250.70
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management        46.2         -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban*                 24.1          -           24.10
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II*                  -         105.0         105.00
Total                                     5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid               1,251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                    3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           2,100.45    4,124.24
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Septemb-er30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                      Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.,            1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -        0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Litd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers LimLted         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8         -      18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.7         -       15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.3         -        8.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                           53.0        3.4     56.4
Repaid                        30.1         -       30.1
Cancelled                     16.1        1.4      17.5
Now Held                     112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                   82.9         -       82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the countrv to prepare the Project
About two years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Gujarat (GOG).
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and date
of first mission to consider the project
November 1983 and January 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 12, 1984.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1984.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOG to:
(i) by December 31, 1984 create a new Minor System
Design Cell, strengthen the quality control unit,
maintain project staff levels agreed with IDA, and
create a new Water Management Unit (para 59);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii)  Furnish to IDA the results of the O&M study by
June 30, 1985 and base O&M budgets on the recommen-
dations of the study starting April 1, 1986
(para 63);
(iii)  establish a Rehabilitation Committee in each CADA
by September 20, 1984 (para 66); and
(iv)  prepare rehabilitation plans acceptable to the
Association (para 66).



Annex IV
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD
(US$M)
Project                                                                         Total
Element          ICB      LCB     Work Order a!   Departmental a/   NA          Cost
Land acquisition                                                       19.6      19.6
(0)
Civil Works        0      188.7       26.9               53.8                   269.4
(0)   (108.5)    (15.5)               (31.0)                 (155.0)
Equipment       11.1        5.3          0                   0                   16.4
(9.5)     (4.5)         (0)                (0)                  (14.0
Training                                                                1.7       1.7
(1.5)     (1.5)
Monitoring/                                                             1.6        1.6
Development/                                                           (1.5)     (1.5)
Studies
Engineering and                                                       35.4       35.4
administration                                                           (0)       (0)
TOTAL           11.1      194.0       26.9               53.8         58.3      344.1
(9.5)   (113.0)    (15.5)               (31.0)        (3.0)   (172.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Credit.
a! Maximum permitted.






BRD 8B107
INDIA                                                                                                                              APL'4
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT                                                                                                        A  I N D I AN       ' .i|
MAJOR AND MINOR IRRIGATION  SCHEMES                                 ,
i!l V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                        ----\      Xt                 A g .o    '-i -  -5N
g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~74 ,  5,7,                                              /_ _                  e'                    7 '  i -<  _ _ _-7
N.         >~                     KEITN                                      '             8/' - 1A             A                    K ,K KUC  e  RAJ 0(7A 4TA
'                                                     aW    \ V   /                                        0495745A                      ('A
;   7   i  S  Q  ( t: ;;' 2 S ' ?,. y 7,7                  G               'l a r  7(5 N                    A   '       5'                  [ 
|~~~ ; VNSX   <i t                                                                                                    P      3      "        -,:/  \      XAi~D
fr~ ~ ~ rK 6r:n  fll-,i                                                 4,,1 70,<<  tl<,01           /              s  t<r        04 
-MEHSANA:/                   ~    PALH)4A
-Z~~~~~~~K
^                    ';      M8divM;lfrI@QfiPnSChem-  \                                        ,0r*57  K-    -                           A,   --  -z /B z/t -~ - vtk C '>                ._
,,                  J;: bTHeRSi :92000^riures          Q      <      : ,         _          X     t $             _      _     t        ;/    <     \\\ sze7-  C  1/            -1
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K 1,  '^,a                                                                                                                                       ,a MAC'I/IA:YAA5 /,
: Zhees --trpogl rochCrald(4c      r 4lytj-NV,?(  igs.  t ' \S                       '--K-              ~/   K-
Moo Is, g; orroog e SchemosMs  _                                                                                   --                     NrSrT   Aonrlstr/r4tr -r3L-<w  h.rm CaI
'  \  \  \ \ I @ \ 4or U a t 4r -a ...f7                                           -             )..orr'  N 0
Modo,orzotoo  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gH                        K                                           4  51~~~~~~~~~ODR
e                   '-n  Qopo:rro                              '         ('NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REDRN
Mod 90 rr,gp4oo ScOoper  \-  9  k-     ~~~~~                                                             4-  57~~    ~       4747/A I/ADRANA/IRA
qAAR
A9,,08,, SCEE 56-rps-                oRd ooCoi(oopperI~-5N
'7  cherrp  57Pr Sohe ,  I     oi  Wlt                                                          4          0
Soodor Sorovor(NororodojPrp(eot  /111] Fooso Wotor        -                              -"-51<,,MHARA5HTR



I            .                                                                                   "I



