CREDIT NUMBER 1496 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1496 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   c          , 1984, between
INDIA, acting by its Pres'd nt (hereinaftr called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM NT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Gujarat
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the State of Gujarat the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
State of Gujarat;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Appliable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective   meanings  therein  set   forth  and   the   following
additional terms Live the following meanings:
(a) "Gujarat" means the State of Gujarat, a State of India;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the State of Gujarat of even date herewith, as


﻿-2-
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Sub-project" means each of the irrigation schemes
included in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d) "Village Service Area" and the acronym "VSA" mean the
cultivable command area within a Sub-project of about 200 to 500
ha;
(e) "Chak" means the cultivable command area within a VSA
of about 30 to 60 ha;
(f) "CADA" means a Command Area Development Authority;
(g) "CWC" means the Borrower's Centval Water Commission;
(h) "Project Area" means the total area of the Sub-pro-
jects;
(i) "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The   Association  agrees   to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred sixty-four million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 164,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿- 3 -
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1994, and ending March 1,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to b3 one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of section 4.02 of the
General Conditions,


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause Gujarat to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Gujarat to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Gujarat in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.
(c) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall issue, or cause to be issued,
not later than six months prior to completion of each Sub-project
under Parts A (i) and B of the Project, all the necessary
authorization and permits to enable Gujarat to carry out Part E
of the Project in respect of such Sub-project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower undertakes to cause CWC to moni-
tor and evaluate the progress of each Sub-project in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Gujarat shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that


﻿-5-
Gujarat will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Gujarat, and is legally
binding upon Gujarat in accordance with irs terms.
Section 5.02. The date, 0d4'1"f/V, 1984 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿-6-
Cable address:                        Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By/S
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  (a) Civil works         100,280,000        50%
under Parts A
and B of the
Project (ex-
cluding field
channels and
field drains)
(b) Civil works for      28,650,000        100% of com-
field channels                        pleted works
and field drains
under Parts A
and B of the
Project
(c) Civil works           4,780,000        100%
under Part I
of the Proj-
ect
(2) Equipment and             12,420,000        100% of foreign
vehicles                                   expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally


﻿-8-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3) Rotational                 5,730,000        Rs 350/ha for
water supply                               incremental
management                                 areas
system under
Part C of the
Project
(4) Training, pilot            2,870,000        100%
operations,
studies, moni-
toring and
evaluation,
and salaries
for incremental
staff under
Parts D, F, G (i),
G (ii), G (iii),
G (v), H and I
of the Project
(5) Unallocated                9,570,000
Total         164,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "completed works" means completion to full
operational status of field channels and drainage from the 8
hectare outlet to serve individual farm holdings, or to serve 1
hectare of aggregated farm holding, whichever is larger;


﻿-9-
(d) the term "incremental staff" means Gujarat's additional
staff employed after the date of this agreement for purposes of
carrying out Parts D, F, G (i), G (ii), G (iii), G (v), H and I
of the Project; and
(e) the term "incremental areas" means those areas in which
a rotational water supply management system is being applied in
accordance with Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 14,400,000,
may be made on account of expenditures made before that date but
on or after February 1, 1984;
(b) in respect of expenditures under Categories (1), (2)
and (3) of the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
for the Zankhari Sub-project, until at least eight Sub-projects
under Part A (i) of the Project have been completed, and a
rotational water supply management system has been applied during
one cropping season to all of them, pursuant to the provisions of
this Agreement; and
(c) in respect of expenditures under Categories (1), (2)
and (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
for the following Sub-projects: Hadaf, Sukhi, Deo, Kalubhar,
Watrak, Guhai, Und, Sipu and Dantiwada, until Gujarat adopts for
such Sub-projects the detailed rehabilitation and resettlement
plans, in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.12 (d) of
the Project Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to introduce an efficient,
reliable and equitable water management system in each of the
Sub-projects, and to enhance crop production and farmers' income
in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   (i) Completion of the 21 on-going Sub-projects set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, including dams, lined
canals and distribution irrigation systems up to
the 8 ha outlet, field channels, drainage chan-
nels, and related structures.
(ii) Partial   construction  of   the  2  on-going  Sub-
projects set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement, including dams,
lined canals and distribution irrigation systems
up to the 8 ha outlet, field channels, drainage
channels, and related structures.
Part B:   Completion of the modernization of the 6 Sub-projects
set forth in paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, including modernization and
lining of canal and distributary systems up to the 8 ha
outlet, field channels, drainage channels and related
structures.
Part C:   Introduction of a rotational water supply management
system in the Project Area.
Part D:   (i) Training of mechanical technicians of Gujarat's
Irrigation   Department  in   modern   methods  of
operation and maintenance of construction plant.
(ii) Training of farmers in the Project Area, and of
Project-related  staff   of  Gujarat's  Irrigation
Department in rotational water supply management
system.
(iii) Water Management study tours.


﻿- 12 -
Part E:   Improvement of the telecommunication network in the
Project Area, including the provision and utilization
of radio relay and telephone equipment.
Part F:   Strengthening   of   Gujarat's   Irrigation   Department
capability  to  plan, design    and  manage   irrigation
schemes.
Part G:   Carrying out of the following studies:
(i) Monitoring and evaluation studies.
(ii) Design improvements of the Zankhari Sub-project.
(iii) Fisheries potential in the reservoir under the
Project.
(iv) Evaluation of the rehabilitation process in the
following Sub-projects: Und, Watrak, Guhai, Sipu
and Deo.
(v) Effectiveness of rotational water supply manage-
ment system in three Sub-projects.
Part H:   Monitoring and evaluation of the activities under the
Project.
Part I:   Rehabilitation  of  the  displaced   persons  under  the
Project, including vocational training and infrastruc-
tural works.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
1.   Sub-projects under Part A (i) of the Project:
PANAM
MACHHANNALA
HADAF
BHADAR (P)
AMLI (VER II)
JHUJ
KELIA
SUKHI
DEO
KALUBHAR
SUKHBHADAR
MACHHUNDRI
UBEN
WATRAK
GUHAI
MAZAM
VENU II
UND
DEMI II
AJI II
AJI III
2.   Sub-projects under Part A (ii) of the Project:
ZANKHARI
SIPU
3.   Sub-projects under Part B of the Project:
DANTIWADA (MOD)
FATEHWADI (MOD)
KHARICUT (MOD)
BHADAR (MOD)
SHETRUNJI (MOD)
MACHHU I (MOD)


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   Kin      day of
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


