                                                                                                                  96383
                                                                                                              April 9, 2012
Financing Farmers, Strengthening Georgia's Rural Development
Inga Paichadze, Communications Officer in the World Bank
Georgia Office, offers this story.
                                                                    Photo Gallery
Summer harvest is still a long way off, but many farmers are
working hard getting ready for the season. They are planting,
weeding and fencing greenhouses and fields. And thanks to
newly available credit, they are able to invest more than labor
in their land and their operations.

Gulnara Bodokia, owns five greenhouses in the village of
Geguti in Imereti, where she grows ornamental plants and
vegetables. She sells her harvest at a nearby market and in
the town of Kutaisi and does most of her business in winter.        Related Links
In summer, people easily grow their own greens and
vegetables and there is no big demand for her produce. Her          The World Bank in Georgia
annual average profit is 10,000 GEL, which is approximately         Ministry of Agriculture of Georgia
$6,000.                                                             Ministry of Finance of Georgia

Bodokia recently obtained 22,000 GEL credit from a                  Georgia Rural Development Project
microfinance institution to build new, sturdier greenhouses.        Rural Development Project in a
The line of credit is one of many being offered to farmers          Snapshot
around Georgia to make it easier for them to expand
production. It is part of an effort backed by the World Bank to
boost development of farming in the country.

                         "I learned about this opportunity from an acquaintance. I used to own a couple
                         of cellophane-covered greenhouses, but hoped to build some glass-covered
                         ones. So, I decided to apply for a credit and build new greenhouses. It was not
                         difficult to get the loan, as when the officers came, they scrutinized everything
                         here and considered me creditworthy," says Bodokia.

                         The loan enables Bodokia to keep her business afloat, and to hire seasonal
                         workers. It's important because agriculture employs a lot of people in Georgia—
Gulnara Bodokia          and it is often the only work available in rural areas.

"In summer, when we harvest cucumbers and tomatoes, the whole family is involved: me, my husband,
my son and the daughter-in-law. We harvest 5-6 tons of tomatoes per season. In winter I hire at least 5
women, sometimes the workload requires even 20 women helpers a day. In winter we harvest parsley
and fennel, dill, and some other greens."

                         Eldar Kitiashvili, owns an orchard with a variety of fruit trees—apple, peach,
                         cherry and also hazelnut.In Kekhijvariin village in Kvareli. He got a 2,370 GEL
                         loan ($1,400) to buy fertilizers, pesticides and fuel and turn his backyard fruit-
                         growing into a business.

                       "Representatives from the microfinance organization came to check the house
                       and the orchard, and saw we have cattle, a car and a tractor. Our orchard is
                       big, a bit more than one hectare. I had some money put aside and together with
Eldar Kitiashvili      the credit I was able to start my business. It's impossible to cultivate such a
                       large plot of land without some extra money, a loan. Under favorable weather
conditions we can gather a minimum of 800 boxes of apples and up to 1500 boxes of tomatoes. And, if
everything goes as planned, we might be able to repay the credit at once. The interest rate is good,"
says Kitiashvili.

                         Pig farmer Gia Benashvili got a loan from the same microfinancier as Kitiashvili
                         —Finagro—to expand his pig farm. He now has 385 adult pigs, 100 piglets, and
                         200 young pigs. Two people can operate the farm in 48 hour shifts, and the
                         business has a healthy balance sheet.
                         Finagro got $1.2 million through the World Bank-backed project to lend on to
                         farmers in three regions of Georgia. Giorgi Chonishvili, Head of Supervisory
                         Board JSC Finagro, Gori, says: "The project is very important, as it finances
Gia Benashvili           agriculture, a strategic sector for Georgia. Microfinance organizations do not
                         have the luxury of getting good loan conditions. Other donors and commercial
banks give us credit under worse conditions, with higher interest rates. The conditions offered under this
project are truly acceptable for us, and accordingly, we offer farmers an opportunity to get loans with
good interest rates."

The credit line for microfinance institutions has loaned a total of $7.5 million to over 7,000 farmers, with
the vast majority of farmers receiving loans under $5,000. Cattle and dairy farmers, greenhouse owners,
orchard growers and others have obtained credit on interesting terms through the program. Defaults are
less than one percent.

With support, Georgia can significantly improve its agricultural production base and become an exporter
of agricultural products. Studies show that exporting wine, nuts, mineral water, herbs, citrus and, fresh
fruits, vegetables and livestock could help to cut rural poverty. With help from the line of credit aimed at
developing rural areas, Georgia's farmers, agri-business owners and food processors are a step closer
to boosting production, exports and their livelihoods.
