Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2331 
Operation Name 
Third Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Governance (Public Sector Management, Customs, Justice); Education; 
Nutrition; Health; Rural water supply) 
Project ID 
P096102 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 14, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 5, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
July 13, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
In 2005 Madagascar continued to make satisfactory progress in implementing its poverty reduction 
strategy, despite another difficult year marked by exogenous shocks.
 
Madagascar has continued to 
maintain its focus on implementing its poverty reduction strategy, with good results evident particularly 
in the implementation of the roads program, Education for All, nutrition, and health.  However, adding to 
an already difficult 2004 with two devastating cyclones, in 2005 Madagascar suffered from the increase 
of world petroleum prices and the financial crisis of the electric parastatal JIRAMA which has had a 
disruptive effect on economic activity as production was negatively affected by the ensuing power cuts 
and subsequent tariff increases.  The Government has responded to this situation and has put in place a 
recovery plan for JIRAMA that is now being implemented. Inflation has slowed considerably to 11.8 
percent from a rate of 27 percent in 2004 and the price of rice has started to decline since March 2005 and 
has now stabilized. Measures to enhance exchange rate stability and secure an adequate level of 
international reserves were also successful in ensuring greater stability of the market-determined 
exchange rate  
GDP growth in 2005 is estimated to be at 4.6 percent compared to 5.3 percent recorded in 2004. The main 
sources of growth for 2005 have been the agricultural sector, particularly with higher rice production, 
tourism and public investment programs. Growth projections forecast an average growth rate over 5 
percent over the 2006-2010 period. After having reached the Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) 
Initiative Completion Point in October 2004, Madagascar will now benefit from the G8 multilateral debt 
relief initiative, with significant debt relief and improved prospects to maintain sustainable debt levels in 
the medium term.  Madagascar is also a recipient of the Millennium Challenge Account (the first country 
to become eligible).  
The main sources of growth include tourism, mining, construction and, most important for the poor, 
improved growth prospects in agriculture.  The EPZ sector is not expected to grow due to the impact of 
the expiration of the Multi Fiber Agreement.  Tourism and related activities are expected to grow further 
given the planned private investment in hotels and the increasing number of tourists.  In mining, the 
recently approved ilmenite mining project financed by Rio Tinto in the Fort Dauphin region is under 
implementation.   
 
2. Operation Objectives 
In line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar, a series of single tranche Poverty 
Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), provided in the form of budget support, is envisaged to support 
implementation of two of the three main axes of the PRSP: governance and providing human and 
maternal security.
 
Page  2
PRSC 3 support to the strategic axis of governance aims at consolidating and deepening reforms 
commenced with PRSC 1 and PRSC 2.  This includes assistance to the Government in continuing to 
implement its 2005 Priority Action Plan for public expenditure management reforms, and developing and 
implementing its 2006 Priority Action Plan.  These reforms include continuing improvement in the 
alignment of the 2006 budget to the priorities of the PRSP, the reform of the Treasury, the installation of a 
transitional integrated financial management system, taking steps to make the new procurement code 
operational, and the preparation of draft budget execution laws (
Projet de
 
loi de réglement
).  Following 
the operationalization of the Anti-Corruption Agency (BIANCO), PRSC 3 also deepens support for the 
Government’s anti-corruption agenda. The operation also supports the implementation of a reform 
program for customs.    
PRSC 3 also consolidates support to the strategic axis of providing human and material security, by 
supporting the development and implementation of: the Government’s Education for All Agenda, service 
delivery in nutrition, health and rural water supply.  A very large increase in enrolments have been 
supported by key policy reforms which have included a continued increase in the share of the education 
budget, continued measures to decrease education costs for poor households starting with the school year 
2002/2003 (suppression of school fees, provision of learning materials to all primary students), actions to 
increase access for poor students (through school construction, salary compensation for teachers paid by 
parents, teacher recruitment) and reinforcement of management capacity at central and decentralized 
levels. PRSC 3 continues to support policy and institutional reform in the nutrition sector, following the 
establishment of the National Council for Nutrition and the establishment of its secretariat (Office 
National de Nutrition).  In rural water, PRSC 3 supports the implementation of the water and sanitation 
strategy for all, at the regional level.  In health, following the national policy on health and the 
development of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework, the credit supports improvements in sector 
budgeting and financing as well as improved access and quality of service delivery. A supporting 
Technical Assistance Credit (Good Governance and Institutional Development) approved in November 
2003 is assisting the government in putting in place the systems to strengthen budget management, and 
finance technical assistance and capacity building needs.   
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
In line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar, a series of single tranche Poverty 
Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), provided in the form of budget support, is envisaged to support 
implementation of two of the three main axes of the PRSP.  PRSC 1 and PRSC 2, approved on July 20, 
2004, and July 12, 2005 respectively supported the strategic axes of good governance and promoting 
human development. PRSC 3 will consolidate the reforms started under the first two PRSCs. It will 
continue to focus on public expenditure management and anti-corruption reforms as well as support 
reforms for improved service delivery in education, health, nutrition and rural water supply.  
Strengthening monitoring and evaluation will also remain central for an enhanced accountability and 
results focus.   
 
4. Financing 
The proposed credit amount would be a US$ 40 million equivalent.  The credit would be 
disbursed in one tranche at effectiveness subject to the fulfillment of the prior actions conditions 
listed in the Policy Matrix.   
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Ministry of Economy, Budget and Finance will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the 
implementation of the program. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
Page  3
The proposed operation is the third in the series and will continue to contribute to Madagascar reaching 
its development goals.  The reforms supported will strengthen the institutional infrastructure needed to 
improve the pu
blic sector’s capacity to carry out its role more effectively.  Improved delivery of public 
services is essential if the Government is to reach its goals for poverty reduction and improve the quality 
of life in Madagascar. The implementation of this operation continues to be exposed to risks, many of 
which were already identified in previous PRSC operations. The main risks include: (i) vulnerability to 
external shocks, particularly cyclones and increases in global commodity prices, such as oil and rice; (ii) 
political issues, particularly in an election year, present a risk; (iii) maintaining a stable macroeconomic 
environment, which  remains critical to the successful implementation of the PRSC and is a core area of 
focus of the future poverty reduction strategy; (iv) the implementation of public finance reforms poses 
challenges and risks negatively impacting service delivery (v) capacity constraints also present significant 
risks to the effective implementation of the poverty reduction strategy . 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
In accordance with Bank guidelines, this operation is a development policy credit in support of a broad 
program of policy and institutional reforms, for which the requirements of OP/BP 8.60 apply.  The PRSC 
3
program does not pose any significant environmental impacts.  The PRSC 3 program does not support 
any reforms that are expected to have significant distributional impacts. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Stefano Paternostro 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (261) (20) 2256000 
Fax: (261) (20) 2233338 
Email: Spaternostro@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
