Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14446
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1468-IN AND SPECIAAL FUND CREDIT 16-IN)
MAY 4, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
India Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                          May 4, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project (Credit 1468-IN and Special Fund Credit 16-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India-Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project (Credit
1468-IN and Special Fund Credit 16-[N). Parts I and III were prepared by FAO/CP for the South
Asia Regional Office and Part 11 by the Borrower.
The project is in an area of India where all irrigation water is already used. Therefore, this
second IDA-financed project on the Periyar Vaigai system aimed to use existing water supplies better
to increase crop yields and, through water economies, to expand the irrigated area by 10 percent.
Civil works on the canal network (58 percent of expenditures) and constructing and lining field
channels (17 percent) aimed to tailor irrigation more closely to farmer demand. These changes had to
be integrated into the complicated operating mode and traditional water rights of the 100-year-old
system with its 1,200 ancient storage tanks. The project called for simplified rotation of water
supplies to 10 ha blocks.
Civil works construction lagged. Savings from Rupee devaluation were applied to construction
of a 30-km link canal meant to have been constructed under Periyar Vaigai I, to catchment treatment
works, and to additional area expansions. Revised construction targets were generally achieved.
In practice, the rigid, overly simple rotational operation prescribed at appraisal was replaced by
"intelligent ad hoc water management by farmer group," integrating the refurbished canal system, the
tanks and 9,000 dug wells, some of them made possible by project improvements (and despite
extensive canal lining to reduce recharge). Irrigation service improved, especially for tail-enders.
Yields increased. High-value crops expanded. These benefits, which probably stem from project
investments, provide an attractive economic return. The project, while operationally different from the
one appraised, is satisfactory. Results are likely to be sustained. Public irrigation institutions have
been strengthened considerably. Studies are being conducted to improve participant involvement and
to optimize current ad hoc water management.
The PCR lacks focus and provides little insight, but, on the whole, assesses project
achievements adequately. No audit is planned.
Attachment 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1468-IN and Special Fund Credit 16-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................................................                                         i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ......... ..............                          ........................... iii
PART I -  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                            .       .1..................... 
1. Project Identity.                                                                                 1
2. Background.                                                                                       1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                                              2
4. Project Design and Organization.                                                                  3
5. Project Implementation.                                                                           4
6. Project Results.                                                                                  9
7. Project Sustainabiity .11
8. Bank Performance.                                                                                1 1
9. Borrower Perfonance.                                                                             12
10. Lessons of Experience.                                                                          12
11. Project Relationships .13
12. Consulting Services .13
13. Project Documentation and Data .13
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ......... ................ 15
PART Im  - STATISTICAL INlFORMATION    ..................                   ..................... 38
1.     Related Bank Credits ....................................... 38
2.     Project Timetable ................................................. 40
3.     Credit Disbursements ....................................................                    40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4.    Project Implementation ..................                                       41
5.    Project Costs and Financing ..................                                  43
A. Project Costs ..................                                             43
B. Project Financing ..................                                         43
6.  Project Results                  .................. 44
A. Direct Benefits .................. 44
B. Economic Impact ..................                                           44
C. Studies ..................                                                   45
7.  Status of Covenants ..................                                            47
8.  Use of Bank Resources ..................                                          48
A. Staff Inputs ..................                                              48
B. Missions ..................                                                  48
ANNEX 1 Principal Features of Periyar Vaigai System     ..50
ANNEX 2 Areas Commanded by the Project    ..53
Table 1 Pre and Post-Project Command Areas .54
Table 2 Breakdown of Command Areas (ha) .55
Table 3 Supplemental Data - Water Available to Project over Historic Period .56
ANNEX 3 Economic and Financial Analysis .57
Table 1 Summary of Financial and Economic Prices .65
Table 2 Derivation of Economic Prices at Farm Gate for Traded Commodities in 1993... 67
Table 3 Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates .71
Table 4 Summary of Project Expenditure by Year .72
Table 5 Cropping Patterns by Areas Commanded .74
Table 6 Economic Analysis .76
Table 6 Farm Income per ha in Paddy Cultivation .80



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1468-IN and Special Fund Credit 16-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation HI
Project in India for which an International Development Association (IDA) Credit of SDR16.6
million and a Special Fund Credit of SDR 16.6 million were approved on May 1, 1984. After five
extensions for a total period of 4.5 years, the Credit was closed on October 31, 1993. The IDA
Credit was fully disbursed on January 16, 1991. Final disbursement from the Special Fund Credit
was made on March 16, 1994 and the undisbursed balance of SDR1.8 million was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I (Project Review from the Bank's
Perspective) and III (Statistical Information) of the PCR were prepared by the Food and
Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission which visited India
in October/November 1993. The PCR mission overlapped with the final Bank supervision
mission which was in the field at the same time. Part II (Project Review from the Borrower's
Perspective) of the PCR was prepared by the Public Works Department (PWD) of the Government
of Tamil Nadu.
The PCR (Parts I and III) is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
the project files and legal documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, field visits of the mission, discussions with the
Borrower's project staff, and the Bank's staff at Headquarters and in New Delhi who had been
associated with the project.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1468-IN and Special Fund Credit 16-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The project, and its predecessor Periyar Vaigai Irrigation I (PVI) Project (Credit 720-
IN), set out to improve the efficiency of an old irrigation system, and to extend the irrigated area
by virtue of the economies in water use achieved. The Periyar Vaigai development was initiated in
the 1890s, with construction of Periyar Dam and Reservoir on the western side of the Ghats, in
what is now the state of Kerala. The works included a tunnel to divert the Periyar flows eastward
into the Vaigai River System in Tamil Nadu. Further downstream, the Peranai Weir was
constructed, together with a canal system serving the originally 58,400 ha Periyar Vaigai
command. Later the Vaigai Dam and Reservoir were added, to provide re-regulation of the
diverted Periyar water. A notable feature of the Periyar Vaigai command is the existence of some
1,200 "tanks" (small reservoirs) within the area. The project incorporates these old tanks and their
commands into the Periyar Vaigai System, where the tanks now play an important part in
regulation of canal supply.
2.        The Periyar Vaigai command is primarily a paddy growing area. The Bank project
sought to complete the canal lining program initiated under the first project, extend the irrigable
area (73,600 ha) by another 7,500 ha, and improve both the operation of the Periyar Vaigai system
to provide an equitable and reliable water supply in the command area, as well as the efficiency of
water management at the farm level. Water management at the farm level was to be improved
through extension of the supply system down to and within the "10 ha" blocks, through
introduction of rotational supply within the blocks, and through setting up of water user groups to
manage water distribution within the blocks. This was an innovative feature of the project.
Implementation Experience
3.        The project became effective in January 1985. Because of initial delays in project
implementation and the scope for increased expenditures resulting from exchange rate movements,
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) targets were revised in February 1988 and again subsequently to
meet actual requirements and the construction of a 30 km-long Link canal (originally planned to be
completed under the first project) was included as an additional component All these, however,
necessitated the extension of the project period by 4.5 years to October 31, 1993.
4.        Canal construction proved to be considerably slower than anticipated at the time of
appraisal due to the nature of the ground conditions, bedrock being everywhere close to the
surface. This caused contractual difficulties and cost and time over-runs. The problem appears to
have been overcome later in the project, particularly in construction of the Link Canal on which
excellent progress has been made. Implementation of on-farm development works (field channels)
proved to be slowest due to the large size of the command area and the need to give individual
attention to the design of the system in each 10-ha block. In the area of improved system



iv
operation, the measures planned still need to be vigorously pursued to finally deternine the most
satisfactory procedures.
5 .       Organization of water user groups also started slowly partly because of a lack of initial
conviction at management level that formation of such groups was necessary in a primarily paddy
area and partly due to farmers being generally reluctant to organize until canal infrastructure was
complete. However, the program now is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project Results
6.        As far as physical works are concerned, the project has met its objectives, although
with considerable time over-run. One project impact, which was perhaps underestimated at
appraisal, has been the major increase in well construction and groundwater use. Flooded paddy
fields are an ideal source of recharge, and advantage is being taken of it by dugwell owners not
only to supplement canal irrigation of paddy, particularly nursery cultivation, but also to grow
perennial crops including sugarcane, bananas and irrigated coconut.
7.        The project's direct benefits in terms of annual incremental agricultural production as
now estimated would be much higher than the SAR estimates because of increased average yields
and development and use of groundwater more than anticipated. The project's recalculated
economic rate of return (ERR) works out to 21 percent as against 18 percent estimated at appraisal,
despite delayed implementation. The sensitivity tests show that the project will remain
economically viable, unless considerable changes occur (see Annex 3).
8.        Indirect benefits include strengthened institutional capacity of the Government of
Tamil Nadu's Public Works Department (PWD) and Agricultural Engineering Department (AED).
Further, through the execution of project works considerable contractor capacity has been
developed in canal construction in difficult ground conditions as in the project area.
9 .       As anticipated at appraisal, the project does not have any adverse environmental
effects.
Sustainability
10.       Given the good quality of incoming water supply, and groundwater extraction
providing de facto water-table control, long-term development of adverse soil and drainage
conditions is not anticipated. In fact the Periyar Vaigai situation appears to offer an ideal
conjunctive use of recharge, aquifer storage and consumptive extraction of groundwater. Build-up
of sediment in the Vaigai River due to construction of Vaigai Dam and more recently due to the
diversion of Vaigai River flows into the Link Canal could become a long-term problem in the
management of the downstream river channel, but it is being alleviated by catchment protection
works in progress.
11.       An area in which particular vigilance will be needed, in the interest of sustainability of
the project, is the maintenance of canal linings. Weed growth in joints, which is already
appearing, must be eliminated as and when it occurs to prevent joint displacement and progressive
deterioration. A continuing program of selective maintenance, or replacement will be necessary.
12.       Also, a crucial aspect which needs early resolution is the question of how the canal
system should be operated to accommodate varying rainfall conditions. To that end, various
computer simulation and other studies of varying supply/demand situations and the design of the
most satisfactory operating procedures to meet them, need to be vigorously pursued as without a



V
proper system operation and maintenance (O&M) mechanism being in place, the sustainability of
the project benefits will be in jeopardy.
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.       The project has entered into the contentious area of improvement to water management
in traditional paddy growing areas, particularly areas where there is a substantial number of tanks.
The project design successfully incorporates such tanks into the system, and adds improvements to
distribution channels within the tank commands where needed but without attempting to intrude too
closely into the operation of these long-established systems. Major emphasis has been placed on
the need to promote farmer initiative in group management of water distribution at the "block"
level, the Departmental role being provision of essential canal infrastructure, and initial
organization of farmer groups. This may represent some departure from the more regimented
approach earlier conceived as being inherent in Rotational Water Supply within the block, but it is
consistent with more recent experience in such areas. The Periyar Vaigai System would later
require a detailed socio-technological study of performance at the field distribution level.
14.       The question of how the canal system will be operated to accommodate varying
rainfall conditions has yet to be answered in detail. Appropriate canal infrastructure has been
provided through the project, and although operational procedures will continue to evolve with
accumulation of experience and monitoring of performance, it is desirable that the most satisfactory
solutions are found as quickly as possible through computer and other studies as noted earlier. In
fact, such studies should be required early in project implementation. Means of translating water
demands originating at the block committee level into specific operating sequences also can be best
explored by desk studies of a range of likely situations, and such studies should be required at an
early stage. Such operational questions are indeed being considered at various levels by Periyar
Vaigai staff but much more formal attention is suggested in future projects. Such factors lie at the
heart of irrigation improvement projects. A related question is what should be the level of Bank
input to such studies. It could profitably be beyond the level of participation provided through
regular project supervisions, and may be essential to effective involvement in such developments.
15.       It is evident from the Periyar Vaigai experience that water distribution at the block
level in paddy growing areas must be managed by the farmers themselves. Because of the
diversity in demand within the block in such situations there is no possibility of successfully
imposing a standard delivery schedule right down to the level of the individual farm. The initiative
of the farmer group is essential, and this implies the organization of and support for such groups.
This has proved difficult in similar situations elsewhere, but the project shows promise of notable
success in this area. The proposed Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
(TNWRCP) builds upon the experience gained under this project with farmer user groups'
involvement in irrigation operation and maintenance. The main lessons that can be learnt from the
this project have been summarized in para. 10.1 of Part I of the PCR.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1468-IN and Special Fund Credit 16-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name           Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
Credit No.             1468-IN and SF16-IN
RVP Unit               South Asia
Country                India
Sector                 Agriculture
Sub-sector             Irrigation
2. Background
2.1        The project was to complete the work begun by the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation I Project
(Credit 720-IN, 1977 to 1984). Collectively the two projects were aimed at upgrading and
extending an old irrigation system dating back to 1896. The Vaigai River delta is the second
largest of the three major river deltas in Tamil Nadu, second only to the Cauvery, and is a
substantial contributor to rice production in the state. A notable feature of the development is the
inter-state diversion of the Periyar River which originates in the high-rainfall western slopes of the
Ghats, in the state of Kerala. After storage in the Periyar reservoir the water is brought by a mile-
long tunnel to the lower rainfall eastern slopes in the state of Tamil Nadu. There it joins the
Suruliar River, a tributary of the Vaigai. The diverted Periyar is the principal source of irrigation
for the Periyar Vaigai command.
2.2        While the project area had produced some remarkably high paddy yields in some
locations in the past, in general it had been suffering from an outdated and inefficient water
distribution system both of which constrained improvement in crop yields and inhibited further
expansion of irrigated area. The Periyar Vaigai systeml was consequently an early candidate for
irrigation improvement, which has been a central feature of the Bank's agricultural sector program
in India.
1   See Annex 1 for principal features of the system.



2
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The project was to complete the canal lining program initiated under the Periyar
Vaigai I (PV I) Project, extend its irrigable area (73,600 ha) by another 7,500 ha, and enhance crop
production and farmers' incomes in the 81,100 ha project area through better water utilization. To
achieve the latter objective, the project was to: (a) improve the operation of the Periyar Vaigai
systeml to provide an equitable and reliable water supply in the command area; and (b) improve
the water distribution among the farmers below the 10-ha block outlets and promote better water
management on the farm. This necessitated support for a number of complementary activities as
noted below (para. 3.2).
3.2        The main components of the project were:
(a)    civil works on the canal network consisting of (i) lining of some 380 km of
smaller distributaries to 10-ha outlets; (ii) completion of improvements to
about 180 of the larger tanks in the irrigable area of about 10,300 ha
extended under PV I Project including the construction of about 80 km of
concrete-lined canals up to 10-ha outlets; (iii) improvement of some 740
smaller tanks (previously operated by village community and taken over by
PWD for O&M) mainly by reshaping embankments and repairing outlet
structures; and (iv) further extension of irrigation distribution network to
provide supplementary canal water to about 7,500 ha in existing tank
commands;
(b)    improvement and rehabilitation of Peranai Regulator (see Annex 1);
(c)    On-Farm Development (OFD) works for 61,000 ha, including construction
of field canals, cart tracks, and thrashing floors;
(d)    improved system operations up to the 10-ha block outlets, involving the
strengthening of the project organization for operation and maintenance
(O&M) and including technical services;
(e)    introduction of rotational water supply (RWS) below the 10-ha block outlets;
(f)    training of project staff and farmer leaders in improved system operations
and better water management techniques;
(g)    technical services to undertake studies on system operations and for
preparing course material for training; and
(h)    project monitoring and evaluation.
3.3        The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, was estimated at
US$58.8 million (Rs. 588 million). Civil works on the canal network and OFD components
accounted for almost 82 percent of the total project base cost. The IDA Credit and the IDA Special
Fund Credit (each amounting to SDR16.6 million or US$17.5 million equivalent) were to finance
1   A notable feature of the Periyar Vaigai system is the existence of some 1,200 old tanks (small
reservoirs) within the command area, where the tanks now play an important part in regulation of
canal supply.



3
60 percent of the total project cost. The balance of the cost was to be met by the Government of
Tamil Nadu (GOTN) from its development budget, which included a Government of India (GOI)
contribution.
3.4       The responsibility for project implementation was to be shared by GOTN's Public
Works Department (PWD), Agricultural Engineering Department (AED) and Agricultural
Department (AD). In addition, the Revenue Department was to be responsible for the introduction
and administration of a new system of water charges. Inter-departmental coordination at the
project level was to be undertaken by a Project Coordination Committee chaired by the Special
Chief Engineer, Periyar Vaigai Project. Coordination at the state level was to be ensured by the
existing State Level Coordination Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary, GOTN.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        The project was prepared by GOTN's PWD which produced a report entitled
"Modernization of Periyar Vaigai Irrigation System (2nd Stage Project Report)" in October 1982.
This preparation work was supplemented by a few studies covering specific aspects carried out by
the Institute of Hydraulics and Hydrology in Poondi. The Bank's appraisal mission visited the
project area in October/November 1983 and the appraisal field work was completed by a short
follow-up mission in November 1983.
4.2       The experience of PV I Project showed that the lining of the irrigation distribution
network and rehabilitation works (around which that project centered) were not in themselves
sufficient to attain the full agricultuml potential of the area, and that complementary management
activities to the improved physical infrastructure, such as upgraded system operation and water
management, were necessary to realize in particular the high yields in paddy cultivation that were
targeted. Consequently, the PV II Project was needed and designed to consolidate and
complement the achievements of the first project and to extend the command area by 7,500 ha
which was feasible. Thus, the second project had a clear conceptual foundation. Its design, to
some extent, was innovative in that it sought to improve water management below the 10-ha outlets
through construction of additional field channels, the introduction of RWS and better water
management on the individual farm. The extension of canal system into 10-ha blocks and
improvement in water management below 10-ha block outlets have permitted completion of
transplanting operations within the block within a short period of time, thereby avoiding the
problem of the tail-ender who previously had to wait three weeks or more for his neighbors
upstream to complete their transplanting and who consequently faced lack of water later in the
season when irrigation was shut off to permit his neighbors' harvesting operations. For this
reason pre-project tail-end yields were much lower than head-end yields.
4.3        However, given the delays experienced under the PV I Project, the period of five
years planned for the implementation of the follow-on project was rather short. This may be
considered as a design flaw especially when several time consuming activities, such as OFD works
and setting up of farmer organizations to promote their involvement in water management and
maintenance below the 10-ha block outlets, were the additional elements included in the second
project.
4.4        The proposed organization for implementation of the project was appropriate. PWD
was to be responsible for canal construction and other civil works and for operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation network up to the 10-ha block outlets. The latter necessitated
substantial strengthening of PWD's O&M organization and this was to be supported under the
project. AED was to be responsible for OFD works (channel construction), RWS within the 10-ha



4
blocks and setting up of block committeesl (farmer organizations) for all 10-ha block outlets. An
assurance was obtained from GOTN that it would set up two new divisions in AED to enable it
inter alia to adequately promote RWS in the project area. AD was to be responsible for extension
work in the project area, the training of the Department's field workers, the operation of the Farmer
Training Center and was to collaborate with AED to train block and sluice leaders in on-farm water
management and RWS. Further, as already noted (para. 3.4), appropriate mechanisms were
proposed to ensure coordination at both project and state levels.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        Critical Variances in Project Implementation. The most critical variances
between planned and actual project implementation have been delayed execution of project works
and consequent delayed disbursements under the IDA and SF credits (Part III/Section 3) and the
increased project expenditures made possible because of the exchange rate movements during the
implementation period, namely, the devaluation of the Rupee against the US Dollar and of the latter
against the SDR. Because of the initial delays in implementation and the scope for increased
expenditures resulting from exchange rate movements, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) physical
targets were revised in February 1988. A subsequent revision to meet actual requirements was
made in 1990, and an additional component, the construction of a 30 km-long Link Canal (with
associated structures) to connect the Vaigai Reservoir with the Periyar Main Canal, was included
(Part IIVSection 4). This Link Canal was originally planned to be completed under the PV I
Project.
5.2        Delayed implementation and more time required to achieve the revised physical targets
as well as the expansion of project scope due to construction of the Link Canal resulted in a 4.5
year extension of the Credit closing date to October 31, 1993. As of the extended closing date, the
disbursements under the IDA/SF credits amounted to US$35.2 million or 101 percent of the
original US Dollar equivalent of the two Credits. The undisbursed balance at the final
disbursement date of March 16, 1994 amounted to SDR1.8 million (US$2.5 million equivalent)2.
As of October 31, 1993, actual project expenditures totalled Rs. 1,159 million (US$69.7 million)
as against the SAR estimate of Rs. 588 million (US$58.8 million); the increase in total actual
expenditure over the SAR estimate being 97 percent in Rupee terms and 19 percent in US dollar
terms. However, if the expenditure on the Link canal and associated works at about Rs. 400
million is excluded, the cost over-run in Rupee terms would be much lower at 29 percent and the
actual expenditure in US dollar terrns would be within the SAR total estimate of US$58.8 million.
5.3        Canal Network. Revised physical targets have been achieved except for extension
of irrigation distribution networks to some existing tank commands (Part III/ Section 4).
However, canal construction proved to be considerably slower than anticipated at appraisal due to
the nature of ground conditions; bedrock being everywhere close to the surface. Clearly the
difficulties and costs of canal construction in a terrain in which bedrock is everywhere close to the
surface, were underestimated at both preparation and appraisal and also subsequently by
prospective contractors. Only lately have contractors developed construction capability in such
1   In addition, sluice committees were to be organized by PWD for each existing sluice (80 to 100 ha).
2   Applications with statements of expenditures for reimbursement from the credit account can be
submitted and would forthcome up to four months from the Credit closing date.



5
conditions, as evidenced by the remarkable speed with which the construction of the Link Canal
has proceededl.
5.4        In retrospect, more extensive site investigations, particularly a greater number of test
pits and exploratory trenches to display ground conditions along canal alignments, would have
facilitated closer cost estimates and considerably reduced subsequent contractual problems.
Material shortages, particularly cement, also contributed to delays.
5.5        In an area where groundwater is an important factor (there are now more than 9,000
dug wells being used for irrigation in the command) recharge must be a key issue in project design,
nominally an argument against "saving" of seepage by canal lining. However, in the project
command there are two particular factors relating to this issue. Firstly, the principal water-bearing
formation is of shallow depth, generally four to six meters to bedrock, and is of limited storage
capacity. Secondly, standing water in the canal-irrigated paddy fields provides the major part (at
least 75 percent) of the recharge, and is sufficient, seasonally, to fill the formation to capacity,
bringing the water-table near to the surface by the end of the wet season, with or without
contribution from canal seepage. A possible exception is the area immediately adjacent to the main
canals where wells experienced lowering of the water-table and decline in yield after lining. This
concentration of wells produced a local "line sink" not typical of the area as a whole.
5.6        As groundwater outflow from the Periyar Vaigai area is very small, due to the flat
gradient and shallow depth of the water-bearing formation, seepage from canals is not generally
lost to the system. It either contributes to groundwater recharge, particularly early in the irrigation
season, or to inflow to tanks later in the season when the water-table is high. Rarely does it find
its way back into the river. In these circumstances it may well be asked why line the canal system,
if not to reduce losses due to seepage? The answer lies largely in the greater operational flexibility
of lined canals compared with unlined, permitting more rapid response to the occurrence of rainfall
in the command, or meeting particular local demands. Furthermore, the operational flexibility of
the lined system results both in more efficient use of water and in higher average yields. In the
Periyar Vaigai situation this is the principal reason for canal lining. Much the same considerations
apply to construction of the lined Link Canal. Flow at the lower end of the 35 km reach of the
Vaigai river currently conveying Periyar water from Vaigai reservoir to the Periyar Main Canal
(PMC) and Thirumangalam Main Canal (TMC) intakes has a very slow response to upstream
changes in rate of release from Vaigai reservoir, and stands in the way of demand-responsive
operation of the Periyar Vaigai system as a whole. This factor, together with the difficulties of silt
exclusion with the present system, and deterioration of the century-old Peranai regulator on which
security of supply to the canal system depends, is the reason for construction of the Link canal,
rather than saving of seepage from conveyance in the river channel.
5.7        An issue not related to the primary function of the Link Canal is the possibility of
providing irrigation supply from the canal to areas on either side of the canal, totalling some
1,600 ha. Cultivators in this area have been pumping water from the adjacent reach of the Vaigai
river for many years, although without official sanction. The Link Canal now cuts off part of this
area from access to the river, and furthermore it reduces the flow in the river and the practicability
of pumped-lift diversion. The cultivators concerned jointly provided the right-of-way for the Link
canal at no cost to PWD, reportedly on the understanding that their former supply from the river
1    It should be noted that the Link Canal construction was disrupted during the 1993 southwest
monsoon season by a cyclonic storm and, therefore, remained to be completed at the time of the
PCR mission's visit. Over 80 percent of the work on main canal and associated structures had been
completed and the work on distributaries was to be taken up after completion of the main canal
works (Part III/Section 4).



6
would be replaced by supply from the canal. Technically this could be done either by gravity
canals branching from the Link Canal, or by pumping from the Link Canal either departmentally or
by individual cultivators. The cultivators prefer the gravity canal solution. The estimated cost is
some US$1.5 million. Contracts are understood to have been awarded for the canal system, but
construction has not yet commenced. The works are not included in the Bank-financed project.
5.8        It is now evident that inigation from dug-wells will be a considerably more important
factor than was envisaged at appraisal. Actual groundwater utilization has already reached SAR
projections for ultimate level (85 million m3 annually), and installation is continuing, particularly in
the canal extension areas. There, the advent of canal-irrigated paddy, with consequent increased
recharge, is resulting in new well construction and increased yields from existing wells. The wells
are being used for nursery cultivation, and the PWD foresees the canal system eventually being
relieved of this operationally troublesome duty. Possibly of greater significance is the extensive
use now being made of wells for irrigation of perennials including bananas, sugarcane and
coconuts, the latter being a very popular high-value crop benefitting much from irrigation in the dry
season. Groundwater quality is good, as also the quality of the recharge. Power supply for well
operation is available throughout the area, and well owners are already using sophisticated pipe
distribution and water application systems. No charge is levied for electric power for operation of
irrigation wells in Tamil Nadu, a situation which is currently being reviewed by GOTN. The
extensive use of wells in the area virtually ensures that water-logging resulting from canal irrigation
will not occur. The Periyar Vaigai area promises to be an excellent example of balanced
conjunctive use of canal supply and groundwater.
5.9        In determining whether there will be adequate supply of irrigation for the expanded
project area the relevant factors are the yield from the Periyar diversion, the storage capacity
available for its seasonal and over-yearly regulation, the contribution of rainfall on the command
area, the estimated crop water demand, and the efficiency of delivery. Periyar diversions over a
long period are a matter of record. However, the amount of storage capacity available in Periyar
reservoir in the immediate future is in question. Due to concern over the safety of the dam in the
light of modem methods of analysis, the maximum storage level was lowered (in 1979) from 152
ft above datum to 136 ft, until the necessary modifications to the structure and spillway could be
carnied out. At the time of PV II project appraisal (1984) it was anticipated that the works would
be completed in 1985 and the 152 ft level restored immediately thereafter. Completion was, in
fact, considerably delayed, but the work has now been largely completed, with the exception of
certain protective works below the spillway channel which will shortly be undertaken. The cost of
the work has been met by GOTN. However, reinstatement of the 152 ft storage level has now
become an issue between Tamil Nadu and Kerala and for the time being the lower level of 136 ft is
being adhered to. In the context of the total storage capacity available to the project (Periyar plus
Vaigai reservoir plus tanks), the difference is not large enough to jeopardize the project, but it is
nevertheless a real consideration and is a matter of concern to GOTN.
5.10       Rainfall in the Periyar catchment is from the southwest monsoon, averaging some
2,000 mm annually. Within the project command rainfall is partly from the southwest and partly
from the northeast monsoon, averaging about 830 mm. The proportion of rainfall on the command
which is effective in meeting crop needs is influenced by the dexterity with which canal supply can
be reduced to take advantage of rainfall, but it is maximized in the project case by the availability of
tank storage to capture irrigation spill. Estimation of crop water requirements is straightforward,
but is influenced in this case by the extent of double-cropping of paddy. In the "double crop zone"
of 29,634 ha only 18,226 ha of holdings are officially gazetted as entitled to water for double
cropping, the remainder being limited to a single crop (the reasons for such distinction are no
longer apparent). In fact, holdings in the two categories are often interposed, and in some
situations it is impractical to differentiate supply. Consequently much of the zone is supplied with



7
water for double cropping, provided that it is available, regardless of gazetted classification, and
this has been assumed in SAR and PCR estimates of water requirements. For purposes of
economic analysis, however, double cropping is limited to the officially gazetted area. The
question of re-examination of entitlements and priorities in water distribution within the project
area, raised during appraisal, still remains an issue to be resolved.
5.11       In a project such as Periyar Vaigai, where on average about one-half of the wet
season water requirements are met from rainfall in the command area and the other one-half from
canal supply, both sources varying in quantity from year to year, a central question is what degree
of assurance of supply should be aimed at in project design. Absolute assurance even in bad water
years can be given if the command is kept relatively small, but the penalty is unutilized water in
good years. There is less assurance of adequate supply if the command is larger and deficits will
occur in this case, but long-term utilization of water is greater. Neither course is entirely
satisfactory to all farmers. Several internal Bank papers discuss the general question of
supplemental canal supply in monsoonal areas, and emphasize that a high level of management
skill is required in such circumstances. In the Periyar Vaigai situation it would, in fact, be
impractical to design the system on the basis of canal supply fully compensating for rainfall
deficiency in dry years. There have been years of overall deficiency (rainfall plus canal supply)
throughout the long history of the project, and operating rules have been designed to minimize the
impact of such shortages. Water deficits will continue to be experienced in the future, but with
reduced incidence due to improved efficiency in water use. Based upon historic figures of Periyar
diversions over the 25 years 1968-1992, and rainfall records in the project command for the same
period, an approximate operational study for the purpose of the PCR indicates deficiencies in four
years of the 25, the deficit in the worst year being about 24 percent. The operation took into
account the demands of municipal water supply, also the needs of the 18,332 ha extension area. It
also assumed 50 million m3/annum use of groundwater to supplement wet season irrigation (At
least that amount of groundwater will also be available for dry season irrigation of perennial
crops). The result is generally consistent with the SAR estimates of reliability of supply (main
crop in the pre-existing command 95 percent reliability, main crop in the extension area 85 percent,
and first crop in the double-cropped area 80 percent).
5.12       On-Farm  Development. The SAR target for the construction of field channels
was revised downwards from 61,000 ha to about 56,700 ha, while the targets for construction of
concrete thrashing platforms and gravel-paved cart tracks were revised upwards
(Part III/Section 4). All the revised physical targets have been fully achieved, although, as is
normal with most irrigation projects, implementation of on-farm development works proved to be
slowest due to the large size of the command area and the need to give individual attention to the
design of the system in each 10-ha block.
5.13       Improved System  Operations. In order to provide a reliable water supply at the
10-ha block outlet and an equitable distribution of the available supply over the service area, a
number of measures were planned. These included strict adherence of weekly opening and closing
schedules for all canals, sluices and 10-ha block outlets; fixing in advance a guaranteed date by
which water will be released to fill the tanks; computerization of water demand calculations; and
the preparation and implementation of a detailed O&M manual with standard operating procedures.
5.14       As previously noted (para. 5.11) in the Periyar Vaigai project, direct rainfall provides
about one-half of the annual wet season water requirements under average conditions. At any
particular time, however, rainfall may be anywhere between nil and sufficient to provide all water
needs. The capacity, or design duty, of the distributaries is sufficient to provide the whole water
requirement during short intervals without rain. Also of importance is how the distributary system
performs when rainfall is normal or heavier than normal and it is necessary to reduce canal



8
deliveries to conserve reservoir storage. This can be accomplished by full-flow rotational
operation of the distributaries 4 days on 3 days off, thereby reducing the weekly amount of water
delivered by about 40 percent compared with continuous delivery, or 3 days on 4 days off,
reducing it by about 60 percent. As the choice of practical rotational combination is limited, and as
rotations cannot be changed from day to day, it is not possible to follow even the anticipated
seasonal variations in water demand precisely, much less to fully accommodate unanticipated
variations. Some degree of approximation is necessary. However, in the Periyar Vaigai case the
presence of many tanks in the command, which can accommodate irrigation spill, offers the
prospect of higher overall operation efficiency than would otherwise be the case. The adequacy of
the water resources to meet project needs will, in fact, depend primarily on the skill with which the
system is operated. Opinions appear to vary within the PWD as to the relative merits of certain
operational options, particularly rotational supply in the canal systems versus continuous supply at
varying rate, and in the former case at what point in the canal hierarchy rotational supply should
commence. The canal system as constructed is capable of being operated in a number of ways,
and continuing operational studies and monitoring of results will be necessary to finally determine
the most satisfactory procedures.
5.15       Computer simulation studies, as envisaged at appraisal to facilitate water demand
calculations and preparation of detailed irrigation schedules, have not been completed. Even
though an O&M manual has been prepared, the guidelines have not been put into operation. The
automatic water-level recorders have not been installed because O&M staff were not willing to take
over their operation. Already proper maintenance is lacking. Gate hoists were seen to have not
been greased. Cracks in the lining were visible and weeds have begun to grow through these
cracks. Overall, therefore, the area of improved system O&M, which has remained a weak link,
would need to be given proper and increased attention.
5.16       The above discussion refers to operation down to the "10 ha" block, at which point
there is a change of jurisdiction from PWD to the AED. The AED under its On-Farm Development
program takes over responsibility for events within the block, including construction of the internal
distribution system and the setting up of cultivator groups to operate it. Views on the appropriate
size of the area within which cultivator organizations are intended to take primary responsibility for
distribution, i.e. the "10 ha" block, have varied in Bank-assisted projects over the years. At the
time of appraisal of the PV I project ten hectares was proposed by the State, and "10 ha" block has
continued in use as a generic term for this lower, farmer-operated portion of the system. For
reasons relating to the minimum efficient rate of delivery to the block, and limitations in practical
options in rotational supply, the actual average size being used in the project area is nearer to 20 ha,
an area which is closer to current Bank practice elsewhere. The block is informally divided into
sub-areas for purposes of water distribution. The AED has extended channel lining down into this
area, the extent being determined on a case-by-case basis.
5.17       Introduction of Rotational Water Supply. The SAR laid emphasis on the
desirability of rotational distribution (RWS) within the "block", and this is indeed important during
land preparation for both paddy and non-paddy crops. However, it is not essential nor necessarily
desirable for paddy during the growing season. Where paddy is the principal crop, no imposed
rotational system within the block can take the place of intelligent ad hoc water management by the
farmer group. Variations in seepage rate from fields within a block due to small differences in
elevation, or soil type, and consequently variations in water needs, can be substantial. This is a
very different situation from the classical simplicity of water distribution in northern India, where
fixed warabundi rotations based solely on area of holding are practiced. General application of the
system of fixed rotations within the "block" was much in favor during the period in which the
project was appraised. However the AED is now faced with the task of setting up and training
farmer groups to take over pragmatic self-management within the blocks, in some respects a more



9
difficult task than imposition of fixed rotations. It appears to have had considerable success,
thanks in part to utilizing rrigation Community Organizers along the lines of the Philippine system
(on which the AED operation was based). An outwardly minor detail, but one which has paid
considerable dividends, is the provision of a small meeting room for the Farmer Association (four
blocks), in some locations, both providing a venue for planning of water distribution and also
enhancing the status of the Association within the village community. The practice could well be
extended throughout the project command. It is noted that the desirability of involving women in
the Farmer Associations has been emphasized by the Bank in the course of project supervision,
and in this connection a Women's Forum has been set up, and duly registered, in two villages,
with prospect of extending the system elsewhere. The Irrigation Community Organizers who
assist in establishing the water user associations have been active in setting up the Women's
Forums. Women have proved to be very effective as ICOs in the Periyar Vaigai command.
5.18       Farmers Organizations. Organization of water users' groups although now
progressing satisfactorily, began very belatedly. Regardless of frequent reminders by Bank
supervision missions, virtually no progress was made during the period 1985-1990, and requisite
staff were not sanctioned. There appears to have been a lack of conviction at management level
that formation of such groups was necessary in a primarily paddy area, possibly reinforced by the
belief that RWS (taken literally) was in any case not required in such circumstances. In retrospect
the term RWS when applied to distribution within the block (as distinct from supply to the block)
was not an appropriate choice. The broader term "Farmer Water Management" describing a very
essential function, would have been preferable. The AED, now brought up to full operational
strength has covered 25,000 ha with farmer group formation, with anticipated progress of
additional 15,000 ha every year. The proposed Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation
Project (TNWRCP) builds upon the experience gained under the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
with farmer user groups' involvement in irrigation operation and maintenance.
6. Project Results
6.1        General. As far as physical works are concerned, the project has met its objectives,
although with considerable time over-run. The areas now covered by the project are summarized
in Annex 2, Table 1. All works are now complete except for setting up of fanner organizations for
water management at the level of individual blocks and completion of the Link canal.
6.2        One project impact, which was perhaps underestimated at appraisal, has been the
major increase in well construction and groundwater use. Flooded paddy fields are an ideal source
of recharge, and advantage is being taken of it by dugwell owners. In addition to supplementing
canal irrigation of paddy, particularly nursery cultivation, the wells are being used for perennial
crops including sugarcane, bananas and irrigated coconut. The latter crop, relatively new to the
area, is becoming an important item in Tamil Nadu's irrigated crop production.
6.3        Agricultural Production. The project's direct benefits as estimated at appraisal
and as now estimated by the PCR mission are given under Part III/Section 6A. At full
development, annual incremental agricultural production would be of the order of 177,500 tons of
paddy, 3,500 tons of groundnuts, 2,600 tons of millets, 3,900 tons of gram, 77,700 tons of
sugarcane, 43,000 tons of coconut, and 27,000 tons of banana (see Annex 3). The impact of the
increased paddy production is expected to exceed the SAR estimate mainly because the actual
average paddy yields under different situations have been higher than the SAR estimates. Also,
production of coconut and bananas was not foreseen at appraisal, whereas irrigated cotton is not
being grown in the area as expected at appraisal.



10
6.4        Farm  Incomes and Employment. The typical smallholder in the project's
command area grows paddy only. The average paddy farm in the project area, as assumed in the
SAR, is about 1.2 ha. For this typical farm, the net incremental income would be Rs. 3,770/year
for single cropped area in pre-existing command area and Rs. 13,670/year for double cropped area
in the same command area. For the typical farm with single crop in extension areas, the net
incremental income has been estimated at Rs. 4,270/year (see Annex 3). About 65,000 farm
families would directly benefit from the project as estimated at appraisal. However, employment
generation of 5 million mandays/year of farm employment and 57,000 manyears of non-farm
employment (during construction) would exceed the SAR expectations.
6.5        Economic Impact. The recalculation of the economic rate of return (ERR) has
been based on crop models, developed from recent field investigations, and provided to the PCR
mission by the Department of Agricultural Economics, Agriculture College and Research Institute,
Madurai (see Annex 3). The "with project" yields assume the completion of on-going program of
formation of water users groups and continued support to such groups thereafter. The economic
viability of the project has been reassessed, taking into account the actual implementation schedule,
actual incurred costs and the cropping patterns, yields and economic prices (see Annex 3).
However, as in the SAR, the recalculation of ERR is based on a project life of 30 years and on the
assumption that in the "without project" situation, 20 percent of the incremental irrigated area
would be rainfed.
6.6        With the above assumptions, the ERR has been reestimated at 21 percent, which
compares to 18 percent at appraisal, and is mainly due to higher yields experienced as compared to
appraisal estimates. Sensitivity of the ERR to deficiency in water supply has been tested, which
shows that the project will remain economically viable, unless considerable changes occur (see
Annex 3).
6.7       Indirect Benefits. These include development of AED expertise in organization of
and support for water users' groups at the 10-ha block level. This is a key item in further irrigation
improvement projects in the State. Further, through the execution of project works, considerable
contractor capacity has been developed in canal construction in the difficult ground conditions as in
the project area. PWD has also been substantially strengthened in its capability for design,
execution and operation of major irrigation works through its association with the project.
6.8        Cost Recovery. This has been the subject of continuing exchange between GOTN
and Bank. In Tamil Nadu water charges are determined by a complicated formula involving soil
type and availability of irrigation. The rates are generally low, however the paddy procurement
prices imply a substantial contribution by the farmer. The Bank has been urging rationalization of
water rates and the State has responded with proposals. The Bank's view is that the subject should
be pursued at the Sector level.
6.9        Environmental Impact. As anticipated at appraisal, the project does not have any
adverse environmental effects. The impact of canal irrigation on groundwater resources of the area
has already been discussed. Two other items call for comment The first is sedimentation of the
Vaigai River. This was of direct concern to the project before the decision to construct the Link
Canal, when sedimentation at the PMC and TMC canal intakes was an issue. While that problem
has been resolved by the construction of the Link Canal, sediment build-up in the lower Vaigai due
to the Periyar Vaigai development remains a factor. Since construction of the Vaigai Dam (prior to
Bank involvement but nevertheless a central feature of the project), flood flows in the Vaigai have
diminished and consequently the capacity of the river to transport incoming silt from side-streams,
down to the lower delta. Completion of the Link Canal under the Bank project will further
diminish flows in the river. The solution being pursued by GOTN is to reduce the inflow of silt by



11
construction of erosion control and silt detention works in the Vaigai catchment. Surveys of the
catchment have been completed, identifying the nature of the problem, and protective and detention
works are already being carried out by the agencies concerned, including the Forestry Department.
The second item is the ecological impact of the Periyar Dam and Reservoir. While constructed
long before Bank involvement in India, this also is a key feature of the current project. Periyar
Reservoir is, in fact, a notable case of reservoir construction having a highly positive ecological
impact. The catchment and the reservoir area have been converted into a restricted access wild-life
and forestry reserve noted for its wild elephant and deer populations. Forest extends down to the
water's edge. Siltation is minimal.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        Sustainability of irrigation projects usually calls into question such factors as soil
reactions under irrigation, the possibility of development of water-logging and salinity, siltation of
reservoirs, and durability of structures. Given the good quality of the incoming water supply, and
groundwater extraction providing defacto water-table control, long-term development of adverse
soil and drainage conditions is not anticipated. Some siltation of the principal reservoirs, Periyar
and Vaigai, is occurring, but relatively slowly, and the protective works planned for the Vaigai
catchment should contain this problem. Siltation of the many small tanks in the command is also a
subject of concern, but as most of the tank catchments are levelled and bunded for paddy, erosion
of the tank catchments is minimal. However, periodic clearing of plant growth within the tank
storage areas, particularly the shrub Ipoumea, would be necessary. The item which calls for
continuous vigilance, if deterioration is to be minimized, is the canal lining. As has been pointed
out in the course of Bank supervision missions, the appearance of weeds or grass in the hairline
shrinkage cracks between the concrete slabs or tiles used in construction of many of the project
canals signals the beginning of progressive deterioration by displacement of slabs, as root growth
and root pressure develops, unless such growth is promptly removed. The treatment should
include the use of weedicide, to kill plant roots. Systematic monitoring and reporting on the
condition of linings, and on the execution of treatment, would also be essential.
7.2        However, the crucial aspect which needs early resolution is the question of how the
canal system should be operated to accommodate the varying rainfall conditions. To that end,
various computer simulation and other studies of varying supply/demand situations and design of
the most satisfactory operating procedures to meet them, need to be vigorously pursued as without
a proper system O&M mechanism being in place, the sustainability of the project benefits will be in
jeopardy.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        The Bank's performance from guiding the preparation of the project through its
implementation has been generally good. The Bank staff provided a very substantial technical
support to the project in the course of the supervision missions.
8.2        However, the task of supervising a major construction project, including statutory
reporting, leaves little time for the detailed coverage of the project area which is a prerequisite to
significant input into the problems of water distribution within the "10 ha" block, which is a key
item. Technical support or intervention at that level, if it is to be provided, requires separate staff
provision and presumably budgeting. System operation is in the sarne category, particularly in a
case as complex as Periyar Vaigai. Staff time is required if serious involvement is aimed at.



12
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        The Borrower's performance was also generally good. The Bank supervision
missions have given the borrower a good report, except in respect to the perennial question of
senior staff turnover, and also delays in deployment of staff for the farmer water management
program. The turn-over problem has been common to all Bank irrigation projects in India, and the
circumstances giving rise to it are well known. Partial solutions to the problem can probably be
found. It is an issue which should be taken up at the time of credit/loan negotiations in respect of
future projects.
9.2        During preparation the presence of shallow bedrock in the canal alignment could have
been fully identified and adequately reflected in canal design which would have avoided
subsequent construction delays and would have saved construction costs.
10. Lessons of Experience
10.1       The main lessons that can be learnt from the project are:
(a)    The duration of implementation of a project should be fixed based on past
experience and the nature and structure of the activities to be financed and
sufficient lead time should be provided to accommodate construction delays
or delays in implementing innovative proposals such as construction of field
channels, rotational water supply and setting up of farmer organizations.
(b)    Detailed designs and site investigations should be completed prior to
appraisal to facilitate more accurate cost estimates and to avoid delays in
project implementation. In the case of this project, closer cost estimates
would have been possible and unnecessary implementation delays could
have been avoided if sufficient data on rock profile in the areas of the canal
distribution network had been collected and studied prior to appraisal.
(c)    In the case of a project as this one, where realization of full benefits depends
on both provion n of efficient distribution network and upgraded system
operation and water management, attention should be paid sufficiently early
during the implementation period to the formulation of appropriate system
O&M procedures which should be followed by continuing operational
studies and monitoring of results to finally determine the most satisfactory
procedures. To this end, computer simulation and other studies should be
completed as planned, compliance with O&M guidelines and use of
equipment such as automatic water-level recorders should be ensured.
(d)    In the situations as above, Bank supervision missions should be adequately
equipped both in terms of time and staffing to permit a more detailed review
of the project's implementation progress in terms of not merely hardware
performance but also software developments such as system operation and
water distribution problems.
(e)    The Borrower's O&M  staff should also be involved in project
implementation to better understand the various components including the
need for a proper system O&M mechanism being in place as quickly as
possible. Otherwise, situations such as the non-utilization of water-level
recorders could arise.



13
(f)    It is important that proper maintenance of the canal lining and other project
works is ensured and adequate fund and staff allocation is made for the
purpose.
(g)    The project has demonstrated that provision of a small meeting room jointly
to be used by farmer groups from 3-4 blocks has facilitated planning for
water distribution and enhanced the status of the farner organizations within
the village community and that women can be very effective irrigation
community organizers. Initiatives as above should therefore be supported
along with setting up of farmer organizations, which is intended under the
proposed TNWRCP project.
(h)    The use of the term "Rotational Water supply (RWS)" when applied to water
distribution within a block (as distinct from supply to the block) seemed to
have not been a proper choice. A better alternative would have been to use
the terrn "farmer water management" and this should be considered under
future irrigation projects.
(i)    The project was handicapped by frequent changes of senior staff and delays
in deployment of staff for farmer water management program. Such
occurrences should be avoided in future projects. Also interaction amongst
various departments involved in irrigated agriculture should be
institutionalized at all levels of the Government (see para. 11.2).
11. Project Relationships
11.1       Throughout the project period a good working relationship existed between the
Borrower and the Bank. This was enhanced through the constructive attitude of the Bank's staff to
the problems as they arose and the willingness of the Borrower to respond positively to the
suggestions offered.
11.2      Interaction between the various GOTN departments involved in the project could have
been better. In particular, the relationship between PWD's Irrigation Wing and AD could have
been considerably closer.
12. Consulting Services
12.1       PWD used the services of other agencies in a consulting capacity for the project quite
freely. These were generally satisfactory, except that the second stage of the computer-assisted
operational studies has been delayed and the studies have not still been completed.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1       The SAR and the legal documents were generally perceived as sufficient to provide a
useful framework to guide project implementation. Bank supervision reports provided valuable
information on project performance during its implementation. Reporting on the part of the
implementing agencies has also been adequate.
13.2       However, although not necessarily designed for that purpose, the SAR is the
principal document available to the Borrower, expressing Bank intent or views on various aspects
of the project. It is treated by Borrowers as the Bible of the project, and as such it often falls short



14
in some respects, as in this case. The problem is that in the understandable interests of brevity,
statements on technical matters are often left unsupported and consequently without possibility of
review or further consideration by readers not having access to Bank background files. The
detailed Project Implementation Volume generally remains with the Borrowers senior staff  To
facilitate field work, it may be worthwhile that a limited-edition of this volume is made available to
staff direcdy involved with project operations.



15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART Il.
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CR.1468-IN and SF CR.16-IN)
SPECIAL CHIEF ENGINEER, PWD
PERIYAR VAIGAI PROJECT
MADURAI - TAMILNADU
May 1994






16
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CR.1468-IN and SF CR.16-IN)
PART II
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Sl. NO.                           TABLE OF CONTENTS                                      PAGE NO.
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1.       a)   Adequacy          and      accuracy    of    the    factual
information    contained    in    part   III   of   the
PCR  -  Statistical information.                                             1
2.       b)   Analysis  contained   in   Part  -  I  of  the   PCR.                          4
3.       c)   Bank's  performance                                                           10
4.       d)   Borrower's  performance                                                       12
5.       e)   Assess   the   effectiveness   of  the   relationship
between  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower.                                     19
6.         f)    Evaluate   the    performance   of   co-financiers,
and   assess        the      effectiveness         of    their
relationship with the Borrower, durinR the
evolution   and   implementation   of  the   project.                       20
- -- - - -- -- - -- -- - - - - -- - -- - -- - -- --- - - - -- - -- -- --- - - - - --- - - - - - -- - - --_ _- -- -



PERIYAR   VAIGAI IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                       ',  ,-,Orl
TAMtlL NADU                                         ,_                      UK1ri4
\ PROJECT ARE-'A
mm   LINK CANAL AREA                                                        Scole lem= 6 km /
X=rN HpR PROJCCT AREA      XODAJ(M
STaGE l- LXTENSION AREA
SrAGElZ CrTENSION AREA                  OT^x                                                                    t
,5zRIVERS 
ROAD~S
.m~.RAILWAYS
MA4IN CAL 
\'          '~~ I S T R IC  1I!                         i r                    
U'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~L
>  g                  ,:/                    \/^    -                                           PROCT ARICKUP  NAlN_hr
P( RIYAR  L                                       ,                                            PRE PO.ET   STAGE. 1.   STAGE .II.  TOTAL
X   o            z                      ~~~~~~~~~~PERTIAR MAIN CANAL
\   .  ,    /              ,                  ~~~~~~~~~~SINGLE CROP  34610      9383        6828        SOA0
Tt~~~~* -'. -/ -'v           ;      t     . ~ ,                           DOUBLE CROP        IOZf6         -       _               18286
)s>                                                THIRJMANGALM MAIN CANAL
T   RfS3NGEE CROP                                                  59            942         1599        t870
/ / -'L:""'"4TLINK CANGALA  1620                                                                      1620
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ 4&, AA                                  IKCNL--                                                -6012
58405        10305       9647
_~~~N                                                                        1
\' 



PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II REPORT
PART-II OF THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(a) Adequacy and accuracy of the factual information contained in Part-II of the Project Completion Report
Statistical Information
!tat  Page      Information contained In
Ifs     No.    Part-III Statistical    -                                                                                       Observation by the Borrower
information as furnished
by the Bank - 9 Feb.'94
(World 3ank letter
April 21. 1994)
1.     2.               3.                                                                                                                                                    4.
2      19     Credit com pletion                                                                                Credit completion - 31 October'93
Date of Final Disbursement                                                                        Date of final disbursement                           3 Februarvy94
4     20      Project implementation                                 Revised         Actuals        Actual                                                           *  Revised           Actuals       2:jsis
Estimate       as on          as % of                                                              Estsnate         as on
10.31.93       revised                                                                             10.'1.92
Sl.No.7 Buildings                                      lBO            173            96           S.No.(7) Buildings                                         187             179             9S                   CO
(Formers'  Association)
B Buildings include O & M Ouarters
Training institute. R.W.S. Office
building, building for inspection
of officers (World Bank Field
report Feb.1 1994).
2. Balance 9 Nos. are one R.W.S.
building, one building for
inspection of officers at
Batlagundu and 7 Farmers
Association Buildings.
Sl.No.7 (10) Link Canal                                                                           Link Canal
a. Syphon across Valgai                                100             90            90
to feed (5) TMC
a. Syphon across Vaigai to                                100             90             90
feed T.M.C. (6)
(ii). Barrel                                             1              1              1          (ii) Barrel                                                                                1
6. Work awarded recently and 90% ,f the
work completed ahead of schedule
especially the full barrel portion
in the river.



-- - - --- -      -- -    -  -- - - --- -   -  -  -------- -------  ------------------------  -   -   -  -- -  -   ------  --  -   - ---- ---- -- -  --- - - - -    -- --                            -    -  -- -- -     -----  -- - ---            ------    
2.                                                3.                                                                                                4.
24           C.Studles
Yield. Production and Project benefits                  Carried out                                                                                                           Carried  out by Agrl.
by DEAR                                                                                                               Department and DEAR
Monitoring  of changes in               SAR Para        Joint acitvity  of                                                                                                     Joint act!vity  of P'ID
cropping pattern                        6.17(c)       PND & Rev. Dept.                                                                                                        Anrln.  n-:. Agricuitural J
and R_venue Departoest.
25           Sediment trap                           Completed       Study by lHiA. Pune                Sediment trap              Work brought to a                                       St'utv by the Institute
certain  stage and not                                  Df Hydraulics and
fully completed.                                       Hvdrology   IlH) POT .21,
Dispensed in view of                                    .AM)IL NAD'J
(World Bank Field report
June 4-10, 1991)
Peranai regulator                       Study by                                           Peranai regulator                                                                  l:'adv bv :771gation 'e:n::
Guide bund                              CWPRS                                              Guide Bund                                                                         .o3t.  o f 2;n3dsa     .
25           Study                                   Puroose                                Status                        Study                            Purpose                         St:^us
Geomorphological study                  Not envisaged at the                   A report on the               GeomorDhological                 Not envisaged                    ' report on the Va'i9i t-nt
of erosion  in the                      time of appraisal                      :noer Vaigal                  study in Vaigal                 at the tine of                   selow  Vaicni Iso  to ?e:ana
vaigai catchment                        but requested  In                      =atcheent has                 Catchment                        appraisal btt                    reoulator  sa conmieted t-
1992                                  been completed.                                                suggested by the                 ieb 1990 by the Bharsthil?
A report on the                                               World Bank in                    University.
lower catchment                                               1988-89
is in progress                                                                                 A report on the upper ta:-
of   Vaioai   reservoir   i
progress bv the lhaers::-
iJniversitv .
25          Not Included                                                                                                  Comprehensive basin             Not envisaged at the               he   stud-    is   entruste'
study of Vaigai                 time of aDpraisal but            es         Jew     i.    The
won  commenced is Sent. :;
river basin                     suggested oy the                 in   nrogress,  the   oers:j
Bank In Aug.1989 to              :ompletion  is 12  not hs.
collect review and analyse
all available surface and
ground water for
conjunctive use that
would lead to an optim4um
and sustainable
development of land and
water resources in the
basin



3.                                                                       4.
Study                                                Purpose                            Status
Not included                                                                                    Model study                                          Not envisaged  at the              STudy by IF=. ?oondl
for enlargins the                                    time of appraisal but             Tanil Nadu ote in
existing  tumnel                                     requested  in 1991.                progress.
in Periyar                                           To explore the
reservoir                                            possibil ity  to draw
caximum water from
the Periyar reservoir
Use of Bank resources
(B) Mission                              Month/Year
Appraisal                                Oct. 1993.                                                                Appraisal                         Month/Year         Oct. 1?d3
Annexure-Il          Table -1            Pre and                                   Note: Figures are               TAble-I              Ere Project and Pos:                            Fic-ures furc:ved  may
Post project command area                        Gross                                        Project corsand are!                            be taken  as cmliob1le
Cultivable                                                                                   coaond are! 35  cer
Command area                                                                                 localisatic: firures.
Annexure II Table 3
Maximum storage  le-el in                                                                                        O
Foot Note:          Maxinmm storage level in Periyar                                            Foot  Notes:  Perlyar reservoir reduced
reservoir reduced  from 152  feet                                                              from 152 feet to 135  feet
to 138 feet                                                                                    in 1979 (Para  5.9 of Page 7
in 1976.                                                                                            of Port - I).
- - - --- ------- ---- -------------------- ------ _  __   ------------------ ---_  -     -- -- -- ---------------------_  -     -----------------_  -   --- - - ---------- --------- -------------- ---- - ---_  _-_-_-_-_-_-



b, ANALYSIS CONTAINED IN PART-I OF THE P.C.R.
ct review from Bank's Perspective
':o.    Page                   Details as per PCR - Part I                                     Observation by the Borrower
2                                3                                                                 4
I           The Vaigai river delta is the second                 The vaigai river basin is the second largest of the three major river
lar-est of the three major river                    basins in Tamil N3du.
de,:as in Tamil Nadu.
4            4. Project design and organisation
7
An assurance was obtained from Govt.                One  Division  in the A.E.D.  is fully engaged  in the  implementation of
of .amil Nadu that it would set up                  R.W.S. within 10 ha. block in the project command.   The block commit:ee
twr new Division in AED to                          were formed by the AED while  the sluice  committee  were  formed by :ne
ern!ale it interalia to adequately                  P.W.D. of 0 e M circle.
pr=ote RWS
5.  Project Implementation
5           Canal Net work                                       The construction of link canal was included in Staoe-I of Periyar Vai:ai
and  the  alignment  was  fully  surveyed  with  rrial  bores  at  200-5OC r
RE;:sed physical targest have been achieved         intervals.    The  excavation  of  the  canal  in  the  roky'  strata  was               H
extant for extension of irrigation                  anticipated during investigation in the year 1975 as indicated in Dara 3
dis: ibution networks to some existing              of SAR 1519 a IN.. May 19, 1977 (P.49).  The link canal was subsecuen::y
ta:r  commands (Part III) Section 4.                deferred in Stage-i due to huge cost over-run of the proiect and pen-:-
Hc,ever canal construction proved to be             assessment of the anticipated water savings.  The deferred linka canal .-s
cc:siderably slower than anticipated                revised in late 1989 and the Bank suggested to float tenders in June 1--0.
at appraisal due to the nature of ground            Considering  the limited  time  available  to  ooserve  the formalities  :.
co.:itions; bedrock being everywhere                floating tenders, extensive  detailed investigation  with more number r
cl-se to the surface.  Clearly the                  trial bores at closer intervals along the canal alignment  could no:
difficulties and costs of canal constru-            undertaken.   Therefore the quantities in respect of earthwork excavatIon
cti:n in a terrain in which bedrock                 25 furnished in the sanctioned estimates durinc 1977-78 were taken in tns
is everywhere close to the surface, were            bidding documents in June 1990.
un_erestimated at both preparation
an- apprisal and also subsequently
by zrospective contractors.  Only lately have
co::ractors developed construction
ca a bility in such conditions,
as evidenced by the remarkable
speed with which the construction of
the link canal has proceeded.



1       2                             3                                                                           4
" :te    2/           It should be noted that the link                        It should be noted that the link canal  ark was disturbed
canal work was disturbed during                        considerably during November 1992 cyclcoic strom in North east monsoon
South West monsoon season.                             and subsequently in November 1993 cyclooic strom and heavy floods.
Flood damagesfor 1992    . claimed by the contractors
was approved by the World B3nk.
Material shortages, particularly cement                Though there was no delay ty the depar=ent in the supply of cement
5            also contributed to delays.                            and other materials, there was some del!v on the part of the
contractors  to procure cer-nt for the .-eaches the contractors were
made responsible to procure the cement.
5.          5            A possible exception is the area immediately           The wells located on the ayacut side of the main canal are not
Ie 10                    to the main canals where wells                         affected due to the lining of canals.
experienced lowering of the water- table
and decline in yield after lining.
.7.          o            The cultivators concerned jointly                      The PWD has acquired the c:stly wet lEods (patts .snds) from the
ns                        provided the right of way for the link                cultivators to an extent cf 355.1 acre-  143.8 . sJ and :ne land acouis:
canal at no cost to PWD.                              tion cost involved is abou: Rs.20.35 lakhs.
ine 11       5            The cultivators prefer the gravity                     The estimatecost for the distribution ie:work un*er link canal bryv
canal solution.  The estimated cost                   the gravity flow is about LS 1.92 f4illioc dollars (Rs.o00 Lakhs).
is LS 1.5 Killion dollars.                            The contracts are yet to t-e awarded to take up :ne work.  This wz:k
Contracts are understood to have been awarded    is included under Tamil Na=z  Water Res::--rce consolidation
for the distribution    net work of the               Project.
canal system butthe construction                      '(at exchange rate of Rs.21 .20/dollar)
has not yet commenced.
.-.          7            Periyar diversions over a long                         Periyar diversiors over a 1:.:- period are the basic record to formulate
ine                       period are amatter of record.                          and pose the modernisation  r:-oject tr World Bane with extension in
the command area to an exteo:  of 18,332 ha. in ::.e proje::.
ine 17       7             The total storage capacity available                  The total storage capcity evailatle t; t.e proje:t (Peri:ar olu;
to the proejct (Periyar plus Vaigai reservoir    Periyar credit in Vaigai rese.-voir plu.- :3nks)
plus tanks).



1            2                            3                                                                           4
5.10.         7            The question of re-examination of                     The century old Periyar-Valgailrrigation system is one of the few sy
Line 15                    entitlements and priorities in                        in India where the water allocation is based on the historic developc
water distribution within the project area           on the general principle that the elder areas have established right
raised during the appraisal still                    over the new extension areas.
remains an issue to be resolved.
The question of reexamination of entitlements and priorities in
water distribution in the century old system involves socio,
economic, political and legal issues.
Since the entire command area is divided into different zones with
5.11          8            Absolute assurance    even in bad years               order of priority for water allocation, the question of arbitrary
can be given if the command is kept                   limiting the command relatively small in each zone mav interfere wi:.
relatively small, but the penalty is                  the riparian rights and lead to subsquent law and order problem in
unutilised waters in good years.                      water allocation and distribution.
5.16.         9            Opinions ae-:ear to vary within the                   The PWD makes all best efforts  to supply irrigation  water to the
Line 19                    PWD as to t.-e relative merits of                     demand of the farmers.   Hitherto,  the PWD authorities  follow
certain ope-rational options                         method of continuous supply at varying rate dependinc on the rai-
particular!y rotational water supply                 fall and storage  position  in the reservoir while  :ne on and off
in the canal system versus                           system  is  followed  during  scarcity  periods  by  effective  water
continuous  supply at varying rate.                  management so as to assure timely supply to all areas and rreven:
possible crop failure.   The decision to adopt continuous surplv c.                "
on and off system is forged at every stage. dependinc on the storac-               w
available with the consultation of leading farmers  in the command.
Collector and Officers from Agriculture department, Chief Enginee:
(Irrigation), and after obtaining the approval of the Govt. of Tam::
Nadu.   The past experience  indicates  the existing method to be e
satisfactory  procedure  daring  the  last  so  many  years.   Howeve:
further refinement in water distributinn  and manacement could re
tried as soon as the results of the computer study are finalised h.i
the Anna Lkiiversity and on revision of 0 & M 1 anual.
5.15.         9            Computer simulation studies, as  envisaged            Different policy options for the operation of the svstem have been r
at appraisal to facilitate water demand               in the draft report by the consultants, Anna Universitv, Com.,uter
calculations and preparation of detailed             Study.  Phase II in Hay 1994.   The suitable  policy  for the svs.e-
irrigation s-hedules have not been                   would be recommended to government and on approval  the  real  timE
completed.  -venthough an 0 & M manual has been  operation model would be taken up by the consultants for the chose-
prepared, th.e guidelines have not been put into  policy to adopt detailed irrigacion schedule in the sYstem.
operation.  The automatic water level



2                                  3                                                               4
recorders have not been installed                     The automatic water level recorders have been installed at the head
because 0 S H staff are not willing                   of the branches/distributorv in t.'e system and the 0 & .Y staff .' e
to take over thair operation.  Already                been suitably  instructed to opera:e and maintain  the water le;el
prope:- maintenance is lacking.  Gate                 recorders properly.  With the inc--ase in allocation of O B tl funds
hoist; :iere seen to have not been                    to the tune of Rs.165/'ha. future  .in-'tenance may no. be a pro3iem.
greaz ed.  Cracks in the lining were visible          Though the modernisation :. the sv:eo is implemented  yv a   :era:
and .eedshave begun to grow through                   special Chief Engineer, :z-e 0 & ' wing of the sys:-=, i under th-
these cracks.  Overall, therefore, the                control of Chief Encineer  irri--:::.) Madras.  Now tha: t:e _as:.
area of improved system  0 S H which                  Manager concept proposed urder hR-? :s under implemen2a:ion Ind t.-:
has remained a weak link, need to be                  would ensure increased and proper s::ention of the sysrem.
given proper and increased attention.
5.1-.       9             The actual average size for RWS being                 The average size of the .lack  fcr  :::e implementation  of RVS varies
Line 11                    used in the Project area is near                       from 8-12 ha. in this prolact.
to 20 ha. an area which is closer to
current bank pr3ctice elsewhere.
In  addition  to  the  six  -ildi-.-   for  Farmers' Asso::s:::;n
Li                         The provision of small meeting room for                nearing completion, seven zore b:>f.-s are proposed unce-: ,RC'.
the farmers association (four blocks)
in sone locations, both providing a venue
for planning of water distribution
and also enhancing a status
of the Association within the village
community. The practice could well be
extended throughout the project
command.



2                             3                                                                        4
13           The crucial aspect which needs early                     rhe results of Phase II Computer study which would be ready
solution is the question of how the canal               wtithin a few months would enable to have a satisfactory solution
system should be operated to accomodate                 in the operation of the system to accommodate the varying rainfall
the varying rainfall condition.                         condition.
13           It is an issue which should be                           The Bank's view will be considered in future projects.
taken up at the time of credit/
loan negotiation in respect of
future projects.
During preparation the presence of                      The design of link canal including  the bed fall, FSD etc. was re-
shallow bed rock in the canal                           examined and analysed in detail before the commencement of work in
alignment could have been fully                         January  1991  with  a  view  to  minimise  the  rock  excavation  and
identified and adequately reflected in canal            embankment formation.   The number of suitable  cross drainage wo.':s
design which would have avoided                         required were also  identified and designed as per the  relevant .S
subsequent construction delays and                      specification.  The designed side slope of the canal is 1:1.  Si-:e
would have saved construction costs.                    the link canal runs partially in cutting and partially in e.-bankr,:=:
the  side  lining            was originally  proposed wi:.S
PCC slabs and insitu concreting for the bed of the canal as alrea-v
followed in the Stage 1 & II of the project works.  The side linins
was proposed with PCC slabs with a view to ensure controlled quali:-                           n
of concrete, adequate curing and speedy manufacture of the P^
slabs.   However the specification for side lining was changed fro,
PCC slabs to insitu concreting by the World Bank at the time of pre-
review of tender documents in Jan. 1990. The    laying    of    insi:u
concreting for the sides having a slope of 1:1 considerably
retarded  the  progress  of  link  canal .    The  lining  of  insi-u
concreting for the side lining of canal was possible only after
allowing  sufficient  time  for  consolidation   of  the  embankment
portion which in turn slowed down the progress. The land acquisition
under emergency clause for a stretch of 600m in the reach
LS 22-25 KM of Link canal         delayed considerably  the progress.
3S.



is of Experience
2                           3                                                                       4
14           e)  The borrowers' O&J staff should be                The 0 & M staff are involved in the project activities and the water
involved in Project implementation as well to    regulations.  Management iss",es including maintenance of water level records
better understand the various components             are discussed in the co-ordination committee meeting  c^nvened every
includinz tbe need for a proper system               month at project level.
O & M me:banism beina in place as quicklv as
possible.  Otherwise. situations such as the
non utilisation of water-level
recorders could arise.
f) It is inortant that proper   maintenace           Government of Tamilnadu has enhanced the 0 & M fund for the p:oper
of the canal lining and other project                maintenance of the canal lining and other rroje-:  works.
works is ensured and adequate fund and s;:ff
allocation :s made for the purpose.
i)  The Dro4ect was handicapped by fre-uent          The field officers were taking all sin_ere effc.-:s to  :eev ur -he
chances of =enior staff and celays in de:loy-    tem?7 of works by mobilising the work force and as such tne r.: re:c
ment of staff for farrer water manacere.-:           procress was not .-empered bv the change c' seni-:r staff.  Fu r:ne.
progaame.  Such occurences should be                 the field officers involved in the execution were not disturned.
avoided in future projects.
The  inter-departmental  co-ordination  meeting at Proje_t  Level  is
undertaken regularly every month (Para 6.3 of SAR 11) with the Agri
department, Agri. Engg. Dept. M&E Cell. Rev. Degt. (localisation and
15           Project relationship                                  land accuisation wing and Aorl. Universitv.   The irpo-;ant issues
related  to the project  activity  and mancoement  are  discussed and
Interactioe between the various governrtent          action taken.   The topics like the =ro?ping sequence to save water
of Tamil dadu departments involved in                and increase agricultural  production, selection  cf  tank,s to stud!
the rroj3eCr -ould have been zetter.                 the  irrication  in  tank  command,  ir:!udinc  seedlin^  :e:hrii se
In particvlar the relationshic between               fertiliser  use  efficiencv,  water  s:ress  ra. ce2nt    _'.e.na:e
PWE's irrigation wing and AD could have              cro;pinz pattern a.e also discussed wi:.  :he A--l.  L .ve:sitv.   As
been cons icerably closer.                           such thre is close liasiOn  not only with the P.h.D  and A-.i. Dec:.
but also with other departments.



27
(c) BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The  main  strength  of  the  Bank's  performance
throughout the project cycle has been its nature and prof-
essional  approach and its ability to respond to the  need
for the change when parts of the original(appraisal)  were
found to need adjustment. This was reinforced by very
high  standard  of excellence in  engineering  supervision
provided which was effective although the field visits
were  of  short duration.  Snme of the studlos  and  pil ot
work viz. geomorphological study, catchment treatment  and
comprehensive basin study of Vaigai basin, were designed
with a major assistance from the Bank during implementati-
on. The Bank carried out its supervision with a flexible
approach  and good understanding of the most  of  problems
and excellent efforts at solving them.
The Bank personnel  were recognised as experts in
their   field  while  the  Mission  members  were   highly
qualified,   knowledgeable   and  experienced   in   their
respective areas.
The  supervision Mission had eighteen  visits  to
the  Project from July'84 to October '93 and  Mission  did
excellent  supervision  in  spite  of  short  duration  of



28
VI irtR. t  ibo ranr . T nif(I P1rt . I I I of Pr,R  Vontnining   the
project  roviow   fro m   tlon  flan k's sporspocttve   including
evaluation   summary and  thie statistical informatlons   are
highly informative and useful.



29
(d) BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The implementation of the project was carried out
with a little or no problem as the Bank staff provided a
very substantial support in all respects, to this  project
particularly on the technical side in the course of
supervision mission.
The   quality  of  lining  and  construction   of
structures, in the project, particularly in the link canal
was of good and very high standard.  Good workmanship  and
proper  techniques   were adopted.   The  relevant  Indian
Standard  specifications  were followed.  The  World  Bank
Mission appreciated the efforts made by the Project  staff
to  maintain high standard of construction in  lining  and
structures.    The  progress  of  link  canal  works   was
monitored with the preparation of S.curves.
In  the construction of aqueducts in link  canal,
innovative expansion joints with replaceable PVC water
stops  were  adopted  for  the first  time  basod  on  the
suggestion of the World Bank.



30
The construction of syphon across Vaigai river to
feed  TMC,  particularly the barrel portion  in  river,was
comploted much ahead of the schedule.
The protective works such as catchment  treatment
were  taken  up by the AED  and  Forest  Department  below
Vaigal  Dam upto Peranai regulator to contain the  problem
of soil erosion from the point of view of sustainability
of the Project.
Reimbursement    claims  were  sent  every   month
promptly to the Bank.  The progress reports and the  audit
certificates  were furnished to the Bank  promptly  within
due dates.   All  the covenents have been fully complied
with except the revision of water charges under Section
3.03(c) which is under active consideration in the GOTN.
Adequate budget provisions were made every year
for  the speedy implementation of the project as  per  the
schedule.
The  inter-departmental co-ordination with  other
departments was generally good.
Lessons learned
1.   The lining of canal net work upto 10ha. block and
the rehabilitation of structures under modernisation  have
enabled  the delivery of timely and required  quantity  of



31
water  to tail end reaches, thereby considerably  reducing
the travel time.
2.    Maintenance  of lining of  canals  and  all
allied   works   in  the  project  are   vital   for   the
sustainability of the Project.
3.   The link canal connecting Vaigai Dam and  PMC
will enhance the overall operational efficiency of the
system and prevent silt entry into the PMC.
4.    The water management training  imparted  at
the training centre, vinayagapuram to the farmer leaders
and field level officers of PWD, AE D and Agrl. Dept. is
highly beneficial to increase the agricultural  production
and  optimal use of the available water  more  efficiently
and economically.
5.    The  VHF net work system installed  in  the
system has enabled the 0 f M staff to have effective water
regulation,  operation  and  maintenace  in  the   system.
During November '93 floods, the VHF system played an
effective role for quick communication to the remote areas
for carrying out flood relief operations.
6.    In the case of time bound  external  aided
projects,  certain relaxation in the L.A.  prodcedures  is
necessary  as  otherwise the progress of project  will  be



32
considerably hampered resulting in cost escalation.
7.    The  Civil works Involved in  the  project
area,   mostly  irrigation  cannals  were  highly    labour
oriented  and  scattered'over a larger area.   Such  works
under  LCB procedure required greater flexibility  on  the
part  of the contractors.  At least 20% of  total  project
cost, will involve works      costing less than Rs.2  lakhs.
Such  works may be considered for execution under  the  K2
Agreement  of  GOTN which would enable to  complete  these
works within a short time by the local contractors.    This
procedure is now followed in NWMP project.
8.   The project is not expected to have adverse
enviromental  effects.   The  catchment  treatment   works
completed below Vaigai Dam and the similar works  proposed
to  be  taken up above Vaigai Dam  will  prevent  sediment
entry  into the river and reduce the sedimentation in  the
Vaigai reservoir.
The canal lining has reduced the ponding of water
and mosquito breeding.
10.  The  PCC slablining for the side slope of the link
canal in the case ot embankment portion is found to be a
better  alternative  rather than  insitu  concrete  lining
based on the experience gained in tho project.



33
11. The project implementation indicators listed
in the SAR are normally used as the norms for measuring
the progress during supervision. In  the case of  variation
in  details given in SAR depending on the  site  condition
and  other  factors, such details were  appraised
during  visits,  for  the  mission   to   examine
critically and to suitably revise the indicators
on the SAR cost tables.  The SAR was a useful
document  for the main components and  formed a  practical
frame  work  for  the Bank and  borrower  in  the  project
implementation.
12.  The communication between the  Bank and the
Borrower  including  commitments  and draw  down  of  loan
proceeds  shall  be sufficiently well documented  so  that
when the change in Govt. or Mission personnel occurs, such
changes may not affect the project implementation.
13. The CAD works and implementation of RWS have
encouraging  results to provide reliable,adequate and timely
supply water to the tail end areas.    The  roll  of  farmers'
Association is effective in the management of water
distribution.
14.    The   improved   system   operation   and
agricultural  practices combined with conjunctive  use  of



34
canal and  ground water have  increased                        the
farm income, cropping intenst ty, and the yield from 3.0 to
4.5 -6T/ha. in the  post project rof lecting ea increase in the
yield  level  of the tail reach to the level of  the  head
reach.  Regarding economic impact, the re-estimated ERR at
21% compared to 18% at appraisal and the sensitivily tests
indicate that the project will remain economically  viable
15.   As per SAR II, the original agreed   credit
assistance  of  SDR  33.2 M (US 35 million  dollar)
was  programmed to be absorbed from  10/83   to
4/89 by incurring a total expenditure Rs.58.56crores.  But
even after incurring a total expenditure of Rs.115   crores
upto  10/93  ie.   the credit closing  date,  there  is  a
balance of SDR 1.8 Million which is mainly due to the
fluctuation in the exchange rate between US dollar a
Indian  Rupee  from Rs.10 to Rs.31.20.  It  is  considered
that         suitable  provisions  in   the    reimbursement
procedure shall be made so as to fully absorb  the  credit
assistance whenever there is fluctuation in exchange rate.
16.   The  tender accepting authority  shall  be
permitted    to  use  his  discretion  and  to  relax   the
"Capability"   clause  prescribed in  the  tender  document
while awarding the tender to the lowest bidder.



35
17. The bidding time of 30 days shall be fixed
irrespective  of the value of works inorder to settle  the
agency without loss of time.
18.    The  computers installed in  the  Pertyar
Vaigai  Project  help to store and analyse the  flow  data,.
rainfall etc.Thesecomputers will play an active role in the
scheduling and proper allocation of water to each block in
the command on receipt of real    time Operation model from
the  Anna  University.   The computer  facilities  can  be
further enlarged.
19. The 0 a M Quarters constructed at different
location   in  the  command  area  provide  a  very   good
infrastructure   fo,r 0 a M personnel for quick and  timely
operation  of  the  water  allocation,  distribution   and
management in the system.



36
(e) Assess the effectiveness of the relationship
between the Bank and the Borrower.
The   relationship  between  the  Bank  and   the
Borrower was positive and constructive.  The Bank had good
working relationships with the Government of Tamilnadu
and Government of India.
The  Bank  officials were very cordial   and  co-
operative in the implementation of the Project.



37
(f) Evaluate the performance of co-financiers, and
assess  the effectiveness of their relationship  with  the
Borrower, during the evolution and implementation of the
project.
Does not arise



38
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
La=n/Cdit Title                  Purpoe                ApproAi              Smtas                     Comments
Date
Cr. 720-IN            To upgrade the irrigation system   Feb. 1977   Project closed on 12/31/84   The project upgraded an old
Periyar Vaigai I      through lining of canals down to            after two extensions.       system utilizing water
Irrigation Project    10-ha blocks in the old PV                                              diverted eastwards from the
(USS23.0 million)     system, improvement to existing                                         western slopes of the Ghats.
tanks, construction of link canal                                      It introduced rotational
(subsequently deferred),                                               supply to the 10-ha blocks
extension of irrigation area with                                      during periods of restricted
water saved by lining,                                                 supply or reduced demand.
construction of canal service and
village roads, strengthening of
agricultural extension.
Cr. 17704IN           To increase productivity and    Mar. 1987   Project on-going, current    At present some 84 schemes
National Water        farm incomes in existing                    closing date 03/31/94,      covering some 1.8 million ha
Management Project   irrigation schemes through a                 expected closing date      in 10 states are under
(USS114.0 million)    more reliable, predictable and              03/31/95.                   implementation. About 10
equitable irrigation service, and                                      schemes are nearly
to assist GOI and participating                                        completed, 6 in Karnataka, 3
states in developing an                                                in Tamil Nadu and I in
institutional capacity to plan,                                        Kerala. The field impact of
implement and monitor                                                  some substantially
improved irrigation O&M                                                completed schemes on
practic:-s. Number of states                                           agricultural production and
participating in the NWMP has                                          irrigation water distribution
increased to 10, including the 3                                       is encouraging, with schemes
originally participating states                                        in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu
(AP, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu)                                            and Kerala realizing more
and 7 additional states (Bihar,                                        than 17%-57% increase in
Gujarat, Haryana, Kerala, MP,                                          crop yield levels compared
Orissa and UP).                                                        to pre-NWMP period. Major
problems requiring GOTN
attention are:
(i) establishment of wireless
communication system;
(ii) establishment of
farmers' organisations in all
NWMP schemes to take
over O&M responsibilities;
(iii) resolution of land rights
issue to facilitate
construction of by-pass
channels for tanks in
Thambarapani scheme; and
(iv) establishment of
monitoring system for canal
systems operation in all
NWMP commands.
Cr. 1631-IN           To strengthen location specific    Oct. 1985   Project on-going, current    The research support now
National Agricultural  research at the level of the agro-         closing date 06/30/94,      given by the Rcscarch
Research Project      climatic zoncs of India, including          expected closing date       System is good, howevcr,
(USS72.l million)     Tamil Nadu, providing necded                06/30/96.                   on-farm water management
ficld-oricnted rescarch support                                        studics nced to bc
to the on-going projects                                               strengthened in lIamil Nadu.
including irrigation.



39
Loan/Credit TiLle                purpo                ApprWoal             Status                   Comments
Date
Cr. 2215-IN          To improve the capability of    Dec. 1991   Project on-going; credit    Progrcss of project
Agricultural Dev.     GOTN to analyse agricultural               closing date scheduled     implementation is mixed;
Project, Tamil Nadu    development constraints and               09/30/98.                  there is steady progress in
(USS92.8 million)    establish investment priorities;                                       planning, agriculture
to develop key institutions for                                       extension, livestock
rendering more cost-effective                                         development and forestry
services to farmers; to support                                       components. Rural roads,
selected priority state investment                                    rural water supply and civil
programmes in agricultural and                                        works entrusted to PWD are
rural development identiried in                                       severely handicapped by
the state perspective plan for                                        delays in procurement,
agriculture as drawn-up during                                        causing slow progress of
preparation and updated                                               works and credit utilization.
throughout the project period.
Cr. 1454-IN          To improve water supply in      Mar. 1984   Project on-going; credit    Physical progress is
Tamil Nadu Water    large urban areas and provide                closing date scheduled     satisfactory except for the
Supply and Sanitation  water supply to certain smaller           06/30/93, now extended to   delay on the 3 major pipe-
Project               towns and rural areas, to provide          12/31/94.                  laying contracts. The 3
(USS73.0 million)    low cost sanitation to selected                                        major cities have, however,
urban communities, to assist in                                       to improve collection
developing water resource                                             performance.
management strategies and to
strengthen the T.N. Water
Board's institutional, managerial
and financial practices.
Cr. 1822-IN          To increase water supply and    June 1987   Project on-going; credit   The project's physical and
Madras Water Supply  improve system reliability- to              closing date scheduled     financial implementation has
and Sanitation        improve and extend the sewage               12/31/95.                 improved, however, annual
Project              collection and treatment system                                        project expenditure will have
(USS69.0 million)     and develop a plan for the                                            to increase in order to
immediate and long-term needs                                         complete the project by the
of Madras; to improve billings                                        loan closing date; GTN has
and collections; increase tariffs                                     requested approval of
and improve operational                                               further improvement to the
efficiency, as well as initiate a                                     water distribution system
programme of low-cost                                                 and additional training
sanitation.                                                           facilities and safety
equipment.



40
2. Project Timetable
Item                            Date Planned         Date Revised          Actual Date
Identification/Preparation          n.a.                 n.a.              October 1982
Appraisal Mission              September 1983              -              Sept./Oct. 1983
Credit Negotiations                 n.a.                  n.a.             March 1984
Board Approval                                                             1 May 1984
Credit Signature                                                         12 October 1984
Credit Effectiveness                                                      10 January 1985
Credit Closing                  30 April 1989       ( 30 April 1990      31 October 1993
( 30 April 1991
( 30 April 1992
( 30 April 1993
(31 October 1993
Credit Completion"/
Date of Final Disbursement"/
t/ To be filled in as the Credit had not been completed and the date of final disbursement was not known
at the time of PCR mission's field visit.
Comments:
Delayed implementation, slowed disbursements and the expansion of the project scope
to include the construction of a 30 km Link canal and associated structures, resulted in
a four anL a half year extension of the credit closing date to 31 October 1993 to enable
Link canal construction works - recently disrupted by a cyclonic storm - to be completed
and to draw down as far as possible funds available in the credit.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year      1985   1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991   1992  1993  1994
Appraisal Estimate      4.8   10.8    21    30    35    35    35    35    35    35 1/
Actual Disbursed       3.23  11.26  16.68  22.28  25.28  27.04  28.34  30.21   35.2    39 2/
Actual as % of
Appraisal Estimate     67%   104%   79%   74%   72%   77%   81%   86%  101%  111%
1/ Credit 1468-IN was for SDR16.6 million (US$17.5 million equivalent), and
Special Fund Credit 16-IN was for SDR16.6 million (US$17.5 million equivalent).
2/ Credit 1468-IN for SDR16.6 million (US$18.9 million equivalent) was
fully disbursed on January 16, 1991; Final Disbursement from the Special Fund
Credit 16-IN was made on March 16, 1994. Of the total Special Fund Credit of
SDR16.6 million, SDR14.8 million (US$20.1 million equivalent) was disbursed
and SDR1.8 million was cancelled.



41
Comments:
The disbursement schedule was revised 5 times, in an attempt to use all the credit, about
94% of which will be disbursed under the project. At the closure of the project (31
October 1993), the undisbursed balance has been estimated at US$2.5 million (SDR1.8
million). Although the original amount of the credit was US$35 million equivalent,
because of the exchange rate movements of the SDR vis-a-vis the US dollar, the revised
estimate of the credit is now US$41.6 million (SDR33.2 million).
4. Project Implementation
Apprisal    Revises&/  Achtal a on  Actual m %
Indicators                           Unit       Estimate       Estimate    10/31/1993   of Revied
1.        Main Cana                                           km            92.5           87.0          87.0         100
2.        Branch Channels                                     km            59.1           79.8          79.8         100
i         Distnbutaries                                       km           740.6        1,008.9       1,008.9         100
4.        Structures                                          Nos.         1,423          1,136         1,136         100
S.        Improvements to Tanks                               Nos.         1,258          1,247         1,247         100
5.1 Reshaping of tanks                             Nos.           -              881           881          100
6&        O&M  Roads                                          km           1195           143.6         143.6         100
7.        Buildinp (Farmers' Aodciatons)                      Nos.           375            180          173?         963/
8         On-Farm Dcevlpment
(a) Construction of field channels                  Ha          61,000        56,729         56,729         100
(b) Threshing platforms                            Nos.           600            863           863          100
(c) Rotational water supply                         Ha          81,000        13,157:/       13,157         100
(d) Cart tracks                                     km            100           111.2         111.2         100
9.        VHF Communication Network                           Nos.           29             29            29          100
10.       Link canal supply 5/
(a) Main canal                                      km            -             32.4          26.431         81
(b) Structures                                     Nos.           -              102            89           87
(c) Buildings                                      Nos.           -                9             8           89
(d) Distributaries (1,620 ha)                       km            -             62.0          -               0
(e) Syphon across Vaigai to feed TMC6/              %             -              100            90           90
(i)  Head sluice & leading channel              Nos.           -               1           -              0
(ii) Barrel                                     Nos.           -               1             1          100
(iii) Connecting channel                        Nos.           -               I           -              0



42
Appal    RcviscdcP   Actual as on Actdl a 
ludiotm                           Unit    pEuimate        Estimate   10/31/1993   of Rcvised
11.      New Extensions
(a) Extending irrigation facilities to 6
tanks in Singampunari area                  km           -             9.9         6.8          69
(b) Extending irrigation facilities to
Thirupathur big tank and 13
other tanks                                 km            -           13.2        .7/            0
(c) Extending irrigation facilities to
Maravamangalam big tank and 40
other tanks                                 km            -           19.0                       0
12.      Catebmt Tzeatment Works
(1) Afforestation works                         Ha           -            513          513         100
(2) Vegetative binding                          km           -            3.0          3.0         100
(3) Check dams
(a) Masonry check dams                      Nos.         -             96           96          100
(b) Dry check dams                          Nos.         -           1,078        1,078         100
(4) Stream training works                       Ha           -          4,624        4,624         100
(5) Contour stone wall                          Ha           -             22           22         100
(6) Silt detention tanks                       Nos.          -             11           11         100
(7) Percolation ponds                          Nos.          -             5            5          100
1/    Physical quantities were revised in February 1988 to include under the project additional irrigation and field channels
for irrigation. These quantities were subsequently revised per actual requirements.
2/    Six buildings for farmers' associations are presently under construction; one additional building for inspection officers at
Batkagundu will be started in November 1993.
3/    Estimated completion on 31 October 1993.
41    Work will be taken up after completing main canal works. Refer to discussion in Part 1.
5/    Link canal, identified under Phase 1, was included in the project during June 1990 and project costs revised
subsequently.
6/   Work awarded recently.
7/    Works to be taken up shortly
8/   Tender under scrutiny.



43
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(in US$ million Equivalent)
AjnPraisw Esliatec... Rei"ed       E   . .....  AtL.....
Item                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~% of SAR
lam   Poip  Totl       I   Pa   Tot   Il Pos io   TodAl
Civil Works on the Canal Network      25.9    1.8  27.7  43.30       0.0  43.9  40.1       0.0  40.1   1454/
Rehabilitation Peranai Regulator       1.0    0.3   1.3    0.7    0.0   0.7   0.7    0.0   0.7    54
On-Farm Development Works              10.1    OA   10.5   11.8    0.0  11.8  11.8    0.0  11.8   112
Improved System Operations             2.0    0.4   2.4    3.3    0.0   3.3   3.7    0.0   3.7   154
Introduction of RWS                    2.4    0.3   2.7    0.1    0.0   0.1   0.1          0.0   0.1      1
Training                                0.6    0.2   0.8    0.9    0.0   0.9   0.9    0.0   0.9   113
Monitoring and Evaluation              1.5    0.1   1.6    2.4    0.0   2.4   2.1    0.0   2.1   131
Engineering Supervis. & Administration   -       -     -    119      0.0  11.9  10.3    0.0  10.3        -
Total Bacline Costs                  43.5     35   46.8
Physical Contingencies                 4.6    0.5   5.1
Price Contingencies                    6.2    0.5   6.7
TOTAL PROJECr COSP                   54.3     45   58.8   75.0          75.63   69.7           69.7   119
1/   Figures in USS were derived from actual Rupee figures as provided by PWD. Small discrepancies are due to conversions
and roundings.
2/   Actual project cost for RWS is USSO.03 million.
/    Breakdown into base cost is not available for the Revised Estimate.
"/   Now includes Link canal.
B. Project Financing
. --= Planned .........     Final   .
Source                  USS million        %        USS million        %
IDA (Total)                               35.02/         60.0         39.1           56.03/
1. Civil Works 3/                          23.8           -           31.6            -
2. On-Farm  Development                     8.4            -            7.0
3. Equipment and Vehicles                   1.2            -           0.1
4. Technical Services                       0.2            -            0.4
5. Unallocated                              1.4            -            -             -
Domestic                                   23.8          40.0         30.6           44.0
TOTAL:                                  58.8         100.0         69.7          100.0
1/ Estimated up to 31 October 1993.
2/ Includes USS17.5 million from regular IDA sources and US$17.5 from the IDA
Special Fund.
3/   Now includes Link canal.
Source: For Planned Financing, page 66 of SAR.



44
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate   Estimate at Closing Date
......... For Total Command Area 
Increased Irrigated Areas (ha)                      17,826k/               18,332
Increased Paddy Production ('000 tons)               1423                   177.5
Increased Groundnut Production ('000 tons)             6.2                   3.5
Increased Cotton Production ('000 tons)                1.2
Increased Gram Production ('000 tons)                  2.8                   3.9
Increased Sugarcane Production ('000 tons)            40.5                   77.7
Directly Benefitting Farm Families                  65,000                 65,000
Generated Farm Employment (M md/y) 2/                  3.5                   5.0
Generated Non-Farm Employment (m/y) 3/              45,000                 57,000
Value Added in Agriculture (Rs M/a year) 2/            225                   638
Increased Farm Incomes (1.2 ha Holding/Rs) 4/         2,900                 5,000
1/  For total command area of 81,069 ha under Periyar Vaigai I and II (Pre-project area assumed at
63,243 ha; now newly assessed at 58,405 ha).
2/  At full development.
3/  During construction period.
4/  Refers tk. paddy only, weighted average incremental farm income in Rs a year.
B. Economic Impact 1/
Appraisal Estimate (%)    Actual (M)
Economic Rate of Return
Underlying Assumptions
- Discount Period (Years)                            30                 30
- Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                  0.8                 0.8
ERR Overall Project                                  18 2/              21
l/ Details in Annex 1.
2/  Based on historical data bctween 1977-83 (i.c. including sunk costs).



45
C. Studies
Sbtdi         Purpose   DeGDned at appraisl        Stats                 Impect                   Comments
Computer-Assisted  SAR, paras. 4.02, 4.11, 4.23, 6.12, Phase I completed  Essential to evaluation of    Contracted to Centre for
System Studies     9.02 refer. Purpose to define and Phase 11 on-going  operational options in this   Water Resources, Anna
test rules of system operation.                  complex system.             University.
Ditto              Ditto                           Phase I completed  Following on the above, this Ditto.
Phase II on-going  study is to devise means of  The degree of detail of
real-time computer-assisted  inputs envisaged in the
operations of the PV system. SAR has had to be
simplified.
Preparation of     SAR, paras. 4.12, 4.23, 6.09 and   Draft completed,  A number of policy decisions Simple practical rules need
O&M Manual         9.02 (f) refer. Purpose to provide but final version   on priorities in irrigation  to be devised for what is
a manual for daily operation,    awaits outcome of supply within the project    inherently a complex
consistent with the results of the the above     command need to be taken.  project (refer to discussion
above system studies.          operational studies                          in PCR text).
Pilot Operation    SAR, para. 6.17 refers. Purpose  Annual reports on  An input to the preparation
Studies of BC2 and  is to test operating rules at the   operation of the   of the Manual referred to
BC6 Areas          branch canal level.             area are being    above.
produced
Monitoring of Canal SAR, para. 6.17 refers. Purpose  Complete                                    Observations were
Seepage LosSeS     is to permit closer estimation of                                            continued up to 1986.
losses from lined canals, in
planning system operation.
Yield, Production    SAR, para. 6.17 refers. Purpose  Complete. Report                           Carried out by the
and Project Benefits is to provide data for continuing  produced                                 Directorate of Evaluation
poject evaluation.                                                           and Applied Research.
Collection of      SAR, para. 6.17 refers. Aim is to A continuing    An input to evaluation of    Carried out by Hydrology
Hydrologic Data    coilect data on actual project    function. Annual  system operation.         Division of PWD.
inflows and distribution.      reviews received
Crop Cutting       SAR, parm. 6.17 refers. Aims at  In progress                                  Carried out by Dept. of
Surveys            accounting for differences in                                                Agriculture. Services of a
yields in different parts of the                                             full-time statistician
command. Also yield data on                                                  suggested in SAR.
newly introduced crops.
Socio-Economic     SAR, paras. 4.02 and 6.17(f)    Study of Ext. I and                           Carried out by DEAR.
Base-Line Survey    refer. Preparation of base-line   11 area completed
data and also evaluation of
performance of the Stage I area.
Review of Irrigation SAR, paras. 7.19 and 9.02 refer.  Report still being
Charges            Aims at a simplified set of    reviewed by
charges within the project area,  GOTN
adequate for recovery of O&M
costs.
Monitoring of      SAR, para. 6.17(c).             Annual reports    An input to updating of    Joint activity of PWD and
Changes in                                        received           financial returns to        Revenue Department.
Cropping Pattern                                                     cultivators and consideration
of water charges.
Studies Relating to  The subject was raised in the
Siltation at Peranai  SAR (para. 4.07 refers) but the
Replator           studics subsequently carried out
werc not specificd at that time.



46
Studies       Purpoe as Derined at appisal        Staks                  Impact                   cka l
- Sediment Trap    These studies aimed at exclusion Completed        lbe subsequent decision to  Study by IHA Poone.
- PMC Flushing     of silt from entry to the PMC    Ditto            construct the Link canal   Study by CWPRS.
Sluice            below the Peranai regulator, and                 largely solved the immediate
- Peranai Regulator from building up in front of the  Ditto          problem. However, siltation  Ditto
Guide Bund        regulator.                                       of the Vaigai river remains
an issue, and resulted in the
catchment protection studies
noted below.
Geomorphological   Not envisaged at the time of   A report on the    Construction of the Vaigai   Protective works by
Study of Erosion in  appraisal, but requested in 1992  Upper Vaigai  reservoir, and currently the  Agriculture Dept. and
the Vaigai         in connection with the Peranai   catchment has    Link canal, reduces the flows Forestry are currently
Catchment, and     regulator problem.             been completed. A  in the Vaigai river and its   being constructed, in line
Resulting                                         report on the      capacity to convey silt. The   with the recommendations
Sedimentation of                                   lower catchment is situation underlines the need of the study report.
the Vaigai River                                  in progress       to reduce or intercept
Channel                                                              erosion in the catchment.
Analysis of        Purpose includes the effect of    Reports have been Groundwater is now seen as Refer to discussion in the
Groundwater        lining of project canals on supply prepared by PWD  making a larger contribution  text of PCR.
Potential in the   to wells.                       Groundwater      to cropping in the project
Project Area                                       groups and other  area than envisaged at the
agencies          time of appraisal.
On-Farm            To evaluate the performance of  Report completed  OFD works are a key        Responsibility of the
Development Works distribution systems within the                    feature in the *Direct-    Agricultural Engineering
and Their Impact   *10 ha' block.                                    irrigation area, as also   Department.
improvement of such works
in the *Indirect areas
commanded by Tanks.
Evaluation of      Rotational supply to the '10 ha'  Report completed                           Prepared by DEAR.
Rotational Water   blocks (primary rotation) is an
Supply             essential feature of the project.
Rotational supply to individual
holdings or to sub-areas within
the block (secondary rotation) is
desirable at the time of land
preparation for paddy, but is
optimal during the growth
period. The study evaluates such
rotation.
Study of Impact of                                 Report completed  The Committee leaders are a Prepared by DEAR.
Training of Block                                                    critical element in sustaining
and Sluice                                                          the successful functioning of
Committee Leaders                                                    water user groups.



47
7. Status of Covenants
CGvna t  LepI Doennnt                     Subject                Deadline for      Status             Cormntt
Sebot  Credit Aement                                            c
2.02                     GOTN shall employ consultants for          -        Fully complied
carrying out parts E & G of the
project.
2.06                     For O&M of the irrigation distribution  12/31/84    Full complied
networks, GOTN shall establish in
PWD an Executive Engineer.
2.07                     GOTN shall strengthen Agricultural     12/31/84     Fully complied
Engineering Department to provide
Rotational Water Supply.
2.08                     GOTN shall establish in Public Works   12/31/84     Fully complied
Department a Monitoring and
Evaluation cell.
2.09                     GOTN shall establish suitable farmer       -        Fully complied
organizations as and when required.
2.10                     GOTN shall furnish to IDA a revised    12/31/86     Fully complied  Revision to the manual
O&M manual.                                                       would be made if and when
guidelines are changed as a
result of on-going operation
simulation studies.
2.16                     Necessary powers to PWD to                 -           Partially
adequately distribute, regulate and                   complied
schedule water supply in project area.
3.01                     Maintain separate records and accounts     -        Fully complied
and furnish accounts and financial
statements as soon as available, but in
any case not later than 9 months after
end of such year.
3.02                     Get their accounts and financial           -        Fully complied
statements audited and furnish Audit
Report immediately following
finalization.
3.03 A                    PWD to review water charges and        12/31/86     Fully complied  Review has been done.
exchange views with IDA.
3.03 B                    Ensure budget allocation to adequately     -        Fully complied  Only for Periyar Vaigai
cover O&M expenses of irrigation                                  project, RslOO/ha have been
system.                                                           sanctioned.
3.03 C                    GOTN to review irrigation water        12/31/87    Non compliance Review report is still under
charges annually, commencing                                      consideration by GOTN.
December 31, 1986.                                                GOTN has raised water
charges to cover O&M costs.
Further increases are under
consideration.



S. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs - (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle        FY 83   FY 84   FY 85   FY 86   FY 87   FY 8    FY 89   FY 90   FY 91   FY 92   FY 93   FY 94   Total
Identification/Preparation          5.2       13                                                                                      18.2
Appraisal                                   52.5                                                                                      52.5
Negotiations                                 1.9                                                                                       1.9
Supervision                                          7.1    31.1    25.4    13.3    22.3    20.4    21.4       7.8      10           158.8
PCR                                                                                                                           10.7    10.7
TOTAL                           5.2    67.4      7.1    31.3    25.4    13.3    22.3    20.4    21.4      7.8       10    10.7   242.1
B. Missions                                              ..
..... . . . . Perfor nnce Rating 3/ . . . . . . . . .
Mission Type                   Month/Year1/   No. of   Days in  Specialization2.e/ ._.                                                            Type of
Persons   Field                       Av. Funds  Management  Dev. Iapct  Covents  Overall  Probt o4/
Identification N.A. (This is a second stage
project)
Appraisat                                         Oct. 93         3         16         E, A, EC
Supervision   1                                   JuLy 84         2          5           E, A             1            1            1            1         1          -
Supervision   2                                   Jan. 85         3          4           E, A             3            1            1            1         1          F
Supervision   3                                   Aug. 85         4          5          E, PE             1            1            1            -         1
Supervision   4                                   Jan. 86         2          5          E, PE             1            2            1                      2          M
Supervision   5                                   July 86         4          6         E, A, PE           2           2             1                      2          N
Supervision   6                                   May  87         3          6          E, PE             1           2             1                      2          N
Supervision   7                                   Dec. 87         3          5         E, A, PE           1            1            1                      1
Supervision   8                                   Aug. 88         4          5          E, PE             1            1            1                      2
Supervision   9                                   Feb. 89         5         10         E, A, PE           1            1            1                      2          M



Mission Type                   Month/Year    No. of   Days in  Speciaization2/                            Perforce Rati 
Persons   Field                        Av. Funds  Management  Dev. Impect  Covenants  Overall  Probt i/
Supervision  10                                    Aug. 89         4          6            E, A             2            1            1            2          2        M, F
Supervision  11                                    Mar. 90         3          5         E, PE, EC           2            1            1            2          2          -
Supervision  12                                    Sep. 90         3          7           E, EC             2            1            1            2          2          -
Supervision  13                                    June 91         4          7         F, A, FA            1            1            2            2          2          T
Supervision  14                                    Dec. 91         2         10            E, A             1            1            1            1          1          -
Supervision  15                                    Jun. 92          1         5             E               1            2            2            1          2
Supervision  16                                    Dec. 92          1         7             E               1            2            2            1          2
Supervision  17                                    May  93         2         13           E, PE             1            2            1            1          2          -
Supervision  18                                    Oct. 93                                 Combined with PCR Mission.  Report not yet available.
1/   Date of Return to HO.
2/   A = Agriculturalist;   E   Irrigation Engineer;   FA   Financial Analyst;   PE = Procurement Engineer;  EC = Economist.
3/   1 = Problem free or minor problems;  2 = Moderate problems;   3 = Major problem.
F = Financial;   M = Managerial;   T = Technical.



50
ANNEX 1
PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF PERIYAR VAIGAI SYSTEM
The following are the principal features of the Periyar Vaigai system:
The Periyar dam and reservoir on the western slopes of the Ghats,
and the tunnel leading to the eastern slopes. The diverted water
joins the Suruliar river, tributary of the Vaigai. A hydro-electric
plant (140,000 kW) utilizes the fall between the tunnel exit and the
Suruliar.  Although they are not components of the two Bank
projects, having been constructed in the 1890s, the dam and diversion
tunnel are essential features of the Periyar Vaigai development as a
whole.
The 5,900 ha Cumbum irrigation area in the Suruliar valley. This
old system has de facto priority to the diverted Periyar water.
However, the net consumptive withdrawal is very small.
The Vaigai dam and reservoir some 75 km downstream from the
tunnel outlet. Constructed in 1958, the Vaigai reservoir serves to re-
regulate the discharges from the hydro-electric plant for irrigation
use, in particular storing power releases during the non-irrigation
months. Part of the capacity of the reservoir is reserved for Periyar
water, and part for regulation of water from the Vaigai catchment
itself, the latter for the benefit of users on the lower Vaigai (outside
of the project area).
The Peranai regulator. Constructed at the time of work on Periyar
dam, this regulator located 35 km downstream from the site of the
Vaigai dam has served to re-divert Periyar water from the Vaigai
river into the main canals leading to the left bank (PMC) and right
bank (TMC) canals serving the Periyar Vaigai irrigation area. The
Stage II project as originally defined included rehabilitation of the
regulator.
The Link canal. The situation described above will change early in
1994 when the Link canal is commissioned, directly conveying
releases from Vaigai Reservoir by a 31 km lined canal into the head
of the PMC and TMC canals, thereby by-passing this reach of the
Vaigai river channel. The Link canal, recommended earlier but
subsequently dropped from Stage I, was re-introduced into the
Stage II project late in the implementation period and is now nearing
completion. The reasons for construction of the Link canal are
discussed later. With introduction of the Link canal the Peranai
regulator is no longer regularly required, and assumes a standby role.



51
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation 11 Projcct
Project Complelion Report
Annex 1: Principal Features of Pcriyar Vaigai System
The PMC (left bank) and TMC (right bank) canal systems.
Constructed at the time of Periyar dam, these originally unlined
canals served a 58,400 ha area, delivering water to blocks of 60 ha
or more, within which water was distributed largely by field-to-field
flow. This was the pre-Stage I project situation. The canal system
has now been fully lined and extended down to "10 ha" blocks
through the Stage I and II projects. Distribution channels, in part
lined, have also been constructed within the blocks.
The extension areas. The pre-project command has been extended
by 18,330 ha through the two Bank projects. The extension was
justified in the SARs by the savings in water due to reduction in
seepage losses achieved through canal lining. In fact improved
operational efficiency achieved partly as a result of lining and partly
through introduction of better water distribution methods may be
equally relevant to the extension of irrigated area. The pre-project
and with-project irrigated areas are summarized in Annex 2 of this
report.
Rehabilitation of tanks. An unusual feature of the project area is
the existence of some 1,200 small reservoirs, referred to as "tanks",
many of them centuries old. When full, they cover about 20% of the
gross project area. They represent a substantial part of the total
storage available to the project (about 18%), and are a key factor in
its operation. Originally constructed to store run-off from rainfall,
they have now been connected to the canal supply system in the
course of the two Bank projects. Their embankment dams have been
rehabilitated where necessary, also the outlet control structures, and
a limited amount of lined channel construction has been carried out,
where needed, within their irrigation commands. The latter are now
referred to as "indirect" commands, canal supply reaching them via
their tanks, as distinct from "direct" commands which are served
directly from the canal system.
On-farm development. The Projects have included improvement and
extension of channel systems within the "10 ha" blocks, including
local lining where necessary.  They have also provided for
organization of cultivators into water groups, and introduction of
Rotational Water Supply within the 10 ha blocks.
Modif;cation to area of command. In the course of execution of the
Stage ll project more accurate surveys have reduced the indicated



52
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation If Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 1: Principal Features of Periyar Vaigai System
area of command (including Stage I and II Extensions) from the
figure of 81,069 ha in the SAR to 76,737 ha. On the other hand
recent additions to the supply of tank commands in three locations
have added 2,669 ha to the area served, although the latter have
been accorded low priority of supply. These areas are incorporated
in the Bank project, also the cost of the associated works. As
discussed in connection with the Link canal, GOTN proposes to
supply an area of 1,620 ha lying adjacent to the Link canal, and to
be served by diversion from it. This latter area is not included in the
project. The area considered in the economic analysis in this report,
and in comments on the irrigation supply/demand position, is the
amended SAR figure of 76,737 ha. This is the Gross Cultivable
Command Area (Gross CCA). In estimating areas of irrigated crop
a figure of Net CCA (95% of Gross) is used.






53
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
ANNEX 2
AREAS COMMANDED BY THE PROJECT






54
INDIA: Penyar Vaipi Irription 11 Projt
Projec Completion Report
Annex 2: Amu Commanded by the Projec
Table 1. Pre and Post-Project Command Areas
Double       Single       Total
A. PRE-PROJECT "OLD" AREAS
'Double Crop Zone"
- Area gazetted double paddy                  18,226 ha
- Remainder nominally single paddy                         11,408 ha
Total "Double Crop Zone"                                               29,634 ha
Other "Old' Areas (All Single)
- Periyar Main Canal                                       23,242 ha
- Thirumangalam Main Canal                                  5,529 ha
Total Other Areas                                                      28,771 ha
TOTAL "OLD" ASEAS:                                                      58,405 ha
B. EXTENSION (NEW) AREAS
Periyar Vaigai I                                           10,305 ha
Periyar Vaigai II                                           8,027 ha
TOTAL NEW AREAS:                                                        18,332 ha
C. TOTAL, WITH PROJECT - OLD AND NEW                                        76,737 ha
Of the above total of 76,737 ha, the
'direct' irrigated area is        33,651 ha
and the 'indirect' (via tanks) is  43,086 ha
D. ANCILLARY AREAS (additional to above)
Service to peripheral tanks, PMC command                                 2,669 ha
(Low priority water entitlement)
Possible supply to areas adjacent to Link canal.                         1,620 ha
Note: The figures are Gross Cultivable Commandable Areas. For purposes of computing cropped areas
the Net CCA is taken as 0.95 x Gross CCA.



55
INDIA: Periyar Vaigpi lrrigation 11 Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 2 Areas Commanded by the Project
Table 2. Breakdown of Command Areas (ha)
.-|*-     EXTDC ONAREAS    ......
Pw4.ing                          I                       Totl
Coo_ud Af=         Peflyr Va4i I    Peniyr Vaigi 11
AL BY CROPPING PATIERNS
Doubk-Crop Axes
- Up to Kallindiri Regulator                     18,226                                                 18,226
Subotal:                                       14,226                                                 14226 |
SingeCo Avena;
- Old Ayacut, PMC                                34,650                                   -             34,650
- Pulipatti Extension                              -                 9,363               403            9,766
- Old Ayacut, TMC (Direct Ayacut)                3,679                                    -             3,679
- Kattanipatti Extension, PMC                      -                  -                  697              697
- BC 10 Extension, PMC                                                -                 2,622           2,622
- PMC Extension                                                       -                 2,906           2,906
Sub-total:                                     34329               9,363               6,628          54,31M
Sinle and Summer Crop Area
- TMC Indirect Ayacut                             1,850               942               1,399           4,191
Sub-total:                                      1,850                942               1,399           4,191
TOTAL (A):                                       S8,44              10,30S              8,027          76,737
B. BY DIRECr VERSUS INDIRBCr IRRIGAION
Diin c
- PMC                                            25,021              4,951                -            29,972
-TMC                                             3,679                                    -             3,679
Sub-total                                      280                 4,951                -             33,651
bdircet
- PMC                                            27,855              4,412              6,628          38,895
- TMC                                             1,850               942               1,399           4,191
Sub4otak                                       29,705               ,354               8,027          43,l86
- PMC                                            52,876              9,363              6,628          68,867
-TMC                                              5,529               942               1,399           7,870
5,405              10,30S              8,0Z7           76,737



56
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation It Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 2: Areas Commanded by the Project
Table 3. Supplemental Data - Water Available to Project Over Historic Period
PRainfa|    Pertr   |Rainfil on           Peiyar LA                        (5) Plus 50 Mu3
Calendar    Pemnai    1inow to   80,000 ha x 0.8       Waer Supply       (3) + () x 0.8    Grundwater -
Year        -  (1)     V'gi          Mm3 (3)          to Madurai         Mne (5)       Toal Aqilabkl
Nm  (02)                    (2)-SO- M3 (4)                         Mm3 (6)
1968           702         544              450                 494             845               895
1969           682         440              436                 390             748               798
1970           949         533              607                 483            993               1,043
1971          1,086        758              695                 708           1,261              1,311
1972          1,055        558              675                508            1,081              1,131
1973           955         655              611                 605           1,095              1,145
1974           571         586              365                 536             794               844
1975           804         645              515                 595            991               1,041
1976           645         313              413                 263            623                673
1977          1,125       1,037             720                 987           1,510              1,560
1978           819         653              524                 603           1,006              1,056
1979          1,015        806              650                 756           1,255              1,305
1980           767         580              491                 530            915                963
1981           853         817              546                 767           1,160              1,210
1982           550         334              352                 284            579                690
1983          1,033        618              661                568            1,115              1,165
1984           641         676              410                626             911                961
1985           786         517              503                467             877                927
1986           731         347              468                297             706                756
1987          1,008        372              645                322             903                953
1988           570         320              365                 270            581                631
1989           571         607              365                557             811                861
1990           766         590              490                540             922                972
1991           780         563              499                513             909                959
1992           926         864              592                814            1,243              1,293
Mean            816
Mcan      652 Mm3 on 80,000 ha               522                539             953              1,003
Note:    Watcr-year innows used for calendar year inflows.
Max. storage level in Pcriyar reduced from 152 ft to 136 ft in 1976.



57
ANNEX 3
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.       The Periyar Vaigai II project is a second phase, consolidating and
complementing the achievements of the first project (Periyar Vaigai I). Its main
components included (a) the completion of the canal lining programme of the entire
conveyance system initiated under Periyar Vaigai I; (b) the extension of the irrigable
area by a further 8027 ha; (c) the construction of additional field channels; (d) on-farm
development and improved systems operation down to the 10-ha block outlets, and
introduction of rotational water supply (RWS) down to and within the 10-ha blocks; (e)
setting up farmer organizations and training of project staff and lead farmers in water
management practices; and (f) enhancement of crop production and farm incomes in
the 76,000 ha command area through better water utilization. The Link Canal, deferred
in Stage I and initially omitted from Stage II was reintroduced into the project in June
1990. Costs have been revised accordingly.
2.        The benefits accruing from the Stages I and II projects, and also the costs of
works on the main canal s stem, cannot meaningfully be separated or allocated between
the two. Consequently, for the purposes of economic analysis, the two projects have
been treated as a single entity, all costs incurred in the implementation of Stage I being
brought forward to the Stage I/IH composite.
B. ASSUMPTIONS
3.        Prices. Financial and economic prices of various agricultural products and
inputs are presented in Table 1. Economic prices of traded commodities, such as rice,
groundnuts, sorghum, sugarcane, cotton and agricultural inputs have been derived from
parity prices based on the World Bank Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts,
August, 1993, with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and processing. Export
parity prices have been used for cotton and sugarcane, import parity prices for
agricultural inputs (see Table 2). For foodgrains and oilseeds, average of import and
export parity prices have been used, as India is nearing self-sufficiency in these crops.
Trade statistics indicate that India imports or exports foodgrains, depending on the size
of the annual harvests. For non-traded commodities, a standard conversion factor (SCF)
of 0.8 has been used to convert financial prices into economic prices'l. International
prices are generally lower than assumed in the appraisal report.
1/  Figurc provided by the World Bank, Ncw Delhi.



58
INDIA: Peniyar Vaigai Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
4.         Costs. All costs of the1project have been included in the analysis, adjusted
by the relevant conversion factors'l . Direct expenditure on the Project every year has
been adjusted by the Indian wholesale price index (WPI), with base 1981/1982 (Table
3), to arrive at the costs in 1993 rupees. Although in the final year of the Project,
1993/94, all expenditure was not made by October 31, 1993, the total estimated for all
works accomplished by that date has been taken as having been expended by October 31
(Table 4).
5.         Construction costs, equipment and material costs have been adjusted by the
construction conversion factor of 0.80. Operation and maintenance costs have been
included for the net irrigable area at a rate of Rs200/ha. For all semi- and unskilled
labour a conversion factor of 67% has been applied. The economic value of draft animal
work of Rs3O/day was derived from the current market rate of Rs38/day.
C. INCREMENTAL IRRIGATION
6.         Old Area. The old area consists of:
(a)    Double cr. pped area: For purposes of economic analysis it has been
assumed that the area actually under double crop would remain the
actual gazetted area, i.e. 18,226 ha, corresponding to a net CCA of
17,315 ha; the net CCA with and without the project is the same2.
The irrigated crop intensity has been increased, in line with the SAR,
from 57% to 78% for the first crop of paddy and from 85% to 88%
for the second crop.
(b)    Single cropped area: A total of 40,179 ha, of which the net CCA is
38,170 ha, has been used for computing returns. The irrigated crop
intensity has been increased from 85% to 88% for single crop paddy.
7.         Extension Area I. For Extension I, the gross CCA developed under Phase I
of the project was in the order of 10,305 ha, corresponding to 9,789 ha of net CCA, with
4,703 ha under direct command and 5,086 ha under indirect command. Paddy irrigation,
'with' the project covers 3,292 ha in the direct command and 3,560 ha (2,594 ha in the
'without' project situation) in the indirect command.
Standard conversion (SCF)       = 0.8
Construction conversion factor  = 0.8
Labour conversion factor        = 0.67
2/ Please note that for watcr supply and dcmand estimates the full area (including non-gazetted area) of
29,600 ha has been used as a basis.



59
INDIA: Penyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
8.        Extension Area II.  For Extension II, the gross CCA  of 8,027 ha,
corresponding to a net CCA of 7,626 ha, has been taken into account. This net
extension area is partly irrigated through rainfed tanks (3,889 ha of irrigated paddy in the
'without' project situation), whereas in the 'with' project situation, paddy irrigation
increased to 5,338 ha.
9.        A very significant change since the appraisal has been the take-up of
irrigation of high-value perennials frpm dug wells. This is expected to continue,
particularly in the extension areas, following the introduction of canal irrigation and
consequent groundwater recharge.
D. BENEFITS
10.       The project's main benefit comes from the increase in agricultural production
resulting from the increase in irrigated area as described above, increases in yields due
to improved water distribution, particularly to 'tail-end' areas in each block, and changes
in cropping pattern towards higher value crops in Extension II area including those
deriving from increased use of well irrigation. Benefit build-up is a result of the assumed
phasing of areas to come under irrigation each year and progressive increases in 'ields.
11.       Benefits from the Link Canal, as referred to in the main text, stem from
greatly improved flexibility of operation throughout the old and new areas, and such
benefits are reflected in the yields of irrigated crop (old areas and extension areas). The
potential benefits from area expansion (1,620 ha) due to the Link Canal have not been
taken into account.
12.       The net incremental value of production at full development has been
estimated at Rs638 million/a year, of which 80% stem from incremental paddy
production. Focusing on paddy production, three main benefit streams were projected
in the analysis:
(a)    Increase of area and yields under double-cropped paddy. 'Without
project' paddy intensity in the at present gazetted double-cropped
area (gross CCA 18,266 ha/net CCA 17,315 ha) is estimated at 57%
in the service area up to Kallindiri Regulator. Incremental double-
cropping of paddy in this service area would be an average of
3,600 ha at full development, increasing the intensity from 57% to
78%, with a net incremental value of Rs163 million/year.
(b)    Increase in yields and intensity. Increase in paddy yields (by 55%
for the main crop) and a small increase in intensity (by 3% over the



60
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai rrigation If Project
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
'without project' situation) as well as an increase in the reliability of
the water supply for the main crop in the pre-existing command
(from 90% to 95%) are expected to result in a net incremental value
of Rs191 million/year at full development.
(c)    Incremental production in the Periyar Vaigai I and II Extension
Areas. Out of the total net CCA of 17,415 ha, 4703 ha are under
direct irrigation and 12,712 ha under indirect irrigation. For the
'direct' canal-irrigated area (3,282 ha) under Periyar Vaigai I, the
entire paddy production is an incremental benefit due to the project.
In the 'without project' situation, paddy production under tank
irrigation in the extension areas covered 6,483 ha, increasing to
8,898 ha under the project, increasing the overall cropping intensity
from 51% to 70%. Benefits from the I and II extension areas have
been estimated at Rs78 million/year and Rs6l million/year
respectively.
13.       Other benefits considered under the project, than incremental paddy
production, refer to the tank-irrigated command of extension I and II areas, where black-
type soils permit high-value cultivation of groundnuts, sugarcane, coconuts and banan lS,
increasing the cropping intensity from 2% to 6% for groundnuts, 2% to 4% for
sugarcane, and allowing 10% for coconuts and 5% for bananas.
E. CROP BUDGETS
14.       The re-calculation of the ERR has been based on crop models, developed
from recent field investigations, and provided to the mission by the Department of
Agricultural Economics, Agricultural College and Research Institute, Madurai. Paddy
yields represent an estimate of the average yield which can be expected under assured
water supply in an average year, assuming satisfactory supporting services. These yields
reflect one of the main objectives of the project, i.e. to increase the yield level of the tail
reach to the level of the head reach. In the pre-existing command area, yield levels at
full development (first and second crop) would be reached after 15 years, whereas in the
extension areas, final yield levels would be obtained after 6 years. No changes in yields
and cropping pattern are assumed for the 'future without project' situation. Yields in the
'without' and 'future with project' situation are summarized below:



61
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
Crop Yields per Hectare
Without Project     Future With Project
(Yield t/ha)          (Yield t/ha)
7  0  0 ;      -     E                ~~~~~Mission  i
|                                  ~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~SAR  SAR  Re-Estimates:
IRRIGATED CROPS
(a) Double Cropped Area
Paddy first crop                            3.2            4.0           6.0
Paddy second crop                           2.9            3.8           4.5
(b) Single Cropped Area
Paddy single crop                           3.2            4.0           4.5
Groundnut                                   1.4            2.1           1.6
Cotton MCU.5                                1.3            1.8           1.6
Sugarcane                                  65.0           80.0          80.0
Coconut (No. of unshelled nuts/ha)          a/              -         16,523
Banana (No. of bunches/ha)                  a/              -          2,125
RAINFED CROPS
Groundnut rainfed                             0.8             0.9           1.0
Groundnut rainfed to irrigated                0.8             2.1           1.6
Sorghum                                    0.9 (1.7"b)        1.0           1.9
Millet                                     0.7 (1.0b")        0.8           1.2
Gram                                          0.4             0.5           0.5
a/ New plantations.
b/ Mission re-estimates.
F. CROPPING INTENSITY
15.         In the pre-existing command area cropping intensities in the 'present and
future without project' and in the 'future with project' have been derived from the SAR.
However, in the extension areas, where wells are being used for perennial crops,
including sugarcane, bananas and irrigated coconuts, a change in the cropping pattern
has taken place. Overall cropping and irrigation intensities are detailed in Table 5 and
summarized below:



62
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
. ...... .... Pre-Existing Command Area ..........    Extension Areas I and Ilk'
. Doubk Cnpped .A Single Croppd Ara               ... Single Copped Ama...
(Net CCA 17,31 ba)       (Net CXA 34,170 ba)       (Net CCA 17,415 ha)
_/P I_   uP                      I /p  P/p           IJ   /P
...  Cropping lnteay .(%).
Paddy First Crop              57           78
Paddy Second Crop             85           88                        -
Paddy Single Crop              -           -            85          88            51            70
Paddy and Other Crps          159         192          117          125           111           125
. .. ....................... Irrigtion Intei%ty    ..........................
Paddy and Other Crops         150         175           89          95            55            95
a/ Direct and indire  taken as the same.
G. INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
16.           The aggregate of the recalculated incremental production is based on crop
budgets on a hectare basis. At full development, annual incremental agricultural
production'/, for the pre-existing command and extension areas would be of the order
of 177,500 tons of paddy, 3,500 tons of groundnuts, 2,600 tons of millet, 3,900 tons of
gram, 77,700 tons of sugarcane, 43,000 tons of coconut, and 27,700 tons of banana.
Agricultural development at full production is shown below:
1, Based on yield cslimalcs prcscntced in para. 14.



63
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation 11 Project
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
Toul Annual Ilncemental Production at Pull Dewlopment
P-t-Ez,sng  Command Ama           Ez..n. on I ...    Exnsion U
Double          Sin1e        Direct      Indiect      Indirec        Total
C:opped Ara    Cropped Area   Command   Cbmmand    Comnmad           nmental
Producf
(Net C(A       (Net              CCA (Net CCA   (Net CCA    (Ka OCA
17,315 ha)     38,170,ha)    4,X03 ha)   5,A86 ha)    7,626 ha)
Paddy-HYV ('000 tons)            75.4           47.3        14.8        16.0          24.0         177.5
Groundnut ('000 tons)             0.4            1.3         0-5         0.5           0.8          3.5
Millet ('000 tons)                0.6            0.8         0.3         0.4           0.5           2.6
Gram ('000 tons)                  0.6            1.5         0.5         0.5           0.8           3.9
Sorghum ('000 tons)                -            -1.1         0.3         OA            0.6           0.2
Sugarcane ('000 tons)            10.4           11.4        15.0        16A.          24.5          77.7
Coconut (No. of nuts
unshelled/'000)                    -               -      7,765.0    8,410.0       12,608.0     28,783.0
Banana (No. of
bunches/'000)                      -               -       499.0       540.0         810.0       1,849 0
H. RE-ESTIMATED ERR
17.           The economic viability of the project has been reassessed, taking into account
the actual implementation schedule, actual incurred costs and the cropping patterns,
yields and economic prices shown in Tables 1, 2 and 4. The calculation of the ERR was
based on a project life of 30 years. It has also been assumed as in the SAR, that in the
'without project' situation, 20% of the incremental irrigated area would be rainfed.
18.           With  the  above  assumptions, the  ERR  has  been  re-estimated  at 21%
(Table 6), which compares to 18% at appraisal and is mainly due to higher yields
experienced as compared to appraisal estimates.
1. SENSITIVITY
19.           The project is highly sensitive to yield variations. Sensitivity of the ERR  to
deficiency in water supply has been tested. The probability of occurrence of years of
deficiency in water supply to the project is discussed in the text. As an indication of the
sensitivity of the ERR to such occurrences, the ERR has been computed with the
arbitrary assumption of a 50% reduction in yields from the area under double paddy crop
in the years 1981/82, 1983/84 and 1986/87, and a 50% reduction in yields from both



64
INDLA. Periyar Vaigai rrigation If Project
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
double and single paddy crops in 1988/89'/, but no reduction in future years. Input
costs were assumed to remain at full levels. The effect on the ERR for the period of
development was a reduction from 21% to 17.7%.
20.        With a reduction of incremental yields by 20%, the ERR would be reduced
to 12%.
21.        The above sensitivity tests.indicate that the project will remain economically
viable, unless considerable changes occur. Moreover, projections of yields and irrigation
intensity estimates are well within the reach of the average farmer's ability.
J. FARM INCOME
22.        The typical smallholder in the command area grows paddy only. Incomes
from commercial crops are higher, as shown by the representative crop budgets.
23.        The average paddy farm in the project area is about 1.2 ha (SAR), for which
net farm incomes (Table 7) have been estimated to increase as follows:
Without Project I Wilth Project I Incremental
| Rs/a year .
Pre-Existing Command Area
Double Crop                         9,300         22,970        13,670
Single Crop                         6,540         10,310         3,770
Extension Areas
Single Crop                         3,940          8,210         4,270
Weighted Average                    5,600         10,600         5,000
/ Corrcsponding to project Ycars 5, 7, 10 ar,J 12 rcspcctivcly.



65
INDIA: Periyar Vaipi Irription 1I Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 1. Summary of Financial and Economic Prices           (Page 1)
Financial Prices   Economic Prices
1993      I     1993 1/
Unit       ..       .  Rs .......
OUTPUT
(a) Crops
- Paddy HYV                                ton               3,750             4,090
- Groundnut 2/                             ton               7,780             6,590
- Sorghum                                  ton               2,730             2,040
- Millet                                  ton                2,000              1,600
- Blackgram                               ton                6,500             5,200
- Sugarcane                               ton                4143/               400
- Cotton 4/ - LRA                          ton               6,700             8,800
- Cotton - MCU.5                          ton                10,000            13,000
- Banana                                per bunch               28                23
- Coconut                                per 100               300               240
- Vegetables
- Tomatoes                               ton                1,010               808
- Brinjal                                ton                 630                504
- Bhendi                                 ton                1,210              968
(b) By-Products
- Paddy Straw                              ton                 400               320
- Gram Fodder                              ton               1,100               880
- Groundnut Straw                         ton                  300               240
- Sorghum Straw                           ton                  220               176



66
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation 11 Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 1. Summary of Financial and Economic Prices             (Page 2)
Financial Prices   Economic Prices
1993             1993 1/
Unit     ............       ..........
INPUTS
(a) Seeds
- Paddy HYV                                  kg                  7.40               5.92
- Sorghum                                    kg                  4.00               3.20
- Millet                                     kg                  3.00               2.40
- Gram Seed                                  kg                  7.90               6.30
- Groundnut Kernel                           kg                 12.30               9.84
- Sugarcane Cuttings                        kg51                 1.90               1.52
- Cotton Seed - LRA                          kg                 13.26              10.61
- Cotton Seed - MCU.5                        kg                 16.32              13.06
- Banana Suckers                           sucker                0.68               0.54
- Coconut                                   nut                  3.00               2.40
- Vegetable Seed                             kg                500.00             400.00
(b) Fertilizer
- Farmyard Manure                           ton                   61                 50
- Urea (N)                                  ton                 6,200             11,120
- DAP (P)                                   ton                17,370             11,650
- Muriate of Potash (K)                     ton               8,0006/              8,480
(c) Wage Rates
- Farm Labour                             man-day                  25                17
- Bullock Pair                             per day                38                 30
(d) Mechanization
- Tractor Hire                            per hour                500               400
l/  Price projections in 1993 constant dollars for tradcd commodities for 2000 and 2005 are detailed in
Table 2.
2/  Unshelled.
3/  Factory purchase price.
4/  Sced cotton; cotton prices arc fixed by the Directorate of Agriculture, Madras.
5/  One kg corresponds to 4 cuttings.
6/ Subsidized rate; subsidy = Rs3,000/ton.



INDIA: Perlyar VaigaI Irrigation II Project
Project Coepletlon Report
Amnex 3: Economic wnd Financial Analysis
Table 2.  Derivation of Ecanmic Prices at FErm Gate for Traded Ccamoditles In Year 1993                                    (Page  1)
tkniit   Paddy I Grommuts   Sorghum  I Sugarcane    Cotten           N         P         K
Projected World Market Price (1993) I/
In 1990 constant dollars                                         USS/mt       245           639         93           204     1,220       109       116     101
In 1993 constant dollars (MUV 108.01)                            USS/mt       265           690         100          220     1,318       118       125     109
Quality adjustment                                                  X          85             90         80           80        90       100       100      100
World market equivalent                                          USS/mt        225           621         80          198     1,186       118       125     109
Freight and Insurance 2/                                         USS/mt          -             -          -           40        70        32        40      40
Domestic border price (c.l.f. or f.o.b. Calcutta)                USS/mt       225            621         80          158     1,216       150       165     149
Domestic border price in local currency 3'                        Rs/mt     7,020         19,375      2,496        4.930   37,939    4,680    5,157   4,648
Port handling and storage 4'                                      Rs/mt        190           190        190          190       210       190       190     190
Internal transport 4'                                             Rs/mt       140            140        140          140       320       140       140     140
Internal marketing and handling 4'                                Rs/mt        80            80         80            80        70        80        80      80
Processing or nutrient ratio                                        X          65             35        100           10        35        46        48      60
Processing cost                                                   Rs/mt        160                         -         -                -         -        -
Wholesale price                                                   Rs/mt     4,136         6,638       2,086          452   13,069   11,065   11,598   8,430
Transport to/from farm 4'                                         Rs/mt        50             50         50           50        70        50        50      50
Economic value at farm-gate (rounded)                             Rs/mt     4,090         6,590       2,040          400    13,000   11,120   11,650   8.480



INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 3: Economic end Financiat Analysis
Table 2.  DerivatIon of Economic Prices at Far 6ate for Traded Codities in Year 2000                                         (Page  2)
Unit     Paddy I Grouwniuts I Sorgbea I  Sugarcane I Cotton           U         P         K
Projected World Market Price (2000) 1/
In 1990 constant dollars                                          USS/mt       255           554         102          255     1,500       144        143     107
In 1993 constant dollars (MUV 108.01)                             USS/mt       275           598         110          275     1,620       156        154     116
Quality adjustment                                                   X          85             90         80           80        90        100       100     100
World market equivalent                                           USS/mt       234            538         88         -220     1,458        156       154     116
Freight and insurance 2/                                          USS/mt         -              -          -           40        70        32         40      40         Ch
OD
Domestic border price (c.i.f. or f.o.b. Calcutta)                 USS/mt       234            538         88          180     1,3e8        188       194     156
Domestic border price in local currency 3'                         Rs/mt     7,301         16,786      2,746        5,616   43,306      5,866    6,067   4,867
Port handling  nd storage 4'                                       Rs/mt        190           190        190          190       210        190       190     190
Internal transport 4'                                             Rs/mt        140            140        140         1140       320       140        140     140
Internal marketing and handling 4'                                Rs/mt         80            80          80           80        70        80        80       SO
Processing or nutrient ratio                                         X          65             35        100           10        35        46         48      60
Processing cost                                                   Rs/mt        160              -          -            -         -          -         -       -
Wholesale price                                                   Rs/mt      4,319          5,732      2.336          521    12,202    13,643    13,490   8,795
Transport to/from farm 4'                                         Rs/mt         50             50         50           50        70        50        50       50
Economic value at farm-gate (rounded)                             Rs/mt      4,270         5,680       2,290          470   12,130    13,690    13,540   8,850



INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 3: Economic and Financiat Analysis
Table 2.   Derivation of Economic Prices at Fare Gate for Traded Commodities in Year 2005                                       (Page  3)
Unit      Paddy IGroundmits ISorghum    Sugarcane ICotton               H          p        K
Projected World Market Price (2005) I/
In 1990 constant dollars                                            USS/mt       242            421          81          280      1,480       135        139      103
In 1993 constant dollars (MliV 108.01)                              USS/mt       261            455          87          302      1,599       146        150      11l
Quality adjustment                                                     Xa5                        90         80            80        90        100       100      100
World market equivalent                                             USS/mt        222           410          70           242     1,439        146       150      111
Freight and insurance 2/                                            USS/mt          -             -                        40        70        32         40       40
Domestic border price (c.i.f. or f.o.b. Calcutta)                   USS/mt        222           410          70           202     1,369        178       190      151           ON
Domestic border price in local currency 3/                           Rs/mt      6,926        12,792       2,184         6,302    42,712     5,554'    5,928   4,711
Port handling and storage 4/                                        Rs/mt         190           190         190           190       210        190       190      190
Internal transport 4/                                               Rs/mt         140           140         140           140       320       140        140      140
Internal marketing and handling 4/                                  Rs/mt          80            80          80           80         70        80         80      80
Processing or nutrient ratio                                           %           65            35         100            10        35         46        48       60
Processing cost                                                      Rs/mt        160                                       -         -          -         -
Wholesale price                                                      Rs/mt      4,075         4,334       1,774           590    14,740    12,965    13,204   8,540
Transport to/from farm 4/                                           Rs/mt          50             50         50            50        70         50        50       50
Economic value at farm-gate (rounded)                               Rs/mt       4,030         4,280       1,720           540    14,670    13,020    13,250   8,590



INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation 11 Project
Project Ceopletion Report
Amnex 3: Econm lic nd Financial Analysis
Table 2.   Derivation of Economic Priees at Farm Sate for Tr.ded Cc  cdities in Tear 1993                                      (Pag   4)
FOOTIOTE$
Uorld Bank:  Revision of Primary Commodity Forecasts, August 6, 1993.
Pricing Basis:
Paddy:         Rice (Thai), milled, 5X broken, f.o.b. Bangkok.
Grounidnuts:    Groundrwt oil (any origin), c.i.f. Rotterdm.
Sorghum:       Grain Sorghum (US), No. 2, Nilo yellow, f.o.b. Gulf ports.
Sugarcane:     Sugar (Uorid ISA Daily Price) raw, f.o.b. Caribbean ,_rts.
Cotton:         (Outlook "A" Index), MiddLing (1-3/32P), c.i.f. Europe.
Fertilizer:    N * Urea (any origin), bagged, f.o.b. Northwest Europe.
P - Diammonium Phosphate, bulk, f.o.b. US Gulf.                                                                                                      0
K - Nuriate of Potash, bulk, f.o.b. Vancouver.
2/    with India on the margin of self-sufficiency in foodgrains and oilseeds, it is assumed that, depending on the size of the arvtal harvests, exports or ieports will
occur in the short and medium-term; therefore international transport costs have been omitted for these foodcrops.
3'    Exchange Rate:  Rs3I.2 a USS1.O.
4'    Adjusted by SCF = 0.8.



71
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation 1I Projcct
Project Completion Report
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 3. Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates
Year              Wholesale Price Index        Deflators       Exchange Rate
(Base 1981/82 = 100)1/                       (Rs to US$)2/
1982/83                    104.9                  217.8               9.6
1983/84                    112.8                  202.6              10.3
1984/85                    120.1                  190.3              11.9
1985/86                    125.4                  182.2              12.2
1986/87                    132.7                  172.2              12.8
1987/88                    143.5                  159.2              13.0
1988/89                    154.3                  148.0              14.5
1989/90                    165.7                  137.9              16.7
1990/91                    182.7                  125.0              18.0
1991/92                    207.5                  110.1              24.5
1992/93                    228.5                  100.0              28.9
1993/94                      -                      -                31.2
~/    Ministry of Industry, Office of the Economic Adviser. Note: This WPI series based 1981/82, was
introduced as of July 1989.
2/    For 1993/94, includes period up to October 1993.



INDIA: Perlyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
Project CompLetion Report
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 4.   Sumary of Project Expenditure by Year                                                      (Page  1)
(Rs miltion)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  AFPPRAISAL ESTIMATE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Ccmvponent                     1983/84 I   1984/85 I    1985/86        1986/87 I   1987/88 I   1988/89 I    TOTAL
Civil Works on the Canal Network                        15.50         91.50        94.80        58.40         16.10                   276.30
Rehabilitation Peranai Regulator                            -          2.80         1.30         5.10          3.80            -       13.00
On-Farm Development Works                                   -         26.30        27.80        25.20         25.20            -      104.50
Improved System Operations                                  -         8.20          9.50         2.30         2.30          1.70       24.00
Introduction of RWS                                         -         6.30          8.70         6.10         3.30          2.50       26.90
Training                                                    -         3.20          2.50         0.80          0.60         0.50        7.60
Monitoring & Evaluation                                     -          3.70         3.30         3.30          3.30         1.90       15.50
Engineering Supervision & Adnin.                            -             -            -            -             -            -
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                    15.50        142.00       147.90       101.20        54.60          6.60      467.80
Physical Contingencies                                   1.70         15.50        16.20        11.00          5.60         0.30       50.30
Price Contingencies                                         -         5.50         18.50        22.60         17.20         2.60       66.40
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                     17.20       163.00        182.60       134.80        77.40          9.50     584.50



INDIA: Periyar Valgal Irrigation 11 Project
Project Conpletion Report
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analtysis
Table 4.  Suimmry of Project Expenditure by Tear                                                  (Page 2)
(Rs wiliton)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -. . . . . . .  ACTUAL EXPEIDITURE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Ccoapoent
1983/84 | 198/85  I985/86 | 1986/87 | 1987/88   198U/89 | 1989/90 | 1990/91 | 1991/92   1992/93   1993/94 |    TOTAL
Civil Works on the Canal Network        2.20      83.83      65.81     77.55      50.35      34.47     23.89    45.09      74.95    130.34    112.00      700.48
RehabiLitation Peranai Regulator           -          -          -      0.66       0.30       1.74      3.53      3.52      1.01       0.51      0.82      12.09
On-Farm Development Works                  -       0.01     38.80      39.98      25.39      17.73     18.76     21.86      0.63          -         -     163.10
Improved System Operations                 -      0.30       7.34       5.68       4.21       5.54      6.92     10.02      8.30       5.34     14.40      68.05
Introduction of RUS                                  -                -          -                        -                                      1.00       1.00
Training                                           0.26      5.07       3.47       2.06          -      0.14                   -          -         -      11.00
Monitoring & Evaluation                               -      5.63       4.12       3.44       3.61      4.11      4.72      4.59       0.63      3.91      34.76
Engineering Supervision & Admin.           -       6.46      19.02     24.87      19.84      15.89     14.42     16.30     15.92      23.28     12.27     168.27
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    2.20      90.86     141.67    156.33    105.59       78.96     71.77    101.45    105.40    160.10    144.40  1158.75
Physical Contingencies              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Included in Works)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Price Contingencies                  . . . . .   . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Included in Works)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     2.20      90.86     141.67    156.33    105.59       78.96     71.77    101.45    105.40    160.10    144.40   1,158.75



INDIA: Perlyar Vaigai Irrigation 11 Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 3: Economic and FinanciaL Analysis
Tabte 5.  Cropping Patterns by Areas Coowided (X of Met CCA)                                               (Page  1)
PRE-EXISTING CONGUAI AREA
. . . . . . . .  WD  LE CROP AREA (Net CCA 17,315 ha)   . . . . . . .       . . . . . . . . . SINGLE CROP AREA (Net CCA 38,170 be) . . . . . . . .
Present & Future Without Project    . . . . Future Uith Project   . . .    Present I Future Without Project        . . .  Future With Project . . .
I   Rainfed    | .  Irrigated .    . . Rainfed   . | .  Irrigated .             Rainfed  . | .  Irrigated .  | . . Rainfed  . | .  Irrigated
X_l_ha_L_x ha              a ha                a ha               a h         I      ha    r             ha   T             ha   T             ha
Paddy                                                                                                                                                                               =1
- First crop                  -       -    (57)       9,870         -         -    (78)      13,506        -         -        -          -        -         -
- Second crop                         -    (85)      14,718                   -    (88)      15,237        .         -        -          -        -         -        -          -
- Single crop                          -             -                   -                        -        -         -    (85)      32,445        -         -    (88)    33,590
Groundnut                     -       -      (4)        693         -         -      (5)        866      (2)       763      (2)        763        -         -      (5)     1,909
Mittet                      (4)     693                           (6)     1,039                          (5)     1,909                          (6)     2,290
Sorghum                                                                                                  (6)     2,290                          (4)     1,527
Putses                      (5)     866                          (11)     1,905
Gram                                                                                                    (15)    5,725                          (20)     7,634
Sugarcane                                    (4)        693                          (4)        693                         (2)        763                         (2)       763
Cropping Intensity (X)              159                                     192                                    117                                    125



INDIA: P*rfyar Valgal Irripation 11 Project
Project Ccqpletion Repot
Amewx 3: Econrmic and Ffnanciat Analysis
TabLe 5.  Cropping Patterns by Areas Cnmwded  (% of Net CCA)                                                                                     (Page  2)
I.EXTENSIO..................... NETNSO   ........................ENSION .............                                                                                                 ........        ..
......   IFETr COMAMAND AFWA (Net CrA 4,703 to).....                 ...... INItFBLT COWMMND AFEFA (Net CCA 5.086 ton)......                .....INDIREC COMMAND AFJEA (Net OCA 7.626 hen).....
Preserit A Fuktw, Wthou Projeat     .. Future WIth Project ....    Preserit & Future Witoxut Project    ...Future With Project ...         Present & Fu8e  Withou Project ...Future Wit Project...
PRaited          lrrtoaed       P rftd           IrfIoWed         PI*ed             lrifoed           PRkd             Inrigte          FbkVed             krriaed                            WIrrite
ha  %  tin    %       ha %th %                           he       %   %             %        .       %   I a t.                h.       %        h,       %   I a   I               ha
Paddy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -.1
-5ingle crop                   .        -            -                -    (70)    3.292        -        -    (51)    2,594        -        .     (70)    3.560       -        .     (51)    3.889       --             (70)   5.338
Groundnuit                   (5)      235      -                             (6)     282        -         -     (2)      102        -        -     (6)      305        .        -      (2)     153        .               (6)     457
Sorghum                     (35)    1,646      -      -     (4)    188         -(35)    1.780                     -        -      (4)     203        -        -    (35)    2.670                  .     (4)      305       -
Millet                      (25)    1.176      -            (6)    282         -        -     (5)      254        -(6)                    305        -               5)      361        .               (6)      458         
Gram                        (15)      705      -      -    (20)    940         -        .    (16)      814        -        -    (20)    1,017        -        -     (16)    1,220       .        -     (20)    1.523                -
Sugarcane                      -         .     -                             (4)     188        -        -      (2)      102       .         -     (4)      204        -              (2)      153        --              (4)     306
Coconuit                      -                                       .    (10)      470        .        --(10)                                            509        -        .        -                -              (10)     763
Banana                         .         .     .                             (5)     235                  .                .                       (5)      254        .                                                  (5)     301
Cropping lnens. ()80                                                125                                11125                                                                  ill                                125



INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation 1I Project
Project Completion Report
Amex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 6.  Economic Analysis                                                                                                                   (Page 1)
Rs Million
........ ................................. ........ ............... ..... ........................................... .............................................................................. ........... ........... ....... .. .... -------------------
1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9       10        11        12        13       14       15        16       17        18   19-22   23-27
~~~~~~~~~.. ..... ... .. ......... ................................................................ ............................................................... ........................................ ......................................... .......... .... _..
Benef its
Incre.. Prod. - Pre-ex. Area                           240.4   252.0   282.0   332.0    379.8    429.7   491.0   569.0   642.0    679.9   700.2   704.1   674.9   616.8   S73.3   577.4    577.4    577.4    599.2
Inere. Prod. - Ext. I                                  -                  -       *                    100.1    222.7   310.7   303.6    299.9    305.3   305.9   284.6   250.5   227.2   227.2    227.2    227.2   234.7
increr. Prod. - Ext. 11                           -                  -         -                  -         -        -                  -    61.1    135.7    182.0   172.0   161.6   160.8   172.8    177.4    177.4   182.9                      _1
CYN
lotal Benefits                                    -   240.4    252.0   282.0   332.0   379.8    529.8    713.7   879.7   945.6  1040.9  1141.2  1192.0  1131.5  1028.9   961.3   977.4    982.0   982.0  1016.8
Costs
Invests. Costs Perlyar Valgai I               53.3    130.5   128.1   100.8   105.7   145.4    149.4             44.4          -                  -         -                                                        -
Investa. Costs Periyar Vaigal 11                            -           -                                3.6    138.5   213.1    219.9    137.6         96.2      82.3   105.1    95.7   129.3   207.9           40.5
operation and  alintenance                               17.8     17.8      17.8     17.8      16.9     18.5      17.4     16.7      15.7      15.1      14.0     13.0    11.9       10.4      9.5       9.5       9.5      9.5       9.5
Incres. Prod. Costs   P Pre-~x. Area                   330.8   336.4   339.3   342.3   329.1    308.5    292.7   283.6    271.3    254.1    239.5   226.3   207.8   185.2   170.5   172.6    172.6    172.6   181.4
Incrt.. Prod. Costs   Ext. I                      -                  -         -                  -    52.3    111.7   150.9    140.5    131.2    123.9    117.4   107.1            94.3      85.7     85.7      85.7      85.7     89.0
Increm. Prod. Costs   Ext. 11                               -           *        -                -                  -                  -    32.0       68.1      89.0    79.5      70.6      65.2     66.3      66.8      66.8     69.4
lotal Costs                                    53.3    479.1    482.3   457.9   465.8   491.4    532.3   604.7   664.3   647.L   570.0    541.7   528.0   511.4   456.2   460.2   542.0    375.1    334.6   349.3
met Incremental Benefits
........................
Total Met Increantat Benefits                *53.3  -238.7  -230.3  -175.9  -133.8  -111.6              -2.5    109.0   215.4   298.2    470.9   599.5   664.0   620.1    572.7   501.1   435.4    606.9   647.4   667.5
........ ...=... ....... ...... -.. -..-- ..... -=. ....... .-.e.- - ..............                                                            S .......  --- ..................... ..a. e........



77
INDEA. Periyar Vaipi Irrigation II Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 6. Economic Analysis                                                       (Page 2)
Rs MilLion
. .. . ...
28- 30
Benefits
Incre.. Prod. - Pre-ex. Area                569.1
Increm. Prod.    Ext.                       2 227.8
Increrr. Prod. - Ext. II                    177.5
Total Benefits                              974.4
Costs
Investr.. Costs Perivar Vaigai I
Investir.. Costs Periyar vaigai li
Ooeration and maintenance                     9.5
Incre-.. Prod. Costs - Pre-ex. Area         179.:
In:ree. Proc. Costs - Ext. !                 88.3
Increc. Proc. Casts - Ext. 1i                68.
Total Costs                                 346.0
Net Incremental Benefits
.......   .....................  .
Total We: In:remental  aenefits             62E.:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.         .    .   .                          
Decemne- 29, 1993 11:28
Internal Rates o' Return of We: Streams
'ITOT                       21.02%.
PRESENT VALUES OF NET STREAMS AT A DISCOJNT RATE 0  13.5%
;TOT       UP 1C,       UP 20%'       UP 50%      DOwN 10%;    DOWN 20%    DOwN 50%  LAG i YEAR, LAC 2 YEARS LAa 3 YEARS
CTOT                  704.7       1,096.9       1,489.1       2,665.6         312.6          -79.7     -1,256.2         238.3        -172.S         -534.9
U: 10%                383.0         775.2       1,167.:       2,343.;           -9.2         4C1:    -1,57, 9            -83.5 s       494.5        -856.6
U' 2:                  6i.:         453.5         84U.,       2,02Z.2        -33C.9         -723.1     -1,899.6        -405.2        -816.2       -1,17B.2
UP 50%               -903.8        -5117         -119.5       1,057.1      -1.,296.0     -1,686.2      -2,864.7      -1,370.3      -1,781.3       -2Z143.3
OOwu 1C:           1,026.4       i.418.6       1,810.8       2,987.3         634.3          242.1        -934.5        560.0          149.0        -213.2
DOWN 2,;            1 348.1       1,740.3       2,132.5       3,309.0         956.0          563.8        -612.8        881.7          470.7         10S.6
DOww SC%            2.313.2       2,705.-       3,097.6       4,274.C       1,921.1       1,528.9         352.:       1,846.e       1,435.8        1,073.7
LAG 1 YEAR                 .             .             .             .             .             .             ,        620.9          210.0        -152.2
LAO Z YEARS                                                                                                                           5 .  .  ,  ,  547.1  185.0
LAG 3 YEARS                *             *                           ,             *                           *             ,             *         482.0



78
INDIA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation 1I Prject
Project Completion Report
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 6. Economic Analysis                                                (Page 3)
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
BTOT       UP 1QZ      UP 20C       U 50%    DOWN 10-    DOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
CTOT                21.017       25.467      30.245       47.941       16.787       12.666       -1.210       15.402       12.348       10.357
UP 10X              17.165       21.017       25.050       39.102      13.413        9.656       -4.307       12.885       10.421        a.776
UP 20%              14.036       17.481       21.017      '32.794      1,0.603       7.076    . -7.721        10.715        8.C20        7.366
up 50%               7.076        9.910       12.666       21.017       4.069        0.710         NONE        5.531        4.539        3.S 7
DOUW  10%           25.979       31.363       37.340       61.621      21.017        16.326       1.8o6       18.395       14.574       12.156
DOWN 20X            32.794       39.779       47.941       86.42S      26.626       21.017        5.226       22.063       17.203       14.2:2
DOWN 50%           108.077      157.717      225.020     472.888       76.171       55.670       21.017       41.895       29.698       23.608
LAG 1 YEAR               -            .                         ,            , -                      ,       21.017       15.402       12.348
LAG 2 YEARS              -            -            -            -            -            .           -                    21.017       1s.402
LAG 3 YEARS              -            -            -            -            *            -                                             21.017
SWITCHING VALUES AT 12%
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAG-
STREAM                   VALUE         VALUE         CHANGE
RTOT                  4,592.83      3,599.96        -21.62"
c1                      526.02      1,518.89        188.76"
CZ                      383.95      1,376.52        258.6C:
C3                      110.38      1,103.25        899.53%
Cl                    2,007.69      3,000.55         49.16%
CS                      411.91      .,404.77        241.05%
C6                      160.03      1,152.90        620.4_:.
TOTAL COSTS           3,599.96      4,592.82        .27.58,
.. . ..... . .......    .... ...... ..... . . . . . . ... ...    ...
Net Presen: Value at OCC 12% = 992.9
Internal Rate of Return z 2 .1_
Coupon EquivaLent Rate of Return * 15.8%
SWITCHING VALUES AT 14%
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREAM                   VALUE         VALUE         CHANGE-
=s-s..zzs          ==........=-==--------------:--.zz.......==....
RTOT                  3,728.21      3,103.65        -16.76X
.,1                     489.73      1,114.30        127.54%
C2                      314.68.       939.24        198.49%
C3                       96.64        721.01        647.66_
C.                    1,757.08      2,351.65         35.55%
CS                      327.37        951.94        190.79-
CS                      118.37        742.94        527.67r
TOTAL COSTS           3,103.65      3,728.21         20.13%
. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .L. . . . . . . . .......... . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . . ......... . .
Net Present vakue at OCC 14% = 624.6
Internal Rate of Return = 21.1.
Coupon EquivaLent Rate of Return z 17.1%
SWITCHING VALUES AT 16'.
.3**......     S*5SS NUn



79
INDLA: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
Project Compiction Report
Annex a: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 6. Economic Analysis                                     (Page 4)
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREAM                   VALUE         VALUE         CHANGE
STOT                  3,074.76      2,708.92        -11.90,.
C1                      457.08        822.92         80.04%
C2                      259.45        625.29        141.01%
C3                       85.21        451.05        429.38%
C4                    1,555.22      1,921.06         23.53%
CS                      263.34        629.18        138.93%
C6                       88.64        454.48        412.74%
TOTAL COSTS           2,708.92     3,074.76          13.51,
Net Present VaLue a: OCC 16% = 365.9
InternaL Rate of Return = 21.1%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return = 18.3%
SWITCHING VALUES AT 18%
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREAM                   VALUE         VALUE         CHANGE
ETOT                  2,572.18      2,389.74         -7.10%
Cl                      427.63        610.07         42.67/.
C2                      215.12        397.56         84.81%
C3                       76.00        258.44        240.06%
C'                    1,389.76      1,572.20         13.13%
CS                      214.11        396.55         85.21%
C6                       67.14        249.58        271.77%.
TOTAL COSTS           2,389.74      2,572.18          7.64%
Net Present Value at OCC 18%. = 182.5
Internal Rate of Return = 21.1%
Couoon Equivalent Rate of Return   19.5'



INDIA: Periyar Vaigaf Irrigation 11 Project
Project Completion Report
Annex 3: Economic and Financiat Analysis
Table 7.  Farm Incomie per Ha in Paddy CultivationI/
. . . . . . . . . .    .       . . . . . PRE-EXISTING CONKAND AREA
l_______________________________________________________________________________________________.               -    EXTENSION   AREAS  .  .  .
l    ..    ..   ..  DOBLE CROPPED AREA.. . . SINGLE CROPPED AREA
.         First Crop   .       .Second Crop  . . . .  .Single Crop                                                 Single Crop
Without Project I With Project   Without Project   U with Project   Without Project   With Project   Without Project   With Project
Yietd (t/ha)                                   3.2                6.0              2.9               4.5              3.2               4.5              3.2              4.5
Net revenue paddy (Rs/ha)                    7,130             16,480            5,886            10,596            7,130            10,280           7,130            10,280
Cropping intensity (X)                          57                 78              85                88               85                88               51                70
Net rev. product/ha commanded (Rs)           4,060            12,850            5,000             9,320            6,060             9,050            3,640             7,200
ReLiabitity of water supply ()                  80                80               90                95               90                95               90                95
Expert. net rev. prod./ha
comnanded (Rs)                            3,250            10,280            4,500             8,860            5,450             8,590            3,280             6,840
.  ..    .. ..   .Suamry
uo/p              u/p          Incremental
Pre-Existing Cond Area
- Double-cropped area (Rs/ha)                                  7,750            19,140           11,390
- Single-cropped area (Rs/ha)                                  5,450             8,590            3,140
Extension Areas 2/
Single-cropped area (Rs/ha)                                  3,280             6,840            3,560
1/ Miission Re-estimates.
2/    Direct and indirect comtmand area.



-  -        ..  -         .  ...












IMAGING
Report No;      14446
Type: PCR



