Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3768-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 16.6 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 16.6 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
April 10, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



- i.
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 4, 1984)
US$1.00      =  Rs 10.810243
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.0925058
Rs 1 million = US$92,506
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
- Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 9.75.
FISCAL YEARL
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONIS
AED  -  Agricultural Engineering Department
DA   -  Department of Agriculture
ERR  -  Economic Rate of Return
GOI  -  Government of India
GOTN -  Government of Tamil Nadu
ICB  -  International Coimpetitive Bidding
LCB  -  Local Competitive Bidding
O&M  -  Operation and Maintenance
OFD  -  On-Farm Developm,ent
PMC  -  Periyar Main Canal
PWD  -  Public Works Department
RWS  -  Rotational Water Supply
TMC  -  Thirumangalam Main Canal
VEW  -  Village Extension Worker
TNAU -  Tamil Nadu Agricultural University



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CREDITS AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:             Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN).
Amount:                   IDAi Credit: SDR16.6 million
(US$17.5 million equivalent)
IDA Special Fund: SDR16.6 million
(US$17.5 million equivalent).
Terms:                   IDA Credlit:  Standard
IDA Special Fund: Standard.
On-lending Terms:        From the Government of India (GOI) to the Government
of Tamil. Nadu as part of Central assistance for State
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:    The project would complete the Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation Project (Cr. 720-IN), extend its irrigable
area (73,600 ha) by another 7,500 ha and maximize
crop production and farmers' incomes in the 81,100 ha
project area through better water utilization. To
achieve these objectives, the project would
(i) improve the operation of the Periyar Vaigai
system to provide an equitable and reliable water
supply in the command area; and (ii) improve water
distribution among farmers below the 10 ha block
out:lets and promote better water management on the
farm. I'his would require a number of complementary
act:ivities, including strengthening of the project
organization for operation and maintenance, on-farm
development, introduction of rotational water supply
below the block outlet, establishment of farmer
organizations, and training of project staff and
farmers in new management practices. As this is an
integral part of a continuing project the risks are
considered less than average for irrigation projects
of similar size and scope. Cost estimates are firm
as they are based on the experience of the on-going
project. Projections of yields are conservative and
are well within the reach of the average farmer's
capability.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: 1/
(US$ millions)
Local         Foreign         Total
Irrigation Canals Civil Works                25.9           1.8            27.7
Rehabilitation Peranai Regulator              1.0           0.3              1.3
On-Farm Development Works                    ]0.1           0.4            10.5
Improved System Operations                    2.0           0.4             2.4
Introduction of RWS                           2.4           0.3             2.7
Training                                      0.6           0.2              0.8
Monitoring and Evaluation                     1.5           0.1              1.6
Total Baseline Costs                         43.5           3.5            47.0
Physical Contingencies                      4.6           0.5             5.1
Price Contingencies                         6.2           0.5             6.7
Total Project Cost                           54.3           4.5            58.8
Financing Plan:                                        (US$ millions)
Local         Foreign         Total
GOI/GOTN                  23.80            -             23.80
IDA                       15.25           2.25           17.50
IDA Special Fund         15.25           2.25           17.50
Total               54.30           4.50            58.80
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY85      FY86       FY87      FY88      FY89
Annual              4.8        6.0       12.2       9.0       3.0
Cumulative          4.8       10.8       23.0      32.0     35.0
Rate of Return:  The economic rate of return is about 19%.
Appraisal Report: No. 4913-IN, dated April10, 1984.
1/   Includes taxes and duties which are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED IDA AND SPECIAL FUND CREDITS TO INDIA
FOR THE PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on proposed IDA and
IDA Special Fund Credits to India for SDR 16.6 million (US$17.5 million
equivalent) each, on standard IDA and IDA Special Fund terms, to finance an
irrigation project in order to maximize crop production and farmers' incomes
through better water utilization. The proceeds of the Credits would be chan-
neled to the Government of Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Government of
India's standard terms and arrangements for financing State development
projects. The exchange risk would be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Resource
Mobilization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-addled in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980.  Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
A            eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Cambay Basin Petroleum Project
(No. P-3751-IN), dated March 9, 1984.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51:  gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per Ennum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 'I79/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. Wh.ile industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output t:o rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments anad domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4,.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/13. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts.  Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, aLso reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/33. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a Creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain productiona reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigationa, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure serv:ices performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82.  Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting fromn impr^oved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways buit rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries anid fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages anid bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily



-4-
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important
that India maintain the pace of investment: in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the Latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averagied 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savingEs due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasinigly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 bill:ion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast Inadia in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion.  The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past: three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continuedl export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while aLlowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal imporl: policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program wilL continue to require high levels of imports.
J
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of' GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates).  In the period 1980-82 India contracted



-5-
commercial loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of
about US$520 million.  The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector whi:Le the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.,
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in thes utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment o:E the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth.  However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been



-6-
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-
ing to higher productivity and capac:ity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expancl domestic capacity are vital. In the casle
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. ]For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy wi'Ll be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17,     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. WI.ile the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production resmains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroDleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly wilL be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous



-7-
investment requirements for humanl development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
:982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign Lnd domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
w
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
acce'lerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
health and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected cDuples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More tharn one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
-n broadening the provision, of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies.  Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART I] - BANK GROUP OPERAT]:ONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million ancd US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amournts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalletd US$286 nillion, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year.  Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224 4
million, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$WI
million cancelled.  Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity.  A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.        The thrust of Bank Group assistance t:o India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation.
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects.  Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of Cil.
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railwayEs and telecommunications projects.  The Bank Group .has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions.  Recognizing tine importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and othier urban infrastructure projects.
25.        This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan.  The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agricu].ture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects.  Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers
fields.  In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural. credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate t1he critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central elem(ent of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal powe!r generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commcodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the ef.ficiency and levels of transpor-



-9-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the flnancing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects.  This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,932 million, of which
US$2,100 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt serviice payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN TAMIL NADU
Background
29.     The State of Tamil Nadu covers an area of about 13 million ha of'
which six million ha is under cultivation. It has a population of
48.4 million.  With almost 30% of its population living in towns and cities
it is, next to Maharashtra, the most urbaniized of the Indian States.
Agriculture, however, accounts for a predominant share of the State's
economy. It contributes 31% of State income and employs 61% of the labor
force. Paddy is the main crop, and Tamil Nadu is the second largest rice
producer in India. It accounts for 36% of the cropped area and 70% of the
State's foodgrain production. As farmers in the project area are progressive
and irrigation development has been extensive, paddy yields in Tamil Nadu are
among the highest in the country. other crops include groundnuts, sugarcane,
cotton, sorghum, millet and grams.
Irrigation
30.     Although both the southwest and northeast. monsoons bring rain to
Tamil Nadu, their occurrence is irregular. Three quarters of the State lies
in the rainshadow of the Western Ghats.  The rainfall ranges from about 600mm
in the rainshadow of the western mountain range to about 1,200mm in the
northeastern coastal districts. Because of unreliable rainfall, irrigation
developed early in Tamil Nadu. The Grand Anicut in the Cauvery Delta was
built for irrigation during the second century A.D. However, most of the
Cauvery Delta system and a number of other systems, including the Periyar
Vaigai system were built during the 1880s and 1890s. The Cauvery is one of
the most utilized rivers in India with more than 90% of its waters harnessed
for irrigation.
31.     The net irrigated area in Tamil Nadu is about 2.6 million ha or a
little over 40% of the net area under culitivation. Most of the State's
irrigation development has been based on ground water. It is now estimated
that about 80% of the State's ground water potential is already utilized.
The State has attained the highest degree of actual utilization of surface
flows in India (about 90% of the available surface flow is used). Since no
large scale surface water resources remain, the main scope for increasing
irrigation intensities and expanding the area under irrigation in the State
is through increasing efficiency in the use of water from the existing
irrigation schemes.
The Project Area
32.     The Perivar Vaigai System.  The project area is located on the plain
between the Western Ghats and the Bay of Bengal in South Central Tamil Nadu.
The Periyar Vaigai project area covers a non-contiguous area of about
130,000 ha. The natural flows in the Vaigai river basin were already fully
utilized by the end of the nineteenth cenl:ury. Consequently, the Periyar
transbasin scheme was constructed to divert waters from the Periyar basin in
the State of Kerala to the Vaigai basin in Tamil Nadu. A dam and reservoir
were constructed on the Periyar River, with a diversion tunnel through the
Western Ghats which conveys water for the Periyar Reservoir into the



-11-
Suruliyar, a tributary of t]ne Vaigai. The reservoir was built with a dead
storage of 1.5mm3 and a lives storage of 195mm3. No substantial decrease of
live storage is foreseen for at least another fifty years.
33,     Cite  Topograh  and Soils.  The area has a tropisal monsoon
climate. Although it experiences two monsoons in a year, the total amount of
rainfall is insufficient for growing crops year round without irrigation.
The area is characterized by gently rolling topography and has good natural
drainage. The soils are predominantly red, sandy loam and sandy clay loam.
With proper soil management, the area is suitable for both irrigated paddy
and upland crops.
34.     Land Ownership and Agricultural Practices.  There are about 335,000
people contained in 65,000 :farm households in the command area. Average farm
size is about 1.2 ha. In addition, about 25,000 landless families live in
the project area. About 100,000 agricultural laborers, of whom more than 50%
are women, are employed in the area as hired labor. An estimated 10%-20% of
the area is tenant cultivated. The percentage of the area planted to paddy
varies from year to year, ranging from 25% to 88%, depending on the rainfall.
Farmers use high yielding varieties and yields of irrigated paddy are
generally good. The overalL cropping intensity is estimated at 129% (159% in
the double cropped areas, 117% in the single cropped areas, 108% in the
Thirumangalam Main Canal (TMC) indirect command, and 111% in the Periyar
Vaigai I and II extension areas).
Support Services
35.     Extension.  The Periyar Vaigai I Project (Cr. No. 720-IN, June 1977)
introduced the Training and Visit: (T&V) system of agricultural extension in
Madurai district and part of the Ramanathapuran district.  Regular demonstra-
tions and advice are given to farmers through fortnightly visits from Village
Extension Workers. In 1981, GOTN extended the T&V system State-wide, under
the IDA assisted Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. No. 1137-IN
of May 7, 1981). Progress under the extension project has been very good.
36.     Agricultural Research.  The State has a generally adequate agricul-
tural research infrastructure.  Responsibility for agricultural research
rests with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU). It maintains
88 small research stations 'Located throughout the State. The main areas of
work are varietal trials of paddyr, millets, oilseeds, cotton, sugarcane and
horticultural crops.  TNAU also carries out research on water management,
farm machinery, food processing and livestock.
37.     Credit.  Short-term credit for paddy and other commercial crops is
provided through the cooperative banking system to small farmers. At
present, about 40% of all farmers are provided with institutional short-term
credit, Medium term credit is also provided by the cooperative network,
mainly for dairy activities. Long term credit, mainly for wells and
tractors, is provided by land development banks, and refinanced by the
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). Over the last
five years, NABARD has refinanced about 500 wells in the command area, and
anticipates a higher volume of lending in the future. Overall, credit
facilities are adequate.



-12-
38.     Agricultural Inputs,  etore   and 'Karketing.  Over 90% of the project
area has a good transport network, and a well organized input distribution
system. In 1982-83, average fertilizer usage in the project area was more
than twice that for the country as a whole (31 kg/ha in 1981). The
Department of Agriculture (DA) is directly involved in seed production and is
expected to fully meet future needs in the Stat:e. Most farming operations
are carried out by hand or. bullocks. Almost aLl cooperative societies have a
100 ton capacity godown used mainly for input storage. The cooperative
sector is active in the purchase and marketing o:E cotton. Fertilizer, pes-
ticides and seed are distributed through a wel:L developed system of private
and cooperative dealers.  Farmers sell paddy and groundnut to private traders
in villages or directly to mills,  In addition to private channels, regulated
markets have been established throughout the State. The Tamil Nadu Civil
Supplies Corporation purc]hases paddy at prices established by the Government,
Periyar Vaigai T Irrigatioa Proiect-
39.     The Association provided a credit (Cr, No. 720-IN) of US$23 million
in May 1977 for the above project which was designed to reduce the very high
water losses of the unlined, and in many places, deteriorating canal network,,
The project was the first of its kind in India and was designed to demon-
strate the technical and economic efficiency of water saving measures,
Project implementation in the initi.al phase was slower than anticipated. due
to (i) poor response to tender calls; (ii) inability to carry out the works
within the contract amounts; and (iii) shortage of qualified staff for
investigation, survey and design work, and occasional cement shortages.
These problems prompted a comprehensive review and eventual reformulationi of
the project in 1981. Civil works construction, tasks were under-estimated
because: (i) in 1976 when the project w.as appraised, the experience in lndia
with high quality canal lining was very limited, and reliable unit costs for
this type of work were not available; (ii) there was a shortage of
experienced contractors; and (iii) PWD was inexperienced in the organization.
and management of work of' this typ(e. Although realistic unit prices had been
adopted for cement and ot:her materials in the cost estimates, and PWD's unit
price for earthwork was increased by 25%, cont:ractors' bid prices were
30%-40% higher than the final estimates.  In addition, annual cost increases
of 15%-20% for labor and materials were experiLenced. Thus due to substantia'L
cost overruns and initial delays, the project could not be implemented as
planned.
40.     Since its reformulation, project implementation has been
satisfactory. Staffing problems have been overcome, the quality of lining
work has been good, and monitoring of water losses before and after the
lining, has also been good, Since 1982/83, water delivery to farm outlets
has been more reliable, and consid.erable water saving has been effected
through better system operations. The project is now expected to be com-
pleted by the end of May 1984.
41.     However, although the project has been successful in achieving its
basic objective of reducing water losses;, it has become clear that the focus
of the project -- the lining and rehabilitation of the canal network is not
in itself sufficient to attain the full agricultural potential of the area,
through higher yields in paddy cultivation. Complementary activities are
needed (para 44).



-13-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
42.     The project was appraised in September/October 1983.  Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. in March 1984, with an Indian delegation coor-
dinated by Mr. Chatterjee of the Government of India's Department of Economic
Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4913-IN) dated
April 10, 1984 is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately. A
Supplementary Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Rationale
43.     Paddy yields in India have stagnated, mainly because the traditional
design and operating standards of irrigation projects have not assured reli-
able deliveries and adequate water management. The Periyar Vaigai Project is
the first Bank-supported rice irrigation project focussed on increasing paddy
yields. Phase I introduced design improvements. The experience gained with
Phase I has engendered confidience regarding the design standards recommended
by the Bank. Further IDA involvement is needed to capitalize on the initial
success and to facilitate and sustain State-wide replication of the new
technology for improved system operations and water management. Until
improved system operations and management are in place, the improved
infrastructure (lined canal) financed under Phase I cannot have its full
effect on agricultural production.
Proiect Objectives and Description
44.     The overall objectives of the project are to enhance production of
paddy and other crops, and to increase farmers' incomes in the project area,
through better water utilization. To achieve these objectives, a number of
complementary activities are required including: (i) completion of civil
works under Phase I; (ii) introduction of improved system operations to
provide a reliable and timely water supply, and (iii) improved water dis-
tribution among farmers below 10 ha outlets and better water management on
individual farms. These in turn would require strengthening of the existing
organization and maintenance (O&M) organization, updating O&M procedures,
establishment of farmers' organizations to improve communications between
project organizations and farmers, and training programs for project staff
and farmers.
Detailed Features
45.     Lining.  In order for improved management and system operations to
have their full effect on production under this project, lining of the minor
distribution system originally planned under Phase I needs to be completed.
Consequently, the project would provide for lining of about 380 km of small
distributaries to 10 ha outlets, improvements to about 180 of the large tanks
and completion of lining the extension areas (10,305 ha), including the
construction of additional 80 km of concrete-lined canals up to 10 ha
outlets. Funds would also be provided for improvements on about 740 smaller
tanks by reshaping of embarkments and repairing outlet structures. These



-14-
tanks previously had been operated by village communities, but have recently
been taken over by PWD for operation and maintenance.
46.     Improvement and Rehabilitation of- Peranai Regulator.  The Peranai
Regulator which is about 100 years old, diverts flows released from the
Vaigai Reservoir into the Periyar Main Canal (PMC) and the Thirumangalam Main
Canal (TMC). The project would provide for repair and improvement of this
regulator by (i) improvements to the PMC and TMC intakes; (ii) the replace-
ment of the old shutters of the regulator; (iii) miscellaneous structural
repairs; and (iv) removal of accumulated sediment in front of the regulator
and the material excavated and piled up along the main canal.
47.     Project Area Extension and On-Farm Development (OFD).  The irrigation
distribution network would be further extended to provide supplementary canal
water to 7,520 ha in existing tank commands. On-farm development would cover
61,000 ha and it would include land shaping on about 2,000 ha of direct
service area, which will be brought under irrigation for the first time. In
addition, approximately 100 km of 3m wide graveL-paved cart tracks would be
constructed to improve access to the farms, and 600 concrete thrashing floors
would be constructed to reduce the loss of grain.
48.     Reservoir Operations.  Revised reservoir operational rules would be
prepared by April 1, 1986, following a study 1'o be carried out under the
project.  The rules would define the criteria for water allocation under
different conditions of storage including the extent of the project area to
be served and the amount of water which shou'ld be passed through the canals
for storage in the tanks, dependirLg on the amount of rainfall and the avail--
able reservoir storage capacity. The rules would be revised and updated, as
additional information becomes available on the project (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.14).
49.     Canal Operation.  Although water rotation is practiced among branches
and distributaries, shifting of the water supply from one area to the next
and to tanks, generally has to wait until upstream farmers are satisfied.
This favors upstream water users and results in inequitable distribution,
unreliable water supply and loss of crop production. To overcome these
problems, the project would introduce strict water scheduling and improved
system operations over the serviced area. This would be achieved through:
weekly opening and closing schedules for all canals and 10 ha block outlets;
computerization of water demand calculations; better crop surveys and
monitoring of water depths; better synchronization of reservoir releases with
water demands; improved communication with the farmers; introduction of a
system of water accounting; and preparation and implementation of a detailed
implementation manual. The measures would require substantial strengthening
of technical services and the O&M organization. The project would provide
funds for financing the associated costs.
50.     Introduction of Rotational Water Supply and Improved Water
Management. Rotational water supply would be promoted within the 10 ha
blocks. A b-.)clr would be divided into sub-units, and water would be supplied
irL rotatiorn to these sub-units. Water management on the farm would be
promoted by training the farmers to control the depth of flooding in their
paddy fields.
51.     Training.  The project would provide for training of project staff
and farmers in the new methods of system operations and maintenance, on-farm
development and rotational water supply. The details concerning the training



-15-
program including a draft syllabus have been fully discussed between GOTN and
the Association. Assistant engineers and junior engineers (430 persons) and
canal operators would be trained in new system operations procedures, execu-
tion of OFD works, RWS and in setting up and dealing with farmers'
organizations. About 150 agricultural officers and 500 VEWs would be trained
in one wee'k courses.  A lecture hall and a Farmers Training Center would also
be constructed under the project.
52.     Technical Services.  The project would provide funds for consultants
to undertake reservoir simulation studies, prepare computer programs for
reservoir management, prepare irrigation schedules including a system for
water accounting, and training of project staff. The technical services are
expected to involve about 150 man-months of professional services, at an
estimated cost of US$1,500 per man-month for salaries, overheads, subsistence
allowances and travel but excluding reimbursable items. The contracts for
technical services would be carried out by institutions acceptable to IDA,
and consultants would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
Survey aad Design
53.     Detailed plans and cost estimates have been completed for all major
canals and final alignments have been marked in the field. The alignments
and lengths of canals have been taken from village maps; typical designs are
similar to those for Periyar Vaigai I. Discharge measuring devices would be
provided at all canal offtakes and 10 ha block outlets. GOTN would plan,
design and construct the project works in accordance with standards and
criteria satisfactory to IDA (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.05(a)).
Proiect Organization and Management
54.     The responsibility for project implementation would be shared by four
departments. The PWD would be responsible for all civil works construction
up to the 10 ha block outlet including buildings, all procurement, improved
reservoir operations and training of its staff. The Agriculture Engineering
Department would implement the OFD works, promote RWS, train its staff and
set up block committees. The Agriculture Department would be responsible for
extension work in the project area, operating the Farmers Training Center,
training its field workers and block and sluice leaders. The Revenue
Department would be responsible for introducing and administering a new
system of water charges.
55.     Overall coordination would be undertaken by the existing State Level
Coordination Committee comprising the Chief Secretary as Chairman, the
Secretaries of PWD, Finance and Agriculture, the Chief Engineer Periyar
Vaigai. and the Director Evaluation and Research Division of PWD.
Coordination at the project level would be by a Project Coordination
Committee to be set up in PWD by September 1, 1984, and consisting of:  the
S.ecial Chief Engineer Periyar Vaigai Project as Chairman, the Special
Officer of the Monitoring and Evaluation Cell (Secretary), the Superintending
Engineer Operations and Maintenance (PWD), the Joint Director of' Agriculture,
the Superintending Engineer (AED), a representative of Tamil Nadu
Agricultural University (TNAU), and the Personal Assistants to the Collectors
of Madurai and Ramanathapuram.  The Committee would be established by
September 1, 1984.



-16-
56.     The existing design and construction organization of the PWD headed
by the special chief engineer and assisted by a senior deputy chief engineer
and three superintending engineers, would be strengthened by December 31,
1984, with two additional divisions which would be responsible for introduc-
ing RWS, and three subdivisions for constructing thrashing floors (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.09).
57.     GOTN would strengtlhen the existing O&M or,ganization through the
establishment of a Water Resource Management Office, and additional posts for
one Executive Engineer, three Assistant Executive Engineers, four Assistant
Engineers, seven Junior Engineers and complement:ary staff (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.08).  GOTN would maintain PWD with necessary powers in a
manner satisfactory to IDA. to enable it to adequately distribute, schedule
and regulate the available water supply within the project area (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.20).
58.     Presently, GOTN's 'budgetary allocation for O&M for the Periyar Vaigai
system is Rs 105/ha. However, the required budgetary allocation after the
project is completed would be Rs 145/ha. Consequently, starting from
April 1, 1985, GOTN would increase its O&M budgetary allocation for the
completed areas according to an agreed implementation schedule. The budget
would be reviewed annually and adjusted for inflation commencing April 1,
1986 (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.03(b)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
59.     Monitoring would be undertaken by a number of different entities
including: the Hydrology Division arcd the Monitoring Division of PWD, the
Directorate of Agriculture, and the Directorate of Evaluation and Research.
In addition, a Monitoring and Evaluation Cell, headed by a special officer
(Administrative officer or agricultural economist) with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA, would be set up by December 31, 1984, to
coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities, analyse the results and
recommend action programs and the acLditiornal studies required (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.11). Starting from January 31, 1985, the collection of
the field cropping pattern data for the project area would be undertaken
jointly by officers from the Revenue and E'WD Departments. Their records
would serve as the official record for collection of water charges and for
monitoring purposes. A full-time statistician would be appointed to assist
the Directorate of Agriculture in carrying out crop-cutting surveys.  The
Directorate for Evaluation and Research would carry out a mid-term survey and
a project completion survey.
Cost Recovery
60.     Farmers in the command area now pay an average of Rs 96/ha as water
related charges and the collection rate is almost 100%.  The schedule of
charges is complex and is a function of access to irrigation facilities and
soil quality. There are also crop-related charges on irrigated commercial
crops (except paddy) ranging from Rs 30-50/ha. Paddy production is
indirectly taxed through public procurement schemes.
61.     It is proposed to simplify and rationalise the outmoded water charge
system. Future water charges would be related mainly to levels of service in



-17-
terms of water use. For this purpose GOTN would, by December 31, 1985,
review its irrigation water charges system and, after consultation with the
Association on the results of the review, consolidate and start implementing
the revised water charges in the Project area (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.03(a)). GOTN would fix the water and the water related charges
with the objective of covering the cost of O&M, and subject to farmers'
ability to pay, also to cover a reasonable portion of the capital costs.
GOTN would review the water charges annually commencing December 31, 1986
(draft Project Agreement, Section 3.03(c)).
Reporting
62.     GOTN would submit to IDA quarterly and annual progress reports within
three months after the end of each reporting period. Not later than six
months after the credit closing date, GOTN would submit to IDA a project
completion report (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.15 (b)(iii) and (d)).
Project Cost and Financing
63.     Total project costs are estimated at US$58.8 million equivalent;
taxes and duties would be negligible. Foreign exchange costs are estimated
at US$4.5 million (7.5% of the total costs). Major cost components are
project area extension wor]ks (US$14.8 million), completion of Periyar
Vaigai I (US$11.9 million), on-farm development works (US$10.5 million),
introduction of RWS (US$2.7 million), improved system operations
(US$2.4 million), monitoring and evaluation (US$1.5 million), and rehabilita-
tion of the Peranai regulator (US$1.3 million). Cost estimates are based
on recent bids for similar works adjusted to expected April 1984 price
levels. Physical contingencies are estimated separately for each item. They
range from 5% to 20% and average 10.8% of the base cost. Price contingencies
amounting to about 14.2% of the base cost were based on expected inflation
rates of 7% in 1984-85, 8% in 1985-86 and 1986-87 and 6% thereafter.
64.     The proposed IDA/Special Fund credits of US$17.5 million each,
together would finance about 60% of the total cost including 100% of foreign
expenditure and 56% of local costs. The balance would be borne by GOI and
GOTN. In order to ensure an early start of project actions, and to retain
the existing project construction organization, retroactive financing of up
to US$1.5 million is proposed to cover eligible costs incurred after
October 1, 1983, for construction works in extension areas.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the attached Annex IV to
this report. Civil works financed under the project (US$29.4 million) would
be for small irrigation canals.  The work would be widely dispersed and labor
intensive, and would not therefore be suitable for international competitive
bidding (ICB). The works would be advertised under local competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. On-farm development works
(US$9.8 million) involving very small labor contracts for intensive work in
farmers' fields would be carried out by local village contractors on the
basis of piecework type contracts, and would be awarded under local procure-
ment procedures satisfactory to IDA. Equipment, materials and vehicles
(US$1.7 million) would be procured over a five-year period. Adequate main-
tenance and availability of spare parts would be of paramount importance.



-18-
OnEly t-i2 new _gates for the Peranai (about US$0.4 million) would be procured
throutgh I;Ci, All other equipment and materials (US$1.3 million) would be
pLocurEi tharo;Uoh LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA.  Because of existing
servicing raci  ties and availability of spare parts, there are considerable
benefits to be derived from procuring local models. Adequate competition caLn
De sol"c:ited nsmong Indian firms for this equipment and materials.  Suitable
items -iwould b1 grouped together to promote eff-iciency in tendering and
attraSct coapeti'rti'on,  Technical assistance (about US$0.6 million) would be
o0ta_. trOM. suitable local institutions or individual consultants in
accc-.O0,aSo-e .-wii5f !DA guidelines.  The balance of the project costs consisting
of i .,. :ree.l   saff salaries (US$4.5 million), engineering, supervisionr and
Swould no"- involve procurement. Contracts for equipment and
vehiclles, Estima-eds to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less may be procured
tSciOl'  -r.-rma, trade channels subject to an aggregate ceiling of US$250,00-,,
lont-acts for goods costing US$300,000 equivaLent or more would be subject to
priog.  re.odewr IDAh
616 a    +i.sb'irsement of the proceeds of the credit would be as follows:
S, 5% a .works; (b) 90% of on-farm development; (c) vehicles and
seaui- men    (i) 100% of foreign expenditure of directly imported items,
(S ii3 w10% o   - exfactory of locally manufactured goods; and (iii) 70% for the
foc'i ly p,roc.re  goods; and (d) 100% for technical services.  Disbursement
-e - e s  foc- Ci-  works would be made against certificates of exDenditure
i'oy pro:ec: component.  Disbursements for departmental works, equip--
v . eh.icles, incremental staff costs for system operation, introduction
o                 ng  monitoring and evaluation, and technical services would
I-e --aaae a-ai-;-st -crtificates of expendit:ure itemized by type of work.
-or these would be retained by i3OTN and made available for
inrspect on by IDA during review missions.  Full documentation would be
reuire. for all other disbursements.  The expected rate of disbursement is
lth _iLha t'he typical disbursement profile in the irrigation sector as
the pro,ect has an established organization already in operation.
Proj Les- r ben3-  and Risks
6'         ti. Fiable benefits fronm the project would be increased agricul-
tura.  production from yields which are expected to increase as a result of
more   .4l      and timely water supply.  The annual incremental agricultural
productior at 8full project development  from both Periyar Vaigai I and the
proposed proect  would be for paddy about 139,000 tons, sugarcane
4') 34' tonsur  groun ruts 62,000 tons; grain 2,800 tons and cotton 1,200 tons.
The total vallue of production wou:Ld increase by about US$22 million per year.
About 65; g0X fazrm families would benefit: directly from the project. Of
t'nhse, aab;rt s500 farm families would move out of the "poverty" class
(defined as .less than US$114 per year for the average family of five in the
project  rea    Incomes of all fairmers in the project area would on average
increase Ly about 75% above the present level.  The project would generate an
additcoE,:ab 3.5 3illion man-days o:E farm emplcyment a year, and non-farm
employm.,<_L du1zi5g construction would amount to 45,000 man-years.
-`- -     p77oeCt's economic rate of return (ERR) including the costs and
benef~  o:f- the first phase operation, is estimated at 18%.  The ERR for
Periyar 7R.ig'ai sI orvice area extension is about 23% and about 15% for
A.              _  service area extension.  Tb.e results of the sensitivity
anarsU  L ^--te ;-hat a decrease in the reliability of irrigation water



-19-
supply from 85% to 70% in the extension areas, combined with a decrease from
95% to 90% in production of the main crop in the existing areas, would reduce
the ERR to 16%. With a 50% reduction in yields, the ERR would be 14%. The
sensitivity tests indicate that barring very considerable deviations the
project would remain economically viable. As this is a continuing project,
the overall project risk is less than average for irrigation projects of
similar size and scope. Costs estimates are firm, as they are based on
experience from the first phase. Projections of yields and irrigation inten-
sity estimates are conservative and well within the reach of the average
farmer's ability.
Environmental Effects
69.     The project would not be expected to have any adverse environmental
impact. The improved drainage facilities would have positive environmental
effects. The canal lining would reduce the ponding of water and mosquito
breeding.
PART V -. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.     The draft IDA and Special Fund Credit Agreements between India and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement among the Association, the
Association as the Administrator of the Special Fund and the State of Tamil
Nadu,and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
72.     I am satisfied that the proposed credits would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and Resolution No. IDA 32-6.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
J
A.W. Clausen
President
April 10, 1984






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INOlA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WE IGHTED AlVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb      1 l70/b  RECENT  /b           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960-_       90   ESTIMATE--            ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KE)
TOTAL                                3287.6       3287.6      3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                         1760.7       1780.5      1811.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      70.0        [00.0        260.0               276.7                      1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPI1ON PEE CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        114,0        t65.0       210.0                398.4                       792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
URBAN POPULATION (C OF TOTAL)-         18.0         19.8         23.7                21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              1001.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         132.3        166.6       205.3                161.7                      260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              247.0       307.5        372.7                363.1                     1696.5
POPTJLATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            40.9         42.7        39.7                 36.6                       39.4
15-64 YRS                            54.5         54.2        57.2                 59.2                       57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.6         3.1           3.0                4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RAGE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.8          2.3         2.1                  1.9                        2.3
URBAN                                 2.5          3.3         3.7                  4.0                        3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           43.7         40.0         35.4                29.3                       31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THROJS)          21.8         16.7        13.3                 10.9                        9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.9          2.7          2.4                 2.0                        2 .0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            64.0      3782.0       6826.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         12.0        23.0                48.1                        46.6
FOOiD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          98.0        102.0       107.0                111.4                      125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (' OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0         90.0        87.0                 98.1                      114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             54.0         50.0        47.0                 56.7                       57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           17.0         15.0        13.O/c               13.9                       14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            26.2         20.7        17.0                 12.2                         7.6
HREALTH
LIPE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          43.2         48.1         52.2                59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         165.0        139.0       121.2                 96.6                       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                             17.0        33.0/d               32.9                       37.1
CRBAN                                  ,,         60.0        83.07W               70.8                       54.8
RURAL                                  ..          6.0        20.07d               22.2                       26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         18.0        20.0/e               18.1                        41.4
URBAN                                  ..         85.0        87.0k                72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                  *-          1.0         2.077                4.7                        33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             4850.0      4890.0       3640.0/f            3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PEE NURSING PERSON             10980.0/g    8300.0       5380.0/f            4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2180.0       1650.0      1310.0/d             1100.6                     1047.2
URBAN                                   *                    370.07W              298.4                      651.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..     10410.07W             5941.6                     2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..           ..                  ..                       27.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2          5.6         5.2/e
URBAN                                 5.2          5.6         4.877         
RURAL                                 5.2          5.6         5.37..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.6          2.8
URBAN                                 2.6          2.8          ..
RURAL                                 2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..-- -   -       -       -       -       --               -       -       -



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                      - SOCIAL IhDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                          (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT                LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960-        1970 -_ ESTIMATI-             ASLA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJTJSTED ENtROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                        61.0         73.0          76.0/f                96.1                         101.2
MA'E                       80.0          90.0          90.07T              107.8                         106.0
FEMALE                     40.0          56.0          61.07f               82.9                          97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        20.0         26.0          28.D/f                30.2                          44.9
MALE                       30.0          36.0          37.1)77               37.3                          50.0
FEMALE                     10.0          15.0          18.D/.f              22.2                          44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)                2.8           1.0           0.;'/e                2.3                         18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                                 46.0         41.0          43.0/f                34.4                          32.7
SECONDARY                               16.0         21.0             .1. 8.4                                          23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                   27.8          33.4         36.C                   53.5                         72.9
CONSUHPT ION
PASSENCER -CARS/THOUSAND POP               0.6           1.1           1.3/f                1.6                           9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND  POP              4.9          21.5         44.4                  96.8                         113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                  0.0           0.0           1.7                  9.9                          50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DATLY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCnLATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  10.6         16.2          19.7                  16.4                          54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            3.2           4.1           3.7/e                3.6                            3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            185951.0    219194.0    271179.C
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        31.7         32.5          31.8                  33.3                          33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   74.0         74.0          69.3                  69.0                          50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      11.0         11.0          13.2                  15.8                          19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   42.8         40.0          39.3                  42.5                          18.6
HALE                                    57.0          52.4         51.9                  54.4                          50.7
FEMALE                                  27.3         26.9          25.9                  29.8                          26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.1           1.1           1.1                  1.0                           1.1
INCO04E DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5E OF HOUSEHOLDS                26.7         26.3/h        22.2/e                16.5                          22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               51.7         48.97W        49.47e                43.5                          48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 4.1           6.7|h        7.0.7e                6.9                           6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                13.6          17.27-h      16.2,7e               17.5                          15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..            ..        132.0                 133.9                         194.5
RURAL                                     ..            ..        114.0                 111.6                         155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..            ..            ..                    ..                        178.0
RURAL                                     ..            ..            ..                   ..                         164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (x)
URBAN                                     ..            ..         40.3                  43.8                          24.4
RURAL                                                                        _    ,____50.7  51.7                      41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APFLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatUon-weighted arithmetic  neans.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 anc1 1961;  Data for 1970  between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimte" between 1979 and 1981.
/c 1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1964-65.
May 1983



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
ElilOiTl-s OF SOCIAL fOdIfaOOtO
totsl tlhoohosota   dtaoros  toesfylaedfoof    hoftslsoddooafe   fffoiolsft   edosdfstoiito  doat-ill
d-atspral -d-osea tfh..    isoo of  ttadadfo   -sato oao-Jorettoedh diff-erotdoooao   ofofgdtdt.   h   aaat   ot  eas   stlt
deoasoreso  sh5ohfod f..   d toet od    --g-o rattr o   eoa,    dl   fl tferaots fotoet
g.ote.       os.    oosrsfof    a               hooor   graofhst-ooooo   ar(faodtpgooot    osat                                    .yoaadg   footyafoooo-
~ gyo-paoor   "flolo fodto 6odhoryossoa0doftrtd"oshdtolho0O~ofstto.ftdSdoddodod                                                       -d
~E    ....Totl-   - Tota   _of_ooes spof     - sd  -rs  sod oofa-daat,  196C,                           p0pffo   0-ffdto      edolstof                      oooroylof
1900 atd909f  days.fooa   toftrso  Pora                                                                                                    -i- ?pl o  o-oood by "o--yo   prad-fofo
1970  _od19f  daa                                                                                 fpltop-rdH-soooaffd -otfora.sddo-o-foooop oooot                               a
orfao, tod rorali dlodAtO  ftot,dstofedse   f  optltd
OttO PER CAPT-    0S)-O?  e   aff   s  sat   tda(fUyrS    rfs $o)fhofyptto  d   ofatgita1odCooaf,ohepoa   i
osooaadO.  ai   doesff  sst~hoda .. or...  .ta  Of....-...ol                                 oafffoo'iar      Otlaf   d   e  rfsoospraoyf ofa
ff60, 0900, too  19fdaa.00a  fasIod p-ooah    ffaltbs,opootff  yfo0o  d   oaoda
a-dge-fes.aeotfol  flftoOtfdtooe-                        faf       pe       -qfs                       proft  Ift d  aogootedi-af  fooflfttoo    F-saltfs   p.opos.
ff60, 1900, aid 16980 dt-.                                                                             orabtOaooldtOl    rloof'gHtalraf at   ol dt
POPULATION .. 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~L STATfotdooo,  oda0  rooaf   dodft  ooo  -odo-                                                        adfatffyttr
Total Ootfotoo                     --'ea   tfoadtl  -d  of Joly I; 19ff, '970, aro001                dsHlsod   i    doadIdd  fe-  T- l l o,-oh- of aitlr   o
p                       Irhet PotofafotiI ptro2ot of  o,,-, p-taffoof otfa-  to fa-l-pIp.l.t..d
aooroootrfPIP"""     ,   9,    aid .f11  _ot    .                                                Oosoaf0oll,lh    hoo ..7 fosfoOfodd    t  ooold-so                 ray   i   oa
fOpoOStOot ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~U ft......dffoos                                        -aof'ddootttg                      ,dfdfoootfobo                   dfoqafo
Popooiatfo fo ota  2100- Coftof  poplafdod  gytoodoos  ft tottd  0 068,1  od ofoft  afisoalo    dhooooto   lodato  00 00 say000 ho foloaed  0
fal opato   fatfadd sot   ,y ofeod sotaOf  adtrtd-- otoothoo  o
daa.    djtto  paraitfe ...t fosotoit   raeoopde   fyetIoaodsbrftdaooooodff,I                                                             a      idot   otatoo
fe'tltasoalofftteopetao-af11ttlooes_gd              t   ooffsOt                            i   otor    erotla            do oo,adttoo.ft    ooooooo
oI.. ts    boosleotl, sodfea            foOtsohs-ai   fsafotda   700dagogt,ospodsl. hof-C"                                                 O fo   o.-ttaettdot                  d
pees. fle  ofsttrfoft~.f1f   atefshaeoro   fdet                            oooafop--      t
llc,  I  h,           ~lots It Offoota        1 oof -af -t fsolf-  rft                ddo-odgoof(sotdaio
ded-     ta                      --lseoo  eoff od rttpoaooooo    ot                                f.....o.oos,efaofsoeloo.oo,.a..drro
oao  geoerodoofo-oyeelaos   fsef eaolf. Oftt....       adotd....offo......-                                         ot ol            ....1.0
Ort  toOosd  ooofofoIsC,      oo   - Oo  d dotosfIffrf5 f0500-ofl  at.o.O  0  ao ..hof.odlt..o.                                                                   ae
foftolot Oar edoodop                                                                         50A o-dafoof" - tqfhr- a " aooty foo- oayo ..  a-d pfot  htsoyfofr-ff
tot. .l a,i-a 61 1070, sod 190700  ao                                                                 poffofaf .197I  oao       fd   oroooohooooo
oo-fy; 50061,   1000  -od  Old d9oa                                                         Ooooofooal ooro     lleof  Od-ytit             -dtoofo   -.  y-Odoo   foood
ysrpooeto   fo7o ffl-O   f6-f,.i...-9.doodlogfotd
fo Eoto  Cdtfrotdu      toofI-tfodoil   000   OtsofRaatefoIOtro   at-Iooooo                                                          0 OfO  0  Oo   afodododad.ot.Oa
ppftosfr ...5d-60,  006-70  aod' 0070fl.                                                                                              i-ooIfoo offo-o adffpooo f00d000,O
Ifoot~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Iftfd  aO1fto-i-l-000   fotOoo-po   fotlOo  sd
fOeO popoattoo;  f00,  0970  toO 1060dato.                  COhbopfYIf
bod   hotO  adeI oo ooosod.- dota  atoftp00tiotao  ofOIOftf      fsofotolad  0 ooftosdo  oo.latoy-fosoy-                 y  dy-   ospls
poosoo,   90,170   odfd.dt.                                                               00  e 'Ifls  o50 go-oaos   tofdo   oOlolf,  toIoo
loots fsoodoftfdoOadt-ooeaoo ooiof of daagotosoaosy  allf hay do           Tf fyso, I oTo--o-foa.I
OtofoftOOodltefoffsttpolhe   poeoot-ddff                                                   aOoooftos-todtdd-dlfli-0ldfot-ofoo    ooof
feflfy.ots   oa'fff  o-aroo.ge   rloIo-fO,  90  aoIoaaf.0   oo   ff-f   fofooof   pfo-oo ,odotso
090.                                                                                            0005aooofttfooOd...oodf...fdff..fffo..o
aefffaofo-adtods  k-ooltooooso-d...ooheof......sosoofafoddoado,esf -aIsso-doooatofsfofos
.11 oorfO000  ho ofe  ap -a0.f                                                                     '00.0f         dotf-,~-P-I,'o.yfo,-f--lf              -   ......
-Qo 0f 6100f                                                                                             otl!lfd(oofffool   00.'
foatooO doo foooofOl  p00   oIft  olOo-Ofof ,-  0   ',0  0f  011 f  1,011  ll  0fd,d   oO tO   ft.-y, - 0....y...o..h.
-ool dod hodohP  if,    odotdfos                      .-d.oooo.Iofdtioood`do    ol   If of appM                            t  50, ff0   f,yoatst
roodaol  0 0  oolodaryeo  faso.  Csoo ..Oss.. dofoplaZ       goa(s                       loo   fda   tsdoop0Cyt   0    tyOtoO   O       hdo
fooftad  '7 500001 oofof aft odoflo rod  ooihafoooftltoft lo.f.  odootosiofo dotooO  oho 'rod, fodlollo0  ofOftsddoo  hodolfo-lo  olotoatood~~~~~~~I  f 1
h-heo,adfogtfshok                  tt19lfsooodooso    to,   tes                                    ooopsottle; 1960, tfda d191 oa
solfp  o   tfh do-tdeto  oooo- da-   o d    tapt-    --r, hof 1eog-tls ,flftg  s991to d                            g-    fo-    lloy  o0    90   9710000    os
ashottoldOss o1f1-h  070od  90  lt.                                                          00oeoo  .-f,   aO  001... a.a   ft..  dofag  ofd 0-0  0000-  tooo ff-
feooaofo...rofooddoI  -gros pot,    . d            .,oo -   yoof  dotto  ofIf .-Iadlta091   ad    1991                           1 Ooto.,   ~             .
050 toplo offood pr doy.Oto ooplo offodo O  dofOod at aoos.               aoolooaofoo  ots 000000ff-to7sl y-do,0008Otalo-OaTl-l-sfo-                    O
-ooofdsseoo        too l-dohoat  osfh-of tah       t-oO      t-fo   prodfooot-o                     alolod t    osoo-oat00-frooai                            tslloof       Aos
Per, alod   ft      eafothoPofo      t hoo fofe -l tol   do-efrohospooo   fo                           Ofids Iofo  boot.                1hi    -    -     i'   -P Jd~,1h                   
-oftood  If0   ao-alisd  fo-Ists  to 00000      IO  19so lam   061-6     007sd  90
lo-T ,                                                                                            didlTY otTfbNpt lo
dOodygtSlha leroe   too  Of  oflo:190,09,1od  001Ioa.hosefo
TTPWoparoooao  oot  Oot -ooo          --1, d-oosooo   ytoolfOsff                                                          L~fffofgafooooeyfdoef   ts tooofpOoo-   a,'tfr,st
oob-r of  ,poop. (to-o, ob-o,,sd  -odsl  oftf Ot--dblO   000d  af                                    todh
osotoofooolototafdootsa   srosooottftoa                                           Oofosodtlhffsoitf'ooO   Oof  lhososoo'p,toooPotf
ft-oooslls-ftdo-gooobo000000    pf-ofOsl-opesha    ooo-tos'o-b                                                                            dfolool0ofe-b-~fros
o      -h1asa--albfoooo   oorodosfoossoo,,toaolo0000                                          looofooal.f            IP--otgoooso- l,oooohd
fro   a   tloo   hO O.o... y-la  bfg  thl  rooofldf-os fdod                                    sleoo-oflfdi  sooOo-oO   oo_o  ooo -tl  Oftol ooo
hoot.  totost 00   roso, f   olo- ..o.s.  001.    sIyfo   0   ossf   rso   os      ooo   fp  oa 0-Ooa   o   oa)000    sol
s   E.to  of wo  f"so-o  10 000000  0                -foOot00000ot  oao  f                       o
rfht Oolt h   tfogOf   tif  'S 00000, ,ods.                 ,,d 
dohoeodsoalOado   ff daroo-o_a._  .-ooo   d--0
phdlfabeops     dflotdi,-rIa arroal  itfedh 'oos-
Otefoal 00psofhoage  or otoy  oogeofot  ofofofoos-0d-                                                            -0 d-gaso
.sfl  .dodth  ..lr  ooal.o.s.....rooho    yoott   f                                                                                     'oo'  o   olo   00Ofdl'



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAEITA IN 1981 US$250_
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                                            ANNCAL RATE CF GROWTH (%, constant prices) -
USS Bln . _  _                   1955/56-1559/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GN? at Market Prices            165.38    100.0                          3.7               3.6              3.6               2.9
Gross Domestic Investment        41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving            37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance          -4.08     - 2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY I? 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)             Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
US$ Blr..     -                    Mi              %T$ 1s S     of National Average
Agriculture                      39.8               39.6           180.6      70.7                220             56
Industry                         25.2              25.1             32.2      12.6                783            199
Services                         35.5               35.3            42.6      16.7                833           211
Total/Average                  130.5             100.0            255.4    100.0                 394            100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government             e/                           Central Government
Rs,Bln.         S  of  GDP                                     Rs. Bl.         1  of  GDP
1981/82      1981/82  1977/78-1981/82                         1981/82    1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Beceipts                    285.77         19.4         19.1                               149.2E       10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures                280.34        19.0          18.2                               155.01      10.5         10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit               5.43         0.4           0.9                                -5.75      -0.4         -0.2
Capital Expenditures f/             116.91          7.9          7.8                                83.66       5.7          5.5
External Assistance (net) d/         16.45          1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND l'RICES           1970/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    February 1982                 February 1983
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money               110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5            615.5                      711.7
Sank Credit to Government(net)    54.6          69.2      77.6      76.4      94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4         292.2                      353.5
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  65.2         156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    362.8    430.4            422,2                      487.7
(percentage or Index Numbers)                              April-Feb 1981/82    April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Money
as % of GDP                       27.4       30.3      34.6      36.5      41.2      44.1      43.3      42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                  100.0      173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3                 281.7                -287.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       -1.1       2.1        5.2      -        17.1      18.2       9.3             10.0                1  2.0
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0           6.3      11.1      16.3      16.0      25.6      29.6      19.1             22.7 g/          .1   21.0
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  20.5          22.7      20.7      12.6      20.3      21.5      17.0      18.7             20.9 y/               15.5 !af
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market orices, using World Bank Atlas  methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GN2P at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessarily consistent with official f:Lgures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
_a/ Percentage change from end-March 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/  Percentage change from  end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
i/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annextre Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981/82)
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                            _US$ Mln.    I
Exports of Goods j/                 7,948    8,504    8,511       8,800                Engineering Goods                 901       11
Imports of Goods q/              -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                    Tea                               457        6
Trade Balance                     -3,435   -7,615   -6,742   -6,001                    Gems                              759       10
NFS (net)                           1,042    1,365    1,120       1,088                Clothing                          556         7
Leather & Leather Products    470            6
Resource Balance                  -2,393   -6,250   -5,622   -4,913                    Jute Manufactures                 279        4
Iron Ore                         352        4
*         Interest Income (net) k/              287       600       212      -128                Cotton Textiles                   319        4
Net Trarsfers  1/                   1,852     2,771     1,577     1,668                Sugar                             104         1
Others                         3,789       47
Balance on Current Account           -254   -2,879   -3,833   -3,373
Official Aid                                                                           Total                           7,986      100
Gross Disbursements                 1,218     1,629     1,821     1,933                EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1982
Amortization                        1,894    2,338    2,475    2,569
US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                 -       1,035       690    1,980                 Outstanding and Disbursed                   18.3
All Other lItems  o/                 -740      -130   -1,075       -358                Undisbursed                                  8.5
Outstanding, including                     26.8
Increase in Reserves (-)            -224        345    2,397       -182                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204         6,859    4,462      4,644
Net Reserves (end year) m/          7,204    6,532    3,498       1,703                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 i/  n/  8.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, as of February 28, 1983
Imports (Petroleum) _/             4,046    6,657    5,570    4,686                                                              US$ million
TEED          IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed             i,355         6,688
Undisbursed                           1,896         4,270
Outstanding including
Utndisbursed                       3,253         10,958
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971               US$1.00 = Rs 7.50                         Spot Rate end-March 1983:  US$1.00 = Rs 10.03
Rs 1.00 = US$0.13333                                                    Rs 1.00 - US$0.0997
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:           USS1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 = U5$0.137376
After end-June 1972                   :       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981           :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.099
Es 1.00 = US$0.110
spot Rate end-December 1982           :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.634
Ea 1.00 = US$0.104
i/  Estimated.
k/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
1MF, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
I/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
a/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
n/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and current transfers.
o/ Includes commercial borrowing.
p/ Excluding gold.
_/  Net of crude petroleum exports.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                              1,688.0           -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                  -       4,759.0            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -          30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -           83.0           6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                       -           27.7           6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -          16.4          -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                   -          105.0           3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                 -          150.0           3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0         -            44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                     25.0          -            15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0         -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power               -          150.0            7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0         -             4.08
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -           10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0           6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           3.96
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0           4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5         -             2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -           87.0            6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -            8.0           5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0          -             2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0           -            8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0          47.64
i       806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -           85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -          16.0            8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0         -            22.27
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0           76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -          38.0            8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0           18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0           7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -           30.0            5.51
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -          200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -          129.0          61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -           48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. IL         -          175.0          21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -           23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -          210.0          82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -           37.0          15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -           20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -           46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -           32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -          175.0         121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -           22.0          18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -          300.0         213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -           10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -           56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -           54.0          41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -              80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0          -            10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -          225.0         170.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   :30.0          -            23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Devrelopment  400.0            -             7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -           35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -           83.0          72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development: II           -           42.0          29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -          140.0         128.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -          314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -           54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -          400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -           23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -           28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -           37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -          125.0          106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II         -          400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -          220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0          -            61.58
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -           29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -           25.0          21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0          -           104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0          -           121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext:.                   6.0            5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0          -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrif:ication III           304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3          -            20.00



AN"NEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0         45.33
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -          72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                 -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -         127.0         121.37
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -           158.92
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         197.01
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development        222.3         -           219.01
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                  -         150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II               -         101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power            -         170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III*        -         147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          -          32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission*         250.7          -           250.70
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management        46.2          -           46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban*                 24.1          -           24.10
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II*                 -          105.0         105.00
Total                                     5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid               1,251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                    3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursecl (excluding *)          2,100.45    4,124.24
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(ATsof Septembeer30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                      Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Lt,l.             0.8         -        0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0       1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.,        7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8        -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.7         -      15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.3         -       8.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS CON[MITMENITS       211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                           53.0        3.4     56.4
Repaid                        30.1         -       30.1
Cancelled                     16.1        1.4      17.5
Now Held                     112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                   82.9         -       82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the Project
About: one and a half years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Governiment of Tamil Nadu (PWD).
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and date
of first mission to consider the project
October 1982.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 1984.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) Final syllabi and outlines of course materials for the
training program to be prepared to standards acceptable
to IDA (para 52).
(b) GOTN to increase its O&M budget allocation and to review
and adjust annually the project O&M budget (para 61).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c)  By October 1, 1984 GOTN to establish a M&E cell to be
headed by a special officer with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA (para 59).
(d) Commencing January 31, 1985, GOTN to arrange for joint
collection of field cropping pattern data by officers
from the Revenue and PWD Departments (para 59).
(e) GOTN to submit to IDA by ]December 31, 1985 a schedule
of consolidated water charges, and, after taking into
account IDA's comments, inplement the new system in the
project area (para 61).



Annex IV
Procurement arrangements are sumnarized in the table below.
Procurement Method
(in US$ M)
Proiect Element                         ICB     LCB      Other   N.A.    Cost
Civil works                             -        26.5    2.9       -        29.4
(22.2)  (2.6)              (24.8)
On-farm development                     -         8.4    1.5                 9.9
(7.6)  (1.2)               (8.8)
Vehicles, materials and                 0.4       1.3     -        -         1.7
equipment                            (0.4)     (.8)                       (1.2)
Staff salaries & allowances             -         -       -        4.6       4.6
Technical services                      -         -      0.6       -         0.6
(0.2)               0.2
Engineering, administration             -         -       -       10.6      10.6
& supervision
Incremental operating expenses          -         -       -        0.5     0.5
Land acquisition                        -         -       -        1.5      1.5
Total                           0.4      36.2    5.0      17.2    58.8
(0.4)   (30.6)  (4.0)             (35.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.






IBRD 17607R
APRIL 1984
:  I N D l A                                                               | |  K AR N A TAA A        -f        .
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT                                                                                       <5
TAMIL NADU DETAILED PROJECT AREA                                                                            - 
TAMIL NADU
Existing Components
Stage 11 Extension Area                   *    Cross Regulators                                                                 1 A    >
StageI Existing Area                            Douoie Crop Area                         N                                             MADURAI         ;
Stage I Extension Area                          Snl   rpAe                                I**~
S I Ae  Tanks (Small Reservoirs)                                                    - V   / l
lrrigation Canals-                              Rivers 
Planned                                   0    To.ns                       0       2      4      6                             
-   ---Under Construction                               Maoin Roads                          KILOMETERS               / b.                               -   -     I
_-!- Lined Under Stage I                       ---  Ra,lonays                                                       I                       - .              - \Ri
-- -  District Boundaries                                   -1  LA-KA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                       I
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Corponati,n Thxunnrdr,mr'n,,e                                         > }(                  R    A    M     A     N     A          H          
puanut5o, hnVYr/ ank rnd 5hef                                     1 __>>t 
Ot rov em Va 0nor mrnY uf inn\1  
blr r5y  woriu onanu  Ii
=n beb=-indC                                                                                                                             --d..  /0  ona'nn    730 3



i
)r



