Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4913-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
April 11, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00    -      Rupees (Rs) 10.00 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                              =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                           =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm )             =  810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)   =  28.32 Mm
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec)=  0.028 cubic meters per second (m Is)
1 ton                                    =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 ton                                    =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1/ The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions of
cost estimates in this report have been made at US$ 1.00 to Rs 10.0,
which represents the project exchange rate over the disbursement period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  India, acting by its president (GOI).
Beneficiary:               Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN)
Amount:                    IDA Credit:   SDR 21.4 M
(US$20.5 M equivalent)
IDA Special Fund: SDR 21.4 M
(US$20.5 M equivalent)
Terms:                     IDA Credit:  Standard
IDA Special Fund: Standard
Re-Lending Terms:          From GOI to GOTN as part of central assistance to
states for development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time. GOI would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project DescriDtion:    The project would complete the Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation Project (Cr. 720-IN), extend its irrigable
area (73,600 ha) by another 7,500 ha and maximize
crop production and farmers' incomes in the 81,100-ha
project area through better water utilization. To
achieve the latter objective, the project would
(i) improve the operation of the Periyar Vaigai
system to provide an equitable and reliable water
supply in the command area; and (ii) improve the
water distribution among the farmers below the 10-ha
Block outlets and promote better water management on
the farm. This would require a number of comple-
mentary activities, including strengthening of
the project organization for operation and
maintenance, on-farm development, and introduction of
rotational water supply below the block outlet,
setting up farmer organizations, and training of
project staff and farmer leaders in new
management practices.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AD      -   Agriculture Department
AE      -   Assistant Engineer
AED     -   Agricultural Engineering Department
AEE     -   Assistant Executive Engineer
ARDC    -  Agriculture Rural Development Corporation
BC      -   Branch Canal
BCO     -   Block Committee
CCA     -   Cultivable Command Area
CSC     -   Civil Supplies Corporation
CWC     -   Central Water Commission
EE      -   Executive Engineer
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
GOI     -   Government of India
GOTN    -   Government of Tamil Nadu
HYV     -   High Yielding Varieties
ICAR    -   Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
JE      -   Junior Engineer
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
M       -   Million
M&E     -   Monitoring and Evaluation
NABARD  -   National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
O&M     -   Operation and Maintenance
OER     -   Official Exchange Rate
OFD     -   On-Farm Development
PMC     -   Periyar Main Canal
PWD     -   Public Works Department
RWS     -   Rotational Water Supply
SAR     -   Staff Appraisal Report
SCO     -   Sluice Committee
SE      -   Superintending Engineer
SMS     -   Subject Matter Specialist
T&V     -   Training and Visit (Systems of Agricultural Extension)
TMC     -   Thirumangalam Main Canal
VEW     -   Village Extension Worker
WRMO    -   Water Resources Management Office






GLOSSARY
Ayacut                     -  Service area
Block                      - Approximately 10-ha service area
Branch Canal               -  Canal branching off from the Main Canal
Direct Command             -  That part of the service area irrigated directly
from canals
Distributary               -  Canal branching off from a branch canal and
serving sluice commands (before rehabilitation)
and blocks (after completion of the lining
program)
Field Irrigation Canal    -  Irrigation canal (unlined) from the
sluice (prior to rehabilitation) or the block
outlet (after rehabilitation) serving individual
farms
Indirect Command           -  That part of the service area irrigated from
tanks
Periyar Vaigai I           -  Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project (Cr. No. 720-IN)
Periyar Vaigai II          -  Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
Sluice                     -  Outlet for an irrigation service area prior
to rehabilitation (80-100 ha)
Taluk                      -  Subdivision of a district
Tank                       -  Small storage reservoir
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Tamil Nadu and Agencies - April 1 - March 31
NABARD, Cooperatives                     -  July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks                         -  January 1 - December 31






INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND    .....................................................   I
Agriculture and Irrigation in India ............1.............. 
Agriculture and Irrigation in Tamil Nadu .....................    2
II.  THE PROJECT AREA  .............................................     4
General ...........................................               4
The Periyar Vaigai System       .........................         4
Population and Landownership ....................                 5
Present Agricultural Practices ...................                6
Farmer Support Services ..     ....................................   7
III. THE EXPERIENCE OF THE FIRST PERIYAR VAIGAI PROJECT
AND PROJECT RATIONALE ........      ................................  10
The Periyar Vaigai I Irrigation Project           .      .       10
Reformulation and Progress to Date ..     .........................  11
Project Formulation ........................................  13
IV.  THE PROJECT ............. ...                            , ,       15
Project Scope and Objectives ......     ...........................  15
Civil Works on the Canal Network .......       ...................... 16
Improvement and Rehabilitation of the Peranai Regulator ...... 16
On-Farm Development ..........      ................................  17
Improved System Operations     . ...................................  17
Introduction of Rotational Water Supply and .
Improved Water Management ......     ............................  18
Training ...........    ..........................................  19
Survey and Design        ............................................  19
Water Supply and Demand        ......................................  20
Implementation Schedule .......     ...............................  21
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited India in
September/October 1983, and comprised of: Messrs. W. A. van Tuijl, P. Dax,
and Y. K. Choi (Bank) and A. Gibbs (Consultant). A follow-on mission in
November 1983 was comprised of Mr. W. A. van Tuijl and Dr. K. Mahmood
(Consultant). Word processing was done by Ms. Z. S. Kalinger with
the assistance of Mmes. S. Douglas and S. Vanjani.



-ii-
V.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ................    22
Project Cost Estimates ..................... . . ...  22
Financing ................................   ....        . ...    .   22
Procurement .     .    .    .........    .. , ......                  23
Disbursements    ......     25
Accounts and Audits .......25
VI.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    .................................  26
General  .................................                             26
Coordination ...... . .   26
Design and Construction of Irrigation Works    .          .27
Implementation of On-farm Development Works    .         .27
Operation and Maintenance .         . ........................        27
Introduction of Rotational Water Supply         .      .29
Technical Services                ..................  29
Farmer Organizations                         ..                        30
Monitoring and Evaluation              . . .31
Reporting ....  32
VII. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT IMPACT
AND COST RECOVERY .     ....................................           33
Agricultural Production and Yields ...........................  33
Farm Incomes .....................................  34
Project Impact ......... .....          ...........   ..    .          35
Water Charges, Cost Recovery and the Taxation of Paddy .......  36
vIEII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .......... 0. . s. . .. .. .^. .. . . .. .. . . . . .. .. . . ......   40
General .. .. .................... ... *..........                     40
Assumptions .................                               ....... 40
Economic Rate of Return ......................................  42
Sensitivity and Risk ...................    .......... .....       .  42
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .*...          .....................  44



ANNEXES
Annex I    SuRporting Tables and Charts
T-1        Climatic Data
T-2        Physical and Financial Progress of Periyar Vaigai I
T-3        Water Savings as a Result of Lining for a Normal Year
T-4        Breakdown of Command Areas
T-5-17     Cost Estimates
T-18       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
T-19       Proposed Credit/Special Fund Allocation
T-20-23    Cropping Patterns
T-24       Crop Yields and Input Data
T-25-26    Area, Yields, and Production
T-27-28    Incremental Crop Production
T-29       Estimated Costs for Operation and Maintenance
Annex 2    System Operations and Water Management
Annex 3    Water Balance and Reliability of Supply
Annex 4    Priorities in Water Allocation and
Projections for the Economic Analysis
Annex 5    Training
Annex 6    Related Documents and Data Available in
Project File
CHARTS
C-1       Implementation Schedule
C-2       Overall Project Organization and Coordination
C-3       PWD Construction Organization
c-4       Field Organization Agricultural Engineering Department
C-5       Organization for Operation and Maintenance
C-6-8     Projected Cropping Patterns
MAPS
IBRD 17606    General Area of Project Location
IBED 17607    Detailed Project Area



I



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Aric_____ e and Irrigation in India
1.01      India has a population of over 700 M (1983), growing at an annual
rate of about 2.1%. Since 1960, per capita income grew at an annual rate of
1.2% and reached US$240 in 1980. Although the average per capita income has
increased and access to public services has improved, there has been, in
general, little change in the incomes of the urban and rural poor who com-
prise about 50% of the total population. Accordingly, GOI's development
plans give priority to alleviating poverty, increasing production and
incomes, and creating productive employment, especially in rural areas.
1.02      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy.  It
contributes about 40% of GNP, engages about 70% of the labor force, and
provides the base for about 45% of India's exports. GOI has devoted con-
siderable resources to agricultural development, especially irrigation.
1.03      Irrigation development had high priority since the beginning of the
planning era in 1950. Some 57 M ha were developed by 1980-81, of which about
58% receive water from surface sources and 42% from groundwater. In recent
years, the irrigated area has been expanding by about 2-3 M ha annually. It
is estimated that increased production resulting from investment in irriga-
tion has accounted for at least three-quarters of agricultural growth since
1960. Presently, irrigated agriculture accounts for about 60% of all
agricultural output in India. However, for a number of reasons, production
levels in much of the irrigated area are considerably lower than the poten-
tial.
1.04      At Independence, Indian irrigation systems commanded some 23 M ha.
Many were planned to provide famine protection, had limited or no storage,
and did not have sufficient water control structures. Water supply was
largely unreliable. Irrigation projects built in the early 1960s typically
involved a storage or diversion dam and only the main conveyance system,
leaving to the farmers the construction of the distribution system from canal
outlets to individual fields. As some of these outlets served areas in
excess of 100 or even 200 ha, conveyance of water to the farmgate required
construction of minor canal networks that were often several kilometers long.
In most projects, farmers were unable to finance or organize construction of
the field canals without outside assistance, which was rarely available.
This resulted in considerable delays in utilizing water from the irrigation
potential czeated, Older irrigation systems shared the same deficiencies in
even greater measure.



-2-
1.05      In the early 1970s, the main effort of the state Irrigation and
Agriculture Departments centered on helping farmers obtain institutional
credit for construction of field canals and land development. Achievements
have been below expectations: coordination was not entirely effective, and
the attempt to finance on-farm development through institutional credit
(generally refinanced through the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, or ARDC 1/ was generally unsuccessful because farmers had no
confidence in the reliability of water supply and were, therefore, reluctant
to undertake loan repayment obligations. Also, no framework for effective
farmer cooperation had been developed in the irrigation sector to implement
and operate such projects. The experience indicates that (a) more emphasis
is required on improving the efficiency and reliability of the conveyance
system from the water source to the government-controlled irrigation outlets;
(b) government must assume greater responsibility for conveying water to an
irrigation outlet closer to the farmgate to facilitate construction of field
canals conveying water to each individual field; and (c) government should
promote either formal or informal farmers' organizations for the irrigation
service areas to ensure more effective cooperation among the irrigators.
CEhere are clear indications that when the farmers are confident that they
will receive a reliable water supply, they will take steps to make full and
efficient use of the water supplied. These concepts have been used in the
design of the proposed project.
ALgriculture and Irrigation in Tamil Nadu
1.06       The state of Tamil Nadu, with an area of 13 M ha has a population
of 48.4 M. With almost one-third of its population living in towns and
cities, it is next to Maharashtra the most urbanized of the Indian states.
Agriculture, however, continues to account for a predominant share of the
state's economy. It contributes in Tamil Nadu about 31% of state income and
employs about 61% of the labor force. Paddy is the dominant crop and Tamil
Nadu is the second largest rice producer in India. It accounts for 36% of
the cropped area and about 70% of the state's foodgrain production. Due to
extensive irrigation development and progressive farmers, paddy yields in
Tarmil Nadu are among the highest in the country. The second most important
crop is groundnuts (12% of the cropped area), which is grown primarily inder
rainfed conditions.
1/ ARDC ceased to exist as of July 12, 1982. The refinance functions and
obligations of ARDC were assumed by the National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (NABARD), a GOI undertaking that was formally con-
stituted on the above date.



-3-
1.07       Net area under cultivation is about 6 M ha; the area sown more
than once is about 1.1 M ha, thus the cultivation intensity is 118%. Both
net and gross area cultivated have increased only marginallly over the last
fifteen years. In recent years, the net irrigated area ranged between 2.5
and 2.8 M ha; 35% was irrigated by wells, 35% by surface irrigation, and 30%
by tanks. The gross irrigated area ranged between 3.4 and 3.7 M ha, indicat-
ing an average irrigation intensity of 135%.
1.08       Although both the southwest and northeast monsoons bring rain to
Tamil Nadu, its occurrence is irregular. Three-quarters of the state lie. in
the rain-shadow of the Western Ghats, and the precipitation in these semiarid
areas ranges from 600 mm to 1,000 mm. The northern coastal districts are
somewhat more fortunate with an annual rainfall in the range of 1,000 mm to
1,200 mm. Because of unreliable rainfall, irrigation developed early in
Tamil Nadu. The Grand Anicut in the Cauvery Delta was built for irrigation
during the second century A.D. and is one of the great engineering feats of
ancient India. However, most of the Cauvery Delta system, which irrigates
0.4 M ha, was built during the 1880s and the 1890s. At present the states
largest river, the Cauvery, is one of the most utilized rivers in India, with
more than 90% of its water harnessed for irrigation. A number of other
systems, including the Periyar Vaigai irrigation system, was built during the
same period as the Cauvery Delta system. By the turn of the century, almost
half of the state's present canal irrigated area was in service.
1.09       Over the last 30 years, most attention in Tamil Nadu's irrigation
development has focused on groundwater. There are some 1.7 M wells in opera-
tion. It is estimated that about 80% of the state's groundwater potential is
already utilized; hence the scope of further groundwater exploitation is
limited.
i.fo       Tamil Nadu has attained the highest degree of actual utilization
of surface flows in India. It is estimated that over 90% of the available
surface flows are used. No large-scale surface water resources remain
undeveloped. Therefore, increasing the efficiency in water use of existing
irrigation schemes constitutes the main scope for increasing irrigation
intensities and area under irrigation in the state.



-4-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01    The project area, covering parts of Madurai and Ramanathapurain dis-
tricts, is located on the plain between the Western Ghats and the Bay of
Bengal in south central Tamil Nadu (map 17606).  The Periyar Vaigai-  T and 'f
project area covers a noncontiguous area of about 130,000 ha (g'^',ss, includ-
ing the 81,100 ha project irrigation service area. 1/  Madurai,  h'amil Nadu's
second largest town (population 820,000), is located at the fri:.ge of the
project area.  Madurai is served by a main road and rail and air l nkrs .o
Madras.
The Periyar Vaigai System
2.02    General.  The natural flows in the Vaigai River basin were already
fully utilized at the end of the nineteenth century and water shortage was
being experienced. This led to the construction of the Periyar transbasin
scheme which made it possible to divert waters from the Periyar basin -in the
State of Kerala to the Vaigai Basin in Tamil Nadu. A dam and reservoir were
constructed on the Periyar River, and a diversion tunnel through the Western
Ghats conveys water from the Periyar Reservoir into the Suruliyar, a
tributary of the Vaigai.
2.03    The construction of the Peranai Regulator and the Periya: MHain Canal
'PMC) on the left bank of the Vaigai formed part of the transbasin scheme
:hat was completed in 1896. A major addition to the earlier works was com-
pleted in 1958 with the commissioning of the Vaigai Dam and reservoir about
30 km upstream of Peranai Regulator. The primary purpose of this reservoir
was to reregulate the releases from a power station that was constructed at
the end of the Periyar diversion tunnel. This additional storage made it
possible to extend irrigation from the PMC and, through construction of the
Thirumangalam Main Canal (TMC), to irrigate lands on the right bank.
2.04    Vaigai Reservoir was built with a dead storage of 1.5 Mm3 and a live
storage of 195 Mm .  During the 23-year period, 1958-1981   the rate of sedi-
ment accumulation has been measured to be just under 1 Mm a year. At this
rate, substantial live storage would still be available at the dam for
another 50 years or so to reregulate the Periyar-Vaigai flows.
2.05    Climate, Topography, and Soils.  The project area has a troDical
monsoon climate with three main seasons: the southwest monsoon from Junae to
September with about 300 mm of rainfall; the northeast monsoon from October
to December with about 375 mm of rainfall; and the dry season from January tc)
1/  Except for the Perlyar Vaigai II extension areas, the Periyar Vaigai I
and II project areas are overlapping.



-5-
May with little rain. Average monthly temperatures range from 250C in Decem-
ber and January to 320C in May. Although the project area experiences two
monsoons in a year, the total amount of rainfall is not sufficient to grow
crops year-round without irrigation. Evaporation rates are high from March
through August averaging about 7.8 mm daily. The annual pan evaporation is
high, nearly 2,400 mm (annex 1, t-1). The project area is characterized by a
gently rolling topography, slopes slightly (0.1-0.2%) towards the Vaigai
River and has good natural drainage. The soils in the project area are
predominantly red sandy loam and sandy clay loam. The soils are moderately
deep to deep, have free drainage, and are slightly acid to slightly alkaline.
Some darker and heavier soils are found in low-lying patches. Alluvial soil
covers part of the PMC command. The soils contain generally low amounts of
organic matter, nitrogen, and phosphorus, but have adequate amounts of potas-
sium and lime. With proper soil management, the area is suitable for both
irrigated paddy and upland crops.
2.06    Irrigation Service Area.  The area served by Periyar Vaigai I and II
is partly served by irrigation canals (the direct command) and partly from
tanks (the indirect command) as shown in the following table (for details see
annex 1, t-4):
Extension Areas           Total
Command          Pre-Periyar Vaigai I    Periyar        Periyar         Service
Area                Service Area         Vaigai I      Vaigai II       Area
--(ha)--         ------                (ha)…--------------------       --(ha)--
Direct                  35,000              5,000           ---          40,000
Indirect                28,200             5,400           7,500        41,100
Total                63,200            10,400          7,500         81,100
The tanks in the Periyar Vaigai I irrigation service area receive supplemen-
tary canal water in addition to rainfall runoff and return flows from
irrigated lands in their catchments. The tanks in the indirect commands of
the Periyar Vaigai I and II extension areas are rainfed and will be linked up
to the canal system as a rdsult of the projects. Groundwater is being pumped
from private dug wells to supplement canal or tank water on about 5,100 ha
(para 2.15). Most of the area above the Kallindiri regulator (see map IBRD
17607) is entitled to grow two crops of paddy; the other parts of the project
area are only entitled to receive water for a single crop.
Population and Land Ownership
2.07    There are about 65,000 farm-households in the command area.  The
average family size is 5 persons. The average farm size is relatively small,
averaging about 1.2 ha.



-6-
Number as            Area as
Farm Size             % of Total         %  of Total
less than 0.5 ha            40                    9
0.5 to 1 ha                 26                   15
1 to 2 ha                19                    22
2 to 5 ha                12                    29
Over 5 ha                 3                    25
100                  100
2.08    In addition, about 25,000 landless families live in the project area,
constituting the poorest section of the population. Thus about 90,000 rural
households (with a population of about 450,000) derive their principal income
from agriculture in the command area. About 100,000 agricultural laborers
are partially employed as hired labor in the project area. More than half
are women who do all paddy transplanting. Many agricultural laborers are
recruited from the households in the smallest landholding-size bracket. An
estimated 10-20% of the project area is tenant cultivated. A Fair Rent Act
stipulates that owner and tenant share the produce in the ratio of 40:60, In
most cases, tenancy is based on an oral agreement with equal sharing of the
produce; however, tenants pay production costs, including labor, animal
power, fertilizer, and pesticides.
2.09    According to the project's system of water allocation priorities
(see annexes 3 and 4), the project's service area is classified into a
single cropped area and a double-cropped area as shown in the following table
(for details see annex 1, t-4):
Extension Areas          Total
Ciopped           Pre-Periyar Vaigai I       Periyar    Periyar          Service
A rea              Service Area             Vaigai I   Vaigai II        Area
---(ha)--         --------------------(ha)               …--ha)--
Double
cropped area          29,700                 ---           ---          29,700
Single
cropped area          33,600                10,300      7,500           51,400
Total                63,300                10,300      7,500          81,100
Present Agricultural Practices
2.10    Paddy is by far the principal crop grown in the project area, occupy-
ing about 85% of the 81,100 ha service area. The new areas to be added under
Periyar Vaigai I and II are presently served by rainfed tanks and the per-
centage of area planted to paddy varies from year to year ranging from 25% to
88% depending on the rainfall.  In the double cropped area, the farmers use
short maturing varieties for the first paddy that are harvested in 105 days;
these are planted from June to July after water has been released in the ?MC,
andl harvested from September to October. For the second paddy, long duration
varieties are planted in late October to November and harvested in 135 days.
In the single cropped area, paddy is grown from August through late January



-7-
in the PMC command and from mid-September through February in the TMC com-
mand; 135-day varieties are widely used. Other crops grown under irrigation
are groundnut (2-3%), sugarcane (2%), and some cotton in the TMC areas.
Sorghum, millets, grams, and some groundnuts are grown under rainfed condi-
tions. The overall cropping intensity is estimated at 129% (159% in the
double-cropped areas, 117% in the single-cropped areas, 108% in the TMC
indirect command, and 111% in the Periyar Vaigai I and II extension areas
(see annex 1, tables 20-23).
2.11    Yields of irrigated paddy are generally good:  farmers use
high-yielding varieties (about 70%), apply fertilizers (on average 76 kg/ha),
and practice weeding by hand. ADT 31, ADT 34, and CO 35 are the common
varieties for the first crop in the double-cropped area and yield about 3.2
t/ha. The farmers use the IR 20, Ponni, and IR 34 varieties for the second
crop. Their yields are lower (2.9 t/ha) than for the first paddy as it
benefits less from sunshine. For the single paddy crop, the farmers
generally use the same varieties as the second paddy in the double-cropped
area, but yields average 3.2 t/ha; this yield is a weighted average of 3.8
t/ha in the upper reaches and 1.4 t/ha in the tail reaches. This is caused
by an excess use of water by the upper reach farmers, while the tail-end
farmers on about one-third of the command area experience water shortages.
This is particularly the case at the end of the irrigation season when the
water supply to the tail end farmers generally stops about a month before the
paddy reaches full maturity; this reduces yields considerably (annex 2). The
average yield of paddy, however, in the tank commands of the Periyar Vaigai I
and II extension areas is a low 1.8 t/ha as the tank water supply is depend-
ent on rainfall and a good yield can only be expected for two out of ten
years. Millet (CO 7 and KM 2) is grown mainly under rainfed conditions,
although some is grown in the indirect command in the single-cropped area
where water supplies are insufficient. Yields of millet are about 0.7 t/ha.
Sorghum (IS 3541) is generally grown on residual moisture or the early rains;
yields are low at 0.9 t/ha. TMV 2 and TMV 7 are popular groundnut varieties;
they yield about 1.4 t/ha under irrigated and 0.8 t/ha under rainfed condi-
tions. Cotton, mainly the American upland type, is grown under irrigation
on patches of black soil; yield is about 1.3 t/ha. Grams are usually grown
after paddy on residual moisture; yields are low at 0.4 t/ha. Sugarcane (CO
671 and CO 6304) is grown for two mills near the project area by owners of
private wells. As the winters are mild, yields are high at 65 t/ha; the
sugar content is good (annex 1, t-24 - t-26).
Farmer Support Services
2.12    Agricultural Extension.  Periyar Vaigai I provided for the introduc-
tion of the Training and Visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension in the
entire Madurai district and a part of the Ramanathapuram district. Under that
component, regular demonstrations and up-to-date advice on farming practices
were provided to the farmers through fortnightly visits from regularly
trained Village Extension Workers (VEWs) who reside in the villages where
they work. The program called for the reorganization of extension staff to
work exclusively on extension. The project included provision for housing of
field staff in remote areas and of vehicles and bicycles to ensure their
mobility. It also provided for increased staff to provide adequate field
coverage aiming at one VEW serving 650 farm families, In 1981 GOTN extended
the T&V system statewide under the IDA assisted Tamil Nadu Agricultural



-8-
Extension Project (Cr. 1137-IN) and the extension component, included in
Periyar Vaigai I, was integrated into the statewide extension system. The
progress with the Extension Project has been satisfactory.
2.13    Agricultural Research.  Responsibility for agricultural research in
TmLmil Nadu rests with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU). It
maintains 88 small research stations located throughout the state, of which
two are in the project area.  The main areas of work are varietal trials of
paddy, millet, oilseed, cotton, sugarcane, and horticultural crops. TNAU
also carries out research in the fields of water management, farm machinery,
food processing, and livestock at Coimbatore and Madurai campuses. Madurai
campus is located within the project area and has,.among others, a department
for agricultural extension, a training institute, and a large variety of
research programs. An Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) coor-
dinated scheme for research on water management in the Periyar Vaigai command
area was started in 1971. The program has mainly concentrated on: (a) crop
response to moisture stress at different stages of growth; (b) water use
efficiency for paddy and other crops under different moisture regimes; and
(c) fertilizer use efficiency under different moisture regimes. Findings
for improved farming practices under irrigation are passed on to the farners.
However, without improved water control the impact so far has been limited.
2.14    Credit.  Short-term production credit is provided through the
cooperative banking system.  The loan amount is standardized at Rs 1000/ha
for paddy, and Rs 2500/ha for sugarcane. Credit is also available for
groundnut, cotton, and other commercial crops. There are 137 primary credit
societies in the project area. The long-term target of the Madurai District
Cooperative Bank is to provide production credit to about half the cropped
area, while focusing on small farmers, since the farmers with large holdings
are self-financing. At present, half this target is met so that about
one-quarter of the area is provided with institutional short-term credit,,
acconting for about 40% of the farmers. Overdues are close to 50% of out:-
standing demand, reflecting in part the consecutive droughts of the past two
years. Medium-term credit is also provided by the cooperative network and
foc:uses on dairy activities.
2.1.5    Long-term credit, mainly for wells and tractors, is provided by land
development banks and refinanced by the National Bank for Agriculture and.
Rural Development (NABARD). NABARD's refinancing of well construction
directly contributes to the more efficient utilization of surface irrigation
water in the command. W4hen wells are used for paddy nurseries, the growing
season can be advanced and more effective use be made of rainfall; wells also
increase the overall operating efficiency. (If wells were absent, the whole
network would have to be operated to irrigate only some 10% of the area under
paddy nurseries).   Wells are also widely used as a complementary source of
irrigation in sugar cultivation and in high-value commercial cultivation of
fresh produce.   NABARD has refinanced some 500 wells in the command area
over the five year period 1978-83 and anticipates a somewhat higher volume of
lending in the future.   Future demand for wells is anticipated to become
highest in the extension areas, where the increasing availability of
groundwater, as a result of surface irrigation, will enhance the
profitability of well construction.



-9-
2.16    Agricultural Inputs.  The Madurai district, which covers 90% of the
project area 1/, is one of the more developed districts in Tamil Nadu and has
a good transportation network and a well organized input distribution system.
Local statistics show that in 1982-83, the district received 31,000 tons of
nitrogen, 11,000 tons of phosphate, and 12,000 tons of potash in nutrient,
which corresponds to the use of about 44 kg of nitrogen, 16 kg of phosphate
and 16 kg of potash per ha cropped. This is more than twice the average
fertilizer usage in India (31 kg/ha in 1981). The use of plant protection
chemicals amounts to about Rs 93 per ha cropped. DA is directly involved in
the production of seeds. In 1982-83, DA supplied some 1,750 tons of
high-quality paddy seeds to the farmers in the district. As DA is rapidly
expanding its seed multiplication program, the future need of seeds is
expected to be met. Most farming operations are carried out by hand or
bullocks. The bullock population density is estimated at 2.0 bullock/ha
(145,000 bullocks over a net area of 81,100 ha) which, with the sharing or
hiring of bullocks among farmers during peak periods, is considered adequate.
The farmers generally thrash their paddy on the public road. Also, while
transporting the paddy from the field to the road either by bullock or
manually, a loss of grain due to shattering is reported of about 5%.
2.17    Storage.  Almost all cooperative societies have a 100-ton capacity
godown, used mainly for input storage. The cooperative banks are promoting
a scheme under which farmers can obtain credit, with the paddy stored in the
godown as collateral (up to 75% of the value of paddy).  Production thus
stored is still insignificant, though increasing (10,000 tons in the district
in 1982, up from 6,000 tons in 1979).  The scheme offers an opportunity for
farmers to "earn" the 20-30% seasonal price differential between paddy sold
at harvest time in January and peak prices in July and August.
2.18    Marketing.  The cooperative sector is active in the purchase and
marketing of cotton. There is a cooperative sugarmill in the project area,
in addition to a private mill. Fertilizers, pesticides, and seeds are dis-
tributed through a well-developed system of private and cooperative dealers.
With about 54,000 tons of fertilizer sales in 1982-83, the cooperative sector
in Mladurai district has about a one-third market share. Farmers sell paddy
and groundnut to private traders in villages, or directly to mills. In
addition to private canals, regulated markets have been established
throughout the state under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Market Act
(1959). They operate under the supervision of a committee comprising both
growers and traders and handle most agricultural commodities. The Tamil Nadu
Civil Supplies Corporation (CSC) also purchases paddy at prices established
by the government (para 7.14). Madurai town is the major marketing and
distribution center.
1/ Ramanathapurum district covering the balance.



-10-
III. THE EXPERIENCE OF THE FIRST PERIYAR VAIGAI PROJECT AND
PROJECT RATIONALE
3.01    The primary objective of the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project
(Cr. No. 720-IN, hereafter referred to as Periyar Vaigai I Project) was to
reduce the very high water losses of the unlined and in many places
deteriorating canal network. The project has been successful in achieving
the objective of saving water. Based on extensive measuremgnts, the expected
water savings from lining have now been estimated at 188 Mm . The water
savings are being utilized so far to (a) increase double cropping (by a
maximum of 7,200 ha in 1980/81, see annex 4, t-2); (b) reduce tail-end
deficiencies; and (c) conserve more water in storage for the next growing
season. A further extension of the command area (by 7,500 ha) is feasible.
3.02    On the other hand, it has become clear that the lining and
rehabilitation works around which the project centered are not in themselves
sufficient to attain the full agricultural potential of the area, and in
particular the high yields in paddy cultivation that were targeted. Starting
with an in depth project review and reformulation in 1981, the complementary
management activities to the improved physical infrastructure were identified
and have been subsequently incorporated as components in the present project.
The Periyar Vaigai I Irrigation Project
31.03    Project Components.  The project was appraised by IDA in
Ocitober/November 1976. Estimated project cost was US$32.6 M, assisted by an
IDA credit of US$ 23.0 M. The project became effective September 30, 1977,
with an expected completion date of December 31, 1981, and a credit closing
date of March 31, 1983.
3.04    The main component of the project is the lining of the irrigation
distribution network down to 10-ha outlets. Other project components
included (a) the construction of a 30 km long Link Canal to connect the
Vaigai Reservoir with the Periyar Main Canal, the latter taking off from a
barrage--the Peranai Regulator--located on the Vaigai River downstream from
the Vaigai Reservoir; (b) improvements to irrigation tanks and village roads;
(c) strengthening of the extension services; and (d) the extension of the
existing canal system by some 9000 ha to utilize part of the water savings
from lining. No work was planned below these outlets.
3.05    Project Implementation.  Implementation in the start-up phase has
been much slower than anticipated because of (a) poor response to tender
calls mainly from small local contractors, who initially did not have
experience in this work; (b) several contractors were not able to carry out
the works within the contract amounts and broke their contracts; (c) shortage
of qualified staff for investigation, survey, and design work for the smaller
distributaries; and (d) occasional cement shortages. Serious difficulties
were also experienced with the bidding for the Link Canal. Tender response
was poor, and bid prices far exceeded cost estimates.



-1l-
Reformulation and Progress to Date
3.06    Costs and Implementation.  The initial delays in implementation, and
the early indications of cost overruns prompted IDA to mount a comprehensive
review mission in February 1981. The recommendations made to GOTN as a
result of the review included (a) to defer the Link Canal, as it would not
contribute to water savings; (b) to proceed with experimental lining in the
service areas of branch canals 2 and 6 (about 1,000 ha in total); and (c) to
postpone a decision on the final extent of the lining until the results of
water loss measurements would become available.
3.07    Despite the deletion of the Link Canal and minor reductions in the
scope of other components, the expected cost of the revised Periyar Vaigai
I exceeds the SAR cost estimate by about Rs 168 m or 41% (see annex 1, t-2).
In 1976 when Periyar Vaigai I was appraised, the experience in India with
high-quality canal lining was still very limited. Therefore, the cost
estimates for this type of work, based on actual implementation, were not
available. To avoid underestimation, the PWD's unit rates for earthwork were
raised by 25% in the appraisal cost estimate. Nevertheless contractors' bids
were 30-40% higher than the increased estimates. In addition, annual cost
increases of 15 - 25% for labor and materials were higher than estimated at
appraisal. The cost overruns on the civil works have contributed to about
half of the total project cost overrun. The balance was a result of higher
than estimated engineering, supervision, and administration costs, since the
small, widespread, and seasonal works that were executed under small con-
tracts required more supervision than anticipated.
3.08    For the above reasons, the original physical targets and implementa-
tion plans required revisions. Further, by the time of the reformulation it
became clear that in order to achieve the main objectives, upgraded system
operations and water management--not included in the project--were necessary.
Consequently, a follow-up project was needed to consolidate and complement
the achievements of the first project. At the time, IDA indicated that it
would be willing to consider a second-phase project at a later stage. GOTN
agreed to these recommendations. Therefore, the Periyar Vaigai I project
became in effect a first time slice of a longer and more comprehensive
program.
3.09    Since the reformulation, implementation has picked up and is now
fully satisfactory. The SAR specified the need to set up two construction
circles; GOTN set up three circles and in addition special divisions for
Quality Control, Hydrology (to check water losses and savings) and Monitoring
(of physical progress). Although in 1980 there seemed to be a shortage of
qualified staff for the design of water courses, this difficulty has later
been overcome. By March 1982, the rate of implementation of smaller canals
(mostly below the sluice outlets) had increased to some 145 km/year. The
quality of lining work is very good. The Hydrology Division has performed
well in monitoring water losses before and after lining.



-12-
3.10    Lining to the 10-ha outlets.  In the unlined canal network, water had
been distributed to "sluices" serving areas about 100 ha. Calculated on the
basis of wetted perimeter, the fraction of seepage losses incurred in the
part of the canal system from the "sluice" to a 10-ha outlet would appear
smaller than in the upper part of the canal system. Based on this impres-
sion, GOTN has, prior to the reformulation, proposed to limit lining of the
distribution system to the 200-ha level. Such a policy was unjustified since
in terms of operational losses and the timeliness of supply, the losses below
the sluice outlet are a key constraint to raising yields. Farmers have no
difficulty crossbunding or otherwise tampering with earthen channels when
water is released for transplanting. Water is only released from headreach
fields after their saturation. This results in frequent water shortages at
the tail end of the sluices. Equally damaging are the delays in water
delivery to the tail end of the sluice (by a week or more) and the consequent
impredictability of the time of arrival of the water.
3.11    It is virtually impossible to police the regular abuse of earthen
channels. When these channels are poorly patched up by the perpertrators,
water losses continue throughout the season. 1/
3.12    Once the canals are lined, tampering with the system is more dif-
ficult since concrete masonry walls 2/ would have to be destroyed. Such
tampering is easily identifiable in time and place and can be visibly
attributed to the beneficiaries of the malfeasance. This makes policing by
the PWD effective for the first time. It also encourages the mutual
vigilance of farmer groups competing for water. Order in water allocation is
a precondition for realizing benefits of RWS and of OFD. Thus no significant
yield increases can be achieved without upgrading the technical standards of
the minor conveyance system below the sluice outlet.
3.13    These considerations were brought to bear on the reformulation of the
project and consequently GOTN has late in 1981 agreed to carry out the lining
up to the 10 ha outlets on a pilot scale on branch canals 2 and 6. This has
proved to be very successful and has allayed earlier reservations on the part
of PWD. Water is delivered to the farm outlets in a much more reliable
fashion and is reaching the tail end much faster, which helps to speed up
land preparation and increase yields. By September 1983, lining of canals
within the existing sluice commands had been completed for about 250 km out
of 750 km, and was enthusiastically backed by the farmers. Detailed
hydrological monitoring of branch canals 2 and 6 also indicated considerable
water savings (25-30X) through better system operations.
1/ In this situation it is artificial to distinguish between seepage and
operational losses below the sluice outlet. Overall losses below the
sluice outlet are far more than proportional to wetted perimeter.
2   These channels are formed by rectangular walls above the surface built
from locally available granite stones. They are built to last.



-13-
3.14    Extension.  The reorganization of the extension service was the
responsibility of the Department of Agriculture. This activity initially was
delayed. The necessary government orders for the reorganization (creating a
single line of command and ensuring regular contacts with farmers) were
issued in April 1980. Since then progress has been satisfactory. In 1981
the project extension service was absorbed into the Tamil Nadu Extension
Project (Cr. No. 1137-IN; US$28.0 M).
3.15    Present Status.  The project was formally amended in March 1983, when
the Link Canal was deleted from the project scope. The present status of
Periyar Vaigai I and projected progress up to March 31, 1984, is shown in
detail in annex 1, t- 2, and is summarized in the following table:
Balance
Expected        of Works
Completed by   Completion    Under Periyar
Overall Targets (Km)   Sept 1983       by May 1984    Vaigai II
SAR     Revised      (Km)   (%)          (km)         (km)
Main canal           121         124        114   92          120             4
Branch canals        220         220        183   83          210            10
Distributaries /a  1065         1132        398   35          664           468
/a  Of which approximately one-third are above the 200-ha level and two-
thirds below the 200-ha level.
Project Formulation
3.16    The experience gained with Phase I has engendered confidence regard-
ing the design standards and the efficacy of canal lining recommended by the
Bank. Further Bank involvement is required to capitalize on the initial
success, and also to launch replication of the new technology through a
sustained demonstration effort. At present, water allocation and scheduling
tend to favor upstream users, both between and within the distributary serv-
ice areas. Generally the water supply is shifted only from one area to the
next after the first served farmers are satisfied, and this creates an ineq-
uitable distribution of water and unreliable supply, particularly to the tail
ends. The introduction of improved system operations to provide a reliable
and timely water supply to the 10-ha blocks would enhance considerably the
agricultural benefits that can be derived from a lined canal system.
3.17    Much of the irrigation below the 10-ha outlets is still from field to
field. A second major objective of the project would therefore be to improve
water management below the 10-ha outlets through construction of additional
field channels, the introduction of RWS and better water management on the
individual farm.



-14-
3,.18    The necessary actions to improve system operations up to the 10 ha
block outlets, and water management below the 10-ha block outlets include:
(a)  Operation of the irrigation network by PWD up to the 10-ha
outlets (presently PWD operates the system only up to sluices
commanding 80-100 ha) (para 4.12).
(b)  Substantial strengthening of the existing O&M organization
(paras 6.06 and 6.07).
(c)  Updating of O&M procedures, including computerization of
irrigation schedule preparation (paras 4.11, 4.12, and 6.09).
(d)  The setting up of farmer organizations to improve communications
between project organization and farmers, and to promote their
involvement in water management and maintenance below the outlets
(paras 6.13-6.16).
(e) Implementation of training programs for project operating staff
and farmer leaders (para 4.15).
Implementation of these activities will be a difficult undertaking, and IDA's
involvement is required to provide strong support and leadership to establish
suitable procedures for system operations and water management, without which
these activities may not become self-sustaining. IDA involvement will help
to ensure satisfactory rapid completion of the lining program that is a
prerequisite for improving system operations.
3.19    Paddy yields in India have generally stagnated because reliable
deliveries and adequate water management cannot be provided with the tradi-
tional canal network design and operating standards.  Therefore, the
experience gained with Periyar Vaigai I and II will be relevant for the whole
of India.  The results are of particular importance in Tamil Nadu on account
of the increasingly urgent need to rehabilitate irrigation systems in the
0.5 m ha Cauvery Delta, the rice-growing granary of the state.  GOTN intends
to undertake that program over the next 15 years and plans to request IDA
assistance for the purpose.



-15-
IV.   THE PROJECT
Project Scope and Objectives
4.01    The project would complete the canal lining program initiated under
Periyar Vaigai I, extend its irrigable area by another 7,500 ha, and enhance
crop production and farming incomes in the 81,100-ha project area through
better water utilization. To achieve the latter objective the project would
(a) improve the operation of the Periyar Vaigai system to provide an equi-
table and reliable water supply in the command area; and (b) improve the
water distribution among the farmers below the 10-ha block outlets and
promote better water management on the farm. This would require a number of
complementary activities, including strengthening the project organization
for operation and maintenance, on-farm development (OFD), and introduction of
rotational water supply (RWS) below the block outlet, setting up farmer
organizations, and the training of project staff and farmer leaders in the
new management practices.
4.02    The main components of the project would be:
(a) Civil works on the canal network (paras 4.03 to 4.05);
(b) Improvement and rehabilitation of Peranai Regulator
(paras 4.06 to 4.09);
(c) OFD works for 61,000 ha, including construction of field canals,
cart tracks, and thrashing floors (para 4.10);
(d) Improved system operations up to the 10-ha block outlets, involving
the strengthening of the project organization for operation and
maintenance and including technical services (paras 4.11 to 4.13);
(e) Introduction of RWS below the 10-ha block outlets (para 4.14);
(f) Training of project staff and farmer leaders in improved system
operations and better water management techniques (para 4.15);
(g) Technical services to undertake studies on system operations
and for preparing course materials for training (para 6.12);
(h) Project monitoring and evaluation (para 6.17).



-16-
-Civil Works on the Canal Network
4.03    Some 380 km of smaller distributaries to 10-ha outlets will be lined.
'The improvements of about 180 of the larger tanks in Periyar Vaigai I exten--
ision (10,305 ha) will be completed. The latter also includes the construc-
tion of about 80 km of concrete-lined canals up to 10-ha outlets.
4.04    Some 740 smaller tanks that had previously been operated by the
village community would be improved, mainly by reshaping embankments and
repairing outlet structures. These tanks have only recently been taken over
by PWD for operation and maintenance.
4.05    The irrigation distribution network would be further extended to
provide supplementary canal water to 7,520 ha in existing tank commands
("indirect ayacuts"). The service areas under BC 10 and 12 of PMC would be
enlarged by 2,590 ha and 3,530 ha respectively. A third extension of
1,400 ha would be implemented under the TMC.
Improvement and Rehabilitation of the Peranai Regulator
4.06    The Peranai Regulator regulates releases to the PMC and TMC from the
Vaigai Balancing Reservoir. In an average year about 80% of the releases are
diverted by the TMC and the PMC. In the absence of the Link Canal, the use
of the Peranai Regulator will continue. It has now become necessary to
improve and repair this nearly century-old structure.
4.07    A3sediment imbalance at Peranai Regulator has been estimated at about
100,000 m  a year.   Part of it enters the PMC and causes reduced canal
capacity and maintenance problems. A retrogession of the river canal and the
sediment yield from the about 1350 km2 drainage basin between the Vaigai Dam
and the regulator have supplied enough sediment to create problems in gate
operation.
4.08    Consequent to IDA supervision mission recommendations, the Hydraulic
Research Station at Poondi constructed a flume model to study the behavior of
sediments near the dam and a mechanical model to study the impact of sedi-
ments deposited against the river sluices on the operation of the gates. It
was confirmed that a scour channel will be maintained in front of the gates
and sediments will be sluiced out in times of high reservoir inflows. A
hydraulic solution to the sedimentation problem is however not sufficient and
the sediment deposits will have to be removed mechanically from the river
section just upstream of the regulator.



-17-
4.09   Works would include (a) remodeling the PMC and TMC intakes, including
construction of skimming weirs to reduce the entry of sediments; (b) the
replacement of the old shutters of the regulator by new gates; (c) miscel-
laneous structural repairs; and (d) the initial removal of accummulated
sediments in front of the regulator and the material excavated and piled up
along the main canal.
On-Farm Development (OFD)
4.10    On-farm development works have been implemented during 1981/82 and
1982/83 from GOTN's own resources on some 20,000 ha in the Periyar Vaigai
I area, consisting of unlined field canals below the 10-ha outlets to connect
these outlets with the individual farms, including necessary structures such
as division boxes and drop structures. OFD works would be completed for the
remaining part of the project area (61,000 ha), including land shaping on
some 2,000 ha of "direct ayacut", which will be brought under irrigation for
the first time in the Pulippaty extension area. Also, approximately 100 km
of 3-m wide gravel-paved cart tracks would be constructed to improve access
to the farms, and 600 concrete thrashing floors to decrease the loss of
grain.
Improved System Operations
4.11    Reservoir Operation.  Present reservoir operation follows a number
of relatively simple rules. Revised reservoir operation rules would be
prepared for the extended project. The new rules would stipulate the sup-
plies that can be assured in different types of years (wet, average, or dry).
The rules would be developed under a study to be carried out under the
project (para 6.12), 1/ showing how the project could best have been operated
in a series of years similar to past years. For different amounts of rain-
fall, dependability, and available reservoir storage, the rules would define
how much water could be released, to what extent the project area could be
served, and how much water should be passed through the canals for storage in
the tanks. The rules could be revised or updated over time as more informa-
tion becomes available on project conditions and operational constraints.
4.12    Canal Operation.  Rotation is being practiced among branches and
distributaries, but the shifting of the water supply from one area to the
next or to tanks generally has to wait until the first-served farmers are
fully satisfied. This favors the upstream water users, creates an ineq-
uitable distribution and unreliable water supply, and loss of potential crop
production. The project would introduce strict water scheduling and improve
system operations. The major objective would be to provide a reliable water
XI For terms of reference of the study, see annex 2, appendix 1.



-18-
supply at the 10-ha block outlet and an equitable distribution of the avail--
aDle supply over the service area. This would be achieved through:
(a) Weekly opening and closing schedules for all canals,
sluices and 10-ha block outlets, and strict adherence to these
schedules;
(b) Fixing in advance a guaranteed date by which water will be
released to fill the tanks;
(c) More accurate assessment of water demand through better crop surveys
and monitoring water depths in selected paddy fields;
(d) Computerization of water demand calculations and preparation of
detailed irrigation schedules;
(e) Better synchronization of reservoir releases with project water
demands;
(f) Improved communications with the farmers on canal opening dates and
advance posting of detailed irrigation schedules for all blocks;
(g) Introduction of a system of water accounting; and
(h) Preparation and implementation of a detailed operation and
maintenance manual with standard operating procedures (para 6.09).
4.13    The proposed measures would require substantial strengthening of the
existing 0&M organization (paras 6.06 and 6.07) and technical services
(para 6.12); the related costs would be financed from the IDA Credit and IDA
Special Fund. (For details on existing and proposed system operations, see
ananex 2.)
Introduction of Rotational Water SuPPlY and Improved Water Management
4.14    RWS would be promoted within the 10-ha blocks.  The block would be
subdivided into 3 or 4 subunits, and the water supplied in rotation to these
suibunits in flows of not less than 0.75 cusecs. Following the land prepara-
t:ion period, a rotation interval of seven days would be aimed at although
initially as a compromise; because farmers are used to continuous flow, water
may be supplied every 3-5 days. Water management on the farm would be
promoted by training the farmers to control the depth of flooding in their
paddy fields according to stage of crop growth. For details see Annex 2.



-19-
Training
4.15    Training activities described below (paras 4.16-4.18) would be under-
taken to train project staff and farmer leaders in system operations, on-farm
development, and RWS. Draft syllabi and other details have been agreed upon
with GOTN (annex 5). The course material would be prepared by the appropriate
departments with some assistance from outside consultants. An understanding
was reached during negotiations that the final syllabi and outlines of course
materials would be finalized and submitted for IDA's review and comments by
December 31, 1984.
4.16    The Public Works Department (PWD) would train its assistant engineers
(AEs) and junior engineers (JEs) (300 persons) and its irrigation gumasthas
and lascars (230 persons) in the new system operation procedures in courses
of two-weeks duration. The courses would be held in a PWD lecture hall to be
constructed under the project for the first category of staff and in rented
buildings for the second category of staff. The trainers would be part-time
PWD staff and an agriculturist. The administration of the operations would
be undertaken by a small core of full-time PWD staff.
4.17    The Agricultural Engineering Department (AED) would train its AEs and
JEs (130 persons) in the execution of OFD works, RWS and the setting up and
dealing with farmer organizations (paras 6.13-6.15). The trainers would be
AED staff supplemented by AD staff. The training would take place in the
Farmers Training Center (para 4.18). The administration would be undertaken
by a small core of full-time AED staff.
4.18    The Agricultural Department (AD) would train about 150 agricultural
officers and 500 VEWs during a one-week course in on-farm water management 1!
(crop, water, and soil relationships) and some practical farm husbandry. The
AD would also have overall responsibility for operating a Farmer Training
Center to be set up under the project by PWD where 8,100 block leaders and
1,200 sluice leaders would receive three-day training in on-farm water
management,l/irrigation scheduling for blocks, RWS, and duties and obliga-
tions of the Block and Sluice Committees. The trainers would be full-time AD
staff supplemented by AED and PWD staff for certain subjects.
Survey and Design
4.19    Detailed plans and cost estimates have been completed for all major
canals. These were based on field surveys of canal alignments with cross
sections taken every 30 m. The final alignments have been marked in the
field. (In the extension area, the alignment for the canals linking the
existing tanks to the conveyance system generally follow existing natural
if For recommended practices see annex 2.



-20-
drains). These distributaries would be constructed as trapezoidal canals
with cast in situ concrete for the canalbed and precast 3concrete slabs for
the sides. Distributaries with capacities below 0.15 m /s would be conl-
structed as rectangular canals with cast in situ concrete bottom slabs and
stone masonry side walls. Design criteria have been reviewed during
appraisal and found satisfactory. The alignments and lengths of canals have
been taken from village maps; typical designs are as those for Periyar
Vaigai I. Several tender documents have already been prepared and the
remaining will be available within three to six months time. Discharge
measuring devices would be provided at all canal offtakes and 10-ha block
outlets; Repogle or Parshall flumes would generally be used. An assurance
has been obtained from GOTN that it will plan, design, and construct all
project works in accordance with technical standards and criteria as estab-
lished under the predecessor project.
Water Supply and Demand
4.20    The project area receives water for plant growth from four different
sources (a) rainiall (the annual average over the last 20 years has been
845 mm or 685 Mm over the service area) mainly from the northeast monsoon;
(b) water stored in Periyar ReserNoir mainly derived from the southwest
mionsoon (annual average is 450 Mm ); ic) 2100 tanks in the project area
supplying an annual average of 180 Mm ; and (d) groundwater pumped from 8-15
m deep dug wells, supplying about 75 Mm3 a year at present.  Irrigation
requirements in a year with 800 mm of rainfall has been estimated at 625 Mm3,
including 92 Mm  for the Periyar Vaigai   and II extension areas.  An addi-
tional water supply requirement of 50 Mm' by the year 2000 for the city of
Nadurai has been taken into account in the water balance.
4.21    The amounts of rainfall in a particular year in the project area, and
the amount of storage in Periyar Reservoir are independent variables; this
makes it possible to estimate the dependability of the water supply for the
extension areas under Periyar Vaigai I and II for combinations of years with
good, normal, and poor reservoir inflow with either good, medium, or poor
rainfall in the project area (see Annex 3 for details). The assessed depend-
ability of water supply for the extension areas takes into account that the
different parts of the project area have historically developed water rights,
with older areas having a first claim on the available water. For the opera--
tion of the project the present priority system (see Annex 2) would be
simplified as follows: 1/
1/ To be reconfirmed in the minutes of credit negotiations.



-21-
(a) For the main (second) crop (from September through February), first
priority would be given to the double-cropped area up to Kallindiri
Regulator; second priority to the existing single cropped area; and
third priority to the the Periyar Vaigai I and II extension areas.
(b) For the first crop (from July through October) up to Kallindiri
Regulator, water would only be released under favorable storage
conditions, i.e., in years with poor inflow, priority would be given
to irrigate the main (second) paddy crop.
For this set of water allocation priorities, the reliability of the water
supply for the various priority areas has been estimated as (i) the main
(second) crop upstream in the old area: 95%; (ii) a single cropped area in
the Periyar Vaigai I and II extension areas: 85%; and (iii) a first crop
above Kallindiri Regulator: 80%.
Implementation Schedule
4.22    Construction activities would be completed by April 1988 (chart c-1).
Lining the existing distribution network in the Periyar Vaigai I project area
would take up to 1986, a relatively long period of time because these works
can only be undertaken during the short canal-closure periods. The Pulippaty
extension under Periyar Vaigai I, involving works in an at present rainfed
area, would be completed by the end of 1984. The improvements to existing
tanks would also take up to April 1988. The new extension areas under
Periyar Vaigai II would be completed in stages starting from 1986. The
implementation of OFD works would be synchronized with the implementation
schedule for the irrigation network. The procurement difficulties that had
delayed implementation during the start-up phase of the Periyar Vaigai I
project have been ironed out as local contractors gained experience in canal
lining and related works. The pace of implementation since the reformulation
in 1981 justifies confidence in timely implementation in the future. Steel
and cement are supplied by the government to contractors, and the acute
shortages in the past are not expected to recur.
4.23    High priority would be given to the early preparation of the computer
program for irrigation scheduling, the reservoir simulation studies, and the
operation and maintenance manual, as this would provide the framework for
commencing the improved system operations on a large scale and for preparing
the training materials for PWD operation staff. Initially, the new operation
methods would be introduced as a pilot operation in BC 2 and 6 for which the
irrigation schedules would still be prepared by hand. The training programs
for the AED and AD staff would also start as soon as the necessary course
materials have been prepared.



-22-
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Proiect Cost Estimates
5.01    Total project cost would be about Rs 585 M (US$58.5 M).  Taxes alid
duties included in this estimate are only applicable to a few items of equip-
ment and are, in aggregate, negligible. The foreign exchange component :is
estimated at Rs 44 M (US$4.4 M), which is about 7.5% of the total cost.
Estimates are based on recent bids for similar works and were increased to
expected April 1984 price levels. Costs for engineering, supervision, and
administration are included, and, based on experience with Periyar Vaigai. I,
amount to 30% of the cost for civil works. Physical contingencies were
estimated separately for each item and average 10.8% of the base cost. Price
contingencies, amount to about 14.2% of the base cost, based on expected
inflation rates of 7.0% in 1984-85, 8% in 1985-86 and 1986-87, and 6% there-
after. The cost estimates are detailed in annex 1, t-5 through t-17.
Project costs are summarized as follows:
% of
(Rs Million)              (US$ Million)         Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    ExchanRe
Civil Works on the
Canal Network            259     18       277       25.9     1.8    27.7          6
Rehabilitation Peranai
Regulator                 10      3        13        1.0     0.3      1.3        26
On-Farm development
works                    101      4       105       10.1      0.4    10.5         4
Improved system
opierations               20      4        24        2.0     0.4      2.4        18
Introduction of RWS        24      3        27        2.4     0.3      2.7        12
Tra:ining                   6      2         8        0.6      0.2     0.8        24
Monitoring & Evaluation  15        1        16        1.5      0.1     1.6         4
Total baseline costs 435       35       468       43.5     3.5    46.8          7
Physical contingencies   46        5        51        4.6     0.5      5.1        10
Price contingencies        62      5        67        6.2     0.5      6.7         8
Total project cost   543       45       588       54.3     4.5    58.8          8
==_   ===   ===   ===      ==.     =z==_
Financing
5.02    The proposed credits, US$17.5 M from regular IDA sources and
US$17.5 M from the IDA Special Fund, in total of US$35.0 M, would finance 60%
of the total cost, including the foreign exchange component (US$4.5 N) and
about 56% of the local cost. All expenditures would be met by GOTN from its
development budget, which includes a GOI contribution. The IDA credit would
be made to GOI on standard IDA terms, and the credit from the IDA Special
Fund according to the terms of that fund. An assurance has been obtained
from GOI that it will make the proceeds of the credits available to GOTN on



-23-
standard GOI terms and arrangements for development assistance to the states.
In addition, an assurance has been obtained from GOTN that it will promptly
provide the funds to implement the project in accordance with the four-year
project implementation program.
5.03    GOTN has made special efforts to mobilize and deploy.  Three
experienced and well-organized construction circles are already working in
the project area. The balance work for Periyar Vaigai I would only keep them
partially employed because of the seasonal and intermittent nature of the
lining work in existing canals; for the same reason the work can also not be
accelerated. To keep the present organization intact and fully employed,
construction has therefore already commenced on Periyar Vaigai II extension
areas where these works can be constructed throughout the year. Under the
project, IDA would agree to GOTN's request to finance those civil works
already under construction. The expenditures subject to retroactive financ-
ing, up to mid-May 1984, have now been estimated at Rs 16.4 M. The amount of
retroactive financing would not exceed US$1.5 M for expenditures incurred
after October 1, 1983, and procurement would be in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to IDA.
Procurement
5.04    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method
(in US$ M)
Project Element                        ICB      LCB      Other   N.A.    Cost
Civil works                            -        26.5    2.9       -        29.4
(22.2)  (2.6)             (24.8)
On-farm development                              8.4    1.5       -         9.9
(7.6)  (1.2)              (8.8)
Vehicles, materials and                0.4       1.3      -       -         1.7
equipment                           (0.4)      (.8)                      (1.2)
Staff salaries & allowances            -         -       -        4.6       4.6
Technical services                     -         -       0.6      -         0.6
(0.2)              (0.2)
Engineering, administration            -         -        -      10.6      10.6
& supervision
Incremental operating expenses         -         -        -       0.5      0.5
Land acquisition                       -         -        -       1.5      1.5
Total                           0.4     36.2    5.0       17.2    58.8
(0.4)   (30.6)  (4.0)             (35.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
5.05    Civil Works.  Civil works financed under the project would be mostly
for small irrigation canals; this work will be highly labor intensive and
spread over a large area. Specifically, the remaining works to complete
Periyar Vaigai I (US$14.4 M) are seasonal and involve the lining of existing



-24-
distributaries, which can only be undertaken during canal closing periods to
avoid disruption of ongoing irrigation. Generally, the work requires great
flexibility on the part of contractors, as it involves work in existing
cultivated areas.  International contractors do not have this flexibility;
moreover, their overhead costs would be very high. Consequently, these works
would not be of interest to foreign firms. The works would therefore be
advertised under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to
IDA. The Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI has developed model contract
documents and procedures that have been approved by IDA and GOTN has agreed
to adopt these models. Some departmental works may be carried out by force
account for types of work in which the local contractors would experience
difficulties, or for quality considerations; the costs of such works would be
limited to 10% of the total costs of the works to be financed under the
project.
5.06     On-farm Development Works (OFD).  On-farm development works would
involve very small labor contracts and intensive work in farmers' fields.
M(ost of the work would be carried out by local village contractors on the
basis of piece work type contracts. Such contracts would be awarded under
local procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA. However, first prefer-ence
is given to the farmers to carry out the work themselves against standard
uniit rates which are reviewed annually. Past experience has been that
approximately 10% to 20% of the work is carried out by the farmers.
5.07    Equipment, Materials and Vehicles.  Only the new gates for the
Peranai Regulator (Rs 4 M) would be procured through international competi-
t:Lve bidding (ICB). All other equipment and materials (Rs 13 M) would be
procured according to LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA.  Suitable items
would be grouped together to promote efficiency in tendering and attract:
competition; however, awards would also be accepted on individual schedules
to attract small manufacturers. Adequate competition can be solicited among
Indian firms for these equipment and materials. Because of existing servic-
ing and spare parts supply, there are considerable benefits to be derived
from procuring local models.  The CWC has developed standard bid documents
and procedures for equipment, materials and supplies which have been approved
by IDA and would be used in the project. Contracts of equipment estimated to
cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or less may be procured by prudent shopping
through normal trade channels (i.e., off-the-shelf) subject to a ceiling
amlount of US$250,Q00. Contracts for bidding packages for goods costing
US$300,000 equivalent or more would be subject to prior review by IDA.
Remaaining contracts would be subject to post-review by IDA.
5.08    Others.  The technical services would be obtained from suitable local
institutions or individual consultants acceptable to IDA. Engineering,
administration, and supervision would be directly undertaken by government
departments. For this item, as well as for incremental operating expenses
and land acquisition, procurement would not be applicable.



-25-
Disbursements
5.09    Disbursements would be made against the IDA Credit and IDA Special
Fund as follows:
IDA Credit/
Special Fund
(a)  Civil works                                                    85
(b)  On-farm development                                            90
(c) Vehicles and equipment:
(i)  directly imported--of foreign expenditures               100
(ii)  locally manufactured--of ex-factory cost                 100
(iii)  other locally procured                                    70
(d)  Technical services                                            100
Disbursement requests for civil works would be made against certificates of
expenditure submitted by GOTN and itemized by project component. Disburse-
ment for civil works (including OFD) less than Rs 300,000, and for equipment
and vehicles would be made against certificates of expenditures itemized by
type of work. Documentation for these works would be retained by GOTN and
made available for inspection by IDA during review missions. Full documenta-
tion would be required for all other disbursements. The disbursement
schedule and proposed allocation of the credit by category are shown in annex
1, t-18 and t-19. The expected rate of disbursement is somewhat more rapid
than the typical disbursement profile in the irrigation sector. This is
realistic for an ongoing project, with the construction organization fully
established and in operation. It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by April 30, 1989.
Accounts and Audits
5.10    The responsible departments (PWD, DA, and AED) would be subject to
normal government control and auditing procedures that are satisfactory to
IDA. Agreements have been obtained from GOTN that it will (a) maintain
separate records and accounts to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures its resources, expenditures, and operations related
to the project; (b) furnish to IDA copies of accounts and financial state-
ments for each fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and authenticity
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, not later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year; (c) have accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(d) furnish to IDA immediately following its finalization the report of such
audit in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request; (e) furnish to IDA any
other information as it shall reasonably request; and (f) establish for PWD,
DA, and AED separate accounts and maintain separate records to reflect expen-
ditures on the project.



-26-
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
6.01    The responsibility for project implementation will be shared by four
departments:
(a) The Public Works Department (FWD) will be responsible for canal
construction up to the 10-ha block outlet, construction of the
offices and quarters, and of the Farmer Training Center,
the introduction of improved system operations, the training of its
staff, and the organization of Sluice Committees (SCOs);
(b) The Agricultural Engineering Department (AED) will be responsible
for OFD works, promotion of RWS within the 10-ha blocks, the
training of its staff in OFD and RWS, and the establishment of Block
Committees (BCOs);
(c) The Agricultural Department (AD) will be responsible for extension
work in the project area, the operation of the Farmer Training
Center, the training of AD field workers and, (in collaboration with
the AED) of block and sluice leaders in on-farm water
management and RWS;
(d) The Revenue Department will be responsible for the introduction and
administration of a new system of water charges.
Coordinat ion
6.02    Coordination at the state level (chart c-2) will be undertaken by the
existing State Level Coordination Committee consisting of: the chief
secretary GOTN (chairman), the secretary PWD, the special chief engineer
Periyar Vaigai Project, the secretary of agriculture, the secretary of
firnance, the chief engineer AED, and the director of evaluation and applied
research. The committee would meet at least once in six months.
6.03    Interdepartmental coordination at the project level in Madurai will
be undertaken by a Project Coordination Committee chaired by the special
chief engineer Periyar Vaigai Project. Members will include the special
officer of the Monitoring and Evaluation Cell (secretary); the superintending
engineer Operation and Maintenance (NWD); the joint director of agriculture;



-27-
the superintending engineer (AED); and representatives of the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural University (TNAU); the collectors of Madurai and Ramanathapuram
Districts. An understanding was reached during negotiations that the commit-
tee would be established by September 1, 1984. The committee would meet
monthly.
Design and Construction of Irrigation Works
6.04    The existing design and construction organization (chart c-3) is
fully adequate for the project. It is headed by the special chief engineer
who is assisted by a senior deputy chief engineer and three superintending
engineers (SEs). The deputy chief engineer supervises the Monitoring,
Hydrology, and Quality Control Divisions. The three SEs are each incharge of
a construction circle consisting of four divisions, each of which is headed
by an EE. Each division undertakes its own survey and design work and
prepares tender documents. The EE supervises in turn assistant executive
engineers (AEEs), and those in turn the assistant engineers (AEs) and junior
engineers (JEs).
Implementation of On-farm Development Works
6.05    AED's organization is headed by a SE (chart c-4).  The three divi-
sions of the AED that are already in place will continue to implement water
courses and cart tracks and undertake landshaping.  Only the construction of
the thrashing floors requires the addition of three new subdivisions.
OReration and Maintenance
6.06    Organization.  The existing PWD organization for operation and main-
tenance would be considerably strengthened under the project. It now consist
of one SE (Madurai Circle) who in addition to the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation
Project is also in charge of other projects in his area of jurisdiction. He
is at present assisted by one EE (Periyar Vaigai Division) who in addition to
the Periyar and Vaigai dams and the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project also
looks after the Cumbum valley projects and the Old Vaigai ayacut.l/ This EE
is assisted by one AE who is the one actually in full-time charge of the
Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project. He is assisted by nine JEs (section
officers). All officers bearing the engineer title are engineering graduates
selected by PWD. Each JE is supported by two irrigation gumasthas, a number
1/ Approximately 54,000 ha of irrigated lands (by tanks) downstream of the
Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project.



-28-
of telephone gumasthas and 12 to 15 lascars. 2/ Each JE is incharge of about
7,000 ha.
6.07    Under the project, the post of AE responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the Periyar Vaigai Project would be upgraded to EE. The EE to
be in charge would be assisted by four AEEs and 16 JEs/AEs (chart c-5). Each
AEE would be incharge of 20,000 ha, each JE of 5,000 ha, each irrigation
gumaastha of 2,500 ha, and each Lascar would cover about 400 ha. Other addi-
tions to the existing organization would be first, the establishment of a
Water Resources Management Office (WRMO) directly under the EE and headed by
an AE to determine and manage releases from the reservoir, main and branch
canals; and second, the creation of four posts for AEs (System Operations) to
prepare detailed irrigation schedules (para 4.12). An assurance would be
obtained from GOTN that it would, in synchronization with the project
implementation schedule, *J strengthen the existing organization for opera-
tion and maintenance, including the establishment by December 31, 1984 of the
WRHIO, and establish additional posts for one EE, three AEEs, four AEs, and
seven JEs, together with complementary staff.
6.08    Regulatory Powers for PWD.  Some damage to newly constructed 10-h1a
outlets and gates, as well as cross bunding of canals and encroachment on
canial right-of-way has been observed. Although such occurrences can be
expected to become less as a result of more reliable system operations, it
will nevertheless be necessary to instill the necessary discipline among the
farmers, as otherwise the planned improvements in system operations may fail.
Improving canal operations and enforcing a strict water scheduling, including
rotation among 10-ha block outlets will be an important component of the
project (para 4.12). The new method of strict water scheduling must there-
fore involve stopping supplies to head reaches by predetermined dates.
Presently, PWD distributes the water supplies after consulting the farmers
and the collectors of the Madurai and Ramanathapuram districts, which leaves
room for interference by pressure groups and results in inequitable water
distribution and/or poor operating decisions. Unless PWD is provided with
sufficient regulatory powers to control water distribution, efforts to
improve the present situation may fail. A draft Modern Irrigation Bill is
being prepared by GOTN's Legal Department and will include an appropriate
clause providing PWD with all necessary powers to distribute the irrigation
water supplies. GOTN intends to submit the draft bill to its legislature as
2/ Irrigation gumasthas collect irrigation demands, undertake crop surveys,
and supervise the works of lascars. Telephone gumasthas operate the
telephone system (and in future, the VHF system) and undertake clerical
work. Lascars open and close gates, check on tampering with structures
and gates, read gauges, and undertake minor maintenance work.
Details to be provided in the minutes of credit negotiations.



-29-
soon as possible. To ensure that, during the interim period when appropriate
legislation is not yet available, PWD would have the necessary powers to
implement the proposed system operations, an assurance would be obtained from
GOTN that it would, at all times maintain the PWD with necessary legal power
in order to enable it to distribute, regulate and schedule the irrigation
water supply within the project area.
6.09    Operation and Maintenance Manual.  A detailed O&M manual would be
prepared under the project incorporating the revised reservoir operating
procedures, operation of Peranai Regulator for water and sediment control,
operating procedures for canals and structures (including water measurement),
maintenance planning and procedures, emergency procedures, rules and regula-
tions for farmer organizations, project monitoring, job descriptions, etc. A
draft outline has been agreed upon between GOTN and IDA. An assurance has
been obtained from GOTN that it will (a) prepare an O&M manual for the opera-
tion of the system, including the criteria for revised water allocation
priorities and for distributing and scheduling irrigation water; b) submit a
draft for IDA's comments by April 1, 1986; (c) after taking IDA's comments
into account, adopt the manual for system operations and maintenance. The O&M
manual will be revised periodically based on the experience gained through
its application.
6.10    0 & M Budget.  GOTN's present budget allocation for the Periyar
Irrigation System, including the cost for the two dams, is Rs 6.85 M or
Rs 105/ha. It is estimated that upon completion of the project the required
O&M budget (in 1983 prices) would amount to Rs 11.8 M (annex 1, t-29) or
about Rs 145/ha. An agreement was obtained during negotiations that GOTN
would, as of April 1, 1985, ensure that annual budgetary allocations ade-
quately cover operations and maintenance expenditures in the project area.
An understanding was also reached that GOTN would periodically review and
revise O&M staff, material, and labor requirements (in accordance with the
Project Implementation Schedule, chart 1)
Introduction of Rotational Water Supply (RWS)
6.11    Two new divisions will be set up by the AED for the introduction of
RWS within the 10-ha blocks (chart c-4). These two divisions would be main-
tained throughout the project implementation period, but may be phased out
gradually after the farmers have become able to manage the RWS on their own
through their Block Committees (BCOs, para 6.15). An assurance has been
obtained from GOTN that it will strengthen the AED in order to enable it
inter alia to adequately promote RWS in the project area.
Technical Services
6.12    Technical services would be provided to undertake (a) reservoir
simulation studies to formulate rules for reservoir operation including a
system for water accounting; (b) the preparation of computer programs for



-30-
reservoir management, for the allocation of reservoir releases over the main
distribution network, and for RWS irrigation schedules for 10-ha blocks; and
(c) for the training of project staff in the use of these programs. An
assurance has been obtained from GOTN that the contracts for technical serv-
ices for items (a) and (b) would be carried out by institutions acceptable to
IDA and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and that the institu-
tions would be employed by April 1, 1985. In addition, individual short-term
consultants would also be available through GOI and UNDP ongoing water
management grants (titled "Advisory Services for the Modernization of Land
and Water Schemes" administered by the Bank). Individual specialists would
also be employed to prepare some of the course materials for the training
program (paras 4.15-4.18). Qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment of individual consultants would be acceptable to IDA.
Farmer Organizations
6.13    The farmers in the project area have a long tradition of cooperation
in water distribution, land preparation, transplanting, and other farming
operations. In some areas, particularly in tank commands, they even employ
their own "neeranikkan" to distribute water and who gets paid approximately
60 kg of rice per ha. These informal farmer organizations would be
strengthened under the project. In the BC 2 and 6 commands, they have
already been formed and farmer response has been positive so far. GOTN
intends to formalize the farmer organizations under a Modern Irrigation Bill
now under preparation.
6.14    Block Committees (BCOs) would be organized by the AED for all 101-ha
block outlets to maintain water courses, distribute water according to RWS
schedules, and prevent unauthorized irrigation. Preparation of the irriga-
tion schedules for the subunits would be computerized (para 4.12) and the
schedules would be communicated to the block leader by the responsible AED
officer well in advance of actual delivery. A BCO would consist of five
elected members, including at least two tail enders. A farmer leader would
be elected from among the members. The BCO would be consulted on the most
appropriate layout of field canals, location of farm outlets and cart track
crossings, and the delineation of the subunits. GOTN's aim is that the BCOs
become ultimately fully responsible for the water distribution in the blocks.
6.15    Sluice Committees (SCOs) would be organized by the PWD for each
existing sluice (80 to 100 ha). The farmer leaders of the BCOs would form
the membership for the SCO. One of them would be elected chairman and
another member of the BCO would be nominated block leader in his place. The
SCO would monitor the irrigation schedules prepared by the assistant engineer
(System Operations), process complaints, and seek appropriate solutions. The
irrigation schedules for the block outlets would be displayed on sign boards
at the sluice outlets.



-31-
6.16    An assurance has been obtained from GOTN that it will take all neces-
sary action to establish the farmer organizations in the project area in step
with the implementation of improved system operations.
Monitorin& and Evaluation
6.17    The monitoring of seepage losses (before and after lining) and of
physical progress under Periyar Vaigai I have been good. However, the
monitoring of project benefits (cropping patterns, yield, and production)
have been inadequate, but would be strengthened under the project.  Monitor-
ing would be undertaken by a number of different entities: the Hydrology
Division, the Monitoring Division, the Quality Control Division of PWD, the
director of Agriculture, and the Directorate, Evaluation and Applied
Research. An assurance has been obtained from GOTN that a Monitoring and
Evaluation (MNE) cell headed by a special officer with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA will be set up by December 31, 1984 to coor-
dinate the monitoring and evaluation activities, analyze their results, and
recommend action programs and additional studies as required.
(a) Monitoring of Phvsical Progress. The Monitoring Division of PWD
would continue to monitor the physical progress of implementation,
including progress made with on-farm development works, construction
of the Farmers Training Center, offices and quarters, and procure-
ment, and would obtain the necessary data from the other departments.
(b)  Quality Control under Periyar Vaigai I has concentrated mainly on
ensuring good quality concrete. The Quality Control Division would
extend its functions and (i) check proper compaction of all embank-
ments, and (ii) undertake a formal commissioning of completed work to
ensure the proper completion of all canals, embankments structures,
and gates. The division would review the work constructed under
Periyar Vaigai I for existing defects in structures and gates, and
these would be repaired; where still missing, water measuring devices
would be installed.
(c) Monitorina of Cropping Patterns, At present, the village officer
of the revenue records the areas under irrigation on each farmer's
field. These data form the basis of water-charge collection. The
data are often inaccurate, and inconsistent with the unofficial
records of PWD field engineers. In order to ensure coordination with
the irrigation officials in the project area, and to obtain a more
reliable data for administering the new system of watercharges to be
introduced in the project area (paras 7.17-7.19), an under- standing
was reached that a system of joint inspection between the Revenue and
PWD officials will be started as of January 31, 1985. The data
collected will be certified by the representatives of the two depart-
ments, and from July 1, 1986, will form the basis of irrigation
charges in the project area.



-32-
(d) Collection of Hydrological Data. The Hydrology Division would con-
tinue its existing program of measuring seepage and operational
losses. In particular, it would monitor the benefits from lining in
the commands of BC 2 and 6. Additional tasks would include:
(i) analysis and evaluation of timing and quantity of water releases
in completed areas in relation to cropping patterns; (ii) collection
of tank inflows, releases, and losses for a representative sample of
tanks; and (iii) detennination of water requirements for paddy cul-
tivation in areas with different soil types (including seepage
tests).
(e) Crop-Cutting Surveys would be carried out by the joint director of
agriculture. He would also conduct special irrigation related
crop-cutting experiments for the purpose of (i) measuring and analyz-
ing reasons for differences in yields in various parts of the command
area, and (ii) assess the yields and profitability of newly irrigated
summer crops. A full-time statistician would be appointed to assist
the joint director of agriculture in this task.
(f)  Socioeconomic Baseline Surveys would be carried out by the Direc-
torate, Evaluation and Applied Research. In addition to the bench-
mark survey now under preparation, a midterm survey and a project
completion survey as part of the project completion report (by Decem-
ber 31, 1989) would be prepared by the Directorate. These surveys
would focus on the effectiveness of the project to raise agricultural
productivity and would include (i) evaluation of OFD and RWS: coTa-
parisons of yields and intensities before and after OFD and introduc-
tion of RWS; (ii) comparison of timing and reliability of water
supply between head and tail reaches before and after the improved
system operations and its impact on yield and production;
(iii) identification of any remaining constraints limiting agricul-
tural productivity, with particular reference to the markedly dis-
tinct socioeconomic conditions in different parts of the project
area.
Reporting
6.18    GOTN would submit to IDA quarterly and annual progress reports within
three months after the end of each reporting period. The reporting format
would be agreed upon with IDA. An agreement has been obtained from GOTN that
it will submit to IDA a Project Completion Report not later than six mont:hs
aft:er the credit closing date.



-33-
VII. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES,
PROJECT IMPACT AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production and Yields
7.01    Present and estimated projected cropping intensities and yields are
summarized below:
Cropping             Paddy
Intensity (%)      Yield (ton/ha)
Present &            Present &
Future    Future    Future    Future
Command     Without   With        Without   With
Area (ha)    Project   Project   Project   Project
A. Pre-Periyar Vaigai I
(a) Double cropped area          29,700
(i) First crop                             51        83         3.2        4.0
(ii) Second crop                           98        109         2.9        3.8
(b) Single cropped area          32,300      112       125         3.2        4.0
(c) TMC indirect command          1.300      108       150         2.5        4.0
(Single cropped area)
B. Periyar Vaigai I and II
Extension Areas
Single cropped area              17,800      111       125         1.8        4.0
Total                     81,100
7.02    Without Periyar Vaigai I and II, no changes would be expected in the
near future in either cropping intensities or yields. Cropping patterns for
the "future with project" condition have been projected by taking into
account (a) the enhanced availability of canal water; (b) the better timing
and reliability of water releases from the canals; and (c) better water
management within the 10-ha blocks. Under the project, paddy would continue
to be the predominant crop in the main crop season occupying nearly 90% of
the cropped areas. Some irrigated groundnuts (about 5%) would be grown on
lighter soils in the double- and single-cropped areas. Sorghum, grams, and
millet would continue to be grown on areas unsuitable for paddy cultivation.
These crops are mainly grown under rainfed condition or with residual mois-
ture. In the TMC tank areas, irrigated cotton and groundnuts would be
expanded during the summer season (January through April) as soils there are
more suitable for growing these crops. There are some prospects for expand-
ing the area cropped to maize, chillies, and gingelly (oil crop), although



-34-
these crops were not included in the farm budget analysis. Sugarcane (2%)
would continue to be grown with supplementary irrigation water from wells.
7.03    The yield of paddy is expected to increase as the more reliable and
timely water supply will encourage the farmers to use more production inputs
and to adopt improved cultural practices associated with proper water manage-
ment.  In particular, the tail end farmers, who now suffer from lack of
water, would be able to grow their crops to full maturity with the improved
system operations. Pilot studies conducted on farmers' lands in several
villages in the project area show that the yield of paddy increased by about
25% under good water management and improved cultural practices. In the
future with project at full development stage, yields of paddy have been
estimated to reach an average of 4.0 t/ha, groundnut 2.1 t/ha, and cotton 1.8
t/ha (Annex 1, T-24). To achieve these yield levels, training of farmers in
on-farm water management and improved cultural techniques would be required.
Provision is made for these activities under the project (paras 4.15-4.18).
Based on the projected cropping patterns and yields, the annual incremental
production at full development under the project is estimated as follows:
Total
Stage II         Incremental
C_op               Periyar Vaigai I Area   Extension Areas    Production
(73,500 ha)            (7,500 ha)
……'--------------------- 000 ton…-------------________
Paddy                       122.4                  16.6               139.0
Groundnut                     5.1                   1.1                 6.2
M:Lllet/Sorghum              -3.2                  -1.6               -4.8
Gram                          2.6                   0.2                 2.8
Cotton                        0.7                   0.5                 1.2
Sugarcane                   37.3                    3.2               40.5
Farm Incomes
7.04    On an average, paddy farm of 1.2 ha, farm incomes are expected to
inicrease as follows (details in annex 4, t-7):



-35-
Without     With
Pre-Periyar Vaigai I      Project      Project    Incremental
-(Rs/a year)-
Double cropped area          5340        9080          3740
Single cropped area         3720         5430          1710
Extension Areas
Direct command                           4860          4860
Indirect command             1500        4860          3360
Weighted average             3730         6630          2900
The typical smallholder in the command area grows paddy only. Incomes from
commercial crops are higher, as shown by the representative crop budgets
(annex 4, t-6).
Project Impact
7.05    Direct Project Impact.  The further direct impact of the project in
terms of agricultural production and people benefited is summarized below:
(a) Directly benefiting farm families: 65,000
(b) Generated farm employment
(man-days/year at full development): 3.5 M
(c) Generated non-farm employment
(man/years during construction): 45,000
(d) Value added in agriculture at full development:
Rs 225 M/a year
7.06    Employment Effects.  The project would generate employment by inten-
sifying agricultural production and from construction work during implementa-
tion. Most incremental demand for labor would be supplied by local workers.
7.07    Poverty Impact.  The rural poverty level is now estimated at US$114 a
year, which translates into Rs 5,700 a year for the average family of five in
the project area. About three-quarters of holdings, which are less than
1.5 ha in size, are considered to have income below this poverty line. Of
these, the group with holdings between 1 and 1.5 ha, representing about 1G%
of farm households, would be lifted above the poverty level as a result of
the project. Thus, assuming that the size distribution of holdings in the
project area remains unchanged, the incidence of poverty among farm
households would be expected to fall from about 75% to 65%. Incomes of all



-36-
farmers, well-off or poor, would, on average, increase by about 75% above the
present levels.
7.08    Other. In addition to these direct impacts, the project would gener--
ate indirect benefits through "multiplier" employment and income effects that
would not be confined to the project area. However, such benefits cannot
at present be adequately quantified.
7.09    Environmental Effects. The project is not expected to have adverse
environmental effects. No significant decrease in the live storage of the
Vaigai Reservoir is expected over the next fifty years. GOTN's pilot
activities in watershed improvements are expected to lead to a concerted
program in the future that would help to reduce sedimentation over the longer
run. Canal lining will reduce the ponding of water and mosquito breeding.
An agreement has been reached during negotiations that GOTN will take all
measures as may be considered necessary to minimize the risk of malaria and
other water-related diseases in the project area.
Wlater Charges. Cost Recovery, and the Taxation of Paddy
;'.10    Farmers in the command area pay an average of Rs 105/ha in land tax
and water charges. Since the land tax on unirrigated land is Rs ll/ha, the
average of water and water-related charges amounts to Rs 94/ha. The collec-
l:ion rate is close to 100%. There are also crop-specific taxes on irrigated
commercial crops ranging from Rs 30 to Rs 50/ha. In addition, GOTN will
collect a once-for-all betterment levy of Rs 50/acre (Rs 123.5/ha) in the
existing command area where canals have been lined, and Rs 200/acre (Rs
494/ha) in the new extension areas. The betterment levy is payable in ten
installments, with an interest of 8% to 10% on the outstanding balance.
7.11    The traditional system of water-charges in Tamil Nadu is in principle
based on a matrix with land-classification on one axis and the quality of
irrigation service (in terms of the source and duration of water supply) on
the other axis. This matrix at present features about two dozen categories
of land and some half a dozen categories relating to irrigation service, The
charges include a supplementary water cess, which are calculated as a
pecentage for the water rates, as well as local cess surcharges which are
calculated as a percentage over the land tax. Unlike the uniform water
charge in most states in India, the schedule of water charges in Tamil Nadu
varies between districts and even between projects.
7.12    The complex system of charges indicated above was formulated more
than fifty years ago, when agriculture was the principal source of government
revenue. Since then, there has been a steep decline in the importance of
water charges as a revenue source, and a parallel increase in importance of
indirect taxation. With current state budget revenues in the order of
Rs 20,000 M, water charges and land taxes presently amount to only
Rs 100-110 M, or 0.5% of revenues. About 70% of government revenue is now



-37-
derived from indirect taxation. GOTN therefore no longer regards land tax
and water charges as a major source of incremental revenue. There is politi-
cal reluctance to tamper with the traditional system of water charges, which
unlike in most Indian states, is well accepted by the farmers and paid up
almost 100%.
7.13    GOTh has recently embarked on a policy of heavily taxing paddy
farmers by way of compulsory public procurement schemes. In the Cauvery
Delta, the rice-growing center of the state, government monopoly procurement
is now in effect, reinforced by a ban on the private transport of paddy from
that area. The monopoly procurement price ranges here from Rs 1,650/ton to
Rs 1,750/ton (depending on grade; see annex 4, t-8), compared with a current
open market price elsewhere in the state ranging from Rs 2,400/ton to
Rs 2,750/ton.
7.14    Project area farmers are subject to a modified form of indirect
taxation that prevails in the state outside the Cauvery Delta. Half of all
marketed produce is by law required to be sold to GOTN's Civil Supplies
Corporation (CSC) at a procurement price ranging from Rs 1300/ton to
Rs 1400/ton, i.e., even lower than the monopoly procurement price in the
delta. CSC is free to sell the other half of the produce on the open market.
The measure is difficult to enforce: about 10% of the total paddy production
in the project area districts is estimated to be collected by the government.
The paddy procured by the government is sold though CSC's distribution net-
work. 1/ The price of rice 2/ in these shops ranges from Rs 1.75/kg to
Rs 2.15/kg as compared with retail prices of Rs 3.80/kg to Rs 4.80/kg in the
open market (Annex 4, T-8). At present, the public distribution system
handles some 700,000 tons of rice a year. The CSC projects the requirement
in the year ahead at 80,000 tons/month, or roughly 1 M tons a year. This is
about 20%-25% of the production in the state, and roughly half of marketed
production.
7.15    It is estimated that at present farmers lose on average Rs 750 a ton
of paddy by selling below the market price that would have prevailed in the
1/ The public distribution system for essential commodities operates through
some 17,000 outlets in the state. Five-thousand of these outlets are in
urban areas operated by the Civil Supplies Corporation. Thir-
teen-thousand outlets in the rural areas (one for each village) are
operated by the Cooperative Department. Rice is the most important
commodity distributed by the system; about 60% goes to the urban areas,
40% to rural areas. Rs 1000/month is the threshhold family income below
which households are entitled to ration cards in the public distribution
system.
2/ 100 kg of paddy converts into 65 kg of rice.



-38-
absence of the public procurement-cum-distribution program.   A reasonable
estimate of the projected cost of the program to the farmers in the state
would thus be in the order of Rs 750 M. If that quasi tax were uniformly
distributed over the 2.5 M ha irrigated paddy area in the state, the average
burden of indirect taxation would amount to some Rs 300/ha. Under the
present system, where the bulk of the rice for public distribution is
obtained under monopoly procurement in the Cauvery Delta, the brunt of the
burden will be absorbed by the farmers in that area.
7.16   The public procurement scheme essentially represents a transfer of
income from the farmers to the urban population (though the rural landl(ess
also benefit to some extent). The indirect taxation of paddy farming dwvarfs
in its fiscal significance the direct taxation through water charges. With
this background, the primary thrust in water charge policy is not to raise
the level of water charges, but to simplify and rationalize the complex and
outdated water charge system which now prevails in Tamil Nadu. The Periyar
Vaigai system is on the way to becoming a model project where a reliable and
equitable water supply is within reach. Therefore, the project should be the
first one to adopt a system of water charges related to the volume of water
suipplied by the project reservoirs.
7.17    Farmers are entitled to a uniform irrigation service regardless of
soil-classification, and under the improved system-operation they will in the
future have the same access to water regardless of their position on a dis-
tributary or within the chak.  Whilst soil quality remains a relevant factor
to the farmer's ability to pay water charges, the large number of soil
categories (and the very large differences in the present land-cum-water
charge as related to soil classification) is neither a practical nor an
e(quitable basis of taxing the farmers. In view of this, number of soil
classifications that enter into the determination of the water charge and
should be minimized so as to narrow the differentials in the land-cum-water
charge as a function of soil classification.
7.18    Whilst farmers are entitled to uniform service in any given seasons
cultivation requires a markedly different volumes of water from the Periyar
reservoir between seasons. The water tax in the command would need to focus
on the different levels of service in the project area in terms of reservoir
WELter use. Differences in water use for the paddy crop are due to the timing
of the growing season and whether the crop is cultivated in either the canal
or the tank irrigated area:
(a)  The first crop of paddy (grown only in the area authorized
for double cropping) uses more water than the main crop,
since the rainfall contribution in the northeast monsoon is
less than in the southwest monsoon.
(b) The tank irrigated (indirect) command requires far less
irrigation water from storage than the (direct) command



-39-
irrigated from the canals. Water from the reservoir
storage only supplements water collected in the tanks from
their own catchments, including return flows which would
otherwise be wasted.
Based on these distinctions, the present water and water-related charges in
the project area would need to take into account four basically distinctive
situations in graduating the watercharges as follows:
(a) the highest charge for the first crop in the direct
command of the double-cropped area;
(b) a slightly lesser charge for the first crop in the
indirect command of the double-cropped area; 1/
(c) a medium charge (lower than (b)) for the main paddy crop
in the direct command of the single-cropped area; and
Cd) the lowest charges for indirect commands of the single-cropped
area as water requirements for this crop is the lowest.
Present taxes on commercial crops such as sugarcane and groundnut may remain
in force. These crops are generally irrigated from private wells and are
commercially profitable.
7.19    The need for a simplified system is recognized by GOTN.  An agreement
has been reached during negotiations that with the objective of ensuring the
recovery of annual operation and maintenance costs (and to the extent pos-
sible, of the capital costs) GOTN would (a) cause the FWD to review, by
December 31, 1985 its irrigation water charges, (b) after consultation with
IDA, consolidate water charges thereafter apply the revised water charges in
the project area, and (c) annually, commencing on December 31, 1986, review
its irrigation water charges (with the objective set forth above).
1/ Rainfall runoff to the tanks for the first crop is marginal and less
dependable than in the main season.



-40-
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
General
8.01    The proposed project is an integral follow-up of Periyar Vaigai I.
It would (a) complete the lining of canals and the upgrading of infrastruc-
ture in the existing command area; (b) complete the extension of the project
area undertaken under Periyar Vaigai I and further extend the project area by
about 7,500 ha; and (c) complement (a) and (b) with OFD and an intensive
management package. The works performed during the two phases are interre-
lated and so are the resulting benefits. Separation between costs and
benefits of each phase would have been arbitrary and would have required
strong assumptions and therefore was not attempted. The ERR was therefore
based on the consolidated cost and benefit streams. The economic viability
of the extension areas was however evaluated separately (para 8.08)
8.02    At the time of appraisal of the Periyar Vaigai I, it was not deter-
mined whether water savings would be used for intensified double croppirng or
for extension of the irrigated area. By now it is clear that, under average
conditions of reservoir storage and rainfall, the double cropped area can be
increased in addition to providing full irrigation to the extension areas.
Assumptions
8.03    Benefits.  The Periyar Vaigai irrigation system is one of the few
systems in India where water allocation is explicitly based on a set of area
priorities, so that in a year of inadequate storage or rainfall, or botbh,
parts of the command will need to be cut off from the water supply. Under
such a system, the reliability of water supply, particularly to the extension
areas, becomes an important parameter in the economic analysis. This is
reflected in the analysis by weighting incremental benefits due to irrigation
by the estimated probabilities that water will be released to the respective
portions of the command area. These probabilities are analyzed in annex 3 in
the context of the area priorities guiding the system operations. To
simplify the anialysis, it has been assumed that paddy is the only crop 1/ in
the project area. Estimated increases in the production of other crops are
marginal in comparison and would amount to less than 5% of incremental
benefits.
8.04    Three main benefits streams were projected in the analysis:
1/ The only exception has been made in the tank-irrigated portion of the
TMC, where the soils permit high-value cultivation of cotton and ground-
nuts in the summer season, see annex 4, t-6.



-41-
(a) An increase in the area where a first crop of paddy is grown
by an average of 5,000 ha at full development (Rs 32 M,
see annex 4, t-2);
(b) An increase in yields and intensity in the preexisting
command area of 63,200 ha (Rs 121 M at full development,
see annex 4, t-3);
(c) Incremental production in the Periyar Vaigai I and Periyar
Vaigai II extension areas (Rs 42 M and Rs 29 M, respectively
at full development, see annex 4, t-4).
8.05    Prices and Conversion Factors.  Incremental paddy production was
priced on the basis of IBRD projected world market prices (with appropriate
adjustments for transport, processing, detailed in annex 4, t-9). These are
expected to be in line with the market prices received by farmers. Thus, no
discrepancy between border and market prices in the future is assumed.
Market prices for civil works construction and engineering overheads (which
together account for 85% of investment costs) have been adjusted by a stand-
ard conversion factor (SCF) of 80%.
8.06    Phasing.  The investments in this project are quick yielding relative
to most irrigation projects. The canal lining results in faster and more
reliable water supply and, therefore, higher yields. The water savings are
used immediately to increase double cropping (or decrease the incidence of
crop failure in years of water shortage). Farmers in the tank- irrigated
extension areas are already experienced paddy cultivators and will rapidly
take advantage of the incremental water supply resulting from project invest-
ments. Detailed assumptions, with regard to the phasing of the benefit
streams, are contained in the respective tables (annex 4, t-2 to t-5) of the
individual benefit streams.
8.07    Reliability.  The following estimates of water supply reliability
were employed in the calculations.
(a) Probability of full irrigation of the main crop
in the existing commands:
- without the projects                90%
- with the projects                   95%
(b) Probability that water is released for
first crop in the double-cropped command    80%
(c) Probability that water is released for
the extension areas                            85%



-42-
The underlying analysis is contained in annex 3 and in annex 4, paras 1 to
19.
Economic Rate of Return
8.08    The ERR on the consolidated cost and benefit streams, based on his-
torical data between 1977-83 (i.e., including sunk costs) and projections
thLereafter has been estimated at 18%. ERRs have also been calculated
separately on the cost and benefit streams arising exclusively from the
extensions of the command area under Perlyar Vaigai I and II. This analysis
examines the viability on the margin of extending the irrigated area (with
water reliability for the extension area projected at 85%). The respective
rates of return are 23% for the Periyar Vaigai I extension and 15% for the
Periyar Vaigai II extension.
8.09    Lining.  Lining is an important component of this project.  The
benefits of lining are a result of reduction of seepage losses and opera-
tional advantages. The first type of benefit can be quantified and is
greatest at the major parts of the conveyance system (main and branch canals,
etc.) and smallest at the minor parts (sluice), see annex 1, t-3. On the
other hand, the operational benefits are greatest at the minor system level.
Besides making tampering with the system more difficult, they also include
the greater flexibility of operating a lined system, and the greater
reliability and equity of water supply. The lining of the minor system is
absolutely essential since without it the operational and water management
improvements, specially the introduction of RWS, would not be feasible
(see paras 3.10-3.13). Since lining accounts for the bulk of civil work
expenditures, the relatively high ERR reflects the economic viability of
lining. However, the operational benefits cannot be adequately quantified
for the various section of the distribution network, consequently it is
impossible to assess separately the economic viability of each section.
Sensitivity and Risk
8.10    "Switching Values" have been calculated to estimate the changes that
would reduce the present value of the project to zero (discounted at 12%, the
opportunity cost of capital). These values indicate the sensitivity of the
ERR relative to uncertainties in quantitative parameters:



-43-
Appraisal    Switching    Percentage
Value        Value         Change
--(RS M)--------
All benefits                                    670           430            35
Benefits of increased yields and
intensity in the existing command only        310            90            70
Investment costs a/                             430           670            55
a/  This test is only relevant with respect to costs incurred under Phase II,
since Phase I costs are sunk.
8.11    Further, the sensitivity of the rate of return has been tested with
respect to the salient qualitative projections of the analysis.
(a) Reliability of Water: A decrease in the reliability of water
supply from.85% to 70% in the extension areas combined with a
decrease from 95% to 90% for the main crop in the existing would
reduce the ERR to 16%. This measure of sensitivity can be
interpreted as a proxy for unimproved system management, which
would primarily result in a decrease in the reliability of the
water supply to tail end areas.
(b) Conversion Factor: A 25% increase in the SCF would reduce the
ERR to 15%. This test approximates the ERR of the project evaluated
at market prices on the alternate assumption that costs and
benefit streams of the project consist of essentially non-traded
goods.
(c) Yields: With incremental yields halved, the ERR would be 14%.
This measure of sensitivity can be interpreted to
gauge the risk of poorer farmer response, combined with incomplete
implementation of OFD works.
These sensitivity tests indicate that the project will remain economically
viable unless considerable changes (and unlikely in the magnitude required)
will take place.
8.12    Overall project risk is less than average for irrigation projects
of similar size and scope. The investments are fast maturing, and benefits
will follow directly in the steps of phased project completion. The cost
estimates are firm, as they are based on experience from Periyar Vaigai I.
Projections of yield and irrigation intensity estimates are well within the
reach of the average farmer's ability.



-44-
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    An assurance would be obtained from GOI that it would make the
proceeds of the IDA and IDA Special Fund credits available to GOTN on GOI's
standard terms and arrangements for development assistance to the states
(para 5.02).
9.02    Assurances would be obtained from GOTN that it would:
(a) plan, design, and construct the project works in accordance
with standards and criteria satisfactory to IDA (para 4.19);
(b) promptly provide the funds to implement the project in
accordance with the project implementation program (para 5.02);
(c)  (i) maintain separate records and accounts to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting principles and procedures, its
resources, expenditures and operations related to the project;
(ii) furnish to IDA copies of accounts and financial statements
for each fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and
authenticity by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, not
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year;
(iii) have accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(iv) furnish to IDA immediately following its finalization,
the report of such audit in such detail as IDA shall reasonably
request; (v) furnish to IDA any other information as it shall
reasonably request; and (vi) establish for PWD, DA, and AED
separate accounts and maintain separate records to reflect
expenditures on the project (5.10);
(d) establish a Water Resources Management Office (WRMO) by
December 31, 1984 and strengthen the existing organization
for operation and maintenance as required by the implementation
schedule (para 6.07);
(e) at all times maintain the PWD with necessary legal powers
to distribute, regulate and schedule the irrigation water
supply in the project area (para 6.08);



-45-
(f)  (i) prepare in a manner satisfactory to IDA, a new O&M manual
for the management and operation of the system, including criteria
for revised water allocation priorities and for distributing
and scheduling the delivery of irrigation water; (ii) submit a
draft O&M manual for IDA's comments by April 1, 1986; (iii) after
taking IDA's comments into account, adopt the manual for system
operation and maintenance (para 6.09);
(g) as of April 1, 1985, ensure that annual budgetary allocations
adequately cover operations and maintenace expenditures in the
project area (para 6.10);
(h)  strengthen the AED in order to enable it inter alia
to adequately promote RWS in the project area (para 6.11);
(i) (i) the contracts for technical services for system operation
studies will be carried out by institutions acceptable to IDA
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, (ii) the
institutions will be employed by April 1, 1985 (para 6.12), and
(iii) qualifications and terms and conditions of employment of
any individual consultants under the project will be acceptable
to IDA;
(i) take all necessary action to establish the farmer organizations
in the project area, in step with the implementation of improved
system operations (para 6.16);
(k) set up by December 31, 1984 a M&E Cell in PWD to be headed by a
special officer with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to IDA to coordinate the monitoring and evaluation activities,
analyze the results and recommend action programs and additional
studies as required (para 6.17);
(1) submit to IDA a project completion report not later than
six months after the credit closing date (para 6.18);
(m) to take all measures as may be considered necessary to minimize
the risk of malaria and other water-related diseases within
the Project Area (para 7.09);



-46-
(n) with the objective of ensuring the recovery of annual operation
and maintenance costs, and to the extent possible, the capital
costs, (i) cause the FWD to review by December 31, 1985 its
irrigation water charges and (ii) after consultation with IDA,
consolidate water charges in the project area thereafter apply the
revised water charges in the project area, and (iii) annually,
commencing on December 31, 1986) review its irrigation water
charges with the objective set forth above (para 7.19).
9.03    With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for
a credit of US$17.5 4 on standard IDA terms and a US$17.5 M credit from the
IDA Special Fund under the terms of the Special Fund. The Borrower would be
the Government of India.



-47-
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
ANNEXES



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Climatic Data
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.    May   Jun.   Jul.   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.    Total
Average rainfall (mm) a/                15     11      18     59       66    31     45      92      133     181    134    59         844
Air temperature (CC) b/
Mean daily maximum                  30.4   32.3   35.2   36.7    37.4  36.5   35.6   35.3    34.5   32.2   30.3   29.3
Mean daily minimum                  19.8   20.6   22.7   24.9    26.0  25.8   24.9   25.0    24.2   23.4   22.4   21.0
Mean monthly temperture             25.1   26.5   29.0   30.8    31.7  31.2   30.3   30.2    29.4   27.8   26.4   25.2
Relative humidity (%) b/
0830 hours                           76      74     73      71      62    59      61      62      66      75      79     78
1730 hours                           51     42      39     46       48    48      51     53       56      66     68      65
Monthly pan evaporation (mm) c/       179    177    228    226       247   269    248    224        164    137    115    146       2,360
Mean wind speed (km/hr) dl             7.3    6.6    5.8    5.1       6.3   9.6    9.3    7.0       6.4    4.9    5.2    6.9
03
Mean daily maximum duration
of bright sunshine (hours)          10.0   10.7   10.0    9.5       8.9   7.6    7.0    7.8       8.2    7.1    6.6    7.7
a/ Averages based on rainfall measurements at Peranai regulator, Andipatti, Mettupatti,
Kallindiri regulator, Chittampatti, Edayapatti, Melur, Pulipatti regulator,
Thaniyamangalam and Madurai (1941-1982).
b/ Madurai Aerodrome (1962-1981).
c/  Agricultural College and Research Institute, Madurai (1973-1981).
d/ India Meteorological Department, Climatological Tables of observatories of India
(for Madurai station (1931-1960)).
c3 



-49--
ANNEX 1
Table T-2
INDIA
PERITAR VAIGAI IRRIGOATION II PROJECT
Physical and Financial Progress of Perivar Vaijasi I
Appraisal              Sept 1983              Completed              Scheduled for            Balance to be
Components                   Estimate                Estimate            up to 31/06/83           completion by           completed under
31103/84            Perivar Vaicai II
Thy.    Fin.          Phy.        Fin.        Pby,         Fin.       Thy.        Pin.         Phy.       Fin.
(in Rs'000i
Link Canal j/
Land Acquisition           -      3,650                             355.1 Ac        1,391
Canal Earthwork,
lining & 06X Roads   32km   34,850                      14,738        -            1,288                  14,738
Structures             143Nos.  7,950                                 1.0 NO        3,650- 
Village loads              -        -4.0                                            1,270
Misc. WIorks               -        --                                              7.199
SubTotal                        46.450                    14.738                   14.798                  14.738
Left lank Infrastructure
Land Acquisition           -        500      29.0 Ac       3,636      L.S.              11      L.S.        3,637         -          -
main Canal               58km                58.1 km    68,540       57.9 km       65,467       57.9 km   66,040        0.,2 km   2,500
Branches                102km  103,350      111.5 km    48,124   111.5 km          42,625    111.4 km   47,753            -          371
Dliatrib.tarie.         765km               890.0 km   158,299   354.8 km          68,560      538.0 km   97,678      352.0 km  60,621
061M Roads             680km                209.4 km        h/      209.4 km        2,875    209.4 km        b/           -          -
Structures: Old        5OONos   4,100    850.0 No$          h/      599.0 Nos        hi       834.0 Rom    h            16.0 Nos    b/
Structures: New       2013Not   7,400
Improvements to        700Nos  15,100    400.0 mos         9,598   220.0 Nos        3,421    220.0 Hos   3,714    180,0 los  5,884
Tanks & Supply
Channels
Village Roads           375km   12.750      290.0 km       8.545   290.0 km         5.774    290.0 km    8.545                       -
S.bTotals                       143.200                  296.742                  188.733                 227.366                 69.376
BLight Bank Infrastructure
Land Acquisition          -         850     118.8 Ac       1,297      L.S.          1,538       L.S.        1,297         -          -
main Canal               85km    5,000       42.7 km    16,645    42.3 km          11,627       42.7 km   13,522         0.1 km   3,123
Branche.                                     42.2 km       7,421    40,9 km         8,824       42.2 km     7,209         -          212
Distrihutaries            -          -      119.4 km    17,657    39.4 km           5,897       89.4 km   12,522        30.0 km   5,135
0614 Road*               45km       850      34.5 km        hl       33,5 km         hl         34.5 km      h/           -          -
Structures               36loa      550    253.0 los        hI      159.0 Nos        hI        251.0 Mom    bI           2.0 Noa    h/
(Including Extension)
Village Roads            86km    4.250       56.0 km       1.467_   56.0 km         1.467       56.0 km    1.467          - 
SubTotals                        11.500                   44.487                   29.353                  36.017                  8.470
Extension Area Below Pulipotti Regulator
Land Acquisition          -       1,800   1040.0 Ac        7,700      L.S.          3,360        L.S.       5,508        L,S,      2,192
Main Canal               22km        -       23.7 km    26,809        13.5 km      19,327        19.7 km  24,088         4.0 km   2,721
Branches                 70km   12,200       66.4 km    27,131       31.1 km       16,528        56.4 km  24,494        10.0 km   2,637
Distrihutaries          500km        -      123.0 km    11,601         3.5 km          803       37.0 km   5,213        86.0 km   6,386
0614 Roads              140km        -          -           -           -            --                                              -
Structures             826Nos  10,600    748.0 Mom          b/      216.0 mos        h/         534.0 Nos   h/         214.0 Not    h/
Village loads           164km     5,600      56.0 km       1,330    56.0 km         1,175        56.0 km   1-,330                    -
Improvements to
Tanks and Supply
Channels               42Olos    .0                         -           -            --
SubTotals                        3407.5141.19226.                                                                                 1   3
Buildinses                -       3,150        -           1.904        -           1,842          -        1,904          - 
Contineencies             -      36,550         -       (Included       -       (Included          -      (Included)       -      (Included
in works)               in works)                 in works                in work.)
Zug. Supervision
and Administration        -      40,850        -         124,593       -           87,784          -      101,940          -      22,653
0814 Equipment and
L12nitorinst Prograst     -       4,610         -          3,708        -           1,505          -        2,478          -       1,230
Staff Training and
Consultankcv              -       1,800        -           2,577       -              620          -           717         -       1,860
Agricultural
Extension                 -       3,690         -          4,243       -            4,074          -        3,877          -         366
Machineries,
Vehicles, Tools and
Plant and Ot-hers-        -          -          -         11,100       -           15,982          -        8,993          -       2,107
Expected Price
I-cre-es                  -      79,200        -            -          -             -             -      (Included        -      (Included
in vorks)               in works)
Total                          4 0405863385.863456310.0
Al COnstruction cf Link Canal has been suspended.
bi Costs included in item (iv).



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Water Savinzs as a Result of LininR for a Normal Year /a
Pre-Pro iect                                  Post-Proiect
Wetted                Lasges    Annual        Wetted                 Losses       Annual
Area     Running    m /Iec    Losses          Are2a     Running    m Isec        Losses      Savings
(Mm2) lb    Daysrs    _±         (M&1         (Mm ) /c    Days       (MM2) /d    (Mb3L         (M23)
Periyar main canal            1.22        250        4.2       110.6         1.02        250         1.0         22.0         88.6
0.13       180         4.2         8.5        0.17        180         1.0          2,6           5.9
1.35                             119.1        1.19                                24.6         94.5
Branch canals                 0.41       250         4.2        37.2        0.22        250         1.0          4.8         32.4
0.36       180         4.2        23.5        0.30        180         1.0          4.7         18.8
0.77                              60.7        0.52                                 9.5         51.2
Distributaries and            0.29        250        2.7        16.9         0.25        250        0.9          4.9          12.0
watercourses                0.52       180         2.7        21.8        0.45        180         0.9          6.3          15.5
to 200 ha               0.81                              38.7         0.70                                11.2         27.5
from 200 to 40 ha       0.56        250         0.9       10.9         0.72        250         0.7         10.9          9.8                  1
0.35       250         1.3         9.8                                                                               o
0.44       180         0.9         6.1        0.34        180         0.7          3.7          2.4                  1
1.35                              26.8        1.06                                14.6         12.2
from 40 to 10 ha        0.04        250         0.4        0.3         0.13        250         0.5          1.4          1.5
0.15       250         0.8         2.6
0.46       180         0.5         3.6        0.30        180         0.5          2.3          1.3
0.65                               6.5        0.43                                 3.7          2.8
Total Savings              188.2
/a  Command Area fully irrigated.
lb  Wetted areas at half supply depth.
/c  Wetted areas at half supply depth based on approved design,.
/t Losses computed by gauging during 1982-83.
K-'r Z.
* Ia >e
I.F



-51-
ANNEX 1
INDIA                                  Table T-4
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Breakdown of Command Areas
(ha)
A. By Cropping Patterns
Extension Areas
Periyar      Periyar
CCA                         Old Areas    Vaixai I       Vaigai II    Total
Double-CroD Areas
up to
Kallindiri Regulator          29,634 a/       _             _        29,634
Subtotal                   29,634           -             -        29,634
Sian le-Crop Areas
Old Ayacut, PMC              28,289           -             -        28,289
Pulipatti Extension              -          9,363           -         9,363
Old Ayacut, TMC
(Direct Ayacut)               4,042           -             -         4,042
Kattanipatti Extension,
PMC                              -            -            578          578
BC 10 Extension, PMC             -            -          2,592        2,592
PMC Extension          _                -                2,952        2.952
Subtotal                   32,331         9,363        6,122       47,816
Sinale and Summer
Crop Areas
TMC Indirect Ayacut           1.278           942        1,399        3.619
Subtotal                    1,278           942        1,399        3,619
Total                        63.243        10.305        7,521       81.069
B. By Direct versus Indirect Irri8ation
Extension Areas
Periyar      Periyar
Old Areas    Vaigai I      Vaisai II    Total
Direct
PMC                           30,945        4,951           -        35,896
TMC                           4!042           -             _         4.042
Subtotal                   34,987         4,951           -        39,938
Indirect
PMC                           26,978        4,412        6,122       37,512
TMC                            1.278           942       1.399        3.619
Subtotal                   28,256         5,354        7,521       41,131
Total
PMC                           57,923        9,363        6,122       73,408
TMC                            5.320          942        1.399        7.661
63,243         10,305      7,521       81,069
a! Presently 18,266 ha is classified as double.crop areas.



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROECT
Table 101. COWSLETION Of PERIYAR VAIGAI I
Detailed Cost Table
IRS '000)
Parameters
Pase Costs                                        Totals Including Contingencies                  Phu.
------------ - ------ --------------------------------- - -- --------- -  -------------------------------------------- Cont. For.  Gross   Suuars
83/14  B4/85    85/86    86/87    87/89  88/8   Total    83/84  94/85    B5/86    86/87    87/88   WR/8s   Total    Rate  Exch, Tax Rate Account
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. INFRASTRICTuRE UNDER PERIYAR VAIGAI MAIN CAAL
MAIN CANAL (0.20 KNll                                             -  265000          -         -       -      -    2.500.0      -  2.975,6         -         -       -      -    2.975.6  0.15  0,0o         0       IC
BRANCHES                                                          -    371.0         -         -       -      -      371.0      -    441.6         -         -       -     -       441.6  0.15  0.08         0       IC
DISTRINJTARIES (352 KR)                                          - 26443.0 25G00.0  8,928.0           -      -   60,37100      - 31.473.8 31,993.0 12,339.4         -     -   75.906.1  0.15  0.08          8       IC
IMFRoVEIENTS TO TANKS (180 NOS.)                                  -  1.4500.  1,450.0  1t450.0 t.534.0        -    5884.0      -  19725.?  1.955.6  2.004.0 2%267,7       -    7.853.2  0.15  0.08          0       IC
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE UNDER PERIYAR VAIGAI NAIN CANAL             - 30,764.0 26i450.0 lO,378.0 1,534.0        -   69,126.0      - 364616,9 33,B48.6 14,343.4 2.267.7        -   87,076.6
P. RIGHT BANK INFRASTRUCTURE
MAIN CANAL                                                        -  3,123.0         -         -       -      -    3,123.0      -  3,717.2         -         -       -      -    3,717.2  0.15  0.09         0       IC
bRANCHES                                                          -    212.0         -         -       -      -      212.0      -    252.3         -         -       -      -      252.3  0.15  0.08         0       IC
DISTRIBUTARIES (30 KI)                                            -  4,293.0    792.0          -       -      -    5015.0       -  5,109.7  1,013.5          -       -      -    6,123.3  0.15  0.08         0       IC
Sub-Total RIGHT BANK INFRASTRUCTURE                                  -  7.629.0    792.0          -        -     -    8,420-0      -  9,079.2  1013,5           -       -      -   10,092.8                                       L
C. PULIPATTY EXTENSION
LAND ACQUISITION                                                  -  2,192.0         -         -       -      -    2,192.0      -  2,495.6         -         -       -      -    2,495.6   0.1      0         0      LA
MAIM CANAL 44 KM)                                                 -  2,721.0         -         -        -     -    2,721.0      -  3,238.7         -                        -    3238.7  0.15  0.08           0      IC
BRANICHES (10 KN)                                                 -  24637,0         -         -              -    2,637.0      -  3.138.7                     -                 3r138.7  0.15  0.09         0       IC
DISTRIDUTARIES (86 KN)                                            -6.308.0           -         -       -      -    6,398.0      -  7,603.3                   -       -      -    7,603.3  0.15  0.08         0       IC
- - - - - - -  -- -  - - - - - -   -- - -  -- -  --  - - - - - - - - -  - -  - ---  -  -- -- -    -- - -   -- -   ---  -- --
Sub-Total PItIPATTY EXTENSION                                        - 13939.0          -         -        -     -   13P938.0      - l6,476.3         -         -       -      -   16.476.3
D. COMUNICATION EQUIPiENT (UW)                                       -  1.230.0         -         -        -     -    1,230.0      -  1.400,4         -         -       -      -    1,400.4   0.1   0.7          0      EO
E. ENGINEERING ADMINISTRATION I SUPERVISION                          - 15.041.4  9,172.6  3.113.4   460.2        -   26,787.6      - 15.567.8  9,094.5  39741.8   591.6        -   28,995.7      0     0         0     EAS
Total INESTMENT COSTS                                                   - 68601.4 35,414.6 13,491.4 1,994.2         -  119.501.6      - 79140.6 439956.6 184085.2 2,859.3         -  144,041.6
==========     ======  ========= = =:= ===========  =====       ==z====== =.====== -======= =  ===  _====         ===
Total RASELINE COSTS                                                     - 68601.4 35,414.6 l3,491.4   .9412         -  119,501.6      - 79,10.6 43.956.6 109085.2 2,859.3         -  144,041.6
December 7, 1983 11:15
a- z
t-' to
x>4
-1 



INDIA
PERIYAR JAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Table 102. ADDITIONAL CIVIL WORfS FOR PERIYAR VA18AI I
Detailed Cost Table
IRS '000)
Parmeters
Base Costs                                   Totals Including Continsencies               Phu.
--------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- Cont. For.    6ross   Sumsara
83/84  84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88  88/89 Total   83/84  84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88  88/89  Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. INFRASTRUCTURE UNDER PERIYAR VAIGAI MAIN CANAL
STRUCTURES (IS NOS)                                               -   250.0        -        -       -      -   250.0      -   297.6        -       -        -     -    297.6  0.15  0.08           0      IC
IMPROVEMENTS TO TANKS 1740 NOS)                                   - 1,700.0 1700.0 1,700.0 1,704.0        - 6,804.0     - 2,023.4 2,175.5 2,349.6 2,519.0        -  9,067.6  0.15  0.08          0       IC
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE UNDER PERIYAR VAIGAI MAIN CANAL              - 1,950.0 1,700.0 1,700.0 1,704.0       - 7,054.0      - 2,321.0 2,175.5 2,349.6 26519.0        -  9,365.1
B. RIGHT BANN INFRASTRUCTURE
STRUCTURES (I NOS)                                                -    50.0                                -    50.0      -    59.5                               -      59.5  0.15  0.08          0      IC
Sub-Total RIGHT BANK INFRASTRUCTURE                                  -    50.0        -        -        -     -    50.0      -    59.5        -       -        -      -     59.5
C. ENGINEERING, ADMINISTRATION I SUPERVISION                         -   600.0   510.0   510.0   511.2        - 29131.2      -   621.0   567.5   612.9   657.1        -  2,458.6      0     0         0     EAS
__ -       _______     ________    -- ----  ----  ----  ----  - ---- ---- ---- - - ------ -- ----- ------- ------ - ----- - --- - ---                          v |
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                   - 2i600.0 2,210.0 2,210.0 2,215.2       - 9,235.2      - 3,001.5 2,743.1 2,962.5 3,176.2        - 11,883.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                      - 2,600.0 2t210.0 2,210.0 2,215.2       - 9,235.2      - 3,001.5 2743.1 2,962.5 3.176.2         - 11,883.2
December 7, I193 11:15
rt |I
D1>
s1 e



-54-
96616  6006  36600601t6  11 PLOT)                                                               tra61. 'I.-
Vaal, 103. 106NCH C00WEO    4N5  III EXIM090(
kU)c  ol  16
Cot0. F      0t,  6os   6um91v
83/04   84/85    85/06    80/87    87/08  80/0.   Totlg       83/04   34/03    85/06    &M/l    87/00   08/09   Total   Pi e .o hg. la~ &ato &ceo-o
s. 1M ST4E90 COSTS
0. EXTEASM6 OF 30604. C0AW66l I
I .PALOW40(8  D648E0 (1937 HAI
1A91 A566!0(T108                                  443. 0    506.0  1.370.0        -        -     -    2,333. 0   56.3   549.3  1,677.0          -               -    2,7Y2. 5   6.1    6                 A6
060, C#A#  (114..9)                             0,532.0   SAM9,6107004   *47.0                         7,207.0 3,32M.9    477.3  .46,494   542.                      1 ,064,1  6.05  6.6        it    IC
IWZHE0  (29.9 0)                                      -         -  2.080.0360.          ,.0                 0        - D2,594.4  4,975.6                 -            ,55. 0  0.05  0.06        )       I c
605TR0061601E5 (38.5 09)-                                                -1833.6           -     -1332.0                      - -      -   ,064.6               -    1.0,66.6  0.15  G.0         I      IC
M)0 0405 (44,7 KA)                                                   1  80.0    085.0      -     -       215.0                     1  21.0  .255.7                     US - 0. 7  0.05  6.06     0      (
0631.01407 (7 icS)                                    -56.0    391.0                                     1  43,0     -64.0    402.                        -     -      6662  0.05  4.tt                0.6I
97MrLRE5 (300 lDS)                                   -             ,000.0  1,492.0        -     -    2,492.0                 -   ,279.2  2,062.1         -     -    3.308  0.33  60.0           3      IC
10110EV0S to 16010(70 ADS)                            -     143.6    718.0    574.4        -            ,434.0       -     70.9    VMS,  1193.9                      I  .0036  0.85  0.06        I      IC
0.60-ToLol PON60T04l D088L  (097 IM)               0,036.0  1.21.2.6 182316.4  7,900.4        -           3060I.M.2  0,47.  12,56.  30,20.5                            Zh.27.39.5
2. 0uiF060o0   CWCI. 4.05 NA)
011 AC04T1ITIO5                                  324.1    443.0          -        -        -             85.0  422.4   082.1           -                        -       245    .1      0        0      LA
06(0 CAI,. (WV 09)                              o,ooo.o    18.0   1U7.0           -        -      -    2,670.0 0.350.0   92.01 l,3.82.               -                        G .27,    0.5  0.00  1'    Itc
010011TOOIEIAls (9.4 KA)                              -         -1,679.0  0.8560.          -           3,529.0       -           2.146,6  2.5249                     4,765.5  0.15  0.00        0      IC
00p  OOAS (0.9 0)                                     -                4.0        -              -        64.0       -               1.9         -                      83.9  0.15  0.60        0       IC
801L01448 (3 PM5)                                           1 43.0       -        -               -       614.0      -    86.4         -         -                      96.4  0.15  0.15         6    04f
0Th.7151  (126 NM)                                          2030.0   9220         -        -      -    0.32*              M23.3  1,065.7         -        -     -    1,456.7  0.05  0.60         0      IC
0F9000067  To TOWS (19 NM)                             -     40.5    242.5    194.0        -             45.0        -      7.     310.3    260.1         -            4620.15, 0.06                    IC
066b-0,6   0U1940308 C8C.c (65 NA)                  1,314.0  1,617.5  3,8*4.5  2,944.0                    1  ,170.0 1,572,4  1.926.2  4,060.7  2,020.0                 1  1,092.3
Sub-To6,0 E5130015  F  MW4 D80885  I                  3,00.0  2.850.1014,120.5  9,45.4                               1  990.   ,407.0  3.342,6 17,914.1 13,745.5  -       6,490.9
8. 0704(08i OF 8060CM 008Kl XI]
1. UrOSSI$6 0VAiE Er1005a (203 M8)
L.5647006S511(5                                        -  1,00.0    806. 0                             1,106.0       .  818(0.5   986.6          -                   2.025.1   0.0     6         0      50
8*09 COA1L (18.5 09)                                   -2,306.0  4,216.0  2,287.0           -     -     ,809.0       -2,744.7  5,395.3  3,366.9           -         11,266.9  0.15  0.0          6      IC
5AK(#S I 31S0190MA81ES 0134 KR)                            -   -4,040.0  6,100,0  6,317,0         -     ,1.47.0           -      i .3189  8.436   9,305             22,800.2  0.15  3.00         0      IC
W601.3643  (4 MS6!                                     -     0,04    314.0        -         -     -      514.0       -    238.1    403.8         -        -            a 69.9  0.15  3.05~       0     kIs
5106010040(495 Mai                                              -  2,206.0  2,304.0  2.156o.0          4,85.0                 - 2.805.4  3,170.8  3,432,9            V ,477.0  0.15  3,00        6      (C
00n 040D6 (54 00)-                                              -    020.0    843,6            -         203.0       -              153.     197.6           -          330.21 0.15  3.00e       0      iC
39000430000  TO TMI  (136 US)                               561.7    503.4   503.4    489.5            1 ,070,0      -    299.0    644.2    695.7   6302I            2,259.7  0.05  3.O0         0      IC
lub-Total LMSSKit 0088L 03701550  13204 M                    3.757.7 0.2,859.4 II.M.4  9,902.5       -   36,243.0       -4,420.9 15,505.8 1566.9M 11,441.6         - 49,042.1
2. 9(4 310103417661 11185150io (57 NA)
L1.60A 00 SIT17ON                                  330.0   728.0         -         -              -    8,051.0   363.0   12l.#          -        -  -                1(93J   0.1        0        0      LA
r019 CAVA) (A KM)                                1,170.0  1,075.0  1,823.0        -         -          3,204.0 8,343.5  1,279.5  1.309.? 2                           3,934.2  0.1   6.00         0      IC
Rm   (0399  9 MV at,273.0                                                                              3,277.4       -        -  4.13.1                   -          4,1565   .0 0.00 M          6      IC
8060T180(08001  (23.5 PM)                                          1  ,580.0  2,26.0       -           3,741.0       -             ,909.0  3,134.6        -     -    5.454.2  0.05  6.06         0      IC
1IVIJIMSS (2 UOS)-                                           95.0        -        -       -               95.0            1133.0                                       113.109.85  0.83          0    04.
810(0C74IRE0 (192 UOS)                                     -         484,0  2,59.             ,96.0    2-4.                   -    530.  3,507.9          -     -    4,899.0  0.33  0.06         0      IC
IIF9006VE05 TO Turn  (40 US)                          -      4.6    213.5    826.9         -     -      423.0            1 00.7   274.7    175,4               -       4.7  0.05  0.00          0      IC
Sub.-YOU] 91  800T0081194T 0570800   (378 08)        .504.0.  1,982.6  6,447,5  4,994.9                  1 4,801.0 1,700.5  2.322.1 8,099.3  6,897,9                    19.028.3
3 .S06VM194fl6 01171180960! (570 NA)
4.60( A(ISITI50                                    380.4    098. 4                -       -              491.0  326.0    287.5         -                -              547.5   0.0      0        0      LA
0806 CA. 89.3 09)                               13,75.8  3,990.4 0                -              -      ,36-O1.8,501.2  2.261,6                  -              -    0,949.8  0.15  0.04         0      IC
00070180184ES100(.1 KM)                                -        -3144.0           -               -    3,846.0       -        -4,921.8           -                   4,921.0  0.05  0.00         0      IC
W41.3180   2 US)                                    90.8                 -                                V    4.0   110.4              -        -              -      80.4  0.15  0.05          0     01.0
S7 T1RES (5  066U)                                 229,4   1M.0                       -                  904.0   263.3    874.8         -        -        -            ,156.2  0.15  0.80        6      IC
80111IMIMMS TO TItS (43 US)                           -      7.2 56.8             -        -     -       o0               24.1.    in0. A                       -      52.4  0.35s  0.06         0      IC
066-Toll 04T180N94TY )0519111TAI"  (S7M NA0         2.880.8  3,817.2  4,882.1        -         -          9,890.80 2.215.0  3,064.7  5,250.4        -                   0,I.0.
4. 2190. 10 8100. iNt  fill 08)
04494. Downs1                                         -      25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0                1800.0      -     29.8     32.0    34.0       37.             In03.3  0.05  0.IN        0      IC
6166-7.061 31. To RISC. tam (IIS18  NA)                         2 5.0    25.0    25.4    256.         .0    0MG               29.8    32.0       24.6     27.0             1 33.3
8.A-7to4.o  03t90150 v 80NC9  0C. (3                   3.50406 8.852.5 22.094.7 14,349.3  9.117.5       -   0,304.0 3,993.5108.437.4 28,990.0 23,596.3 13.470.S           19,503.7
t. 045110016(4, 00918N784T11TO  I BLM47IsI08           1,506.9  2,632.8 10.201.8  7,W8.4  2.735.2           21,175.0 1,504.9  2.745.6 01,504.0  9,400.5  3,516.0          20.113.1      0     0        0     LAS
Total 8045100  MEs                                       8,044.9 14,351.4 47,207.0 34,182.0 011L.15,       -   15.05.1 8,940.0 16.52U.6 58.554.0 45,82.3 14.994.7           1 46,807.7
tot., SAM0    Ms0                                          8.06,   -4..  4_7_,20_7.0 34,1831-11.853,7       .  805,603.0 1, -M- .014_520.6 5J 56.  4-5,822.2 1 16.99"4.?7   0146.07.7'
YOU4.  , ~   10:86



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Table 104. THIRUMANGALAN RAIN CANAL EXTENSION AREAS
Detailed Cost Table
(RS '000)
Paraseters
Base Costs                                     Totals Including Contingencies                Phj.
---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------  Cont. For.   Gross   Sulmar
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87  87/88 88/89  total    83/84   84/85   85/86    86/87   87/88 88/89  Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
___ _ ______ __
A. STAGE I EXTENSION (715 HA)
LAND AC0UISITION                                      -   600.0 1,402.0   400.0       -     -  2,402.0        -   683.1  1,716.2    528.8        -     -  2,928.1   0.1       0         0      LA
MAIN CANAL (8.9 KM)                                   -   400.0   600.0 1860.0       -     -  2t860.0         -   476.1    767.8  2,570.7       -     -  3,814.6  0.15  0.08           0      IC
BRANCHES (10.3 KIM)                                   -       -   700.0 1,246.0       -     -  1,946.0         -       -    895.8  1,722.1       -     -  2,617.9  0.15  0.08           0      IC
DISTRIBUTARIES (44 KIM)                               -        -   500.0 2,095.0      -     -  2,595.0         -       -    639.9  2,695.5       -     -  3535.4  0.15  0.08            0      IC
BUILDINGS (2 NOS)                                     -       -    95.0        -      -     -      95.0        -       -    121.6         -      -     -    121.6  0.15  0.15           0     BLD
STRUCTLRES (85 NOS)                                   -       -   753.0   752.0       -     -  1,505.0        -        -    963.6  19039.3       -     -  2,003.0  0.15  0.08           0      IC
IWPROVEMENTS TO TANKS (13 NOS)                        -       -   212.0   318.0       -     -    530.0         -       -    271.3    439.5       -     -    710.8  0.15  0.08           0      IC
Sub-Total STAGE I EXTENSION (715 HA)                     - 1,000.0 46262.0 6,671.0       -      - 11,933.0        - 1,159.2  5,376.2  9.195.9           -    15,731.3
B. EXTENSION DISTRIBUTARY V (430 HA)
LAND ACQUISITION                                 802.0   584.0         -       -      -     -  1,386.0   882.2   664.9           -        -      ^     -  1,547.1   0.1       0         0      LA
MAIN CANAL (11.9 KM)                            1,551.0   400.0 1,007.0         -     -     -  2,958.0 1,783.6   476.1  1#288.7            -     -     -  3,548.4  0.15  0.08           0      IC
DISTRIBUTARIES (3.4 RlM)                              -       -   694.0        -      -     -    694.0        -        -    888.1         -      -     -    888.1  0.15  0.08           0      IC                       U,
DIN ROADS (11.9 KR)                                   -       -    62.0         -     -     -      62.0        -       -      79.3        -      -     -      79.3  0.15  0.08          0      IC
BUILDINGS (I NMS)                                  47.0       -        -       -      -     -      47.0    54.0        -         -        -      -     -      54.0  0.15  0.15          0     BLD
STRUCTURES (76 MIS0)                              100.0   403.0 1,780.0         -     -     -  2,283.0   115.0   479.7  2,277.9           -      -     -  2,872.6  0.15  0.08           0      IC
IMPROVEMENTS TO TANKS (7 NOS)                         -   127.6   191.4        -      -     -    319.0        -   151.9    244.9          -      -     -    396.8  0.15  0.08           0      IC
SuTol EXTENSION DISTRIBUTARY V (430 NA)           2,500.0 19514.6 3,734.4          -     -      -  7,749.0 2,834.9 1,772.5  49779.0           -     -     -  9,386.4
C. NEU BRANCH CHANIEL V1 (254 HA)
LAND ACQUISITION                                  498.0        -       -                          498.0   547.8        -         -        -      -     -    547.8   0.1       0         0      LA
HAIN CANAL (9.9 KR)                            2.462.0 1,369.0         -        -     -     -  3,831.0 2,831.3 1,629.5           -         -     -     -  4,460.8  0.15  0.08           0       IC
BRANCHES                                           64.0       -        -                           64.0    73.6        -         -        -      -     -      73.6  0.15  0.08          0       IC
DAN ROADS                                             -    51.0        -                           51.0        -    60.7         -         -     -     -      60.7  0.15  0.08          0       IC
BUILDINGS (I NO)                                   48.0       -        -        -     -     -      48.0    55.2        -         -        -      -     -      55.2  0.15  0.15          0     BLD
STRUCTR'RES (58 N11S)                             400.0   715.0        -                    -  1,115.0   460.0   851.0           -         -     -     -  1,311.0  0.15  0.08           0       IC
IMPRVEMENTS TO TANKS (10 NOS)                     94.0    94.0         -       -      -     -    188.0   108.1   111.9           -        -      -     -    220.0  0.15  0.08           0       IC
Sub-Total HEN  RCH CHANNEL VI (254 HA)             3,566.0 2,229.0        -        -     -      -  59795.0 49076.0 2,653.1          -         -     -      -  6,729.1
0. ENGINEERIN6P ADMINISTRATION I SUPERVISION    1,429.8 1,067,9 19978.3 1,881.3          -      -  6,357.3 1,429.8 1,105.3  2,201.5  2,261.0        -     -  6,997.5       0     0         0      EAS
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                7,495.8 5,811.5 9,74.7 8.552.3        -      - 31,834.3 8,340.7 6W690.1 124356.6 11,456.9        -      - 38,844.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   7,495,8 5,811.5 9,974.7 8,552.3       -      - 31,834.3 8,340.7 6P690.1 12,356.6 11,456.9        -      - 38,844.3
7x
Deceber 7t 1983  I.1U8                                                                                                                                                                                                   0



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Table 105. EOUIPMENT FOR IMPLEMENTATION
D'etailed Cost Table
(RS '000)
Parameters
Base Costs                          Totals Including Contingenries           Phv.
---------------------------------- --------- ------------------------------------------- Cont, For.  Gross   Sumaar%
83/84 84/85  B5/86 86/B7 87/88 88/B9 Total  83/84 84/85  85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. SURVEY ELUIPMENT          -   16.0      -      -     -     -   16.0      -   18.2      -      -     -      -   18.2   0.1   0 7         0       EO
3. CALCULATORS               -   58.0      -      -     -      -   58.0     -   66.0      -      -     -      -   66.0   0.1   0.7          0      EO
C. FIXOGRAPHS                -   64.0      -     -      -     -   64.0      -   72.9      -      -     -     -   72.9   0.1   0.7          0       EO
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          -  138.0      -      -     -     -  138.0      -  157.1      -      -     -      -  157.1
Total BASELINE COSTS              -  138.0     -      -     -      -  138.0      -  157.1     -      -     -      -  157.1
========= ===    ====   ==   == =====--=  === ====            =        ===  ====_=====
December 7, 1983 11:19
U,
0'
l



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Table 106. IMPROVEMENT AND REPAIR OF PERANAI REGULATOR
Detailed Cost Table
(RS '000)
Parameters
Base Costs                                  Totals Includins Contingencies             Phg.
----------------------------------------------------…-------------------------------------…-C-------------- Cont. For.  Gross   Sumar
83/84  84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88  88/89  Total  83/84  84/85   B5/86   86/87   87/88  88/89  Total  Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MORKS                                                       -   600.0 1.200.0 2,400.0 I,o00.0      -  6,000.0      -   714.1 1,535.7 32317.0 2,661,0      -  8,227.8  0.15  0.08         0       IC
B. REPLACEMENT OF GATES                                              -       -        - 1,600.0 1,600.0     - 3,200.0       -       -        - 2,307.5 2y468.1     -  4.775.6   0.2   0.7         0       EQ
C. STANDBY GENERATOR                                                 -       -        -   500.0       -     -    500.0      -       -        -   661.0       -     -    661.0  0.1   0.7          0       EO
D. ELECTR. I MECH.ACCESSORIES                                        -        -       -   125.0   125.0     -    250.0      -       -        -   165.3   176.8      -    342.0   0.1   0.7         0      EQ
E. ONE TIKE REMOVAL OF EXCESS SEDIMENTS IN FRONT OF REGULATOR        - 2,000.0        -       -       -     -  2,000.0      - 2,380.5        -       -       -     -  2,380.5  0.15  0.08         0       IC
F. ENGINEERING. ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION                       -   160.0   120.0   462.5   352.5       -  1,095.0     -   165.6   133.5   555.8  453.1        -  1,308.1     0     0         0     EAS
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                  - 2,760.0 1,320.0 5,087.5 3,877.5       - 13,045.0     - 3,260.3 1,669.2 7,006.6 50759.0       - 17,695.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     - 20760.0 1,320.0 5,087.5 3,877.5      - 13,045.0      - 3,260.3 1.669.2 7,006.6 50759.0      - 17,695.1
December 79 1983  11:19
m x
I-F
0



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAd IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Table 107. ON-FARM DEVELOPDENT
Detailed Lost Table
(RS '000)
Paramters
Base Costs                                       Totals Includino Contingewies                PhS.
…----         ---…-…-…-- ---------------…-------------- -------------------------------------------------------  Cant. For.  Gross  Suaary
B3/84  84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88   88/89   Total   83/84  84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88   88/89   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate ccount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VGRMS
CONSTRUICTIN OF FIELD CHAHNELS (59090 HAI               - 110720.0 11,O00.0 13.016.0 13,000,0      -  48,816.0      - 11,949.7 149179.3 17,989.4 19,218.1     -   65,336.5  0.15  0.05        0     DEV
FIELD CHANNELS I LAND SHANING (1980 HA)                  - 1,980.0  4,554.0         -        -     -   6,534.0      - 2,356.7  5,827.8         -        -     -   8.184.5  0.15  0.05         0     BEV
CART TRACKS (100 KM)                                    -   875.0   875.0   875.0   875.0          -    3,500.0     -  19041.5  1,119.9  1,209.3  1,293.5     -    4,664.1  0.15  0.05        0     DEV
TRASHING FLOORS (600 NM0)                                - 3,750.0 31750.0  3,750.0  3,750.0       -  15,000.0      -  4,463.4  4798.9  5,182.9  5,543.7      -   19,988.9  0.15  0.05        0     DEV
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                      - 18,325.0 20,259,0 17,641.0 17,625,0     -   73,850.0      - 21,911.3 25,925.8 24,381.6 26,055.3     -   98,174.0
B. VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT A FURNItURE
JEEPS (3 NOS)                                           -    300.0        -        -        -     -      300.0     -    341.5        -        -         -     -      341.5  0.1   0.7         0      E8
FURNITURE                                               -    90.0         -        -        -      -       90.0     -    102.5        -        -        -     -      102.5  0.1      0        0     FUR
DFFICE EWUIPMENT                                        -     45.0        -        -        -     -       45.0      -    51.2                                 -       51.2  0.1   0.7         0      ED
-_ - -   __ -- - --- --------        __ _ _ ___ _  _ ___     - --- - ---- - -------- ___ ___- -----                                                            ul
Sub-Total VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT I FURNITURE                  -    435.0            4-        -         -       35.0     -    495.2        -        _         _     _      495.2                                          T
C. ENGINEERING, ADMINISTRATION I SUPERVISION
FIELD CHANNELS AND LAND SHAPING                         - 6,133.0  6,133.0  6.133.0  6,133.0      -  249532.0      - 6,347.7  6,B24.8  7,370.8  7,883.9       -   28,427.2     0     0        0     EAS
CART TRACKS AND TRASHING FLOORS                         -  1,425.0  1,425.0  1,425.0  1,425.0      -   5,700.0      -  1,474.9  1,585.7  1,712.6  1,831.8     -    6,6O5.0     0     0        0     EAS
Sub-Total ENGINEERING, ADIMINSTRATION I SUNERVISION        - 7,558.0  7,55g.0  7,558.0  7,558.0      -  30,232.0      - 7,822.5  8,410.5  9,883.4  97015.7       -   359032.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                        - 26,318.0 27,817.0 25v19.0 25.183.0       -  1046517.0     - 30.129.1 34,336.4 33,465.0 35-771.0     -  133,701.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           - 26,318.0 27,817.0 25P199.0 25,183.0      -  104.517.0     - 30.129.1 34,336.4 Z33465.0 35.771.0     -  133,701.5
December 7, 1983 11:20
ox Z
tJ 
0fj 



INDIA
PERTYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Table IOB. IMPROVED SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Detailed Cost Table
(RS '0001
Paraueters
Dase Costs                                     Totals lncludins Contingencies                 Phs.
------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------ Cunt. For.   Gross   Sumar
83/84  84/85   85/86   86/a7   87/88   88/89   Total   83/84  84/85   95/86    86/87   87/18   89/89   TDtal   Rate  Exrh. Tax Rate Arcount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES
JEEPS (5 NOS)                                                 -   500.0        -       -        -       -    500.0      -   569.3         -        -       -        -    569.3   0.1   0.7          0       Ea
MOTOR CYCLES (20 NOS)                                         -   120.0   120.0         -       -       -    240.0      -   136.6    146.9         -        -       -    283.5   0.1   0.7          0       ED
CYCLES (136 NOSI                                              -    40.0    40.0    56.0         -       -    136.0      -    45.5      49.0    74.0         -       -    168.5   0.1   0.7          0       EO
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                               -   660.0   160.0    56.0             -         876.0      -   751.4    195.9    74.0             -       1.021.3
B. EOUIPNENT I FURNITURE
COMPUTERS I ACCESSORIES (6 NOS)                               - 10200.0 1,800.0        -        -       -  3,000.0      - 19366.2  2,203.3         -        -       -  39569.5   0.1   0.7          0       EO
FURNITURE                                                     -    25.0    25.0         -       -       -      50.0      -    2e.5     30.6        -        -       -      59.1   0.1   0.7         0       EQ
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                              -     7.0      7.0       -        -       -      14.0     -      8.0      8.6        -        -       -      16.5   0.1   0.7         0       ED
FIELD EQUIPMENT                                               -    10.0        -        -       -       -      10.0     -    11.4          -       -        -       -      11.4   0.1   0.7         0       Ea
Sub-Total EOUIPMENT I FURNITURE                                  - 1.242.0 1,832.0         -       -        -  3,074.0      - 19414.0  2,242.5        -        -        -  3,656.5
C. OFFICES AND WURTERS (POD)
3UARTERS (105 NOS)                                            - 39074.0 3,074.0        -        -       -  6,148.0      - 3,658.8  39933.9         -        -       -  79592.7  0.15  0.15          0      7LD
OFFICES (7 NOS)                                               -   209.0   289.0         -       -        -    578.0     -   344.0    369.8         -        -       -    713.8  0.15  0.15          0      PLD
ENGINEERING, ADMINISTRATION1  SUPERVISION                     -   336.0   336.0        -        -       -    672.0      -   347.0    373.9         -        -        -    721.7     0      0        0      EAS
Sub-Total OFFICES AND QURTERS (PUb)                              - 3,699.0 3,699.0        -        -       -  7,398.0      - 4.350.6  4p677.6         -        -        -  9S28.2
D. CONSULTANT SERVICES
COMPUTER PYOGRAM FOR IRRIGATION SCMEDULING                    - 1,000.0 1,000.0        -        -       -  2,000.0      - 1,035.0  1,112.8         -        -       -  2.147.8      0      0        0       TS
RESERVOIR SIIMULATION STUDIES                                 -   500.0   500.0        -        -       -  11000.0      -   517.5    556.4         -        -       -  1.073.9      0      0        0       TS
Sub-Total CONSULTANT SERVICES                                    - 1,500.0 1I500.0         -       -        -  3,000.0      - 1.552.5  1,669.2        -        -        -  3,221.7
Total INVESTIENT COSTS                                              - 7,101.0 7,191.0    56.0         -        - 140348.0      - 8,068.5  S785.2    74.0         -        - 16,927.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES AMD OPERATING EXPENSES
SALARIES ANI' ALLOWANCES                                     - 1,000.0 2,004.0 2,004.0 2,004.0 1,500.0  8,512.0        - 1,086.7  2i341.6 2,529.9 2,704.9 20146.1 10.808.2  0.05          0        0      ISA
OPERATING EXPENSES                                           -   125.0   276.0   276.0   276.0   207.0  1.160.0        -   135.8    322.5   348.3   372.5   296.2  1F475.3  0.05   0.5             0      IOE
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND OPERATING EXPENSES           -  F125.0 2,200.0 2,280.0 2,280.0 i1707.0  9,672,0        - 1,222.6  2,664.0 2.077.2 39077.5 2,442.3 12283.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                               - 1,125.0 2,280.0 2,280.0 2,280.0 1,707.0  9,672.0         - 1,222.6  2,664.0 2,877.2 3,077.5 2,442.3 12,283.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                 - 8,226.0 9,471.0 2,336.0 2,280.0 1,707.0 24020.0         - 9,291.1 1I1449.2 2,951.2 31077.5 2,442.3 29.211.3
DTeceber 7, 1983  11:21



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Table 109, INTRODUCTION OF ROTATIONAL WATER SUPPLY
Detailed Cost Table
IRS '000)
Parameters
Base Costs                                      Totals Includinm  Continienries               FhY.
------------------------------------------------------   ------------------ ---------    --- -------------------------   Cont.   For.  Gross  Sum ary
83/84  84/85   85/86   86/87   B7/8B   88/89   Total   B3/84  84/85   85/B6    B6/87   B7/88    87/89   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. OFFICES AND OUARTERS (AED)
GUARTERS (162 NOS)                                            - 1.500.0 2.500.0 1,500.0         -       -  5,500.0      - 1,785.4  3,199.3 2,073.1         -        -  7,057.8  0.15  0,15          0     OLD
OFFICES (62 NOS)                                              - 1000.0 2P350.0 1000.0         -        -  4,350.0     -1,190.2  3,007.3 19382.1           -       -  5,579.7  0.15  0.15          0      BLD
ENGINtERING& ADMINISTRATION I SUPERVISION                     -   250.0   485,0   250.0         -        -    785.0     -   258.7    539.7   300.5         -        -  1,09B.9      0     0         0     EAS
Sub-Total DFFICES AND OUhRTERS (AED)                             - 2,750.0 5,335.0 29750.0         -        - 10,835.0     - 3,234.4  6,746.3 30755.7         -        - 13.736,4
D. VEHICLES
JEEPS(12 NOS)                                                 - 1200.0         -       -                -  1,200.0      -1,366.2          -        -       -        -  1,366.2   0.1   0.7          0      EO
MOTOR CYCLES150 NOS)                                          -   750.0        -       -        -        -    750.0     -   853.9         -        -       -        -    B53.9   0.1   0.7          0      Ea
Sub-lotal IIEICLES                                               - 1.950.0        -       -        -       -  1.950.0      - 2p220.1         -        -       -        -  2,220.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                              - 4700.0 5,335.0 2,750.0          -        -12,785.0      -5,454.4  6.746.33,755.7            -       - 15,956.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
_ _ __ _____ __
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND OPERATING EXPENSES
SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                      - 1,500.0 3.148.0 3,148.0 3,148.0 2,361.0 13,305.0        - 1,630.1  3,678.2 3,972.5 4,249.1 3,378.0 16,907.9  0.05         0         0     ISA
OPERATING EXPENSES                                           -   100.0   170.0   170.0   170.0   128.0    738.0        -   108.7    198.6   214.5   229.5   183.1    934.4  0.05   0.5             0     IOE
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL SALARIES ANIID OPERATING EXPENSES         - I.600.0 3,318,0 3,318.0 3,318.0 2.489.0 14,043.0        - 1,738.8  3,876.9 4,187.0 4,478.5 3,561.1 17,842.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                               - 1.600.0 3318,0 3,318.0 3,31B.0 29489.0 14,043.0         - 1,738.8  3t876.9 4187.0 4t478.5 3,561.1 17-842.4
Total BASELINE COSTS  "                                              - 6.300.0 8,653.0 6068.0 3,318.0 2.489.0 26,B28.0         - 7,193.2 10,623.2 7,942.7 4F478.5 3,561.1 33,798.9
December 7  1983  11!23
L | .



-61--
INDIA                                                                                        ANNEXY  I
9001700 06I102 IRRIGATION 1I PROJCT                                                                              a    t7j
Tall, Ill, 78024241
eww'Ird Cool T00le
(RE '0001
last Costs                                  Totals Irtlo,r,  Cwttrawcas                  Phs.
83/84  84/85   85/86  86/8?  87/83  80189  Total   83/84  94/815  85/86   86/87  87/88  80/89  Total   Rate  Eoch. Ta  b ate Accost
1. INKST4ENT COSTS
6. FUBLIC WRt.S 11400T004T
I. LECTURE 00LL
CIVL  00tS                                                     61.5    63.5       -              - 137,0              B 8.5    8?.?7                          169.2  0.15  0.15          0     k5D
95U.4110uk                                                           -    19.5       -       -       -    19.5      -       -     23.9        -      -       -     3.9   0.1       0        0      FUR
E3154047ENT                                                                2.0        -      -0           20.0      -        -    24.5        -      -       -    24.5   0.1   0.7          0       E0
TED0600.8883 -S                                                            20.0      -       -       -    20.0      -             24.5        -              -    24.5   3.1   0,?          0       ED
Sat-Total LOCTUAC 00.L                                          -    £.5   12B.0         -      -       - 190.5        -     1.5   100.5         -      -       - 242.0
2. TRA1N1NG D10151ON
F3,817ITUR-    12.0                                                           -       -              -    12.0      -    15,7        -        -      -       -    13.?   3.1       0        0      FUR
EGOIFtAET                                                    -     4.0        -                              .0     -     4.6        -        -              -     4.6  0.1   0.7           0       Ea
P87TERI0LS                                                         6.0    )8ID   38.0   33.0         -    a0,             6,8    22,0    23.9   25.5         -    78.1   8.1   0.7          8       Ea
8d,h~Tta1 TkAINTE DIVIS1ION                                          22.0    19,0   18.0   18.0         -    76.0      -    25.0    22.0    23.8   25.5         -     96.3
3. CONSULTANT 503VICES
PREP00/TIDN OF aBaSE MTERIAtS                                - 300.0   280.0          -      -       -     0.0      -   3105   n2226          -      -       -    33.1      0      0        0       Ts
Sob-Total C18610TA6T 000I005S                                       380.0   200.8-0                         50,0       -   310.5   222.6         -              - 53.1
Sob-Total PU1kIWORKS8 0096A7T04NT                                      390.5   346.0   18.0   38.0         - 772.5        - 417.1   403.1    23.0   25.5           -    71.4
8. 88C1tTUM6L ENG1NEERING 0EPMTIONT
8000T37S 12 N0O1)                                                    86.2    86.2        -      -       - 1721.5       - 102,7   110,4           -       -      - 213.0  0.15  0.15            0      BILO
FUk627T1£                                                       -    75.0        -       -       -      -    75.0      -     85.4       -        -       -      -     85.4 0,1        0         0     FIl
E011IP1(EN                                                           61.0        -       -      -       -    61.0      -    69.4        -        -       -      -     69.4   0.1   0.7         I       El
.[E9                                                            - 030.0          -       -              - 100.0        - 113.9          -        -      -       - 113.9   0.1   0.7            0       00
C48&ULINTO FOR PREPARATION OF 00*0E rAEI0.1LS~                      120.0    80.0        -      -       - 200.0        - 124.2    89.0           -      -       - 213.2        0      C        0       TS
0,0-Total MORICMIJIRAL E80GI0E014G MP4RTME4T                       - 442.3   166.2          -       -      - 600.5        - 495.5   199.4           -       -      - 694.9
TRAIN1NG 00E5CR                                                 - 577,5   577.5          -      -       -1,155.0       - 687.4   739.0           -1  ,42..4  0.15  0.15                        0      ALt
MvE.004PNET OF T0016100 FAR9                                    -    12.0        -       -              -    12,0      -     14.3       -        -      -       -     14.3  0.15  0.05         0      300
3163E005 (1131  -S  495.0   495.0                                                        -              - 90.0         - 589.2   62.5            ---1,222               6   0.15  0.15         0      ALE
JEEPS2600 -S  200.0                                                              -       -              - 200,0            Sm?          - 7     -               - 22?7.?   0.1   0.?           0       00
0181-83  1240 NOS400.0                                                           -       -      -       - 400,0        - 455.4          -        -              - 455,4   0.1   0.?            0       E0
400.CIDCILLE  1360N1S-    45.0                                                   -       -      -       -    45,0      -    51.2        -        -      -       -     51.2   0.1   0.?         0       El
F60417580R-   140.0    6.0                                                               -       -      - 200,0        - 139.4    75.4           -      -       - 2321.8   0.1        0        0      FL09
03119706?                                                            70.0        -       -      -       -    70.0      -    79.7        -        -      -       -     79.?   0.1   0.7         C       El
TEACHING 6103S                                                       40.0    6.0         -      -       - 10,0.        -    45.5    73.4         -      -       - 119,0   0.1   0.7            C       ED
Sub-Total  6E0A7MIENT F0    10CL.TTK                                - 8,9795 1.192.5        -       -      -3,172.0       -2,309.8 1,539 .4         -       -      -3,829.2
Total 988807488  COSTS                                                 -2,812.2 1,704.7   03.    13.0          -4,553.8         3,222.4 2,123.9    33.8   25.5         -5,395,5
II. RECLRE8T 010T5
6. PLIEtIC WXS  KPARTK87
806RIES0 N4M AJ.6MaS                                           -     25.0    780.5   52.5       -      - 157.0        -     27.2    91,7    07.5       -       - 186.4  0.05         0        0      ISA
80830E86T1O4 FOR LECTURERS                                     -       .0    26.0   18.0        -            52.0     -      8.3    28.9    21.6                     58.8     3      0         0      TS
391337180 EOOPENS M803T I                                             5.0    14.0    9.0        -      -    28.0      -      5.4    16.4    11,4        -      -     33.1  0.05   0.5         0      100
840-Tt'ul P839.1  kOIl  VSTTEX                                    -       .0   119.5   88.5        -      - 237.0        -    0.9   137.0   110.5          -      - 270.4
B. AGOICIITWAL E0614EE0180 38P68RT9E4
541.8010  MND 1±LL3(05S                                             25.0    78.5   53.5         -          07,0       -     27.2    91.7    67.5       -       - 186.4  0.05         0        0      1so
8031(6T1O6 FOR LEC74UP08S                                      -      30    26.0   18.0         -      -     52.0     -       .3    28.9    21.6        -      -     58.8     0      0         0      TS
WC3AT106 EXPE8009                                                     5.0    14.0   19.3                     38.0     -      5.4    16.4    24.0        -      -     45.8  0.05   3.5         I      TOE
RibTotal AGRICUTURTTAL ENG1NEER1NG 889804E81                            318.0   118.5   98.5       -           247,0     -     40.9   137.8   113.1        -      - 291.0
C. DEPARTMEN7 OF SGICaXTURE
500L0IES AITM 41.180900S                                            150.0   305.0  305.0  305.9  250.0 1,315.0        -   162.0   336.4   380.9  411.7  357.7 1.873.6  0.05          0        0      556
OPERAT1NG EXP1850                                              -    50.0   301.0  301.0  301.0  250.0 1,303.0         -   163.0  231.7   379.3  406.3  357.7 3.650.5  0.05   0.5               0     1IN
36t3-Tot.al   980RT9(9  OF    10.IKUL-   300.0   606.0  606.0  006.0  500.0 2,638.0                                     -    26.0   708.1  7M.7  938.0  715.4 3,332.2
Total 80EU3908  COSTS                                                      376.0   843.0  777.0  46%.0  30.0.  3.102,0        - 407.8   932.1   978.3  318.0'7113.4 3,900.6
Total 86S.38   COSTS                                                    -  ,3.325777500435007650                               -23.   ,0.   ,0.    4.    0.   ,9
Brnfbcv 7,13 1 12 23



1ND1A
P*81Y6R YAIG6I IR1681AT1W 11 PRO.1C1
TId&ll. 110. 11DR188 An1 9881186I
kctailed Cost Tall
(RS '0881
Paramtevs
hi. Costs                                   Totals Indclding Ca.ti,uwmns               "N..
Gyp/1  IA/SO   Dy/8   86/7   82188   Meg8  lotal  80/84  84/80   85/86  86/87   87/U88/809  Total  Rat. Exch. Tix Rite ACcowt
1.INKES"I0  COSTS
A. OtlBLIC MtS MP8RTHE#r
1. 8880188086 I EVALUATION 911.
t*8ICLE                                           -    00.0              -       -            100.0     -   113.9                   -                113.9  0.1   8.7         8      ED
F14811T89E                                             7.5       --                             7.5     -    8.5        -       -       -              0.5  8,1      0        0     Ft18
9861901141                                              4.5      -               -       -      4.5     -    5.1        -       -       -              5.1 0.1 0.7            0      to
Suh-Total MImT8R1N8 I E00118At188 CELL-   112.0                     -       -       -       -    112.0         127.5       -       -               -    127.5
2. 01888888 D1VI5ION
986198111                                             100.0      -       -       -       -    100.0     - 112.9                                      1       13.?  0.0   0.7  0      98
Sib-Octal 8088W88Y DIV1I1ION                            100.8                                    1804.0        113.9       -       -                    113.9
3. 84081TYCTR907L1 DIVISION
986191111                                             154.8                                   154.0         170.3       -       -                    175,3  .01  0.7          8      ED
Sub-Total 8801.10  9118841 DIVISION                      154.0                                   154.0     - 175.3         -       -                    115.3
5,.octal 9880.19 Om  0O'6T1(1- 04.                                                                  364.0         416.7       -       -               -    406.7
Total 1MKSTIE0T COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CT,60 -- - 36.    0.    - - - 4670
10. 810118(t CSTS
A. 97881  VM88 1(98808(NT
I, SALARIES MD0  LOMNCES
NO8811R8N188  E(8818TIN CELL                     -  288.8  388,0  280.0  280,0  158.0   9108.              217.4  233.7  2024   270.8  214.6. 1,1IU.8  0.85         8        0     ISA
888198R188 DIVISION                              -  694.0  694,0  694.0  694.0  520.0 3,296.0              754.2  810.9  375.8  936.7  744.0  4.121.6. 8.05         0        0     ISA
8118888  OTISIMIO                                -   760.8  760,0  760.0  760.0.  308.0  3.6108,0          825.   888.8  959.1 10825.0   815,5  4.514,3  8.05       0        0     ISA
QUAL[T01 988088  01915186                        -   863.8  863.8  860.0  863.8  684.8  4,806.0    -    37,9 1,008.4 1,009.0 1,180.8  864,2  5.864.30.8,5           8        0     ISA
5.6-lotal SALARIES ANN iLIMWES                     - 2,517,0 2,547,0 2,517.8 2,517.0 1.844.0 11,912.0      2,735.3 2,941.0 3,176.2 3.397,4 2.638,3 14,890.2
2. 11988118  EVEN851                                -   075.8  175.0  175.0  175.0         -   780.0          I 49.2  284,5  220.8  236,2         -   80£,)  8.85   8.5         8     ICE
5,.-otal 9014.1 81.8s 8(PO9TI8JT                        2,602.8 2,692,8 2.6.92.0 2,602.8 1,844.0 12,612.0      2,025.5 3,045.4 3.397,1 3,633.6 2,638.3 15,73.9.
0. 89A98411181 MIIC8881000
CROP-CUTT188 SUWYS                                 - 186.0  400.0  286,8  100,8   75.8   475.0            - 108.7  116.8  126.2   150,  1087,3   594.0  8,85           8        8     ISA
Sub-Total 1*E8811180 Or 8881C1111                     -   188,0  186.8  086,8  188.8   75.8   4750.          -  0887   116.9  126.2  135.0  1087,3   004.8
9. DIRECTORATE , 9981LUAT8ION AND RESE8
S81l8-998041  5u88915                              -  588.8  588.0  000.8  580,8           -2,080.0           517,5  556.4  600.9  642.7         -  2.317.6.    8     8        8      TS
S.6.Oca  811(918861    FJ81SAO78 NM3 89198(6              500.  5808 50.0  500. 0 -c.            2.0,0  -0  517.5  55.4  600.0  642.7                  2,317.6
Octal 8(988115341 98613                    ~~~~~- 3,29.8 3M.29, 3.292,0 3,292.8 1,191.0 15,887.0  -3,550.7 3.818,7 4,124.2 4.411,3 2,745.6 18,651.5
Total DMEL401 COSTS                                          1 ,650,0 3,92,0 3,202.0 0,2M.o 0,919.0 1545.402,       3,060.4 3,818.7 4.124.2 4.40113 2.745.6. 10,868.2
December 7. 198 01125



INDIA
PERITAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION It PROJCT
Project Component bo Time
(RS Million)
Total
Base Costs                             -
__  _  _  _    _ ------- _---- _-----------   -  --------  (US$
83/94 84/85  85/86  86/97  87/89 8S/89   RS   Million)
COMPLETION OF PERIYAR VAIGAI I                        -   68.6   35.4   13.5   2.0      -  119.5     12.0
ADPITIONAL CiVIL VORKS FOR PERITAR VAIOAi I           -    2.6    2.2    2.2   2.2      -    Y.2      0.9
PROJECT AREA EXTENSION                             15.5  20.3  57.2   42.7  11.9        -  147.6     14.8
REHABILITATION PERANAI REWUAATOR                      -    2.8    1.3    5.1   3.9      -   13.0      1.3
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT                                   -   26.3   27.8  25.2  25.2       -  104.5     10.5
IMPROVED SYSTEM OPERATIONS                            -    8.2    9.5    2.3   2.3   1.7  24.0        2.4
INTRODUCTION OF RiS                                   -    6.3    8.7    6.1   3.3   2.5  26.8        2.7                                                                                                    1
TRAINING                                              -    3.2    2.5    0.8   0.6   0.5    7.7       0.8
IONITORING I EVALUATION                               -    3.7    3.3    3.3   3.3  1,9   15.5        1.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   15.5  142.0  147.9  101.2  54.6   6.6  467.8       46.8
Plwsical Contingencies                               1,7   15.5   16.2   11.0   5.6   0.3   50.3       5.0
Price Con tirdencies                                   -    5.5   18.5  22.6  17.2   2.5   66.4        6.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    17.2  163.0  182.6  134.8  77.4   9.5  584.5      58.5
Foreisn Exchange                                     0.9   14.6   12.8    9.8   5.5   0.4   44.0       4.4
December 7, 1983 11:28
CD
-3 X



iNDIA
PERIYAR VAIGA! IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Suwearv Account bs Project Component
(RS '000)
ADDITIONAL                                                                                                                   Physical
COMPLETION OF  CIVIL WORKS                                                  IMPROVED                                                       Contingencies
PERIYAR VAIGAI FOR PERIYAR PROJECT AREA  REHAPILITATION         ON-FARM     SYSTEM   INTRODUCTION OF             MONITORING I- -
I         VAIGAI I    EXTENSION   PERANAI REGULATOR DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS            RUS        TRAINING  EVALUATION    Total       1    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND WAISITION                                       2v192.0            -      10,799.0                  -                                                                     12,991.0 10.0  1,299.1
B. CIVIL WORKS
IRRIGATION CONSMCTION                               99.292.0     7,104.0    103,707.0              8,000.0                        -                -        -             -  208r103.0 15.0 31v215.4
ON - FARM DEVELWOMENT                                      -            -             -                  -    73,850.0            -                -      12.0             -   737862.0 15.0 11,079.3
BUILDINGS FOR OIMITRAINING                                 -            -      1.401.0                   -            -    6,726.0           9,850.0  2,454.5              -   20.431.5 15.0  3,064.7
Sub-Total CIVIL UI S                                   89,292.0      7,104.0    105,108.0             8,000.0    73,850.0    6,726.0            9,850.0  2y466.5              -  302,396.5 15.0 45,359.5
C. EOUIPMENT I MATERIALS                                1,230.0            -         139.0            33950.0        345.0    3,950.0           1,950.0  1.080.O          358.5   13.001,5 12.5  1.620.1
D. FURNITURE                                                  -            -             -                  -         90.0           -                -    306.5            7.5      404.0 10.0      40.4
E. TECHNICAL SERVICES                                         -            -             -                  -            -    3.000.0                 -    804.0       2.000.0    5,804.0  0.0        0.0
F, ENGINEERING, ADMINISTRATION I SUPERVISION           260787.6      2.l31.2     31,532.4             I,095.0    30,232.0        672.0            985.0         -             -   93,435.2  0.0       0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   119.501.6      9,235.2    147,577.4            13,045.0   104,517.0   14,348.0           12,785.0  4,657.0       2v366,0  428.032,2 11.3 48,319.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES I ALLOIIANCES                        -            -             -                  -            -    8B512.0         13,305.0  1,629.0       12,387.0   359833.0  5.0  1.791.6
B. INCREMENTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                            -            -             -                  -            -    1.160.0             738.0  1.369.0         700.0    3.967,0  5.0    198.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                            -            -             -                               -    9,672.0          14,043.0  2.998.0      13.087.0   39P800.0  5.0  1,990.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      119,501.6      9,235.2    147,577.4            13,045.0   104,517.0   24.O20.0           26,828.0  7,655.0       15.453.0  467.832.2 10.8 50,309.1
Physical Contingencies                                  13,736.0      1,065.6      16,s59.9            1.915.0    11,121.0    1,887.5            2,374.6    658.5         690.9   50,309.1  0.0        0.0
Price Continaencies                                     10,804.0      1,582.4      21,371.8            2,735.1    18,063.5    3.303,8            4,596.2    983.6       2.924.2   66,364.6  9.5  6,287.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       144,041.6    11,883.2    185,809.1             17,695.1   133,701.5   29Y211.3           33,798.9  9,297.1      19,068.2  584.505.9  9.7 56,596.9
Foreign Exchange                                         9.872.3        754.0     11,214.9             4,893.7      5,183.6    5.258.1          3,916.9  2,197.7          711.6   44.002,7 12.1  5,335.2
December 7. 1983 11:29



-65-
ANNEX 1
Table T-18
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ M)
IDA Fiscal Year        During Semester                       Cumulative
And Semester    IDA Credit   IDA Special Fund         IDA Credit  IDA Special Fund
1985
1st                 1.0              1.0                  1.0               1.0
2nd                 1.4              1.4                  2.4              2.4
1986
1st                 1.4              1.4                  3.8               3.8
2nd                 1.6              1.6                  5.4               5.4
1987
1st                 2.2             2.2                   7.6              7.6
2nd                 2.9             2.9                  10.5             10.5
1988
1st                 2.5             2.5                  13.0             13.0
2nd                 2.0             2.0                  15.0             15.0
1989
1st                 2.5             2.5                  17.5             17.5
2nd



-66-
ANNEX I
Table T-19
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Proposed Credit/Special Fund Allocation
% of expenditures
CateRory                 IDA Credit/Special Fund             to be financed
Civil Works
LCB                             21.4                             85
Other                            2.4                             85
On-Farm Development
LCB                              7.2                             90
Other                            1.2                             90
Equipment, Vehicles
Materials                           1.2                       100% of foreign
expenditures; or
100% of ex-factory
price; or 70%
Technical Services                    .2                            100%
Unallocated                         1.4
35.0



-67-
ANNEX 1
Table T-20
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Cropping Patterns
(% of net CCA)
1. Double Crop Area (under PMC)
(CCA = 29,634 ha)
Present and Future
Without Project      /a      Future With Proiect
rainfed        irrigated         rainfed    irrigated
Paddy
First crop                                 57 /b            _            78
Second crop                                85                            88
Groundnut                    -                4               -             5
Millet                       4                -               6             -
Pulses                       5                -              11             -
Sugarcane                    -                4               -             4
Total                   9               150              17           175
Cropping intensity (%)            159                             192
Irrigation intensity (Z)                    150                           175
/a  Refers to before the Phase I project situation, i.e., 1976.
Lb Equivalent to 92% intensity in the originally authorized double crop
area (18,266 ha).



-68-
ANNEX I
Table T-21
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Cropping Patterns
(% of net CCA)
2. Single Crop Area /a
(CCA = 47,816 ha)
Present and Future Without Proiect
Extension Areas
Old Area        Indirect       Direct       Future With
(32,331 ha)    (10,534 ha)  (4,951 ha)         Proiect
rf    irri      rf    irri       rf          rf    irri
Paddy
Single                     -     85        -      51         -           -     88
Groundnut                    2       2       -       2         5           -       5
Sorghum                      6      -       35       -        35           4      -
Millet                       5       -        5      -        25           6
Gram                        15       -      16       -        15          20
Sugarcane                    -       2       -       2         -           -      2
Total                   28     89       56      55       80          30      95
Cropping intensity (%)         117              111           80             125
Irrigation intensity (Z)           89               55         -                 95
riE   = rainfed
irri = irrigated
ia  Excluding TMC Indirect Ayacut but including TMC Direct Ayacut.



-69-
ANNEX 1
Table T-22
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Cropping Patterns
(% of net CCA)
3. TMC Indirect Avacut
Present and                      Future With
Future Without Project                   Project
rainfed       irrigated          rainfed    irrigated
(Old Ayacut   1278 ha) La                (3619 ha)
Paddy
Single                     -              85                             88
Groundnut
Kharif                     2               2                               5
Summer                     -               4                -             20
Sorghum                      6               -                 4
Cotton                       -               2                 _            20
Millet                       4               -                 6
Gram                         2                                 5
Sugarcane                  _                 1                 -             2
Total                   14              94               15           135
Cropping Intensity (%)            108                              150
Irrigation Intensity (Z)                    94                             135
/a For the 2,341 ha of extension areas under TMC, the present situation is
described in T-23.



-70-
ANNEX I
Table T-23
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Present Cropping Pattern under Uncertain Rainfall
in the Tank Irrigated Command
(TMC - 2,341 ha)
(PMC - 10,534 ha) /a
Good         Medium         Poor          Weighted
Rainfall      Rainfall      Rainfall         Average
rf   irri    rf   irri    if   irri         rf    irri
Probability                    20%           40%            40%
Paddy                     -    88        -    60       -    25         -      51
(single)
Groundnut                 -      5       -     2       -      -        -       2
Sorghum                   4      -      30     -      40      -       35      -
Millet                    6      -       5     -       4      -        5       -
Gram                     20      -      14     -      10      -       16      -
Sugarcane                _       2       -     2       -      2        -      2
Total                  30    95      49    64       54    25        56     55
Cropping Intensity (Z)         125           113             79            111
Irrigation Intensity (2)          95            64              25              55
rf     rainfed in kharif and residual moisture in rabi.
irri i irrigated.
La As included in T-21 for Single Crop Area.



ANNEX 1
-71-                                           Table T-24
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Crop Yields and Input Data
Future Without Project
Manual                     Fertilizer
Crops                  Yield   Seed    Labor    Bullock   FYM    N   P   K           Agrochemical
t/ha   kg/ha      MD        PD       t/ha  ---kg/ha---          Rs/ha
Paddy, irrigated
Single crop           3.2      60       155        30        4     60  30  20           165
First crop             3.2     60       155        30        4     60  So  20           165
Second crop           2.9      60       155        30        -     60  30  20           165
Groundnut, irrigated   1.4    100          88        18        5      10  20  35           100
Groundnut, rainfed       0.8    100        80        17        3      5   10   -             -
Sorghum, rainfed         0.9      10       40        16        3      10   5                 -
Cotton, Irrigated        1.3      20      152        22        4      50  25  25           260
Millet, res.moist.       0.7       8        53       15        -       -   -   -             -
Gram, res. moist.        0.4      20       32        10              -     -                 -
Sugarcane, irrigated  65.0  3,500         235        43        4    160  80  30           200
Future with Project
Paddy, irrigated
Single crop            4.0     60       165        33        5     90  40  30           210
First crop             4.0     60       165        33        5     90  40  30           210
Second crop            3.8     60       165        33        -     90  40  30           210
Groundnut, irrigated   2.1    100         105        18        5      20  35  10           120
Groundnut, rainfed       0.9    100        82        17        3       5  10   -             -
Sorghum, rainfed         1.0      10       40        10        3      10   5   -             -
Cotton, irrigated        1.8      20      175        25        4      60  30  30           320
Millet, res.moist.       0.8       8        56       15        -      10   -   -             -
Gram, res. moist.        0.5      20        32       10        -       -   -    i            -
Sugarcane, irrigated  80.0  3,500         260        45        4    175  85  30            250



-72-
ANNEX 1
Table T-25
PERlY/D VAlCAI URR10GTIOB 11 P0OJECT
Lrt.o Yield. cod Prodottien
A. For Total Cao-d Ares il
PRESENT AFD FU7TrE W8ITHOU PRO3ECT
0!d Area.                                                         Extension Areas
Rainfed               Irenoated                 Both                 Rsinfed                Irniated            _      tl                   To:al
Cro-p                  Ares  YiLd  Prod.    Are.  Yield  Prod.    Are.  Yield  Prd.   *Aree  Yield  Prod.    Area  Yield  Prod.    Ares  Ytield  Prod.    Area  Yiojld  ?2od.
1. Doable Crog Ar.e. (29.634 bh)
Paddy, first            -      -        -   16,891   3.2  54,051  16,91   3.2  54,051                    -       -      - _                         -       -    16,891   3,2   54,051
Paddy, feiond           -      -        -   25,189   2.9  73,048  25,189   2.9  73,048        -      -       -       -       -      -                -5,189   2.9   73,04S
Crorodnat               -      -              1,185   1.4   1,659   1,185   1.4   1,659      -      -       -       -       -      -        _       _      _      1,185   1.4    1,659
Millet                1,185   0.7      830     -       -      -      11,85   0.7      830     -      -       -       -       -      -        -       -      -      1,185   0.7       830
lr.n                  1,482   0,4      593          -     -          1,482   0.4      593     -      -       -       -      -       -        -       -      -      1,42   0.4        593
Slg-..ane                      -        -   _        65.0  77,025   1,185  65.0  77,025                                     _                               -    1_185  65.0   77,025
Sottoa:.            2,667                 44,450                  47,117                    -                      _                       _                    47,117
2.  Simile CroD Are.s (47.816)
Paddy, nirale           -      -        -   27,401   3.2  87,939  27,481   3.2  87,939        -      -       -     5,372   1.8   9,670   5,372    1.8   9,670  32,853   3.1   97,609
Groundnut               64i    0.8     518     647   1.4      906   1,294   1.1   1,424       248   0.8      198     211   1.4      295      459    *I      493   1,753   1.1    1,917
SonitnO               1,940   0.9   1,746      -                     1,940   0.9   1,746   5,420   0.9   4,878       -      -       -     5,420    0.   4,8T6   7,360   0.9    6,624
Millet                1,417   0.7   1.132      -       _      -      1,617   0.7   1,132   1,765   0.7   1,236       -       -      -      1,765    0.7   1,236   3,382   0.7    2,368
Cran                  4,850   I.4   1.940      -       _      _     4,850   0.4   1.940   2,428   0.4        971     -       _      -      2,428    0.4     971   7,278   0,4    2.911
Srgsro-te              -       -       -       647  65.0  42,055      647  65.0  42,055      -       -      -        211  65.0  13,715       211   65.8  13,715      858  65,0   55,770
lob tosL            9,054                 28,775                 37,829                   9,861                  5,794                 15,655                   53,484
3. Sin-Ie .od S-er Ceen Areas (TMC - ladirect: 3.619 bh)
Paddy, cigl8e            -     -        -    1,088   3.2   3,475   1,086   3.2   3,475        -      -        -    1,194   1.0   2,149   1,194    1.8   2,149   2,280   2.5    5,624
Groundout (khan!)        26   0.8       21      26   1.4       36       52   1.1      57      -      -        -                      -      -        -      -         52   1.1        57
Groundnut (1a_er)        -     -        -       51   1.4       71       51   1.4      71      -      -        -       47   1.4       66      47    1.4       66       98   1.4       137
Sorghuo                  77   0.9       69      -      -       -        77   0.9      69      819   0.9      737      -      -       -       819    0.9     737      896   0.9       806
Cotton                      -           -       26   1.3       54       26   1.3      34      -      -        -       -     -        -      -        -      -         26   1.3        34
Millet                   51   0.7       36      -      -       -        51   0.7       36     117   0.7       82      -      -       -       117    0.7      82      168   0.7       118
Gr.,                     26   0.4       10      -      -       -        26   0.4      10      375   0.4      150      -      -       -       375    0.4     150      401   0.4       160
Sugarcan                _      -        -       13  65.0      845       13  65.0     845      -      -        -       47  65.0   3,055       47   65.0   3,055        60  65.0    3,900
S.btotA]              180                  1,202                  1,382                   1,311                  1,288                  2,599                    3,981
FU7TURE WIT PROJECT
1. Doable Cro0 Are,.
Paddy, fitot            -      -       -    23,115   4.0  92,440  23,ilS   4.0  92,460        -          -           -       -                       -             23,115   4.0   92,460
Paddy, -eoond           -      -       -    26,078   3.8  99,096  26,078   3.8  99,096        -      -       -       -       -      -        -                    26,078   3.8   99,096
Groundoot               -      -       -     1,482   2.1   3,112   1,492   2.1   3,112        -      -                                                      -      1 .482   2.0    3,112
"ill,t                1,778   0.8   1,422      -       -      -      1 770   0.8   1,422      -      -       -       -       -      -                              1,778   0.8    1,422
Crae                  3,260   0.5   1,630      -       -      -     3,260   0.5   1,630       -      -       -       -       -      _        -                     3,260   0.5    1,630
Oooaecsoe               -      -       -     1.185  80.0  94,800   1.185  80.0  94,800           -           -      -       -       -                -      -      1.185  80.0   94,800
Sabtotal            5,038                 51,860                 56,898                    _                                                                   56,898
2. Shale Cron Are..
Paddy, 5430l            -      -        -   28,451   4.0 113,804  28,451   4.0 113,804        -      -       -    13,627   4.0  54,508  13,627    4.0  54,508  42,078   4.0  168,312
Irouninot               -      -        -    1,617   2.1   3,396   1,617   2.1   3,396        -      -       -       774   2.1   1,625       774    2.0   1,625   2,391   2.1    5,021
S.o,ghu               1,293   1.0   1,293      -      -       -     1.293   1.0   1,293       619   1.0      619     -       -      -        619    1.0     619   1,912   1.0    1,912
Mill t                1,      08      .552     -       -      -      1,940   0.8   1,552      929   0.8      743     -       -      -        929    0.8      763   2,869   0.1    2,295
Crae                  6,466   0.5   3,233      -       -      -     6,466   0.5   3 233   3,097   0.5   1,549        -       -      -      3,097    0.5   1,549   9,563   0,5    4,782
Soacr-sn.             _        -        -      647  80.0  51,760       647  80.0  51,760      -      -               310  806.  24,800       310  a8.o  24,880  -  957  80.0   76,560
Subtotal            9,699                 30,715                 40,414                  4,645                  14,711                 19,356                   59,770
3.  S1iDl  nd Su_er Cron Are..
Paddy, disable           -     -        -    1,125   4.0   4,500   1,125  -4.0   4,500               -        -    2,060   4.0   8,240   2,060    6.0   8,240   3,185   4.0   12,740
Ceoondout Ilbarif)       -     -        -       64   2.1      134       64   2.1      134      _     _        _       117   2.1     246      117    2.1      246     181   2.1       380
Or.o.doat (ner)          -     -        -      256   2.1      537      256   2.1      537      _     _        _      468   2.1      983      468    2.1     983      724   2.1    1,520
8-rghan                  51   1.0       51      -      -       -        51   1.0       51      94   1.0       94      -      -       -        94    1.0      94      145  1.        145
Cotton                   -     -        -      256   1.8      441      256   1.8     461          -           -      468   1.8      842      468    .8     842      724   1.8    1,303
Millet                   77   0.8       61      -      -       -        77   0.8       61     146   0.8      112       -     -        -      140    0.8      112     217   0.8       174
Crae                     64   0.5       32      -      -       -        64   0.5       32     117   0.5       59       _     -        _      117    0.5       59     181   0.1        91
Saigr.c.e                -     -        -       26  80.0   2,080        26  80.0   2,080       _     -        -       47  80.0   3,760   . 7  80,0   3,760            73  80.0    5,840
SuStottl              192                  1,727                  1,919                     351                  2,160                   3,511                   5,430
Aree: b.
Yield: tanIbA
Prodaetioe: to.
'A   Por 81,069 h. .nder Periyar V.ig.i i ..d II



-73_                                                     ANNEX 1
Table T-26
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Area, Yields and Production
8. For Perilar Vaitai II Extenuion Areas /S
FUTRE WITHOUT PROJECT
PMC - Indirect Avacut (6.122 ha)
Rainfed              Irrigated              Total
Area  Yield  Prod.  Area  Yield  Prod.  Area  Yield  Prod.
Paddy, single          -      -            3,122   1.8   5,620  3,122   1.8   5,620
Groundnut                     -      -       122   1.4     171    122   1.4      171
Sorghum             2,143   0.9   1,929    -        -      -    2,143   0.9   1,929
Millet                 306   0.7     214    -       -      -       306   0.7     214
Gram                   980   0.4     392    -       -      -       980   0.4     392
Sugarcane             -       -      -       122  65.0   7,930    122  65.0   7,930
Subtotal          3,429                 3,366                 6,795
TMC - Indirect Auacut (1,399 ha)
Paddy, single          -      -      -    1,189   1.8   2,140  1,189   1.8  .2,140
Groundnut, kharif       28   0.8      22      28   1.4      39      56   1.1      61
Groundnut, sumer       -      -      -        56   1.4      78      56   1.4       78
Sorghum                 84   0.9      76    -       -      -        84   0.9      76
Cotton                 -      -      -        28   1.3      36      28   1.3      36
Millet                  56   0.7      39    -       -      -        56   0.7       39
Gram                    28   0.4       11    -      -      -        28   0.4       11
Sugarcane             -       -      -        14  65.0     910      14  65.0     910
Subtotal             196                 1,315                 1,511
Total (7.521 ba. PMC + TMC)
Paddy, single          -      -      -    4,311   1.8   7,760  4,311   1.8   7,760
Groundnut, kharif       28   0.8      22    150   1.4      210    178   1.3      232
Groundnaut, suer       -      -      -        56   1.4      78      56   1.4      78
Sorghum              2,227   0.9   2,005    -       -      -    2,227   0.9   2,005
Millet                 362   0.7     253    -       -      -       362   0.7     253
Cotton                 -      -      -        28   1.3      36      28   1.3      36
Gram                 1,008   0.4     403    -       -      -    1,008   0.4      403
Sugarcane             _       -      -       136  65.0   8,840    136  65.0   8,840
Total             3,625                 4,681                 8,306
FUTURE WITS PROJECT
PMC - Indirect Avcut (6.122 ha)
Paddy, single          -      -      -    5,387   4.0  21,548  5,387   4.0  21,548
Groundnut              -      -      -       306   2.1     643    306   2.1      643
Sorghum                245   1.0     245    -       -      -       245   1.0     245
Millet                 367   0.8      294    -      -      -       367   0.8      294
Gram                 1.224   0.5     612    -       -      -    1,224   0.5      612
Sugarcane                     -      -       122  80.0   9,760    122  80.0   9,760
Subtotal          1,836                 5,815                 7,651
TMC - Indirect Avacut (1.399 ba)
Paddy, single          -      -      -    1,231   4.0   4,924  1,231   4.0   4,924
Groundnut, kharif     -       -      -        70   2.1     147      70   2.1     147
Groundnut, summer     -       -      -       280   2.1     588    280   2.1      588
Sorghum                 56   1.0      56    -       -      -        56   1.0      56
Millet                  84   0.8      67    -       -      -        84   0.8      67
Cotton                 -      -      -       280   1.8     504    280   1.8      504
Gram                    70   0.5      35    -       -      -        70   0.5      35
Sugarcane              -      -      -        28  80.0   2,240      28  80.0   2,240
Subtotal            210                 1,889                 2,099
Total (7.521 ba PMC + TMC)
Paddy, oingle          -      -      -    6,618   4.0  26,472  6,618   4.0  26,472
Groundnut, kherif      -      -      -       376   2.1     790    376   2.1      790
Groundnut, sumer       -      -      -       280   2.1     588    280   2.1      588
Sorghum                301   1.0     301    -       -      -       301   1.0     301
Millet                 451   0.8     361    -       -      -       451   0.8     361
Cotton                 -      -      -       280   1.8     504    280   1.8       504
Gram                 1,294   0.5    647    -        -      -    1,294   0.5      647
Sugarcane             -       -      -       150  80.0  12,000    150  80.0  12,000
Total              2,046                 7,704                 9,750
Area: ha
Yields: ton/ha
Production: ton
/g For 7,521 ha



-74-
ANNEX 1
Table T-27
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production
('000 ton)
A. For Total Command Area La
Present and Future            Future           Incremental
Crop                   Without Proiect          With Project        Production
Double-Crop Areas
Paddy                        127.1                  191.6                64.5
Groundnut                      1.7                    3.1                 1.4
Millet                         0.8                     1.4                0.6
Gram                           0.6                     1.6                1.0
Sugarcane                     77.0                   94.8                17.8
Single-Crop Areas
Paddy                         97.6                  168.3                70.7
Groundnut                      1.9                     5.0                3.1
Sorghum                        6.6                    1.9                -4.7
Millet                         2.4                     2.3               -0.1
Gram                           2.9                    4.8                 1.9
Sugarcane                     55.8                   76.6                20.8
Single/Summer Crop Areas
Paddy                          5.6                    12.7                7.1
Groundnut                      0.2                     1.9                1.7
Sorghum                        0.8                    0.1                -0.7
Millet                         0.1                     0.2                0.1
Cotton                         0.1                     1.3                1.2
Gram                           0.2                    0.1                -0.1
Sugarcane                      3.9                    5.8                 1.9
Total Areas
Paddy                        230.3                  372.6               142.3
Groundnut                      3.8                   10.0                 6.2
Millet                         3.3                    3.9                 0.6
Sorghum                        7.4                    2.0                -5.4
Gram                           3.7                    6.5                 2.8
Cotton                         0.1                    1.3                 1.2
Sugarcane                    136.7                  177.2                40.5
/8 For 81,069 ha under Periyar Vaigai I and II.



-75-
ANNEX 1
Table T-28
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production
B. For Perivar Vaigai II Extension Areas /a
PMC Indirect
Present/Future       Future With
Without Project          Project         Incremental
-…-------------------- (ton)---…
Paddy                       5,620                21,548           15,928
Groundnut                     272                   643              472
Sorghum                     1,929                   245           -1,684
Millet                        214                   294                80
Gram                          392                   612               220
Sugarcane                   7,930                 9,760            1,830
TMC Indirect
Paddy                       2,140                 4,924           2,784
Groundnut                     139                   735              596
Sorghum                        76                    56             -20
Millet                         39                    67               28
Cotton                         11                   504             468
Gram                          910                    35               24
Sugarcane                                         2,240           1,330
Total (PMC + TMC)
Paddy                       7.760                26,472          18,712
Groundnut                     310                 1,378           1,068
Sorghum                     2,005                   301          -1,704
Millet                        253                   361              108
Cotton                         36                   504             468
Gram                          403                   647             244
Sugarcane                   8,840                12,000           3,160
/8 For 7,521 ha



-76-
ANNEX 1
Table T-29
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Costs for Operation and Maintenance /a
Cost .
Item                                 (in Rs   000)
1.  Personnel                                    4,570
2.  Labor and maintenance contracts              5,600
3.  Equipment                                      350
4.  Telephone and communications                    80
5.  Lease paid to Kerala Government                300
6.  Overheads                                      900
11,800
Cost per ha                    Rs 143
/a   Includes O&M costs for Periyar and Vaigai dams.



-77-                         ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
System Operations and Water Management
The Periyar Vaigai System
1.0     The project area, covering parts of Madurai and Ramanathapuram Dis-
tricts, is located on the plain between the Western Ghats and the Bay of
Bengal in southcentral Tamil Nadu. The project would provide irrigation
water to a cultivable command area (CCA) of 81,069 ha. Madurai, Tamil Nadu's
second largest city, is located adjacent to the project lands and receives
water3from Vaigai Reservoi5; its water demand is expected to increase from
33 Mm at present to 95 Mm by the year 2011.
2.0     System features include (see diagram below):  (a) Periyar Dam and
Reservoir with an active storage capacity of 299.3 Mm3 located on the Periyar
River, draining west from the Ghats in the state of K rala; (b) a transbasin
free flow diversion tunnel with a capacity of 70.8 m /sec to convey water
from Periyar Reservoir to Suruliar River, a tributary of Vaigai River; a
power plant with a maximum capacity of 42.5 m /sec for four 30 MW units (a
total of 120 MW); (c) a series of irrigation diversion weirs along Suruliar
River in Cumbum Valley to serve an additional project area of 5,668 ha;
(d) Vaigai Dam and Reservoir, located on Vaigai River below the 5onfluence
with Susuliar River, with an active storage capacity of 194.8 Mm  of which
79.3 Mm is allocated for the use of the Vaigai Old Ayacut in the more down-
stream part of the Vaigai River basin, and 115.5 Mm3 is allocated for use of
the Periyar Vaigai Project for storing and reregulating the remaining Periyar
water after use in Cumbum Valley; (e) the Periyar Regulator located 30 km
downstream from Vaigai Dam to serve the two main canals of the projest;
(f) the Periyar Main Canal (PMC) with an initial capacity of 53.8 m /sec to
serve 73,408 allocated on the left bank;3(g) the Thirumangalam Main Canal
(TMC) with an initial capacity of 5.7  m /sec to serve 7,661 ha on the right
bank; and (h) 2,183 existing tanks will approximately 100 Mm3 of storage,
located in the project area, supplementing the reservoir capacity, and used
to regulate the direct inflow of water delivered from the project caials.
Total available storage for the project is thus approximately 515 Mm .



-78-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Periyar           Power        Cumbum           Vaigai            Perivar
Reservoir         Station    Valley            Reservoir            Main Canal
Periya                Suruliar                                       Vaigai River
River          River                             Peranai          \Thiruman alam
Western            Vai  Aai             nicut             Main Canal
E;hats            River
A flow measurements
3.0     The general plan of operation is to utilize the southwest monsoon
flow of Periyar River to fill the reservoirs and serve the first crop in the
double cropped area. The stored water is then used to supplement the north-
east monsoon rain and serve the second crop in the double cropped area and
the single cropped lands. The average annual rainfall at Periyar Reservoir
for the 1960-82 period was 2,045 mm, reflecting a favorable location to catch
the southwest monsoon rains. The project lands, however, are in a
low-rainfall area being located in the rain shadow of the Ghats and only
received an average of 845 mm. Of this amount, 36% (300 mm) was received
during the June to September predominantly southwest monsoon period, 44%
(375 mm) was received during the northeast monsoon, and the balance in the
transition months. The main rainy months of the northeast monsoon are
October and November.
Priorities of Supply
4.0     The Periyar-Vaigai irrigation system is about a hundred-years-old,
and its command area has been extended a number of times. It is one of the
few systems in India where water allocation is based on its historic develop-
ment, on the general principle that the older areas have established rights
over never extension areas. The existing Water Regulations give the follow-
ing dates for water deliveries and priorities for supply:
Priority                   Zone                             Water Delivery Period
1.  Double Cropped Zone, Periyar Main Canal;          June I - Feb 28
2.  Single Cropped Zone, Thirumangalam Canal;         June 1 to Sept 30 a/
3.  Single Cropped Zone, Periyar Main Canal;          Aug 15 to Feb 15
4.  Single Cropped Zone, Periyar (Old) Extension.  Sept 15 to Feb 15
a/  Although June 1 to September 30 is given in the Regulations, normal
deliveries usually are from September to December 31.



-79-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
5.0     Following this same principle the new extension areas under Periyar
Vaigai I and II would receive a lower priority ranking. However, for the
sake of manageable system operations GOTN has agreed to limit the number of
priorities for water allocation. For the main (second) crop, these
priorities would be:
1.  The double cropped area up to the Kallindiri Regulator (29,634 ha) 1/
2. The existing single cropped area (33,609 ha of which 28,289 ha
under PMC and 5,320 ha under MC).
3. The new extension areas under Periyar Vaigai I and II (17,826 ha of
which 15,485 ha under PMC and 2,341 ha under TMC)
6.0     With regards to the first crop in the double cropped area (the
29,634 ha up to Kallindiri Regulator), GOTN will be requested to formalize
its present practice of giving the main (second) crop priority over the first
crop (for a detailed justification, see Annex 4). A decision to irrigate or
not to irrigate the first crop in the double cropped area would be subject to
the storage position of the Vaigai Reservoir at the beginning of the season.
If sufficient water would not be available, water would not be released for
the first crop. The existing rule already articulates that water should not
be released before 5,000 Mcft (141.5 Mm ) has accummulated in storage. This
rule may have to be revised as a result of the higher priority now given to
the second crop, the addition of the new extension areas, and the
availability of better river flow and climatic data. The reservoir simula-
tion studies to be carried out under the project would review the existing
rules and recommend necessary changes. (see Appendix I for Terms of
Reference),
7.0     Suitable rules would also be established for years when water supply
for the existing single cropped (33,609 ha) and new extension areas
(17,826 ha) would be inadequate. Moderate shortages up to 20% may be dis-
tributed proportionally over the areas. During years with more severe
shortages, it may be most practical to "rotate" the areas which will be
subject to a cut off from the water supply.
Reservoir_.Oerations
8.0     Meetings of the operational staff are held at scheduled intervals to
review the operation and establish guidelines for reservoir releases in
subsequent periods. The information considered at these meetings include the
storage content of the reservoirs, the need for water in the project area,
and rainfall conditions.  If reservoir supplies are adequate, water is
1/   For this purpose 11,300 ha of now single cropped area above the Kallin-
diri Regulator would be authorized as double cropped area.



-80-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
released as demanded. If the storage is not adequate, a smaller allocation
is made and only part of the demand is supplied.
9.0     A more complicated operation of the project will be required in the
future with the addition of a third priority area for single cropped exten-
sion areas to be completed under the project.  A better quantification of the
water available at the start of each cropping period will be needed in order
to provide the farmer with information on areas with assured water so that he
can plan his plantings and farming operations. Also the amounts and timing
of- deliveries to the tanks will need to be determined to properly schedule
these deliveries by the canals when capacity is available or when the
delivery to the sluices is reduced due to rain.
10.0    Periyar Reservoir.  The 299.3 Mm3 active capacity is sufficient to
st:ore the southwest monsoon inflow. For maximum usage of the inflow, it is
necessary to pass a major part of the inflow through the transbasin tunnel
for storage in Vaigai Reservoir and, in good years, irrigation of the first
crop in the double cropped area. Before Vaigai was commissioned in 1958)
Periyar filled and spilled during most of the years. Since 1962, spillage
has occurred only two times, in the years 1977 and 1979. After considerable
spillage in 1961, the safety of the dam was questioned, and since 1969, the
maximum level has been restricted allowing an active capacity of only
173.2 Mm . Work to extend the spillway and strengthen the upper part of the
dam is scheduled for completion in 1985, and the active design capacity will
again be available. The at present preferred operation of Periyar Reservoir
is to (i) fill the storage near the end of the southwest monsoon, then trans-
fer water to Vaigai Reservoir to satisfy the irrigation demands; and
(ii) retain enough water in storage at the end of the second cropping period
in March to operate the power facilities from March to May and keep enough
water stored in Vaigai Reservoir to start the first crop in the double
cropped area. However, irrigation demand has priority over power and
modifications in operation can be made.
i.0    Vaigai 4eservoir.  The 194.8 Mm3 active capacity has bees allocated
to give 79.3 Mm  for usage of the Vaigai 01  Ayacut and 115.5 Mm  for usage
of the Periyar Vaigai Project. The 79.3 tm is used to reregulate the
remaining Periyar water after irrigation of the Cumbum valley. The at
present preferred operation is to empty the reservoir allocation of Periyar
water near the end of the second crop in the double cropped area in the month
of March; store the water transferred from Periyar during March to May for
the generation of power; start the first crop in the double cropped area in
the month of June; and then fill the storage near the end of the southwest
monsoon.
12.0    Improved Reservoir Operations.  The objective of the improved reser-
voir operation is to provide a more timely, reliable, and equitable water
supply. The development of improved rules will require an analysis using
historical and synthetic data to evaluate the effect of a predetermined



-81-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
storage allocation prior to the start of each cropping period for a selected
probability level of rain. The analysis of these years would determine how
the storage allotments could be modified to optimize the use of water as the
season progresses and with the knowledge that the actual rainfall is either
more or less than the selected probability amount. F'rom this analysis, a set
of criteria would be developed on how the storage should be allocated at
start of the season and best modified as the year progresses to reflect
changing rainfall conditions. These criteria will need to be updated at
intervals as better information becomes available for canal seepage losses,
operational losses, tank inflows and losses, crop water requirements, etc.
13.0    Sediment Control at Vaigai Dam.  It has been observed that the delta
in the reservoir has traveled towards the low-level river sluices at a rate
of about 100 m a year. In view of the possible blockage of low-level
sluices, by the approaching delta, two model studies have been conducted at
Poondi Hydraulic Research Station. These studies showed that if the river
sluices are continuously operated, as long as there is significant flow into
the reservoir, the sluices will stay clear. This calls for a review of the
operation rules at Vaigai Dam.
14,0    In the future, as the delta builds up above the sill level of the
river sluices, the particle size in the delta will coarsen and coarse
material will be flushed down. At this stage, the delta would also have
attained sufficient height to increase the possibility of blocking the river
sluices. As the sediment deposits at Peranai Regulator have to be mechani-
cally removed in any case (about 78 of flow at Peranai is diverted into the
canals), it will be viable to dredge part of the delta in the vicinity of the
river sluices. Also, jet pumps can be fabricated to clear the gates after
they have been blocked. With these options, it is foreseen that the required
supplies can be made available to the project over the next 50 years or so. 1/
Present Canal Operations
15.0    PWD makes efforts to supply irrigation water according to the demand
of the farmers. This creates major difficulties for nursery beds and land
preparation as irrigation water is generally released only to the tail ends
after the farmers in the upper reaches have been satisfied. It is, there-
fore, extremely difficult for the tail enders to plan their farming opera-
tions. Specially during drier years, it has happened that areas were only
opened for irrigation one month or later after the promised date, which then
caused considerable damage to nursery beds and with corresponding yield
reductions in the main crop. Also, after the opening of the canal system the
1/  The sediment rate over 1958-1981 has been about 1 Mm3 a year.



-82-
ANNEX 2
Page 6
farmer cannot be sure of the exact date of supply, which makes it difficult
for him to plan his operations.
1L6.0    Following the land preparation period the canals generally run on
a continuous basis. During a year with water shortage, rotation is being
practiced among sections of the main and branch canals, which may run, say,
ifour days "on", and eight days "off". During the time of supply, flow would
s-ill be continuous in the distributaries. In even drier years an additional
iLnternal rotation among the distributaries is being practised, and the dis-
tributaries run around two days "on", and two days "off"; all sluices on a
clistributary would be opened simultaneously. The practice of running the
branch canals on an on/off basis creates considerable fluctuations in the
flow of the main canal which makes the operation of the sluices and cross
regulators and the maintenance of preset flows at the discharge points dif-
f.icult6 In any case, it would seem better to turn the practice of rotation
a:.ound and adopt first, rotation among distributaries, and only after that,
rotation among branch canals; this would be more conducive to minimize water
level and discharge fluctuations in the major canals.
17.0    The many tanks in the project area are generally filled at night,
or at times o' excess flow in the canals when rainfall is heavy. Water
requirements are calculated on the basis of past experience (130 acres/cusec
for seedbed preparation, 90 acres/cusec for plowing, and 110  acres/cusec for
transplanting). To calculate the required discharges the lascars undertake
rough surveys of the standing crops and report the results to the section
officer. The supply into the branch canals is made a according to a weekly
chart prepared by the assistant executive engineer (AEE), the main require-
ment being that the flow released into the main canals correspond to the flow
rate stipulated in the operating rules. Rainfall during the preceding week
is not taken into account in the preparation of this table. Both the
estimated water demand and corresponding supply can, therefore, only be rough
approximations of the actual demand and supply requirements.
18.0    Existing Q&M regulations for the canal system are very sketchy and
not always followed, i.e., that irrigation should start at the tail end. The
frequent transfer of the O&M staff also makes continuity in system operation,
and the effective use of past experience difficult. As is also clear from
the above, effective communications with the farmers on the opening and
closing dates of canals and sluices is poor.
Im-roved Canal Operat ions
19.0    Improved canal operations would be achieved through the following:
(a) Improved irriRation scheduling. Weekly opening and closing schedules
would be prepared for all canals, sluices, and 10-ha block
outlets. These schedules would be strictly followed. This would
require some degree of rotation among the blocks on a distributary



-83-                           ANNEX 2
Page 7
as the capacities of the distributaries are not sufficient to supply
all blocks simultaneously. Minimum flows through the block outlets
will be 0.75 cfs as effective rotation among subunits within the
block would otherwise not be possible. Staggering of water supply
among the blocks is especially required during the land preparation
period when water demand is maximum. Traditionally, land preparation
started simultaneously in a number of fields spread out in the
command area of a sluice commanding, say, 80-100 ha, Staggering
the water supply for land preparation to the blocks would also have
the advantage that it would promote simultaneous land preparation of
all the fields in a block. This certainly should be the aim as it
would avoid that one field would still require irrigation water while
all adjacent field is to be harvested; such situation would
make it difficult to drain the ponded water from the field
to be harvested. Initially some resistance may be expected
fzom the farmers to this staggering procedure but it can be expected
that the benefits of a more reliable water supply and the resulting
higher production would overcome this resistance.
(b)  More accurate assessment of water demand.  This would be achieved
through the monitoring of the water depths in a number of
paddy fields under typical soil conditions in each area under
jurisdiction of a section officer. Water depths would be monitored
at least once a week and provide an input for the calculation of
the required water releases for the following week.
(c)  Computerized preparation of irrigation schedules.  Eventually,
irrigation schedules would have to be provided for some 8.000 10-ha
block outlets. The weekly calculations of water demand, the
preparation of the rotations schedules for the blocks and the
calculation of required canal flows at various points of the
irrigation network and required supply to the system tanks would be
an enormous task if done by hand. This process would, therefore, be
undertaken by means of desk-top computers, one to be installed in
each of the four AEEs field offices. 1/ Physical and hydrological
information on the 2,180 system tanks in the project area is not
available. Initially, therefore, the required water supply to the
tanks may be expressed as a percentage of the required supply for the
canal commanded area, but eventually, the tanks should be treated as
small reservoirs. The required demands at each AEE office would be
communicated by the VHF system to the WRMO under the EE. Another
desk-top computer would be installed in this office where decisions
1/ See Appendix 1 for Terms of Reference for the preparation of the computer
programs.



-84-
ANNEX 2
Page 8
would be made on releases from the reservoir, releases into the PMC
and TMC, and releases into the branches. In case of a water
shortage, the WRMO would decide on the most appropriate distribution
of the water supply among the two main canals and among its branches
and the section officers would have to make the necessary adjustments
in their schedules.
(d) Stabilizing canal flows. The traditional purpose of the on/off
operation of the canals was to reduce seepage losses during
dry periods. As all canals are now concrete lined it would be
possible to run the canals more on a continuous basis; this would
provide easier water management (less frequent adjustment of
gates) and better control at offtake points. Rotation among sections
of main canal and branch canals would, therefore, be minimized in
future.
(e) Improved communications with farmers. It is essential that the
sluice and block leaders be advised well in advance of the operation
and closing times of the canals, sluices, and block outlets. Display
boards would, therefore, be erected at every sluice and block
outlet to provide a detailed schedule of the operating and closing
times of the outlets during the week. The boards would also show tbe
hours of flow for the respective rotational units of the blocks.
(f) Introduction of water accounting. A system for water accounting
would be introduced that would be part of the computer program.
Actual releases and hours of flow would be recorded for all
canal offtakes and block outlets. Summary statements of recorded
demand and supply would be prepared at the end of each season. These
records would serve as a useful tool for the Hydrology Division to
monitor and spot check the equitability and timeliness of the
supply. Spills from the tanks would also be recorded.
(g) Improved canal operatinR rules. Very few written rules for operation
of the canal exist at present and operational experience is passed
on from one officer to the next upon transfer. A detailed Operation
and Maintenance manual would be prepared containing standard
operating procedures including procedures for water distribution
during drought, emergency operations, procedures for communicationr
with farmers, reporting, and detailed job descriptions for all
personnel.
Water Management Below the 10-ha Outlet
20.0    Rotational water supply would be promoted within the 10-ha blocks.
Elecause of the many plots within one block (sometimes 40 to 50) a block would
be subdivided into three or four subunits and irrigation water supplied in
rotation to each of these subunits in flows of not less than 0.75 cusecs. A



-85-
ANNEX 2
Page 9
rotation interval of seven days would be aimed at. However, farmers have so
far been used to a continuous supply of water and the adopted irrigation
interval may be reduced to 3.5 days initially. The burden on project staff
however would be considerably less if a seven days irrigation interval could
be adopted.
Present Practice of On-Farm Water Management
21.0    In the absence of sufficient field canals, water is allowed to flow
from field to field within the sluice command and farmers in the upper
reaches only release water to the lower reach users after their needs have
been met. Farmers also tend to pond their fields with more water than the
crop could utilize, which is also at the cost of the tail-end farmers. In
the project area, a gap of about one month is common in farming operatiorns
between the upper and the lower reach farmers. It is, therefore, quite
common to observe the paddy in various growth stages in a sluice command.
This phenomena is more pronounced in drier years.
22.0    As a result of the above described practices, it is rather difficult
for the lower reach farmers to plan their farming operations: they are not
assured of the date when they first receive water, how much, and how often.
Although the farmers in the existing command area ought to be supplied fully
with irrigation water at least for one paddy crop a year, the lower reach
farmers generally do not receive adequate amounts of water to bring the paddy
to its full maturity. Experience has shown that because water is reaching
the tail end farmers much later, the harvest time in the upper reaches
usually coincides with the milking stage of the paddy in the lower reaches.
The latter generally also coincides with the closing of the canals so that
necessary irrigation water will not reach the lower reaches any more and
farmers will have to depend on rainfall for the remainder of the season.
This is a serious constraint, as the milking stage is a critical phase for
paddy growth, and unless an adequate amount of water is supplied, the yield
would drop considerably.
23.0    In the absence of sufficient field canals, it is difficult to expect
farmers to diversify their crops, which could be important in dry years when
the water supply may not be adequate to grow paddy, but sufficient to grow
irrigated upland crops. At present, the farmers would still prefer to grow
paddy as they have no other alternative as upland crops cannot be grown
satisfactorily under a field-to-field irrigation system.
24.0    Most of the farmers in the project area are not familiar with growing
crops under a controlled water-delivery system and improved farming techni-
ques associated with proper on-farm water management. The farmers should be
Dursuaded through the extensive training envisaged under the project that:
(a) the water requirements of paddy and other irrigated dry crops are not the
same throughout the plants life; (b) adequate amounts of water alone will
not produce the expected yield unless timely application is assured; and



-86-                               ANNEX 2
Page 10
(c) crop diversification in favor of low water-using crops rather than trying
to grow flooded paddy would be highly beneficial in dry years.
Recommended On-Farm Water Management Practices for Paddy
25.0    General.  Paddy thrives its entire life cycle in water,  Thus, water
is one of the most important factors in paddy production. The water in the
paddy field supplies adequate moisture for plant growth, dissolves nutrients
and organic matter for plant consumption, and supresses the growth of weeds.
The level of paddy yield is a function of the interaction of these effects.
This interaction is complex and dependent upon the local environment of
microclimate and soil, and management practices.
26.0    It must be realized that water could be harmful to paddy growth
urnless proper water management is practiced. This is particularly the case
with high yielding paddy varieties. Overirrigation and lack of drainage can
cause great damages to paddy, Overirrigation, among others, causes low
oxygen supply to the soil with the result that the soils are rapidly brought
into a state of reduction. The paddy root receives oxygen for its growth
from its leaves through the stem. As the air temperature rises, the root
requires more oxygen to absorb more moisture to offset the transpiration in
the leaves. As the fields are flooded, the supply of required oxygen from
the air is hindered and root activities then become limited. Furthermore, as
the temperature rises, the decomposing of composts and straws in the paddy
field increases.  For decomposing such organic matter in the soil, the
activities of microorganisms also increase, which further depletes soil
oxygen supplies.  As this happens, oxygen supplied from the leaves is not
sufficient to maintain hea'lthy roots. Further, during the process of decom-
position of organic matter, various harmful organic acids are produced.
These substances remain trapped in the water of the flooded fields.  When
present in relatively large amounts, these substances retard root develop-
ment, inhibit both nutrient absorption and normal aerobic respiration, and
cause root rot. Oxygen should be supplied to the soil periodically by allow-
ing the standing water to disappear (either by drainage or percolation and
evaporation) and allowing the soil to dry moderately. The reduced substances
are then oxidized and the gases escape through the soil surface. A
well-designed pattern of on-farm water management would, therefore, maximize
the use of water for a better crop yield, but at the same time, aim to mini-
mize the harmful effects of water.
27.0    Irrigation of Paddy.  The water requirements of paddy are not the
saime throughout the plant's life. They vary with different periods of
growth. The growth of the paddy plant can be divided into four periods:
seedling; vegetative growth; reproductive growth; and ripening. The depth of
water to be maintained should be adjusted to suit the physiological needs
of the plants at these different stages of growth (see Chart _).



-87-                          ANNEX 2
Page 11
Seedling Period (25-30 days)
28.0    This period covers the stages of seed germination and development
of young roots and leaves in the seedling nursery. Relatively little water
is consumed during this period. If the seeds are submerged in deep water
(above 5 cm) for a long period during the germination stage, the development
of young roots is hampered because of oxygen shortage. After the seeds have
germinated and the young seedlings have rooted, water is supplied to about 4
cm depth. However, if the depth of water level is kept uniformly after
germination, a lack of oxygen occurs on the soil surface and the young roots
will not be able to enter the soil, which produces tumbled or floating seed-
lings. To prevent this, the water should be discharged when young roots
begin to grow and the soil surface dried to a degree that the surface does
not crack. When transplanting time approaches, water should be kept 3-4 cm
over the soil surface for 3-4 days to facilitate the pulling out of seedlings
and the removal of soil from the roots.
29.0    Experimental results obtained by the water management team of TNAU
indicate that, in general, about 200 mm of water is enough for land prepara-
tion and about 400 mm for nursery irrigation, making a total of about 600 mm.
One hectare of seedling nursery is usually planted to 10-13 ha of tran-
splanted paddy in the project area. The amount of water required for rearing
nurseries to transplant 1 ha of paddy is, therefore, about 40 mm.
Vegetative Growth Period (40-45 days)
30.0    This period covers the recovering and rooting stage, maximum tiller-
ing stage and effective and noneffective tillering stages and follows the
transplanting of the seedlings. At the time of transplanting, a shallow
depth of 2 cm of water is adequate; deeper water will result in a reduction
in tillering. The seedlings need about a week to recover from the shock of
uprooting from the nursery, and new roots are then formed. Immediately after
transplanting, the depth of water should be deep (6-8 cm) for 2-3 days, but
should then be reduced to about one-third of the height of the seedling, or
about 5-8 cm, until new roots develop. Moisture stress during the rooting
stage causes poor root growth and reduces tillering, which leads to a poor
stand and low yield. After new roots have developed, the water depth should
be maintained at 4-5 cm. Normally, the development of roots coincides with
the formation of tillers. New root development reaches a peak at maximum
tillering stage, it then begins to decline and ceases at the heading stage.
Subsequent to this stage, weak tillers begin to die, and by the time the
reproductive growth period is reached, each strong tiller bears a primordia
panicle. The number of these potential tillers for ear bearing, which is the
critical factor for higS yields, is determined at this stage (effective
tillering stage). Tillers developed subsequently die and bear no panicles
(noneffective tillering stage). Before reaching the maximum tillering stage,
water should be drained for one or two days 2-3 times to help stimulate a
vigorous growth of roots and check the development of noneffective tillers.



-88-                             ANNEX 2
Page 12
The respiratory function of roots is highest during this stage, and introduc-
tion of air into the soil by draining the field leads to decomposition of
fertilizer in the lower soil layer, and this encourages the growth of roots.
During maximum tillering stage (before the young ear formation or about 40-45
days after transplanting), water should be drained to a degree that the
surface soil shows signs of hairline cracks. The length of mid-season drying
varies with climate and soil type. In general, it requires about 5-10 days
in relatively cool regions and about 10-15 days for heavier soils in warmer
regions. This procedure is particularly effective in areas of poorly drained
paddy fields and should be carried out without fail. Care should be given
not to dry the soil excessively. As the cracks become bigger, one or two
applications of water should be given.
31.0    As explained above, when a paddy field is submerged under water for a
long period, the soil is brought into a state of reduction. Toxic substances
are then formed which retard root development and inhibit nutrient uptake and
aerobic respiration. This leads to root rot. Midseason drying to promote
active growth of roots supresses the formation of noneffective tillering and
lowers the chance of sterility. It also helps to prevent lodging. Midseason
drying, therefore, is highly recommendable.
Reproduction Growth Period (35-40 days)
32.0    This period starts after the maximum tillering stage, and covers the
pa,nicle primordia development, booting, heading, and flowering stages. Mois-
ture stress during this period causes severe reduction in yield because it
impairs panicle formation, heading, flowering, and fertilization and causes
increased sterility. Deep water at the booting stage leads to a reduction in
growth of panicles and a delay in heading; stems become weak and tend to
lodge. The depth of water before heading should be kept at 4-5 cm, slightly
deeper than in the vegetative growth period. In this period, the height of
padldy increases, the number of leaves increases and also the transpiration
rate. When the plant is about to reach the heading stage (about 10 days
before the flowering stage), the transpiration of paddy rapidly increases.
The water depth at this period should be kept at 5-6 cm.
33.0    The method of applying water after midseason drying is extremely
important. This is so because the roots have undergone some physiological
changes during midseason drying; the oxygen-conducting tissues have then
changed into root tissue similar to that of roots grown under unflooded
conditions. The roots are now no longer capable to take oxygen from the
leaves, but have developed into a strong root system, which, on the other
harld, is more capable to absorb nutrients. Care should, therefore, be taken
at this time not to overirrigate the plant, which could, at this stage,
easily cause root rot. Intermittent irrigation should be introduced at ithis
staLge so that there would be two or three days during which the plant would



-89-                            ANNEX 2
Page 13
not receive water, although the soil should remain saturated between irriga-
tions. At the heading stage, when the plant requires more moisture, water
should be applied more frequently.
Ripening Period (35 days)
34.0    This period includes the milky, dough, yellowish, and full-ripening
grain stages. The grain develops increasingly in thickness and becomes hard
and finally dry. Less water is needed during this period and finally no
water is necessary after the yellowish stage. Paddy fields should be
gradually drained at this stage. A too early draining leads to an increase
of immature grains and broken kernels; while too late draining causes lodg-
ing.
35.0    Proper water management will enable good tillering of the crop,
increase efficiency of applied nitrogen, minimize weed growth, reduce water
requirements, and increase yield. About 30% of the total water requirement
can be saved by adopting proper water management practices.
36.0    Efforts should also be made to start field operations simultaneously
in each block, as the supply of water to each block will be strictly
scheduled under the new system of canal operation. When farmers would fail
to use the water available at the time of land preparation, there would be no
second chance to receive an adequate supply. It is, therefore, important
that the farmers in each block adopt cooperative farming practices with
regard to animal power, labor, and water, particularly during land prepara-
tion, transplanting, and harvesting. This point should be strongly stressed
during the farmers training courses. In this context, in order for water
management to be successful, it is also highly recommendable that community
nurseries be established in each sluice as a unit. In doing so, the seed-
lings could be transplanted at their optimum stage and yields would increase.
Water Management and Nitrogen Application
37.0    Among the various forms of nitrogen, ammonium sulphate and urea,
which both contain a-moniacal nitrogen, are the important ones for paddy.
Nitrates are usually not used in paddy fields because they are easily washed
away. Under tropical conditions, almost all of the urea changes into
ammonium carbonate in less than three days after being applied to the soil.
The paddy absorbs this Ammonia from the soil through its roots. Under upland
conditions, ammonia changes by nitrification into nitrate, some of which is
absorbed by the plant and the rest of which is leached out by rainfall.
38.0    The soil of the paddy field is divided into oxidation (the top 1-10
mm) and reduction zones (lower downs). If nitrogen is applied after puddling
the paddy field, it stays in the water layer or oxidation zone where ammonia-
cal nitrogen is changed by oxidation into nitrate. The nitrate then produced
moves further down to the reduction zone with the seepage water since nitrate



-90-
ANNEX 2
Page 14
can not be absorbed by the soil. Subsequently, when oxygen runs short in the
reduction zone, nitrate is converted by reduction into nitrogen gas, which
disperses into the air (denitrification). On the other hand, if nitrogen is
applied at the time of plowing and mixed deeply with the soil, the loss
caused by denitrification becomes smaller as ammonia can exist in the reduc-
tion zone. The key point in urea application, therefore, is to mix nitrogen
well with the soil and as deep as possible to promote the ammonification of
the urea and to avoid the nitrification of ammonia. For basal application of
fertilizer, therefore, one or two days before puddling, the fertilizer should
be uniformly applied over the field. Among the reasons for nitrogen loss
from soil, denitrification is considered to be the most important. Also, if
water is put too deeply at the time of puddling, nitrogen dissolves in water
and the soil absorption factor decreases. Puddling should, therefore, be
carried out with as little water as possible.
39.0    To top-dress nitrogen into paddy fields, the fields have to be
drained to a very thin film of water a day before application and flooded
after the application of fertilizer to reduce losses of applied nitrogen. If
urea is applied as top dressing, the fields should be flooded 48 hours after
application. Broadcasting ammonium sulphate or urea into standing water
results in less fertilizer being available to the plant, while loss may occur
through surface runoff resulting in a lower yield. Nitrogen losses increase
with deeper standing water at the time of fertilizer application. Delay in
flooding after application of nitrogen results in higher nitrogen losses
through nitrification and subsequent denitrification and leaching after
reflooding.



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Desirable Water Depth at Different
Growth Stages of Paddy
Dying & Non tel,,ng
?Urers
Plant Helght
Ponmcle No
Ponicle Length
E
c~~
25 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 _-  tlrN                                        0                            cv rr     
ren  'Nursry Perlod             TleWng Perlod
14-Ve              oVektre Phaose --Reproductie Phse                                           P Rlpening PPhase
Pecovering    lop    Mid -Season
l   Dressing    Drying
2C10)                1          v           m                               -                             <          0 Waler, Depth
Occasionral                             Interr-ittent Irigalion
Dralning
World Bank-25733



-92-
ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 1
Preliminary Terms of Reference for
Reservoir Simulation Studies and Preparation of Computer Programs
for Irrigation Scheduling
Scope and Objectives
1.0     Reservoir Simulation Studies.  Using long-range inflow data into
Periyar and Vaigai reservoirs, estimated water requirements for the command
area for project cropping patterns and taking into account priorities for
water allocation in each crop zone (a double cropped area, the existing
single cropped area and the extension areas under Periyar Vaigai I and [I),
review existing reservoir operating rules and recommend necessary changes
to maximize agricultural production. Irrigation water releases will have
priority over power. Water allocations for Madurai City from Vaigai reser-
vcoir storage would have priority over irrigation and gradually increase from
33 Mmi at present to 95 Mm by the year 2011.
2.0     The updated rules would determine the allocation of storage for each
of the three crop zones at the beginning of each cropping period for a
selected dependability level of rainfall in the project area. The rules
would also provide guidelines for adjusting the allocated storage to each
crop zone when lower than anticipated rainfalls are experienced.
3.0     The rules should be determined by undertaking a series of simulated
project operation studies to evaluate the effect of the storage allocation on
the availability and dependability of irrigation water and productivity in
the three crop zones.
4.0     Computer ProRrams in Irrigation Scheduling.  The consultant will
prepare suitable computer programs for the scheduling of water releases in
all canals, regulators, offtakes, outlets, (in particular the 10-ha Block
outlets), tanks, and for the timing and duration of flows to the subunits of
the 10-ha blocks for the purpose of rotational water supply.
5.0     It is intended to place a minicomputer in each of the four assistant
executive engineer's offices and a fifth at the Water Resource Management
office (TWRMO) to combine the results from the four field offices and to
determine reservoir releases and releases into the PMC, TMC, and their
respective branches. The consultant would advise on suitable equipment and
accessories and assist with the procurement (including preparation of
specifications, evaluation of bids, etc.). The consultant would also train
PVD operating personnel in the use of the new facilities.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
Specific Terms of Reference
A. Reservoir Simulation Studies
1.      Historic inflows into Periyar and Vaigai reservoirs will be col-
lected, analyzed, and reviewed for accuracy. The existing data base will
be extended, if possible, by stochastic methods to simulate 50 years of
historical stream flows and to realistically reflect probability distribu-
tions of rainfall, inflow and carry-over storage.
2.      Crop water requirements for not less than half-monthly periods will
be estimated for the projected cropping patterns in the command area for each
crop zone for each historic and/or synthetic rainfall year.
3.      An appropriate computer model will be prepared to simulate the reser-
voir operations. New reservoir operation rules will be developed for the
following water allocation priorities:
For the main (second) crop:
- The double cropped area up to the Kallindiri Regulator (29,634 ha) 2/
- The existing single cropped area (33,609 ha of which 28,289 ha
under PMC and 5,320 ha under TMC)
- The new extension areas under Periyar Vaigai I and II (17,826 ha of
which 15,485 ha under PMC and 2,341 ha under TMC)
- The double cropped area up to Kallindiri Regulator (29,634 ha);
subject to reservoir storage position to be determined under this
study
4.      The new rules will provide detailed directions for:
(a) the opening and closing dates for the different crop zones
by season;
(b) the minimum storage capacitv required at a certain date before
commencing irrigation of the first crop in the double cropped
area;
2/ For this purpose 11,300 ha of now single cropped area above the Kal-
lindiri Regulator would be authorized as double cropped area.



-94-                     ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 3
(c) the minimum storage required at a certain date to irrigate
either both or part of the existing ayacut and new extension
areas in the single cropped area;
(d) whether, in certain years, it would be advisable to either
supply available storage water to meet crop demands or
whether it would be better to reduce the supply and save water
to start the crop in the next season;
(e) how to adjust the allocated storage for each priority area
when actual rainfall has been lower than assumed;
(f) timing of water supply to the tanks in the project area.
5.      The rules would be prepared through a process of iteration.  With
initially selected rules the reservoir operations would be simulated and the
degree of success or failure of irrigation determined. Different operation
rules would then be assumed and tried out in another series of reservoir
simulation. The final rules to be adopted should give due consideration to
the economic value of the agricultural produce in the different seasons.
6.      A computer program should be prepared for use by the WRMO to help
manage the available water supply and distribute the reservoir releases among
PMC and TMC and their respective branches based on requested releases passed
on to the WRMO by the field staff.
B. Preparation of Computer ProRrams for Irrigation Scheduling
Terms of Reference
1.      The computer programs will be designed to determine required water
releases into branch canals, distributaries, block outlets, and tanks (and
their timing). The duration of supply to the blocks will moreover be broken
down in time durations for each of the three or four subunits for purposes of
roDtational water supply.
2.      "Theoretical" irrigation schedules will be prepared for higher than
normal evopotranspiration rates and lower than normal rainfall (say with 80%
dependability) taking into account the consumptive use of crops, land
preparation requirements, seepage losses, the drying out period before har-
vesting, and block and canal operating efficiencies.
3.      During actual operations, however, water releases for a particular
week, will be determined by monitoring the water levels in selected paddy
fields under cultivation and the program will be designed for such arrange-
ment.
4.      The program should be prepared on the basis that:



95                      ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 4
(a) Irrigation schedules are to be prepared for periods not
exceeding one week;
(b) The basic irrigation interval (except for the land preparation
period) for individual fields should be 3.5 days; criteria will have
to be set when irrigations can be omitted because of rainfall.
Minimum discharges should be in the range of 0.75 to 1.0 cfs (small
flows should be avoided);
(c) Supply to blocks, sluices, and distributaries may have to be staggered
during the land preparation period to match available canal
capacities and avoid peaks in labor and (animal) power
requirement;
(d) Adjustments for slightly higher than anticipated rainfall may be
accounted for by supplying less water in the next irrigation period;
(e) In case of substantial higher rainfall than anticipated, the excess
water may be discharged into the tanks until the reservoir releases
have been reduced and the effect is being felt in the canal network.
(The earlier these discharges can be put into action the more
efficient would be the scheduling operations and the use of the
available water);
(f) Storage levels in paddy fields and tanks should be kept as low
as possible to maximize the usage of rainfall;
(g) The program should accumulate, starting at the fields, the
water requirements (including losses) up to the branch canals and
account for the water requirements in the different crop zones;
(h) Area-capacity relationships are not yet available for all
tanks. A simplified procedure may be followed for determining tank
releases, i.e., water demand for the total "indirect ayacut" could
be taken as a percentage of the water requirements for the total
"direct ayacut", water requirements for the individual "indirect
ayacut" could be taken as proportional to their individual command
area;
(i) For the purpose of water accounting the input should allow for actual
canal and block deliveries to obtain an accounting of such deliveries
at the end of each month and season;
(j) A full-time computer programmer should be made available for a
three-year period in the WRMO to make necessary revisions in the
program, make the program more workable, etc.;



-96-                   ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 5
(k)  Suitable formats for the collection and processing of necessary
data will be prepared for use of project staff. Assistance will be
provided in the selection and procurement of suitable and appropriate
equipment;
(1) Necessary training will be provided to PWD operating personnel to
operate the programs.
(m)  The computer program for the WRMO should be suitable to accummulate
all discharges for crop zones to arrive at required main canal
discharges and reservoir releases at a particular time. The
remaining storage from that allocated to each crop zone at the start
of the cropping season would be used to determine if all or part of
the demand can be satisfied. It would follow from the WRMO program
if water releases to each of the branch canals would have to be
reduced and the reduced discharges would then have to be transmitted
to the four field offices. The canal scheduling programs would then
have to be revised. This should be considered in preparing the
program.
5.0     Recommend special studies for the Hydrology Division to improve the
data base and improve the decision making process.



ANNEX 3
-97.                          Page  1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Water Balance and Reliability of Supply
Introduction
1.0     The operation of the Periyar Vaigai system is rather unique in India
in that its rules for operation explicitly provide cutting off the water
supply from portions of the command in years of water shortage. In most
schemes, such rationing is not practiced and shortages are reflected in tail
end deficiencies. In this, the Periyar Vaigai system is more "modern" than
most schemes. Eliminating the supply from a part of the command, but provid-
ing full irrigation to the remainder is a far more efficient way of allocat-
ing water than letting the water supply taper off progressively towards the
tail reaches of the system without any conscious management decision.
2.0     The priorities in water allocation are described in Annexes 2 and 4.
This annex describes the calculations that have been employed in assessing
the likely reliability of irrigation water to the three different parts of
the command: the double-cropped area, the single-cropped area in the old
command, and the extension areas,
3.0     In years of water scarcity parts of the command, particularly the
Periyar Vaigai I and II extension areas, will need to be cut off from water
supply. This is reflected in the economic analysis by weighting the
incremental benefits due to irrigation by the estimated probability that
water will be released.
4.0     The proposed studies on system operations will require a probabil-
istic approach as a decision-making tool for water allocation in times of
water scarcity. The present analysis is a first approximation to assess the
likely outcome of the water balance with different combinations of storage
and rainfall, and following the basic decision rules outlined in Annex 4.
Before a more complex simulation can become operationally meaningful, the
data base must be considerably improved. The present analysis simply estab-
lishes some conservative estimates of the reliability of irrigation water to
the three different parts of the command.
Assumptions and Estimates
5.0     Assumptions for Rainfall and Storage.  The probabilities for three
representative events were estimated on the basis of monthly rainfall data
and yearly inflow data for the last 20 years.



-98-                            ANNEX 3
Page 2
Good      Medium       Poor
Annual Rainfall
Monsoon (mm)                      1100       800           500
Probability                       30%        50%          20%
Annual Inflow a/
Water from storage(Mm )           500        400          250
Probability                       40%        40%           20%
a! As inflows into PMC and TMC
6.0     The water balance has been assessed for nine representative cases,
i.e., all combinations of the three representative rainfall and inflow years.
,7.0    In many storage projects, rainfall and inflow are normally highly
correlated, since the catchment area and the command area are often in the
same climatic zone. Periyar Vaigai is an exception: the Periyar Reservoir
located on the western side of the Ghats receives the bulk of its inflow from
the southwest monsoon (June through September) while the project area,
located east of the Ghats, receives most of its rainfall from the northeast
monsoon (from September through December). The independence between rainfall
and storage greatly facilitates decisionmaking, for operations can be planned
with a reasonable foreknowledge of inflow.
8.0     Tank Supply
Good       Medium       Poor
(in Mm )
Existing Command Area    225           150        100
of which for the
first crop                (25)        (15)       (10)
Extension Areas            45          30         20
The base "medium" case is derived from a3survey of tanks that estimated the
total volume of the tanks at about 90 Mm . Effective supply from the tanks
has been estimated at 1.5 fillings in a normal year.  ONerall contribution of
the tanks to the first crop is estimated at about 15 Mm (The tank command in
the double irrigated area is about 20% of the command area, but the bulk of
the runoff into the tanks occurs after the growing season for the first



ANNEX 3
99-                           Page  3
crop). Runoff to the tanks is an increasing (but not necessarily linear)
function of rainfall, and this function should be carefully established by
special studies of the behaviour of tank supplies (large and small, and at
head and tail reaches separately) under different rainfall conditions.
9.0     Groundwater Availability
Existing Command Area      Extension Areas
Periyar   Periyar
Vaigai    Vaigai
I         II
-(in Mm3)--_
Present            55                     9         6
Future             60                    15        10
The present data are based on a recent survey of well utilization in the
project area. In actual practice, groundwater utilization increases sharply
in drought years (though the supply will, of course, be faster exhausted).
The demand for loans for new wells in draught years has been about three
times the demand in normal years.  Significant new well construction is
anticipated in the extension areas where the increasing availability of
groundwater as a result of surface irrigation will enhance the profitability
of well construction.
10.0    Water Requirements.  Gross water requirements have been calculated
using the Bank's WATREQ program and include water requirements for crop
consumptive use, land preparation and nursery, seepage losses in paddy
fields, a block efficiency of 89%, and a canal operating efficiency of 92%
(upon completion of the lining system canal seepage losses will be limited to
8%). The gross water requirements have been summarized in Annex 3, T-1. The
assumed high overall project efficiency of 82% seems justified as all canals
ultimately end into a tank so that operational losses are negligible, espe-
cially in dry years. Already when the canal system was unlined, a project
efficiency of about 55% was achieved.
11.0    Water Balance and Probability of Failure.  The water balance for the
nine combinations of rainfall and storage are shown on Annex 3, T-2. In poor
monsoon years, water would not be released for the first crop in the
double-cropped area. Even then, when a poor monsoon is combined with poor
water availability from storage, there is not enough water to irrigate the
extension areas. The same happens when a poor monsoon is combined with
normal storage, though in actual practice, throttling of the irrigation



-100-                          ANNEX 3
Page 4
supply in the older areas could save water for some supplementary irrigation
in the tank commands of the extension areas. This becomes a distinctly
viable method of operation when the poor monsoon is combined with a favorable
storage position. The particulars of the three cases in which a shortage of
supply occurs for the extension areas are as follows:
(a)  Poor Inflow combined with Poor monsoon (Probability P=4%).
No water is released for a first crop.1/ However, the water
requirement of the extension area can still not be met. The water
supply (410 Mm3) marginally falls short of the riquirements
of the main crop in the old command area (439 Mm ). Note
that if water had be n provided for a first crop in the double
cropped area (194 Mm ), the water requirements of the main
crop in (194 Mm3), t e water requirements of the main crop in
the old area (464 Mm>) could also not have been met.
(b)  Normal Inflow Combined with Poor Monsoon (P=8%).  The water
The water requiremenS for the extension area can still not be met.
Water supply (560 Mm ) falls short by aout 15% of water
requirement for the old command (658 Mm ). After full
irrigation is provided for the first crop in the doublecropped area
(194 Mm3), the water requirement for the main crop
(464 Mm3), represents a 20% shortfall against the remaining
water supply for the main crop (366 Mm3). or 560 Mm
less 194 Mm ). A shortfall of this order of magnitude can
still be handled by throttling the water supply, however, only with
adverse effects on yields and intensities. As a surrogate for
possible shortfalls, a 95% reliability has been assumed for the main
crop in the economic analysis.
(c)  Plentiful Inflow Combined With Poor Monsoon (P=8%).  Full water
requirement of the command (783 Mm3) exceed the water supply
(705 Mm3) by about 10%. This shortage can be met by
throttling supply without severely effecting yields. Alternatively,
the full water requirement of the old command (658 Mm3
can be fully met, and the remaining water can be used to partially
supply the tanks in the extension areas at the end of the season.
1/ Likewise, water for the first crop is not released in years with poor
inflow and medium or good rainfall, or in 20% of the years (P=20%).



ANNEX 3
--101-                        Page  5
Summary
12.0    No water would be released for the first crop in the double cropped
area in case of poor inflow (total probability P=20%). The total probability
that water is short for the extension areas is also 20%. However, this has
been assumed to be reduced to 15%, as the water supply can be improved by
throttling the supply to the existing areas in years with moderate water
shortages (see para 11.0(c)). In summary, the following estimates of
reliability in water supply were arrived at:
- for the main crop in the preexisting command: 95%
- for the main crop in the extension areas: 85%
- for the first crop in the double-cropped areas: 80%
These estimates only indicate a range of possible outcomes. Further, the
present analysis results in too pessimistic or "conservative" forecasts of
reliability, as the mechanistic framework of the analysis does not take into
account various degrees of freedom in actual system operations. Alternative
ways of operation will be considered under the proposed system operation
studies.



INDIA
Perivar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
Gross Water Requirements
(in Mm )
Water Requirements Includint Irrigation of the First Crop
Good Monsoon       Medium Monsoon       Poor Monsoon
(1100 mm)            (800 mm)            (500 mm)
Old Area
Double-cropped area           29,634 ha                    324               372                  430
of which first crop                                     (146)             (167)                (194)
second crop                                  (178)             (205)                (236)
Single-cropped Area
Main ares                   32,331 ha                    100               150                  214
TMC tank commands            1,278 ha                     10                12                   14
Subtotal                                                 434               534                  658
0
Perivar Vaigai I and II
Extension Areas
Main area                   15,485 ha                     47                70                  100
TMC tank commands            2,341 ha                     19                22                   26
Subtotal                                                  66                92                  126
TOTAL                   81,069 ha                     500               626                  784
Water Requirements When No Water is Released for the First Crop
Double-cropped area:  Second Crop only /a                   92               138                  202
Single-cropped area                                        100               162                  228
Subtotal                                                 202               300                  430
Periyar Vaigai I and II
Extension Areas                                             66                92                  126
268               392                 556
/a  Water requirements per unit area are nov the same as in the single-cropped
area, since the planting dates are the same.



INDIA
Perivar Vaigai Irrigation II Pro iect
Water Balances
Inflow (reservoir storage) /a_              Plentiful Inflow (500 Mm3)             Normal Inflow (400 Mm 3              Poor Inflow (250 Mm3)
Probability                                          40%                                    40%                                 20%
Good    Medium   Poor                Good    Medium   Poor                Good    Medium   Poor
Rainfall                                      Monsoon  Monsoon  Monsoon            Monsoon  Monsoon  Monsoon            Monsoon  Monsoon  Monsoon
1100 mm  800 mm   500 mm             1100 mm  800 mm   500 mm             1100 mm  800 mm   500 mm
Probabilitv                                  30%       50%      20%               30%       50%      20%               30%        50%      20%
Joint probability of event --            -      12Z       20%       8%               122       20Z       8Z                 6%    lOZ          4X
Water Supply
Supply from storage /a                            500       500       500              400       400        400              25J        250       250
Supply from tanks (old area)                      200       150       100              200        150       100              200        150        100
Supply from groundwater (old areas)                60        60        60               60         60        60               60         60         60
Subtotal                                          760       710       660              660       610        560              510        460        410
Supply from Tanks (extension areas)                45        30         20              45         30        20               45         30         20
Supply from Groundwater (extension areas)          25        25         25              25         25        25               25         25         25
Subtotal (extension areas)                         70        55        45               70         55        45               70          55        45         o
OTAL                                          830       765       705              730       665       605               580        515       455
Crop Water Requirement (see Table 1 )
Old area                                          434       534        658             434        534       658              202 /b    300 /b   430 lb
Extension areas                                    66        92        126              66         92       126               66          92       228
TOTAL                                           500       626       783              500       626        783              268        392        556
---       ---       ...               ..       ...       ---              ...         ... _   ...5=
Water Balance
Surplus (Mm3)                                    330       139       NIL              230         39       NIL              312        123       NIL
Shortage (Mm3I                                    NIL       NIL         78             NIL        NIL       178              NIL        NIL        101
/a Net inflow into PMC and TMC; net of required water supply for Madurai City
(approximately 50 Mm3 by year 2000).
/b  In case of poor inflow, the operation rule in effect is that no irrigation
will be provided for the first crop in the double-cropped area; only a
main (second) crop will be irrigated.                                                                                                                     a



-104-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Priorities in Water Allocation and Projections for the Economic Analy§ijs
Introduction
1.0     The Periyar Vaigai irrigation system is about a hundred-years-old.
I:t has been extended a number of times, and is one of the few systems in
Ilndia where water allocation is explicitly based on a set of area priorities,
on the general principle that older areas have established rights over newer
extension areas. The priorities, so far, are set forth as follows in the
SAR for the Periyar Vaigai I Project (Annex 2, para 16):
1. A first-irrigated crop in the double irrigated zone
2. A second-irrigated crop in the double irrigated zone
3. A single-irrigated crop in the single irrigated zone
4. A single-irrigated crop in the proposed extension area and
5. A single-irrigated crop in any future extensions of the
command area
2.0     The present economic analysis reflects the fact that in the future as
well water allocation will observe certain priorities. There will be years
when some of the command, and particularly the extension areas will need to
be cut off from the water supply. This is reflected in the economic analysis
by weighting the incremental benefits due to irrigation by the estimated
probability that water will be released. Under this methodology, the
reeliability of water availability is one of the salient parameters of the
economic analysis.
3.0     In appraising the future operation of the system, it has become clear
that in order to attain its economic potential the above set of priorities
must be modified. Substantial modifications have been implicit in the actual
operation of the system during the last decade. Thus to a large extent the
modifications proposed below would be a codification of existing practice.



-105-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Background: Present Operation of the System
4.0     The authorized double-cropped area (18,300 ha) 1/ is concentrated at
the head reach of the command. In a normal year, water for the first crop is
actually released on June 1st up to the Kallindiri Regulator. The physical
area commanded up to that regulator is 29,600 ha.  Water for the subsequent
main crop for the entire command is released, in a normal year, on August 15.
Thus by that date a decision should be reached, in years of short storage, as
to what portion of the command needs to be cut off from the water supply for
the premonsoon puddling and transplanting operation. (Farmers in the
excluded areas would also grow paddy once the monsoon arrives, and the deci-
sion to supply them with water towards the end of the season can be reviewed
at a later date).
5.0     For purposes of water allocation, the single-cropped area may be
divided into three parts:
(a) the at present single-cropped area up to the Kallindiri Regulator,
(11,300 ha; or 29,600 ha less 18,300 ha, see para 4.0 above).
(b) the area of the preexisting command beyond the Kallindiri
Regulator (33,600 ha).
(c) the Periyar Vaigai I and II extension areas (10,300 and 7,500 ha
respectively) which have a lower priority.
6.0     Further salient distinctions regarding system operations relate to
differences in water requirements between the two growing seasons and between
the tank-irrigated and directly irrigated parts of the project areas:
(a) The first crop of paddy (grown only in the area authorized for
double cropping) uses more water than the main crop, since
rainfall contribution in the first monsoon is far less than in
the second monsoon.
(b) The tank-irrigated ("indirect") command requires far less
irrigation water from storage than the ("direct") command
irrigated from the canals. Water from reservoir storage only
supplements water stored in the tanks, which are fed by
rainfall in their catchments and return flows from upstream
irrigation.
7.0     The WATREQ calculations indicate that irrigation water requirement
for the main crop in the single-cropped area, which is planted from September
1/ All reference to service areas are rounded to the nearest 100 ha. Annex
1, T-4 should be used for reference.



-106-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
through October, is, on average, 410 mm. The best estimate of supply (one
an,d a half fillings) from the tanks in an average year also amounts to about
400 mm. This is not surprising: one would expect the tank commands to adjust
to that size which can be served with reasonably reliable supply.l/ Thus, the
reiservoir supply to the tank-irrigated areas, in a normal year, only supple-
ments tank supply. The main benefit of reservoir storage is insurance
against crop failure and the ability to plan on a firm planting date.2/
8.0     WATREQ calculations show irrigation water requirements in the
double-cropped area as 640 and 620 mm for the first and second crops, respec-
tively. The first crop is planted in June through July, and the higher
irrigation requirement is principally due to land preparation being carried
out: without the benefit of the monsoon rains. The late crop also consumes
more water than the main crop in the single-cropped area because it matures
in the hot and dry weather starting in November.
9.0     According to the above estimates, water consumption per hectare will,
in the "direct" part of the command be on average three times as high in the
double-cropped area (that is for two crops) than in the single-cropped area.
In the "indirect" part of the commands, water consumption from the reservoir
wil.l be a fraction of the direct commands, except in drought years. Here
again, there is a discrepancy between the first and the main crop, for tank
supply for the first crop in the double-cropped area will normally be insig-
nificant compared to the tank supply later in the season.
10.0    Differentials of this magnitude are most relevant to appropriate
decision-rules in water allocation. It is clear from the outset that there
is, in years of shortage, a conflict between adhering to the established
priorities against economies in water use and maximizing production. When-
ever a shortage in storage is followed by a poor monsoon, irrigating the
first crop will deprive a much larger area from supplementary irrigation in
the main season. In terms of water, irrigating the early and late crop is
costlier than irrigating the main crop.
Actual Operations from 1976-84
11.0    The past eight years have, on average, been far more adverse than
would be indicated by long term runoff and rainfall data, since:
l/ In fact, the uncertain and irregular timing of the traditional tank
supply (i.e., for tanks not hooked up to the main system in the extension
areas) results in much greater farming risk than would be indicated
above, and only in a well above average year would full irrigation of the
command take place.
2/ The latter is still not the case under present operations.



-107-
ANNEX 4
Page 4
(a)  rainfall averaged about 750 mm/year (instead of some 900mm
assumed in the I SAR (Annex 2) water-balance calculations.
(b)  in three out of the eight years  storage water from Periyar
Reservoir was below normal and inadequate to meet full water
requirements.
12.0    The performance of a system is best studied under stress, and the
last eight years' experience affords valuable insights into the actual work-
ing of the priority system. The main inconsistency in operations vis-a-vis
the established priorities concerns the first crop in the double-cropped
area, which ostensibly has the highest priority. However, both in 1976-77
and in 1983-84 no water has been released for the first crop. In 1976, the
acute shortfall in the reservoir was followed by a very poor monsoon, and
widespread crop failure ensued.  In the current year (1983-84), a good north-
east monsoon is expected, and full irrigation of the main crop is anticipated
in the entire project area. Experience therefore suggests that, in fact,
provision for the full irrigation of the main crop takes priority over the
first crop in the double-cropped area. This is also reflected in the
project's systems operation manual which stipulates t at water is not to be
released for the first crop before 5,000 Mcft (177 Mm ) accumulates in
storage. (This directive is in itself inconsistent with giving unconditional
priority to the first crop over the main crop.)
13.0    The 1982-83 drought year is a most instructive, though costly, lesson
for the future. In this year, the PWD's above self-imposed rule was not
observed, and with disastrous results. Although the storage position was
only 2300 Mcft on the 1st of June and reached only 2700 Mcft by the second
week of August, water was released by July for a first crop in the
double-cropped area. This was followed by a relatively poor northeast mon-
soon. Towards the middle of the main season, PWD announced its intention of
stopping the supply of water for a large portion of the project area in order
to save the main second crop in the head reach. This was overruled at high
levels of government. As a consequence, the entire main crop failed.
14.0    With hindsight it is clear that the PWD would have been well advised
to follow its own operating rule and to wait with the release of water until
just before the onset of the main monsoon. That way farmers would not have
been encouraged to plant early in the hope of still getting two crops out.
Further, both the monsoon rains and storage water would have been more effec-
tively utilized, and a large portion of the main crop could have been saved.
For the future, a clear policy of giving priority to the main crop over the
first crop appears well justified in terms of efficiency, risk, and equity,
as detailed below.
15.0    In terms of efficiency (i.e., maximizing production), it has been
noted already that the requirement from storage for the first crop is far
greater than for the main crop (mainly because rainfall is less in the ear-
lier season). Thus in a year of water shortage, giving priority to the first



-108-
ANNEX 4
Page 5
crop would trade irrigation for a first crop against a much larger area
irrigated for the main crop. In terms of risk, in years with inadequate
storage it is far safer not to release water to the first crop than to risk
crop failure in the entire command for the main crop.  In particular, uncon-
ditional priority for the first crop would make water supply to the extension
areas unacceptably unreliable. Further, in terms of equity the benefits of a
second crop to farmers in the head reaches would be traded against depriving
farmers of their only rice crop in the tail and extension reaches. Recogniz-
ing these factors, it is the policy of PWD to condition the priority of the
first crop on the availability of storage water. It remains for the detailed
system operations study to establish criteria for the combination of storage
positions and dates that would permit the release of water for a first crop.
In the absence of such a study, it has been projected (Annex 3) that irriga-
tion will be provided to the first crop in 8 out of 10 years, i.e., with an
80% reliability.
Increasing the Area under a First Crop
16.0    As mentioned above, although the area authorized for double cropping
is 18,300 ha the area for which water is actually released for a first crop
is 29,600 ha. It has always been a difficult management problem to prevent
the growing of an unauthorized first crop in pockets alongside the canals
which convey water to double-cropped areas. Further, in recent years, with
the bulk of the lining program completed, it was recognized as undesireable
to prevent this double cropping. When storage was abundant, as it has been
in three consecutive years(1978-81), a much larger double-cropped area could
be served without increasing releases, and without adverse effects on the
authorized double-cropped area. PWD estimates from its records that in
1980-81 an unauthorized first crop was grown on 7,200 ha (39% of the
authorized area) in the area up to Kallindiri Regulator.
17.0    The SAR for Periyar Vaigai Project I left open the question regarding
the allocation of water savings between increased double cropping and the
extension of the irrigated command. It is now clear that in years with
adequate storage the area under the first crop can be significantly
increased, without significantly affecting the reliability of supplying the
extension areas for the main crop. On the other hand, in years with inade-
quate storage, it is preferable not to release water for the first crop than
to risk failure of the main crop in the entire command.
Projections for the Economic Analysis
18.0    The following important modifications to the old system of priorities
have been agreed upon with GOTN:



-109-
ANNEX 4
Page 6
(a) not to release water for a first crop if the
storage position at the beginning of the season is
inadequate;
(b) on the other hand, if the storage is normal or better,
not to restrain the double-cropped area to the authorized
level, but to permit it over the entire service area over
which water is released for the first crop;
(c) not to discriminate between the extension areas under I and II
in the allocation of water, but to consider them under the
same priority;
This is summarized as follows:
- Priority I: main crop in the preexisting command
- Priority II: main crop in the extension areas
- Priority III: first crop in the areas up to the Kallindiri
Regulator
19.0    Detailed decision rules for releasing water for the first crop based
on reliability calculations, would be the result of a reservoir operations
study to be undertaken under the project. Crude probability calculations
based on data for the past twenty years resulted in the following estimates
of reliability used in the economic analysis (see Annex 3):
- Probability that water is released for the first crop:              80%
- Probability that water is released for the extension areas:    85%
- Probability of full irrigation for the main crop in the
preexisting command: without Periyar Vaigai I and II:               90%
with Periyar Vaigai I and II:               95%
The 90% reliability in the without project situation is a crude proxy for the
situation where in 40% of the years, which is the assumed frequency of a poor
monsoon, 25% of the crop is lost. Halving these losses in the future is a
conservative proxy for the increased reliability of water to tail enders due
to the upgraded conveyance system. Calculations of the incremental revenue
product have been weighted with the above probabilities.
Incremental Economic Revenue Product
20.0    The economic analysis was conducted in terms of incremental paddy
production. Forecast increases in the production of other crops are marginal
in comparison and would amount to less than 10% of the incremental benefits.
Benefits of such magnitude are within the confidence interval for estimating
the incremental benefits from paddy production and including them would give
the analysis a spurious sense of accuracy. Focusing on paddy production also



-110-
ANNEX 4
Page  7
permits a sharper focus on the salient assumptions of the analysis. These
assumptions are detailed in T-1 through T-4.
21.0    Three benefit streams are distinguished in the economic analysis:
(a) Increase in the area where a first crop will be Rrown
"Without project" paddy intensity in the at present authorized
double-cropped area is estimated at 92% (which is the same as 57% in the
service area up to Kallindiri Regulator.) Incremental double cropping in
this service area is projected at 6200 ha, increasing the intensity from 57%
to 78%. Weighted by a probability of 80%, the expected increase in
double-cropped area is 5000 ha and, with incremental economic value added of
Rs 32 M/year.
(b) Increase in yields and Intensity
Increase in paddy yields (by 20% for the main crop) and a small
inicrease in intensity (by 4% over the "without project" situation) and an
increase in the reliability of the water supply for the main crop in the
preexisting command (from 90 to 95%) are expected to result in an incremental
value added of Rs 121 M/year at full development.
(c) Incremental Production on the Extension Areas
Present paddy production under tank irrigation in the extension areas
is estimated in Annex 4, T- 4a. It is estimated that only in two out of ten
years, the areas under the command of the tanks can be fully irrigated, and
that in four out of ten years there is widespread crop failure. For the
"direct" canal-irrigated area under the Periyar Vaigai I, the entire paddy
production is an incremental benefit due to the project. Benefits from the I
and II extension areas are projected at Rs 38 M and Rs 23 M, respectivel.y.
22.0    The only benefit considered, other than incremental paddy production
relates to the tank-irrigated portion of the TMC, where black-type soils
permit high-value cultivation of cotton and groundnuts in summer. It is
estimated that by filling the tanks at the end of the main season, irrigation
water will be available to about 40% of the areas under the tanks.
Further Assumptions of the Analysis
23.0    The principal assumptions of the analysis with regard to prices and
conversion factors are indicated in the main text (paras 8.03-8.07). Other
assumptions include:



ANNEX 4
Page 8
(a)  historical project costs and benefits between 1977-78 and the present
were converted to 1983 prices by means of the Wholesale Price Index
for India;
(b)  the quantification of historical benefits was limited to the increase
in double-cropped area (over and above the "authorized" double-
cropped area of 18,300 ha) which was made possible largely due to
the water savings achieved by the lining program. The higher yields
of the main crop, which have been achieved in the tail reaches as
a result of the lining program, have not been recorded and have not
been included in historical benefits. Historical benefits were
evaluated at the then prevailing farmgate prices earned by farmers;
(c)  incremental O&M costs for the future were assessed at the levels
included in the project costs estimates. This assessment is
"conservative" with respect to the ERR calculations, since the
maintenance and periodically necessary rehabilitation of unlined
canals is costlier, both in terms of financial outlays and foregone
production, than the regular maintenance of a lined distribution
system. The difference, which has not been quantified, would be
another benefit due to the project);
(d)  economic crop budgets for cotton and groundnuts (which will
significantly add to incremental benefits in the black-soil area
of the TMC and are the only minor crops included in the analysis) are
recorded in T-6;
(e)  no conversion factor was applied to the cost of land acquisition
and of equipment and materials which together account for 4.5%
of project investments;
(f)  the time-span of the analysis is thirty years between 1977-2007.
Long Term Options in Crop Choice and Water Allocation
24.0    The present analysis centers on rice as the mainstay of agriculture
in the project area. No substitute crops to rice on any scale can be
foreseen in the main growing season when the heavy monsoon rules out alter-
nate foodgrains. However, during the first growing season (i.e. when the
first crop of paddy is grown in the area authorized for doublecropping)
climate and soils would generally permit the cultivation of a number of
alternate crops. Such a development on any scale would require the creation
of new market opportunities, as well as a reorientation of farmers away from
their tradition of monoculture. (It would also need concerted promotion of
profitable commercial crops and the respective input services). Other than
the gradually increasing market incentives arising from the proximity of
urban growth centers, no such development on a significant scale can be
confidently foreseen in the near future. To the extent that such a develop-
ment may occur during the project's life-time, the ERR is conservatively



-112-
ANNEX 4
Page 9
biased. Introduction of more profitable commercial crops would not only
raise the economic value added in the project area, but would almost
invariably lead to water economies. "Dry" irrigated crops would require a
fraction of the requirements of paddy, and the water saved could be spread
over a much larger area.  It is therefore possible to envisage a situation in
the distant future when most of the command (i.e., not just the part
authorized for a first crop) would receive "dry" irrigation in the first
season, followed by a paddy crop in the second season, which in turn could be
followed by a third crop in the tank-irrigated areas.  Therefore the limit of
agroeconomic potential in the command area is not reflected in the projec-
tions of the present analysis.
ERR for Extension Areas under I and II
25.0    Rates of return have been calculated separately for the cost and
benefit streams arising from extension of the command area under Periyar
Vaigai I and Periyar Vaigai II (without allocating part of the cost of lining
the preexisting areas to the extension areas). This rate of return measures
wihether after having achieved water savings in the old area, it is on the
margin worthwhile to extend the irrigated area, with water reliability for
the extension area projected at 85%. The rates of return on the Periyar
Vaigai I and Periyar Vaigai II extensions are 23% and 15%, respectively. The
much higher unit cost per area of the second extension is a principal factor
in the difference. This, in turn, is related to the fact that the II exten-
sion area consists entirely of connecting existing tanks to the irrigation
system, whilst in I about 48% of the extension area is to be directly
irrigated from canals. Once the main distribution system feeding the tanks
is built, the marginal cost of constructing a minor distribution system is
comparatively small, hence the much lower marginal cost of including direct
command in the extension area. This must, however, on no account be inter-
preted to imply that investments in direct command are to be preferred to
investment in indirect command. For the above rate of return ignores the
opportunity cost of water, and does not take into account the significantly
higher water consumption from storage to irrigate a direct command as com-
pared to irrigating an indirect command. In a normal year, the consumption
in the direct command may be a multiple of the supplementary water require-
menits for tank-irrigated commands. Thus, for any fixed amount of water made
available to extend the command, also much more area can be brought under
tank irrigation. However, the incremental economic value of production in
the direct command is estimated about 50% higher than in the indirect com-
mand. Still, the net present value of expanding the command (given a fixed
allocation of water) is likely to be greater in supplementary tank irrigation
than for direct irrigation. Given also the far greater operational
flexibility afforded by tank storage, it is clear that the decision to extend
the command primarily by connecting the system to existing tanks is well
justified.



IUDld
ERIYA9J VA16AI IRR111 IO   11 PROJCT
ECO8  IC CO51S MtD 0EEFITS
(8. 6H)
1977    1978    1979   m1          1981   I192    1983    1984    I985    1986    1987    IM              IM       1998 1"1-280
Costs
COSTS PREFXISTIIE 4RE4
CIVIL UA4S                                     18       36      29       26       24       30       46       47       42      24       16        -        -        -          -
E(IERlIW  AllO SUPEISN9151                      6       11        9       8        8       10       IS       14       12        0       6        -        -        -          -
ERUIIIEUI AIID lUIEIERlS                        -        -       3        1        1        1        1        8        4       2        2        -        -        -          -
LAID C40UISITID                                 -        -        -       2        2        2        2        -        -                                                      - -
OPERATING dMD RECEN   COSTS                                  -               -- -  -                 -        5        7        7       7        5        4        4          4
SUB-TOTAL PA                                   24       47      41       37       35       43       64       74      65       41       31        5        4        4          4
COSts FtRIYR Vd15AI III  EXTENSION
CIVIL 41 6S                                     -        3       6        -        1       14       20       17        2       2                                              - -     
EIAIIEEkU  AO  SUPER91S19i                      -        1       2        -        1        5        6        5        1        1            -                                 -
E0QUIPEEYI ANDi AIERILS                         -        -       I        -        -        -                 I        I       I                 -
LAND AUOUISTII                                  -        -        I       -        2        1        2        -        -        -        --_
Sb-rOTa  Exi                                    -       4       18        -        4       2i       28      23         4       4        -        -        -        -          -
COSTS PERIYdR V11 T    EXTEN119101
CIVIL WOKS-                                                                                          9       il      40        I       18        -        -        - 
EIGIIF9ERINIIG   D SIUPISION                                                                         2        4       Io        9        3       -
ERUIPIN1M8 M1AIERUAS                                          -I    I                                                  -    -    --                                 -         -
LAIID RWiSC1110Y                                -         -3                                                  5        4        -        -            -        -        -
SW1011-rIDlli EX2-I -                                            -        -        -        -       15       23      54       40       13        -                            - -                                                                                 _
TOT1L COS                                     24       55       di       37       43       81      t50      I"      leil     129       37        5        4        4          4
MErFITS
IIICOE8SCD (00lE tUC PIYS                               46      26       42       15        -                19      21       24       26       29       22       32         32
liA66    YIFI8  AND INIEISIT-Y                 -           -        -        -   --                         20       40       66       80      IOD      120      120        120
TOTAL IN POIISTIIS-EXISTIN6 C(01ATD             -        6       26      42       is                         39       61      84      106      129      152      152        152
FROENII EXTENSIOI --                                        ---                                - -    10   25   30   35   39   41   42    42
FRMWlP1II EXENSION--                                   -         -         -                                  -    I    6   14   17  22   26    29
TOTA  EIEFIT                                    -       A       26       42       25                         49      87      120      155    15        215      220        223
PRICE D11EX                                     2        2       1        1        I        I        I        I        I       I        I        I        I        I          I
IN PAE-{XISTIIS AREA                          40       78       58       44       39       47      64       74       65       41       31        5        4        4          4
OF P9IEXTENSIION                                -        7       14       -        4       22       20       23        4       4        -             -            -          -
OF Pi911 EXTENSION                              -       -        -         -         -              I5    21    54    40    13                   -        -        -          -
TRIAL COS                                     40       E5       72       44       43       69     107      120      12J       S5       44        5        4        4          4
KElEFITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r 
IN 9MEXISTTIG  W16A                                    t 10     37       so       17                        39       Al       84      £06      129      152      152        152
IN Wl EXTENSION                                -        - 1 …- …ID                                                   25       30       35       39       41       42         42
IN P911 EXTENSIOIN-                                        ---                                -              -    I    6    14   17   22   26                                29
Y0T4 KtNEFlTS                                   -      t1       37       50       17        -        -       49      87      120      155      185      215      220        223
NET                                          -40      -75      -36        6      -24     -69    -107       -71      -36       35      III      too      211      216        219
J    mrw 25, 1984  16139



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Economic Benefits Due to Increase in the Area Under a First Crop
of Paddy (June to October) in the Double Irrigated Area
(in the CA Extending to Kallindiri Regulator, 29.634 ha)
Unit       19.7QL77  1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90
Yield                              tona/ha         3.2      3.2      3.2     3.2      -        -        3.5      3.6      3.7     3.8      3.9      4.0
Price                               Re/ha        1,600   2,000   2,400   2,900   3,000   2,500   1,640   1,750   1,850   1,950   2,050   2,160
(Economic) Revenue Product         Res/ha        5,120   6,400   7,680   9,280        -        -      5,740   6,300   6,850   7,410   8,000   8,640
(Economic) Cost                    Rs/ha         2.230   2..230   2 230   2.230                      2300   2.400   2.500   2.600   2,700   2,700
(Economic) Value added             Rs/ha         2,810   4,170   5,450   7,050   Drought  Water  3,440   3,900   4,350   4,810   5,300   5,940
Year /a  not                                                                           t-
Value of byproduct                  Rs/ha          320      32       320     320              re-       350      360      370     380      390      400
leased
for
Total                               Rs/ha        3,130   4,490   5,770   7,370                first  3,790   4,260   4,720   5,190   5,690   6,340
crop
Incremental area                      ha         1,800   5,800   7,200   2,000                        5,000   5,000   5,000   5,000   5,000   5,000
Total economic value            Re M            5.6    26.0    41.5    14.7                         19.0    21.3    23.6    26.0    28.5    31.7
/a   Area under the first crop was 16800 ha, exactly corresponding to
the authorized area. The "ain crop failed over moat of the command,
see Annex 4, paras 13 and 14.,
H X
Z 4



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Benefits due to Increase in Yields and Irrigation
Intensity in the Pre-Existing Command Area
Double-Cropped Area                            Single-Cropped Area
Increase in the yield            Increase in yield and
of the first crop in              intensity of the second         Increase in Yield and
the originally authorized        crop in the area up to          intensity of the main
double-cropped area              Kallindiri Regulator              crop
Unit               (18,266 ha)                      (29,634 ha)                     (33,609 ha) /a
Without            With          Without          With            Without        With
Project            Project       Project          Project        Project         Project
Yield                   Tons/ha            3.2              4.0                2.9           3.8             3.2            4.0
Revenue product            Rs            6,910            8.640              6,260         8,210           6,910          8,640
(@ Rs 2160/ton)
Cost                       Rs            2.320            2.700              2.320         2.700           2.320          2.700               1
Net revenue product        Rs            4,590            5,940              3,940         5,510           4,590          5,940
U,
Plus: value of byproduct  Rs               320              400                290           380             320            400               1
Total                                  4,910            6,340              4,230         5,890           4,910          6,340
Intensity                                   92%              92%                85%           88%             85%            88%
Net revenue product        Rs            4,520            5,830              3,600         5,180           4,170          5,580
per ha commanded
Reliability                                 80%              80%                90%           95%             90%            95%
Expected revenue product  Rs             3,620            4,660              3,240         4,920           3,750          5,300
Incremental benefit        Rs                    1,040                              1,680                          1,550
Gross area benefitting    ha                    18,300                             29,600                         33,600
Total incremental        Rs M                  19.3                               49.7                            52.1
value added
-…---------------------------------------- Grand Total Rs 121.1 1… -------- 
Note:  The total incremental benefit of Re 121.1 M
is projected to be phased in evenly over
6 years, from 1984-90.
/Ia 32,331 ha PIC
31,278 ha THC
33,609 ha



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Benefits of Incremental Paddy Production due to Extension of the Command Area
(Rs M)
2l8/85   195/8 6   19867    9888   1988/89   1989/90   199091   199192
and
PV I PROJECT                                                                                                       onwards
Indirect Command
Area    Rounded
(ha)    to nearest
100 ha
83/84    2,394    2,400                  4.3        5.3        6.2       7.2        7.2        7.2        7.2
84/85    1,636    1,600                  2.4        2.9        3.5       4.2        4.8        4.8        4.8
85/86  1,324    1,300                               2.0        2.3       2,9        3.4        3.9        3.9
5,354                           6.7      10,2       12.0       14.3      15.4       15.9       15.9       15.9
Direct Command
84/85    1,238    1,200                  3.6        4.0        4.4       4.9        5.4        5.4        5.4
85/86   3.,713    3,700                   _        11.1       12.2      13.7       15.2       16.7       16.7
4,951                           3.6      15.1       16.6       18.6      20.6       22.1       22.1       22.1
10,305    Total                 10.3       25.3      28.6       32.9      36.7       38.0       38.0       38.0
PV II PROJECT (Indirect Command)
85/86      254       300                            .5         .5          .7       .8         .9         .9         .9
86/87    3,637    3,600                                       5.4        6.5       7.9        9.4       10.8       10.8
87/88    3.630    3,600                             _                     5.4      6.5        7.9        9.4       10.8
7,521    Total                             .5       5.9        12.6      15.2      18.2       21.1       22.5
Note: For crop budgets and phasing of benefits, see next table (T-4a)
O-lz



-117-                                      ANNEX 4
Table 4a
/usrl7/aspac/kathyl/DAX/PVAIGAI/TABLES/table4a/01-26-84/revision 6
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Crop Budgets in Paddy Cultivation in the Extension Areas
Tank Irrigation
Without Project
Poor  Medium   Good
Year   Year    Year                  Future
I  YIELDS (tons/ha)                       1.1    2.1       2.8                  4.0
II  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS (Rs/ha)
Economic Revenue Product              2,376  4,536  6.048                  8,640
@ Rs 2,160/ton
Cost
Labor                                   672    832    928                  1,056
Bullock Power                           448    448    480                    528
Farmyard Manure                          32      32      32                    80
Seeds                                   144    144    144                    144
N                                        40    120    200                    468
P                                        19      56      93                   156
K                                         -      10      19                    63
Agrochemicals                             -    100    155                    210
Total                        1,355  1,742  2,051                   2,705
Value Added in paddy                  1,021  2,794  3,997                  5,935
Intensity                               25%    602    85%                     88%
Value Added/ha                          260  1,680  3,400                  5,222
Reliability/Probability                 40%    40%    20%                      85%
in the extension areas
Expected Value Added/ha                ----1,460-                          4,440
Rounded                                       1,500                        4,500
III  PHASING OF INCREMENTAL VALUE ADDED
IN TEE EXTENSTION AREAS
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
Indirect Command                      1,500   1,800   2,200   2,600   3,000
Direct Command                        3,000   3,300   3,700   4,100   4,500



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Farm Inputs in Paddy Cultivation                                 Price Estimates and Projections
Present Tank Irrigation in Extension Areas  Irrigated in the Command          Economic            Market
Unit      Poor Year    Medium Year    Good Year           Present        Future    (Present) (Future)  Present  Future
…-----------------------------…(units)…(R--------   ---------------  -----------(eRs/Unit)---------
Labor            (man-day)        105            130             145              155            165          6.4      6.4      8.0       8.0
Bullock Power   (pair-day)         28             28             30                30             33        16.0      16.0     20.0      20.0
Farmyard Manure  (tons/ha)        2.0            2.0            2.0               4.0            5.0         16.0     16.0     20.0      20.0
Seeds            (Kg/ha)           60            60              60                60             60         2.4       2.4      3.0       3.0
N                (Kg/ha)           10             30             50                60             90          4.0      5.2      4.5       5.5
P                (Kg/ha)            5             15             25                30             40          3.7      3.9       5.0      5.0
K                (Kg/ha)            -              5              10               20             30          1.9      2.1       2.0      2.0
Agrochemicals    (Rs/ha)            -            100            155               165            210       165.0    210.0    165.0    210.0
FJ m
in XI



-119-
ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Economic Crop Budtets of Cotton and Groundnuts
(Future Summer Irrigation in the Tank-Irrigated Extension Areas of the TMC)
Cotton         Groundnut
Yield (tons/ha)                        1.8               2.1
Price (Economic Rslton)              7,700            5,700
Economic Revenue Product            13,360           11,970
Cost
Labor                                1,120              672
Bullock Pover                          400              288
Farmyard Manure                         64               80
Seeds                                  550              500
N                                      312               104
P                                      117               137
K                                       63                21
Agrochemicals                          320               120
Total Cost                           2,946            1,922
Value Added                         10,914           10,048
Rounded to nearest Rs 1000          11,000           10,000
Incremental Value Added at Full Development
RB M
PVI Extension
Groundnut (20% of 942 ha - 188 ha)             1.9
Cotton    (20% of 942 ha - 188 ha)             2.1
Total Value Added                   4.0
PVII Extension
Groundnut (20% of 1399 ha - 280 ha)            2.8
Cotton    (202 of 1399 ha - 280 ha)            3.1
Total Value Added                   5.9
Phasing: linear growth over five years between 1986/87 and 1991192.



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION I PROJECT
I. Farm Incomes per ha in Paddy Cultivation
Single Cropped               Double Cropped Area
Area                    First Crop       Second Crop
Without   With           Without   With        Without   With
Second CroP                                                   Project   Projiect       Project   Project   Project   Project
Yield (t/ha)                                                    3.2        4.0            3.2        4.0       2.9      3.8
Revenue product @ Rs 2160/ton                                  6910       8640           6910      8640       6260    8240
Costs: (Rs/ha)
Labor                                                          1240       1320
Other Nonpurchased inputs:  bullock pover & farm manure         680        760
Purchased inputs: fertilizers and chemicals                     940       1145
Total                                2860      3225           2860       3225       2860    3225
Net revenue product/ha                                         4050       5415           4050      5415       3400    5015                  1
Cropping intensity                                               85%        88%            57%        78Z       85%      88%                o
Net revenue product/ha commanded                               3440       4765           2310      4220       2890    4410
Reliability of water supply                                      90Z        95%            80%        80%       90%      95%
Expected net revenue product/ha commanded                      3100       4525           1850       3380      2600    4190
II. (Summary)
Without   With                     % Command
Project   Project  Incremental        Area
Existinx Command Area
Double-cropped area                  4450      7570        3120          36.5
Single-cropped area                  3100      4525        1425          41.5
Extenaion Areas
Direct command                        -        4050        4050           6.0
Indirect command                     1250      4050        2800          16.0



-121-
ANNEX 4
Table 8
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI SECOND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Paddy and Rice Prices in Tamil Nadu. September 1983
Paddy                               Rice
Grade       Government Procurement  Approximate   Price in the   Approximate
Prices          Market Price  Public           Free Market
at Mills      Distribution   Price
Under mono-  Under levy                 System
poly procu- procurement
rement
-----Rs/quintal -------Rs/kg--
Fine              175         140          275           2.15             4.80
Medium            170         135          260           2.00             4.30
Coarse            165         130          240          1.75              3.90
Note:  Paddy translates into rice by weight in the ratio 100 to 65.  Thus, it.
is clear that the public distribution system must make a financial
loss. Taking coarse rice as the basis, if the average procurement
price is Rs 150/quintal, the corresponding break even-price for rice
after milling (Rs 8/quintal), transport, and marketing costs, should
be about Rs 2.5/Kg.



-122-
Annex 4
Table 9
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI II IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Border Price - Eguivalent of Paddy
(US$ and Rs)
1983       1984        1990
(Present) (Estimate) (Future)
International Price Forecast
(Thai, milled 5% broken, f.o.b. Bangkok)        300          336        429
Quality discount on rice imports or exports
by Iudia (15%)                                   45            50        64
Border Price of rice to India                US$  255           286        365
Rs 2,550        2,860      3,650
Packing and Handling at Port                       100          100        100
Transport Mill to Port                              40           40         40
Rice at Mill                                    2,410         2,720     3,510
Paddy at Mill (65% extration ratio)              1,570        1,760     2,280
Milling Cost (Rs 80/ton of paddy)                   80           80         80
Handling and Transport from Farm to Mill          _40            40         40
Value at Farmgate                            Rs 1,550         1,640     2,160



INDIA
PERIYAR VAICAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
TRMININC
A. PWD Staff
A.l.  A6sistant engineers and Junior Engineers (300 persons)            A.2.  Irrdgation Gumasthas and Lascars (230 persons)
(i)  Length of training: 2 weeks                                       (i)  Length of training: 2 weeks
(ii)  Syllabus:                                                         (ii)  Syllabus:
Practise/                                                               Practise/
Classroom   Field                                                       Classroom   Field
(hours)     (hours)                                                     (hours)      (hours.)
(a)  Crops, water requirements,           10                           (a)  Crops, water requirements,
farm operations                                                         farm operations                   10
(b)  System operation and Irrigation    10                             (b)  System operation and irrigation
scheduling among blocks                                                 scheduling among blocks            5.0         2.5
(c)  Rotational irrigation within                                       (c)  Rotational irrigation within
10 ha.blocks                        2.5                                 10 ha.blocks                       5
(d)  Water measurement & devices           2.5       2.5               (d)  Water measurement & devices           5           2.5
(e)  Duties and responsibilities           2.5                          (e)  Duties and responsibilities          2.5
(f)  Rules and regulations                 2.5                          (f)  Rules and regulations                2.5
(g)  Block and Sluice committees           1.0                          (g)  Block and Sluice committees          2.5
(h)  Procedures, information flow,                                     (h)  Procedures, information flow,
preparation of irrigation                                               preparation of irrigation
schedules                           5                                   schedules                          2.5         2.5
(i)  Project organization, inter                                       (i)  Project organization, inter
departmental cooperation            2.5                                 departmental cooperation           2.5
(j)  Hydrological measurements             2.5       2.5               (j)  Hydrological measurements             2.5
(k)  Communications with PWD, other                                    (h)  Communications with PWD,
departments and farmers             1.5                                 other departments and farmers    2.5
organizations.                     42.5       5.0                       organizations.                    432.5
(iii)  Number of courses            12 (25 persons/course)              (iii)  Number of courses        :    11 (25 persons/course)
(iv)  Place of training       :   PWD lecture hall                      (iv)  Place of training        :    rented building
(v)  Trainers                :   EEs; agriculturist for item(a)         (v)  Trainers                 :    AEEs/AEs; agriculturist for item (a)
(vi)  Preparation of course                                            (vi)  Preparation of course
material              :    by Trainers                                  material              :    by Trainers
A3.   Training of Trainers (15 persons)
Length of training  :    2 weeks
Syllabus             :   Topics as for Al and A2
field visits included
Number of courses   :    1-2
Place of Training   :    PWD lecture hall
Trainers             :   PWD Senior staff and
outside lecturers                                                                                                     t 
m >4



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAl IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Training
B. AED Staff
R.1  Assistant Engineers and Junior Engineers (130 persons)             B.2  Ir.rigation A6sistants/Soil Conservation Officers
(i)  Length of training : 2 weeks                                       (i)  Length of training :  2 weeks
(ii)  Syllabus :                                                        (ii)  Syllabus
Practise/                                                       Practise/
Classroom   Field                                               Classroom    Field
(hou,rs)   (hours)                                              (hou,rs)    (hours)
(a)  Planning, survey and design of                                     (a)  Execution of on-farm
on-farm development works          12         10                        development works          3            3
(b)  Execution of on-farm development                                   (b)  Maintenance of on-farm
works                               4          5                        development work           2            2
(c)  Crop water requirements, farm                                      (c)  Collection of land
operations                          6          4                        ownership data             5            5
(d)  System operation and irrigation                                    (d)  On-farm water
scheduling among blocks             4          2                       management                  2            2
(e)  Flow measurement                      2          1                (e)  System operation              2            1
(f)  Rotational irrigation within                                       (f)  Rotational irrigation        3            5
10 ha Blocks                        5          5                (g)  Contacts with block
(g)  Maintenance of field channels,                                           Committees                 2            2
structures and cart tracks          2          2                (h)  Communications with PWD
(h)  Formation of Block Committees         3          1                        and other Departments    2              2
(i)  Communications with PWD                1                                                            2T           77
(j)  Communications with other Depts.    1
Zb70      'o30          (iii)     Number of courses        10 (26 persons/course)
(iv)     Place of training        rented building
(v)     Trainers                 AEEs/AEs
(iii)     Number of courses        6 (25 persons/course)                 (vi)     Preparation of
(iv)     Place of training        rented building                                 course material        by Trainers
(v)     Trainers                EEs; agriculturist for item (c)
(vi)     Preparation of
course material       by Trainers
B.3  Training of Trainers ( 12 persons)
Length of training : 2 weeks
Syllabus               topics as for Bl and B2
Number of courses  :
Place of training      rented building
Trainers               AED and PWD senior staff and outside lecturers
lb
2D:



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRICATION 11 PROJECT
Training
C. Agricultural Field Staff and Block and Sluice Committee Leaders
C.1  AO and VEW (resp. 150 and 500 persono)                        C.2  Block Committee Leaders and Sluice Leaders (resp. 8100 and 1200 persons)
(i)  Length of training :  I week                                  (1)  Length of training :  3 days
(ii)  Syllabus                                                     (ii)  Syllabus
Classroom   Field                                           Classroom    Field
(hours)   (hours)                                           (hours)    (hours)
(a)   Objectives of Periyar Vaigai                                 (a)  Purpose and Obligations of
Irrigation Project                  2                              Block and Sluice
(b)  System operation and irrigation                                       Committees                     3
scheduling among Blocks         -   6          2            (b)  System operation and
(c)  RWS within 10-ha chak                  4          2                   irrigation scheduling
among Blocks                   3             1
(d)  Soil/water/plant relationships         8          4           (c)  RWS within 10-ha blocks            3            2
(d) Soil/water/plant relation-
(e)  Physiological cycle of paddy                                          ships                           7
and other major crops                4                      (e)  Cultural practices under
(f)  Improved cultural practice under                                      controled water supply          2            2
controled irrigation water supply 6            2            (f)  Physiological cycle of
(g)  Crop growth under residual                                            paddy and other major
moisture                             2                             field crops                     2                                            en
(h)  Diversification of irrigated dry
crops                               4
36         10                                                  20           5
Number of courses        5 courses per year (30 persons/course)   Number of courses          80 courses per year (30 persons/course)
Place of training  :   Farmer's Training Center                      Place of training       Farmer's Training Center
Trainers                DA and AED staff                             Trainers                DA, AED and PWD staff
Preparation of                                                       Preparation of
course material       By Trainers                                    course material       By Trainers
fD X
w v~



-126-                               kNNEX 6
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
1. Note on Model Studies at Poondi Hydraulic Research Station;
Dr. K. Mahmood, Consultant; December 1983
2. Modernisation of Periyar Vaigai Irrigation System
(2nd Stage Project Report), GOTN, PWD, October 1982
3. Coordinated Project for Research on Water Management (ICAR);
TNAU, annual progress report 1980-1981
4. Periyar Main Canal Silt Extension Studies; Institute of Hydraulics
and Hydrology Poondi; November 1983
5. Studies on Operation of River Sluice Shutters of Vaigai Dam;
Institute of Hydraulics and Hydrology Poondi; November 1983
6. Draft Table of Contents for O&M Manual (ASPAC)
7. Updated Project Cost Estimates, PWD, September 1983
8. Bench Mark Survey Report on Agro-Socio-Economic Conditions
of Farmers of Madurai District, TNAU, 1979-80
9. Flow Monitoring Programme I and II, February 1981
10. Representative Area Study, Branch Canal 6, April 1981



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Yew            1983              1984              1985              49186              4987              4Q88
_uattel    __ 2   3   4   4 2      3  -4-         2             1   2   3   4   1 -2   3   4    1   2   _ -
ALANCE WOW FOR P8RWfAR VAIGAI I
Left Par* Inhosucttsu
-thV Upto 10 ha Outle (352 kin) undo PN__.
-tnpmaet to Tank*s ( 180 nos)_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
-Pdllporn Fxtension (7t630 ha)
Right Barn InkastichJe (30 km 11irJ)
AD0IOtO   WORlKS FOR P591YAR VAIGA I
h    ro nentsto 1or*s (740 ans ) &b                                 _ l_
NEWCOMPON1WS
Inrrode18  Pe.arsl PlegutAtcs
3ulik*s for OSM                                                                                 __
PurxAernent dF _qu_nen_t
teft" bank tnft*Mtjcti
- teanslarss under SC X(2.590h) a._
- Etensions 3de4ftC Xf PMC (3.530 h) _
RPlht ar* Inhmstkcoe (1,400 Fa) h… __
On-FmDtWon*(63,014X1h)
TraIning 
hoved Wsydm OpemtPon                                                     --                -   -   -                   -              - -   -
MorItoring A FvdKIottalr                                           
World Pnr,l -256474
0



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Overall Project Organizatlon and Coordination
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -                                                                       r                                            F W1L 
I              .       
Stala Itrl C   drtirdrfing C--ltIreo
Chief S9v oary Ch-hrinn
S,ec.erv rVID
Sncr slrv AgflcultFou
Sec.elara Ihl,or,re
Spaclnl Chief trginne,e
Pn,lfa, Vnigot lNolect
ChIle Fegione, AplcuIlturol
NFFFrIf r of I vrnuo ll- A
…Atror ed PIo,h                           ------
SrcFaI Cht9t                                                            i                                                        ChEgF Fogrrtoiyn                     -o
Chter FnglIwF            EnlgrFlnnF                                                              I                               n.eco Iotr                 Aglicullua(l             Mod oclf Asn
rIIct                       ____I__                                                                   rgluFF                       4  n oernl ogYs     r lr 
_   _           W~~~~~~~eeFFFn &XrtJht                        FtFo#ecFCodrDn  lrdictlCoenmIFFee                     ll0
I  a              Vts                           Speclol Chiesl ErSglnoee tPrFrvor VraWl         _ o
CO"t                          no-Fct Charncmrtn
Special Offlcc  MtF Cell, Serelatrv            Jolnt Dir(etor             SupeeOFeiar1
I                                              loleF b'nt Db9co d Ag'Frututeiltirss  _ _   d A        u
L  __ _                     -         _ -     sru aFer,,d,i, Fnpler,(n
L.. _  -  _ _ ___          SAFoFlnFndleg F eg- I er ,   ( AFT))
Personal Asslstonts ((fnlrFl) to
rFnrlneersr O&M                          …           --------  C--lecF - ns CnmoduF
-           _         -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  AssWld   n  -ts
legead                                                                                                                                                    (I ( snesl  )
-Llr.e ot Ferecuttee Authorylhv
…___ -  Adrr,nlsFroFIld Coonrdlncotlon 
Wo.Fd flanFF-25~~~~t.
0i



INDtA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
PWD CvT,utonc\ OWla~fb
({S)
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-E -  1-   1, 1 1 -                1       
_ I-L I 1p   L   v D



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGAtION 11 PROJECT
Field Organization Agdicultural Engineering Depaviment
Orngorlatkin (Fxisth) Icr
knp"T*ntrtfon of Orn  wm                                                          ()r0o:,bolII  (Tst*) f1- Hmdwf?o                         rzoto .  (   f  I
lebonwnl Wodis                                                 .t :2s linttrwnrre~~~~~~~Pofff-  lmriuOtir  0 1e 1, .h- qrt-=
FyecT$te Engter |              Execulve FrtVeem               FxecutT  E ,0lr,er
Asarmt rxecuffke              Assistont bmculto               A3slstr(in  wru t 1h                                      _c                                          I                 _I
Ersiree (S)                   EnghIeer (5)                    Engilnf  ( S),                        Asmsisml F .Wr-a tIvr          Agslstmti F OK                  N Wiv     skoWl I     ev
P I.20Xf hyh/y                                                @ 1.700 h1/Vy                              Fr 1.r 5/y1                   Fnqinesr (5)                   Fnr rl   )
C)
AsfImtl r.Inohee/ |         |Asshstolt EngIel/                AAit-n  E                                Asi',f./  S  n I "aln           Asfrlnstm  Fnqlner/           Aslsfdrl?
rFrr*jqEngIneer(25)g |iJnlorvnwem er(25)                    |;unI     IrEnFr(25)|                     |,, F|rE ,,                                                             F -ed-
250 ho/yr                     kw 250 ha/vr    |                   250 ho/y                                  25)        |
'Caogrog (ho )
Yl    I   Yr" 2    Yor_3   YeC 4
Soction          4M(      80C      I 2tl     1 e
ISubtDIvIsIon    2,000   4(000     6 XS0     B(55
DOsrIo        I0(0      20000W    300(tl    4000I)
MoI Fnnb - 25W3



#:r"j"L
,EAV*OA
OVW       = OOO
;     +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
w s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lI)_-t
T  r< S       AX@S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Projected Cropping Pattern
TMC - Indirect Ayacut Areas
Jun.       hto,      kV         S&P        Oct        Nov        Dec         Jon       Fob         Mor        Ant        MaV
so'ghl" 4% (pes""I N"tf" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Peldej M~~u~
Nunw                     _
/   Sorhv46(>sBnlsWsttdrrdSlrgt C,c
I         /IWCowdnut
20%
G    A (PCSdual t
Jun        AAk       kma        Sep        Oct                    Doc~e      Jorn       P,        Mar         APr        May                                  l
Wr.ldl Pm'rI 25;'le'



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Projected Cropping Pattern
Single Crop Areas
JUI.        AA          Aug.         SeD         Oct.        Nov          DOc         Jon          Fob          Mar         Apr          May
Gror*;dnu                    r                                                         F,llnt 4A
Sor;hum 411. (lles Fkrture) 
I          II
I          I-I
I 
NI s/                         PteddV/
L and                               Crop
Gram  O
(RAsIduol Moisture)
Jun.        Jl          Aug.         SOp.        Oct          Noyv        Dec          Jon          Feb         Mar          Apr         May                                        n
WrxldPRnk -257R 4



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Projected Cropping Patern
Double Crop Areas
Jun        AAl        Aug.        SeP         Oct         Nov        Dec        Jan          Feb        Mor          Apr        MatV
i L   6i(drlUt .56      /                                   /         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(P.Sldl M5tv   /
1-c/                   D 18S.    /      /    tcrnd/                 9S3crd CroD
-I    II      
/  I      I    I             I                                        //   (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GrrllMd%r)                         
Jun        Jul         Aug        SWe         Oct         NMr        Dec.        Jon         Feb         M.r         Apr         Mrv
Wold Pi,,tr 25735



IBRD 17606
To DQn      7'0C                                                                                                               12   15        7003                                    NOVEMBER 1983
|.tIDUKKOTT4/                        L-METEQS                                                        .AtiO,A2EB
MATIAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.A~   AM                                P         T     EOL A - F                                      REOULATOR                    |lMT IRUPEA2/LT TUR :
V                                                                                                                                        MOO t_  I - 'w'                        gi>wi                                             RRIGATION U PROJECT
CQ0 \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMLLNAU,GENRAL\-XC;X_: -8ARE   ./X\A ;I-
_/,!  ?err  \ALINAOARA*M       0X>0~                                                                     *                                                                                                                                              OF PROJeCT  LOCATION
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
k   A/XX  M    A      D    U    jD    A  IT QUMAD4n.AAM  gX  .>,-                     & --E >         Lr     VAAA |-                    0    ONY ARA3YNEnlfL            D                                                       Srage1I Exitension Areo 
3                                                                                                                                                                                                Stage I Eo 0 rig AERO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,R  
..-;                                                                                    >3.                           M--         .A'.ArV I MA                                                                                                               StagBtU       FR  Bo QOSL  RMM'i;>1:ex *    EtnsinAea
000      050     7J                                                                  lJ >  A  A  f.\                                                                    *t                                                        g 1 N  t  ; 0 n-           -    Unoer  C onn tru to
'   2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ling  Und7\r/'t  .,   AAAUI    :  /ii.     o er Stogelo
PEPI       <           R    AAM          A LAMA   BAll       Pi  URfA       P    U     R     A     M  A .AN                         UDrULATU'             O;                                                          - --  Reserir   Don,
'LMRANGPALAgAM -                   -                         D                        I           ES  RIC  T tA> \  -    <        03       MAM                                                             Rr
IAGAM                                                                                                      . .....                                      PERIY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.A  PwR VtoIGAI
4"  RE 'T')R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mm od
F  P    A    M    A    N    A  T  A  P    U    P    A    M ~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                        A0MAr 30550,                                                -----  District RovoIR IGATI NdoriOJEC
'i { ~~~~~^\  0<  {8       T              t                                      I  -  t        X                            -ffi_<                 '                          -;--   Intsrnationrzl Boundaries~~~~~~~~~~~~- .. - Stae Burdrie
/( i   \             '3    (                  /                        ts            nE 7yg''            \l                                      \   ;ezo I A; Kad:lvg           -             RAMANA IN D                                       GE     RL R
\ALLIN-AIAM~I                                                                                                                                                                ii~-                                                -   neroioo  Riodne
M    A    D    U ~~~~~~~~~~~R    A                                      tiTlXllr VA.Al                                  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~reD   A 0dr0                     700--.',-,i






IBRD 17607R
APRlL 1954
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A R   N A T A K A    
INDIA                                                                                   KRNTK
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT                                                                                                    e2
TAMIL NADU DETAILED PROJECT AREA
TAMIL NADU
Existing Components
-  Stage nI Extension Area                         *    Cross Regulators                               |
Double Crop Area                             Ys  '-Y   MADURAI
StageI Existing Area                                         CN,
Single Crop Area                                                                                                   Bylt
Stage I Extension, Area                                                                         7~Tns(ml   eevis                                                         etgt
irrigation Canals:                                   Rivers                                                                                        j
Planned                                        0     Towns              °_2_4_6_8_______5________
Under Construction                                   Main Roads                               KILOMETERS                    bI
-7T--4-  Lined UnderStageI                           - -    Railways                                                                                                                SRt
- - -   District Boundaries                                                                                                 LANKA
and~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ th i_eotoa                                                                                 _ _ avere
05.0 an th 1odS ehee
-Ov this vtav                                                                                                                                                                                    UPntvi   UontR'I ''-~' C
01 Peronti Pul pten ,5td 6O9( ¢/   <. r coy
rhennOneeote Si avOSytanCs oh                                      t CAAl Th,           Kip1                                                           ,ts_ma;lt d     3r
Covil boondan,ed Is srclusfyeb    r                                                 . rA
Th  h..bm . Pdo     bo m y on                                                                                                                            VAGANGAI~\\    }   l
per-l -f Th. W.Ml B.nk                              TfRUMANGALAM                                                                       , ox         1l 
dth^mNnOpo. llf-d-.f Ph- 
*nr  t-cm  T n h. b9a - ah - - h-,>\
.o Mft b-d- .erlce c sn                                                            I    /   /         R    A      M                                                                
fhindleetcacpa -P                                    78° -t "\jy                                                                                       ri     o    78°30
tuhonam f                                             i     ~ l,I 9-k ..dokoe .tPh.



