FF ICAL
FDCUMEIA                    CREDIT NURBER 1468 IN
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-16 IN
Project Agreement
(Periyar Vaigal Irrigation II Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND established
with funds contributed by certain members
of the International Development Association
and
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
Dated                            , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMER 1468 IN
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-16 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              L    /          , 1984, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINIS-
TRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International Development Association
(hereinafter called the Administrator), and the STATE OF TAMIL
NADU, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Tamil Nadu).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower), and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,600,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Tamil Nadu agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
(B) by the Special Fund Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administra-
tor has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million six hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,600,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Special Fund Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that Tamil Nadu agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Administrator as are hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS Tamil Nadu, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
and the Administrator's entering into the Special Fund Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement, in the Special Fund Credit Agree-
ment, and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Association"
means also the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in the Preamble to
the Special Fund Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Tamil Nadu declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and Schedule 2 to the Special Fund
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
described in said Schedules with due diligence and efficiency and
in   conformity  with   appropriate   administrative,  financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist Tamil Nadu in carrying out
Parts E and G of the Project, Tamil Nadu shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association; provided,
however, that if such consultants' cost shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule I to this Agree-
ment, and procurement of the goods and civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Tamil Nadu undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and out of the pro-
ceeds of the Special Fund Credit, respectively, made available to


﻿-3-
it by the Borrower, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by Tamil Nadu to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Tamil Nadu shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the proceeds of the
Special Fund Credit, respectively, made available to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Sec-
tion 2.01 of this Agreement, Tamil Nadu shall carry out the plan-
ning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of the
irrigation systems under the Project, in accordance with the
technical criteria established under the Prior Project.
Section 2.06. For purposes of carrying out Part F of the
Project, Tamil Nadu shall, not later than December 31, 1984,
establish and, thereafter, maintain in PWD, an office headed by
an Executive Engineer with suitable qualifications and experi-
ence, such office to be assigned with such powers, functions,
responsibilities, staffing, organization and funds as shall be
required to enable it to manage irrigation water releases from
the reservoir, main canals and branch channels within the irriga-
tion systems under the Project.
Section 2.07. Tamil Nadu shall, not later than December 31,
1984, take all such action as shall be necessary to strengthen
its Agricultural Engineering Department in order to enable it,
inter alia, to adequately promote in the Project Area a rota-
tional water supply system.
Section 2.08. Tamil Nadu shall, not later than December 31,
1984, establish and, thereafter, maintain in PWD, a Monitoring
and Evaluation Cell headed by an officer with suitable qualifi-
cations and experience, such cell to be assigned with such
powers, functions, responsibilities, organization, staffing and
funds as shall be required to enable it to coordinate, analyze,
and recommend action programs and additional studies, as
required, to adequately carry out the monitoring and evaluation
activities of the Project.
Section 2.09. In order to promote a more active participa-
tion of farmers in the water management of irrigation water, and


﻿-4-
in the operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems under
the Project, Tamil Nadu shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to establish suitable farmer     organizations in the
Project Area, such organizations to be established as and when
required for the implementation of the improved irrigation
systems' operation under the Project.
Section 2.10. Tamil Nadu shall not later than April 1, 1986,
prepare and furnish to the Association, for its review and com-
ments, a draft of Tamil Nadu's revised operation and maintenance
manual for the irrigation systems in the Project Area, including
revised criteria for water allocation priorities and for distri-
buting and scheduling the delivery of water, and taking into
account the Association's comments, if any, thereafter, adopt and
utilize in the Project Area such revised operation and mainte-
nance manual.
Section 2.11. (a) Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) Tamil Nadu shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including their cost and the benefits to be derived from them),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Special Fund Credit in respect of the
Project, and to disclose their use in the carrying out of the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Special Fund Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) furnish;to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Tamil Nadu of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Special Fund Credit, the Association may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.


﻿-5-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Tamil Nadu
and the Association, Tamil Nadu shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, their cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from them, the performance by Tamil
Nadu and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit and of the Special Fund Credit.
Section 2.12. (a) Tamil Nadu shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and of the Special Fund Credit.
(b) Tamil Nadu shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit and of the Special Fund Credit, or the performance by
Tamil Nadu of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.13. Tamil Nadu shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect of
land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 2.14. Tamil Nadu shall at all times cause the irri-
gation systems under the Project, as well as the vehicles and
equipment provided for purposes of the Project to be efficiently
operated and maintained, and all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made, all in accordance with sound engineering,
agricultural and financial practices.
Section 2.15. Tamil Nadu undertakes to take all measures as
may be considered necessary to minimize the risk of malaria and
other water-related diseases within the Project Area.
Section 2.16. Tamil Nadu shall take all such a t&'n as shall
be necessary to maintain PWD, at all times, with the necessary


﻿powers in order to enable it to adequately distribute, regulate
and schedule the irrigation water supply in th6 Project Area.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Tamil Nadu shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, its resources,
expenditures and operations related to the Project; and (ii)
furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year, certified
as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Association as soon as available but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year.
Section 3.02. Tamil Nadu shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and
financial statements related to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association immediately follow-
ing its finalization, the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts and records, financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association and Tamil Nadu
shall otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu shall, with the objective of
ensuring recovery from the farmers benefiting from the Project
annual operation and maintenance costs and, to the extent possi-
ble, the capital costs of the irrigation system under the Proj-
ect: (i) cause PWD to review by December 31, 1985, its irrigation
water charges; (ii) exchange views with the Association on the
results of such review; and (iii) thereafter, consolidate and
start applying the revised water charges in the Project Area. For
purposes of this paragraph, Tamil Nadu may take into account
incentives for and the payment capacity of such farmers.


﻿-7-
(b) Tamil Nadu shall, on April 1 of each year, commencing
April 1, 1985 and thereafter, take all such actions as shall be
necessary to ensure that annual budgetary allocations shall be
made to adequately cover operation and maintenance expenditures
of the irrigation systems in the Project Area.
(c) For the purposes set forth in paragraph (a) of this
section, Tamil Nadu shall annually, commencing on December 31,
1986 and thereafter, review its irrigation water charges.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Special Fund Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Tamil Nadu thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Special Fund Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with their terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement and the Special
Fund Credit Agreement terminate in accordance with their term8
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,
the Association shall promptly notify Tamil Nadu of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿-8-
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Tamil Nadu:
Secretary to the Government
of Tamil Nadu
Public Works Department
Fort St. George, Madras 600009
India
Cable address:
QUADENSA
Madras
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Tamil Nadu may be taken or executed by the
Secretary, Public Works Department or such other person or
persons as Tamil Nadu shall designate in writing, and Tamil Nadu
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of Anrica, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
#c71iqr Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurent
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Tamil Nadu shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the
Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. Tamil Nadu shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in India


﻿- 11 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿12 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, Tamil Nadu may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
Tamil Nadu and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by Tamil
Nadu, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000, or less, each may be procured through
normal trade channels, provided, however, that such contracts, in
the aggregate, shall not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
2.   Contracts for civil works may be let on the basis of compet-
itive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
which are satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 13 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Tamil Nadu shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Tamil Nadu
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
Tamil Nadu and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective


﻿- 14 -
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it de:ermines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Tamil Nadu
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Tamil Nadu shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Tamil Nadu
and state the reasons for its determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works may be carried out through force account, pro-
vided, however, that such works shall not exceed 20% of the total
cost of civil works to be financed under the Project.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Lidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of the Special Fund Credit Agreement and except as pro-
vided in Parts D and F hereof, goods and civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in March 1977 (July 1980 edition) (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines. The above-mentioned
eligibility restrictions shall be stated in the tender or
prequalification documents for the procurement of such goods and
civil works.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Tamil Nadu shall prepare and
forward to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Administrator shall reasonably request; the Administrator
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. Tamil Nadu
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of


﻿- 16 -
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Administrator
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goodsi Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A o group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison Onder paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 17 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as
a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth
in Schedule 1 to the Special Fund Credit Agreement and to be
procured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, Tamil Nadu may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
Tamil Nadu and accepted by the Administrator, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The
bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by Tamil
Nadu, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿- 18 -
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000, or less, each may be procured through
normal trade channels, provided, however, that such contracts, in
the aggregate, shall not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
2.   Contracts for civil works may be let on the basis of compe-
titive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
which are satisfactory to the Association.,
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Tamil Nadu shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Administrator's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Tamil Nadu
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Admin-
istrator shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Tamil Nadu and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
withoat the AdministratorIs concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to


﻿- 19 -
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Special Fund Credit Account in
respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Special Fund Credit Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Adminis'trator shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform Tamil Nadu and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Tamil Nadu shall inform the
Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Tamil Nadu
and state the reasons for its determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works may be carried out through force account, pro-
vided, however, that such works shall not exceed 20% of the total
cost of civil works to be financed under the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Developm-nt Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
ihereunto the            day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


