Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17245
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
(Ln. 3125-UNI)
December 19, 1997
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(October 31, 1997)
Currency Unit       =      Naira
US$1                =      N81.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIP          Average International Price (for pharmnaceuticals)
DRF           Drug Revolving Fund
EDP          Essential Drugs Project
FGN          Federal Government of Nigeria
FMOF         Federal Ministry of Finance
FMOH         Federal Ministry of Health
HMB           Health (or Hospital) Management Board
HNP          Health, Nutrition, and Population
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IEC           Information, Education, and Communication
LGA          Local Government Authorities
NGOs         Non-governmental Organizations
PHC          Primary Health Care
SEDP         State Essential Drugs Program
SLA          Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SMOH         State Ministry of Health
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib (AFR)
Country Director:   Yaw Ansu (AFC12)
Sector Manager:     Helena Ribe (AFTH3)
Task Team Leaders:   Shiyan Chao (AFTH3)
David Peters (AFTH3)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
[Ln. 3125-UNII
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ......................................................................
PART I
1. INTRODUCTION .......................................................................1
A. MACROECONOMIC SETTING ......................................................................1I
B. BANK'S ROLE IN THE SECTOR .......................................................................2
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................................2
A. ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................................2
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS .......................................................................3
C. LOAN COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS .......................................................................4
D. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................................4
3. IMPLEMENTATION  EXPERIENCE AND  RESULTS .......................................................................4
A. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................................4
B. SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS .......................................................................          6
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE .......................................................................6
D. ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING MAJOR OBJECTIVES .....................................................................7
E. ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER'S AND THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE .........................................................9
F. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME .......................................................................9
4. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........... 10
A. IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE .......................................................... 10
B. FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY ......................................................................                 11
C. LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR ......................................................................            11
PART II
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
APPENDICES:
A. Mission Aide-memoire
B. Summary of Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
[Ln. 3125-UNI]
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Essential Drugs Project
in Nigeria, for which Loan 3125-UNI in the amount of $68.1 million was approved on
October 17, 1989 and made effective on September 10, 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997, the original closing date. As of December 18,
1997, there was a balance of US$16.7 million. A small number of outstanding payments and
special commitments totalling under US$200,000 require correction or finalization. Final
disbursement is expected in January, 1998, when the undisbursed balance will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by David Peters, Shiyan Chao, and Hong Chen of the Africa
Region, assisted by Ross Pfile and Betty Casely-Hayford (AFTH3), and reviewed by Irene
Xenakis (AFTH3), Helena Ribe (Sector Manager for AFTH3), Jerome Chevallier (Acting
Country Director for Nigeria) and the Nigeria Country Team.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision missions in
March and June 1997. It is based on mission's discussions with the project staff and on
materials in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the Implementation Completion
Report by commenting on the draft ICR during the ICR mission in November, 1997. The
seven participating States provided evaluation reports and plans for future operation, a
summary of these reports are included in Appendix B. The Federal Ministry of Health
(FMOH) did not prepare an evaluation report, nor provide formal comments on the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
[Ln. 3125-UNI]
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. The Essential Drugs Project (EDP) was the third World Bank loan to the
health, nutrition, and population (HNP) sector in Nigeria, and the only project in the portfolio
that was exclusively devoted to essential drugs. It followed two State-level health projects,
Sokoto Health Project (Ln.2503-UNI, effective January, 1986), and Imo Health and Population
Project (Ln 2091 -UNI, effective December, 1989), which were designed to assist States to
design and implement local primary health care projects. These projects also supported the
Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) to design new projects, including the EDP. After this
project was approved by the Board, there were two subsequent projects approved by the Bank in
the HNP sector. The National Population Project (Cr. 2238-UNI, effective 1992) provides funds
for population activities, initially through activities at the federal level, but has experienced
serious implementation difficulties, and is expected to be closed next year. The Health System
Fund Project (Ln. 3326-UNI, effective 1992) has been more successful in providing support to
16 States to build up the institutional capacity and infrastructure of State health services, and to
finance core State programs such as State Essential Drugs Programs (SEDPs). The Bank also
conducted three major sector studies to support policies initiatives, including the reports on
Health Care Cost, Financing, and Utilization (Report No. 8382-UNI, 1991), Implementing the
National Policy on Population (Report No. 9306-UNI, 1992), and the Social Sectors Strategy
Review (Report No. 11781 -UNI, 1994). A Sexually Transmitted Disease Prevention Project was
appraised in 1994, but was not negotiated because persistent differences between the
Government and the Bank over the country's macro-economic policies led to a cessation of
lending which remains in effect.
2.    Project Objectives and Components. The overall objective was to support the Federal
Government of Nigeria's (FGN) plans under its 1990 national essential drugs policy to: (a)
develop a sustainable supply of safe, effective and affordable drugs; (b) improve the skills of
health workers in providing drugs; (c) educate patients and the public in the proper use of drugs;
and (d) strengthen institutional capacity to carry out essential drugs programs. Each of these
components was initially implemented in four State subprojects and the FMOH, but due to the
bifurcation of States in 1991, the number of States included in the project expanded to seven. In
August, 1996, the FMOH subproject was canceled due to non-compliance with covenants of the
Loan Agreement.
3.    Loan Covenants and Agreements. Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA) were
established between each State and the FGN to clarify State responsibilities and commit
Government funding for the subprojects. Each State also signed a Project Agreement with the
Bank to outline the obligations under the project. Key covenants of the Project Agreements
(which are also reflected in the Loan Agreement for the FMOH) included the establishment of
Drug Revolving Funds (DRFs) (Section 2.01), the assurance of counterpart funding from
Government (Section 2.01), the development and use of Essential Drugs Lists (EDLs) as the



basis for drug procurement (Schedule 1), and an annual schedule for project planning,
implementation, and review (Schedule 1). The Project Agreements were amended in 1993 and
SLAs in 1994 to accommodate the split into seven States.
4.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives were specific, monitorable,
and relevant to the development of health care systems in Nigeria and the provision of health
services. However, the initially proposed indicators of project implementation were ambitious
and overly detailed given the inexperience of the implementing agencies and the uncertain
environment. The management information systems that were developed under the project did
not become fully operational, so that baseline and follow-up measures of progress were not
available. Most of the indicators measured project inputs, though a limited number of process
and output indicators were used to assess the project's performance. By focusing on project
activities rather than the entire pharmaceuticals sector, major changes occurring in the private
market and illegal subsectors in Nigeria were not addressed. Whether these trends could have
been addressed under the project is doubtful, since the regulatory environment was so poor.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The project was partly successful
in achieving its objectives. SEDP managers became more business-like by using data to make
management decisions and paying attention to their customers. In the participating SEDPs,
procedures for selection, quantification and procurement of drugs were developed and
implemented. Storage and distribution capacities were greatly improved, and drug quality
testing was initiated. The ongoing management of drug stocks improved. Stock-outs of essential
drugs in participating health facilities was reduced. Management of Drug Revolving Funds was
strengthened, to the point four of the seven SEDPs were not decapitalizing DRFs. Health
workers are now better able to work with essential drugs, manage DRFs, partly because schools
for health workers base their curriculum on the essential drugs policy, and partly because public
information on essential drugs has been spread through a variety of media. SEDPs have been
replicated in most States of Nigeria through other projects. However, the private sector has
grown much more rapidly than the public sector during the project and dominates drug sales in
Nigeria. Because the pharnaceuticals market is essentially unregulated and commercially
oriented (rather than public health oriented), the public is still exposed to high cost, low efficacy
drugs, many of which are substandard or fraudulent. In the majority of participating States, the
SEDPs have developed the management and technical skills to be sustainable, and are
financially viable provided that States continue to partly fund the operation of SEDPs. Given the
dependence on borrower commitrnent and need for ongoing public financing, the rapid turnover
of policy-makers upon whom the SEDPs depend, and the poor policy environment, the
sustainability of the project is uncertain.
6.    Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. The total project cost of the project
was estimated at appraisal to be US$85.1 million, with the Government contributing US$17
million, and the Bank providing US$68.1 million. The project was closed on schedule on June
30, 1997. Loan cancellations prior to the closing date totaled US$16.2 million. Total
disbursement of the Loan by December 18, 1997 was US$35.2 million, with an outstanding
balance of US$ 16.7 million. At the time of the writing of the ICR, a few outstanding payments
valued under $200,000 are being corrected. The undisbursed balance of the Loan will be
ii



canceled in January, 1998, when the final payments will have been made. Government's
contribution to the project totalled US$3.7 million.
7.    Implementation Schedule. Preparation, Negotiations, Signing, Loan Effectiveness
followed a typical schedule for Nigeria. Annual implementation schedules were prepared and
reviewed with each subproject. However, implementation was very slow in the first three years
of the project life, and was interrupted during times of social and political unrest.
Implementation during the final two years of the project was improved.
8.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. Project achievements were
constrained by a number of factors. The more significant factors include: (a) unstable
macroeconomic environment making drugs less affordable to the poor, and undermining cost-
recovery and pricing practices; (b) bifurcation of the States, and related frequent changes in
State Administrators and Health Commissioners, often led to obstruction of project activities; (c)
institutional structures which did not secure SEDPs enough autonomy from the civil service, and
placed SEDPs in conflict with Hospital Management Boards, or in the case of the FMOH, with
many Directorates; (d) inefficiencies and high clearing charges at the ports leading to delays,
stock loss, and cost overruns; (e) poor communications, information, and transport capabilities,
making procurement, marketing, and monitoring difficult and expensive; (e) strikes and social
unrest; and (f) increasing drug supplies from the private sector (both legal and illegal) and other
conflicting public sources such as the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) which undermine the SEDPs.
9.    Assessment of the Borrower's and Bank's Performance. The Borrower's
performance was mixed. Implementing agencies which received the most consistent support
from State Military Administrators (or Governors) and Health Commissioners were able to
perform the best. Project staff frequently performed very well under difficult circumstances. On
the other hand, the FMOH performance was highly unsatisfactory, and led to the suspension and
cancellation of the FMOH subproject. The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. Its
identification of the project reflected the sector priorities at the time. The Bank made a
considerable effort to assist the Government in developing drug policies. The Bank appraised a
project design which was overly specified, included an untenable institutional arrangements for
the FMOH, and did not adequately assess the private sector. During implementation, the Bank
made effort to solve implementation problems flexibly, explore alternatives, define and meet
standards, and support project management.
10.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The Essential Drugs Project has produced mixed
results. Some States have met most of the development objectives, whereas the FMOH and
several States did not. On balance, though most of the project objectives were met to different
degrees in a majority of States, the inability of the project to deal with larger factors threatening
the supply of safe, affordable, and effective drugs from the private and illegal markets, and the
uncertainty of its sustainability point to an unsatisfactory outcome. Nonetheless, given the
country environment, a better outcome would have been improbable.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
11.   Key lessons learned from the project experience are summarized below:
iii



(a)    A well defined project is an appropriate way to lend in a new area, as was done
under this project.
(b)    If the Borrower had allowed it, and had there been better incentives in the Bank
to make smaller loans, it also would have been better to start smaller and with
fewer States.
(c)    Baseline measurements are especially needed when introducing innovations to
better draw lessons.
(d)    Even under extremely difficult conditions, projects can be successful where there
are motivated and capable project staff, supportive supervision is given, attention
is paid to customers of the SEDPs, and efforts are made to securing ongoing
political support to a project. The design, appraisal, and supervision of projects
would benefit from a better understanding of the political economy. When
political support for a project is lacking (or where interference continues) over a
sustained period, project cancellation may be prudent. Project cancellation,
however, carries substantive costs to staff time and to continuation of
constructive dialogue with a Ministry.
(e)    Projects dealing with pharmaceutical systems should seriously assess the private
legal and illegal sub-sectors in the country as consideration of project design.
The appropriate roles for the state also need to be well thought out. Success in
public sector systems for pharmaceutical supplies does not assure that the
majority of the public will benefit, particularly when they compete with an
unregulated private market that has unfair advantages (illegal supplies and
activities, a lack of quality requirements, and an ill-informed consumer). An
environment that supports regulation and enforcement is required if intervention
through the private sector is to succeed. Tools to deal with these issues need to be
developed and tested.
(f)    Regular project review and re-planning are helpful, though projects need to have
an environment where they are able to take advantage of this flexibility.
(g)    The use of international competitive bidding resulted in cost-effective, safe and
affordable drugs when procured in large quantities, though also brought other
problems. It exposed the States to the international drug market and standards,
but required better communications infrastructure, and ability to deal with port
officials and suppliers. Other means of procurement are also needed because of
time constraints.
(h)    If the opportunity arises in our continued dialogue with Nigeria in the HNP
sector, attention should be given to assessing the dynamics of the private
pharmaceuticals sector, illegal drug flows, and their relationship with the SEDPs
and regulatory and enforcement bodies. Policy interventions affecting the private
market should be tested before re-investing in public supply systems, particularly
while Government continues to promote conflicting public systems.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
[Ln. 3125-UNI1
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. INTRODUCTION
A.    MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.1   Nigeria has about 110 million people, by far the most populous country in Sub-Saharan
Africa. The country is poor despite its large and enterprising population and its considerable
natural resources, including oil. Per capita income was $240 in 1996, below the level at the time
of independence 37 years ago, and only about a fifth of what it was in the early 1980s. About 34
percent of the population falls below the poverty line. Basic social indicators now place Nigeria
among the 20 poorest countries worldwide. A large part of the poor economic performance is
explained by political instability and economic mismanagement.
1.2   The project period (1990 to 1997) witnessed numerous policy and political changes in
Nigeria which influenced the implementation. Nigeria's increasing fiscal indiscipline and
progressive shift away from the structural adjustment policies adopted in 1986 culminated in the
return to a regime of heavy controls in the foreign exchange and credit markets by 1994. The
resulting rapidly worsening economic conditions (inflation peaked at 77% in 1994) led to a re-
assessment of the policy direction. In January 1995, the government introduced a policy of
"guided deregulation" and began to re-establish control over fiscal and monetary policy,
evidenced by a remarkable stability of the market exchange rate to date and rapid disinflation.
During the same period, the Nigerian authorities reversed key economic reforms and economic
conditions worsened rapidly. In 1996 Government continued the process of gradual
liberalization, resulting in a small economic rebound of 3.1 percent growth.
1.3   The absence of a credible restructuring of federal expenditure priorities and of programs
necessary to produce a structural fiscal balance leaves unresolved the sustainability of the macro-
stabilization program initiated in 1995. Government still fails to move towards privatization.
Budgetary transparency and accountability is limited (some 40 percent of federal expenditures
occur off-budget). Budgetary allocation priorities were unchanged in 1996 and 1997 and
continued to support wasteful expenditures. There is no demonstrated commitment to poverty
alleviation or to rectifying a substantial deterioration in the quality of essential social and
infrastructure services. Neither macro-economic, social, or political stability is assured over the
medium term.
1



B.    BANK'S ROLE IN THE SECTOR
1.4   This loan was one of the Bank's earliest interventions in the field of pharmaceuticals in
Africa, and was its only project dedicated entirely to pharmaceuticals. The project was targeted
at reforming a critical part of the health system in a country that had the largest population
needs, and one of the most complex drugs markets in Africa. The project was designed to build
on the recent health policy developments, including the formulation and acceptance by FMOH
and all States of a National Health Policy (1988), which articulated a national commitment that
"essential drugs ... are available at all levels of the health care system". The project preparation
supported the further development of a National Drug Policy for Nigeria in 1988 (published in
1990), which called for the establishment of a National Drugs Prograrn. The basic elements of
the essential drugs policy and proposed program were incorporated into the design of the EDP.
The subsequent development of State-level operational policies was viewed as a commitment by
the States to undergo reforms needed to sustain SEDPs. The Bank appraisal team was impressed
with the basic soundness and expressed commitment to the national policy, and stressed the need
for continued political support and major financial resources.
1.5   Prior to this project, the Bank had a limited, but rapidly growing role in the HNP sector
in Nigeria. The EDP project followed two State-level health projects, Sokoto Health Project
(Ln.2503-UNI, effective January, 1986), and Imo Health and Population Project (Ln 2091-UNI,
effective December, 1989), which were designed to assist States to design and implement local
primary health care projects, and for the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) to design new
projects, including the EDP. After this project was approved by the Board, two subsequent
projects were approved by the Bank in the HNP sector. The National Population Project (Cr.
2238-UNI, effective 1992) provides funds for population activities, initially through activities at
the federal level, but implementation has been poor, and it is expected to be completed next year.
The Health System Fund Project (Ln. 3326-UNI, effective 1992) provides support to 16 States to
build up the institutional capacity and infrastructure of State health services, and to finance core
State programs such as SEDPs. In an effort to support new policy decisions, the Bank also
prepared three major sector studies, including reports on Health Care Cost, Financing, and
Utilization (Report No. 8382-UNI, 1991), Implementing the National Policy on Population
(Report No. 9306-UNI, 1992), and the Social Sectors Strategy Review (Report No. I 1781 -UNI,
1994). A Sexually Transmitted Disease (AIDS) Prevention Project was appraised in 1994, but
was not negotiated because persistent differences between the Government and the Bank over
the country's macroeconomic policies led to a cessation of lending which remains in effect.
2.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1   The project's overall objective was to support the FGN's plans under its national
essential drugs policy to ensure that: (a) the public has access to a sustainable supply of safe,
2



effective and affordable drugs; (b) the skills of health workers in providing drugs are improved;
(c) patients and the public are educated in the proper use of drugs; and (d) the capacity of the
participating institutions responsible for carrying out of essential drugs programs are
strengthened.
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
2.2   The project was comprised of the following four components:
(a)   Supply of Safe Drugs. To develop an affordable and sustainable supply of safe
drugs, the project was to: (i) provide seed stocks of essential drugs to serve as
working capital; (ii) improve systems for selecting, procuring, storing and
distributing drugs; (iii) strengthen the procedures for assuring drug quality; and
(iv) institute cost recovery and set up DRFs.
(b)   Improving Health Worker Skills. To improve the skills of health workers in
managing drug supply and in prescribing and dispensing drugs, the project was
to: (i) support in-service training; (ii) reorient the curricula of basic training
institutions, and (iii) strengthen drug information services for practitioners.
(c)   Changing Drug-Related Attitudes. To change the harmful beliefs and practices
of clients regarding drugs and to help them understand the reasons for charging
for drugs, the project was to develop educational materials and support public
information activities within health facilities and campaigns through the mass
media, complemented by activities to generate support from professional and
leadership groups.
(d)   Strengthening Institutional Capacity. To strengthen the institutional capacity in
government to design and implement essential drugs programs, the project was to
(i) foster institutional restructuring and consolidation and bring new skills into
the subsector, especially in financial management; (ii) undertake special studies;
and (iii) support the preparation of SEDPs in additional States.
2.3   The project was originally divided among four States (Bendel, Cross River, Gongola, and
Kwara States) and the FMOH. The four components were implemented in each of the project
States and the FMOH, which was responsible for management of tertiary level hospitals.
Additionally, the FMOH was responsible for drug quality assurance systems, the development of
guidelines and manuals for procurement, management information systems, improving health
worker skills, development of materials for public information, and supportive supervision of the
States. In 1991, three of the project States were bifurcated: Bendel became Edo and Delta
States, Gongola became Adamawa and Taraba States, and Kwara became Kwara and Kogi
States. Each of the new States decided to participate in the project, resulting in a sharing of the
project funds and assets, and requiring an amendment to the Loan Agreement in January, 1993.
The FMOH part of the project was canceled in August 1996, after undergoing a previous
suspension due to non-compliance with Loan Covenants. These included covenants requiring
the FMOH to prepare annual work programs, provide counterpart funds, and execute the project
with due diligence in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, pubic health and
3



pharmaceuticals practices.
C.    LOAN COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
2.4   Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA) were established between each State and the FGN to
clarify State responsibilities and commit Govermnent funding for the subprojects. Each State
also signed a Project Agreement with the Bank to outline the obligations under the project. Key
covenants of the Project Agreements (which are also reflected in the Loan Agreement for the
FMOH) included the establishment of Drug Revolving Funds (DRFs) (Section 2.01), the
assurance of counterpart funding from Government (Section 2.01), the development and use of
Essential Drugs Lists (EDLs) as the basis for drug procurement (Schedule 1), and an annual
schedule for project planning, implementation, and review (Schedule 1). The Project
Agreements were amended in 1993 and SLAs in 1994 to accommodate the split into seven
States.
D.    EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.5   The project objectives were specific, monitorable, and relevant to the development of
health care system in Nigeria and the provision of health services. However, the indicators of
project implementation proposed in the staff appraisal report were overly detailed and ambitious,
particularly given the inexperience of the implementing agencies and the severe constraints
faced by project managers. The management information systems did not become fully
operational during the project, so not all of the detailed indicators could be monitored. Despite
efforts made by other agencies collaborating with the Bank during the preparation period (World
Health Organization, Management Sciences for Health), baseline values for indicators were not
obtained, limiting the ability to evaluate the project. Most of the indicators measured project
inputs, though a limited number of process and output indicators were used to assess the
project's performance. At the time of project identification, inadequate supply of drugs was the
major issue in the health sector. Most of the public sector health facilities had little or no drugs.
During the project, there was a rapid expansion of the private pharmaceutical sector. Access to
drugs is no longer a major problem, but quality and rational use of drugs are. By focusing on the
defined project activities, the project lost sight of the major changes occurring in the private
market and with illegal and substandard drugs. However, whether these trends could be
addressed under the project is doubtful in view of the poor regulatory environment.
3.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
3.1   The project was partly successful in achieving its objectives. In most of the EDP States,
access to affordable and better quality of drugs improved. Procedures for selection,
4



quantification and procurement of drugs were strengthened. All SEDPs have Essential Drugs
Policies, used essential drugs lists and standard procurement guidelines. US$19.5 million of
drug seed stock was injected into Nigeria as a result of the project. Cost-recovery systems and
DRFs were established in all States. The ongoing management of drug stocks and funds
improved to the point in 1997 where all of the seven SEDPs were either breaking even or
increasing the value of their circulating drug stocks. Results ranged from a quarterly 8.6%
decapitalization (loss) of the value of drugs and funds in Edo State to an increase in capital value
of 21% in Kogi State. However, the introduction of large quantities of drugs publicly funded by
the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) in 1997 to be sold significantly below cost undermines the
financial sustainability of SEDPs, and raises the risk of expiration of SEDP drug stocks unless
they too are sold at a loss. Whereas out-of-stock syndrome was the norm at the beginning of the
project, at the end of the project, stock-outs of essential drugs was not a major problem (except
in Edo State, where 19 of 28 indicator drugs were out-of-stock in the first quarter of 1997).
3.2   Systems were put in place for managing procurement and inventory control, though only
a few States have been able to maintain computerized inventory control systems. International
competitive bidding (ICB) was introduced with some success as a major method for procuring
drugs. Most of SEDPs conducted 2-3 rounds of ICB procurement for drugs and medical
supplies. Using ICB allowed the States, in most cases, to obtain quality drugs at cheaper prices.
In a 1994 external review of pharmaceutical procurement under the project, it was demonstrated
that international competitive bidding (ICB) could obtain prices well below the average
international price (AIP) (2% to 40% below AIP), whereas local competitive bidding (LCB)
obtained higher prices (13% below to 2% above AIP), and shopping was the most expensive
(resulting in prices 23% to 49% above AIP). However, international procurement needed a lead
time of six to 15 months before supplies were delivered and added other management problems
related to importing products into Nigeria (see below), whereas the lead time for local delivery
ranged from three to six months and avoided much of the problems in dealing with the ports.
Management of stocks was fair under the project. Losses due to waste, pilferage, and theft were
kept to a minimum in participating health facilities by early 1997 (under 3%), though some
States (Adamawa, Kogi, Edo and Taraba) did suffer significant losses due to the drug expiration.
There were wide differences in monthly sales among the States, and in sales per SEDP staff,
ranging from just over Naira 4,000 per month per staff in Cross River State, to nearly Naira
70,000 per month per staff in Delta State. Storage and distribution capacities were improved in
all States.
3.3    Drug quality control was an issue tackled rather late in the project. The FMOH was
responsible for this area, but only began taking action after establishing a parastatal, the National
Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, during the last two years of the project,
and did not take advantage of project funds. By this time, each State had decided to establish its
own quality control laboratory. At the end of the project, most of SEDPs had built or refurbished
quality control laboratories and purchased equipment and reagents. Controlling the quality of
drugs in the private market remains an important issue. Substandard and illegal drugs were sold
on the private market at very low prices, though it is not known how prevalent this is. In all
cases where the SEDP drugs were being sold at cheaper prices in the private market, substandard
products were found.
3.4   Health worker skills improved as a result of training that occurred under the project.
5



Health workers in the public sector now prescribe and dispense almost exclusively in generic
drugs (though the same is not true in the private sector). The curricula for health workers
include the main elements of the essential drugs policy. It is not clear if prescribing patterns
have improved, as supervision of health workers is generally lacking. Improved skills should
have a longer-term positive impact in the sector.
3.5   Public information on essential drugs were spread through a variety of media. All States
were able to transmit radio jingles and television messages about EDPs, as well as produce and
distribute substantial amounts of printed materials for health facilities. The more successful
States worked through LGAs and community leaders to spread information about essential
drugs, and used plays, music, and other traditional means of communications on the use of
essential drugs. However, there is no baseline information on drug knowledge, and a formal
assessment of the impact of these communications efforts was not undertaken.
3.6   Institutionally, most of the SEDPs were set up as semi-autonomous units, though in
practice, this depended on the commitment of the State Administrator and Health
Commissioners or Director Generals. Most States plan to maintain or increase the semi-
autonomous status of the SEDP after project closing. Yet in a number of States, there remains
conflict between several public sector agencies involved in drug procurement, notably the
Hospital Management Boards (HMBs), and more recently, the Petroleum Trust Fund.
Nonetheless, the SEDPs have been replicated in most States of Nigeria.
3.7   The project provided training for EDP staff and managers in new technologies and skills
in drug management. The learning took place through workshops, interacting with the Bank
staff and other colleagues in the same field, and in actual use of skills and technologies in the
workplace. In the latter years, the SEDPs recognized the importance of fostering relations with
their immediate customers (i.e. health facilities). Improving communications and services to
their customers has helped SEDPs to increase sales and reduce the relative operating costs/sales.
The SEDPs under the project demonstrated that they are technically and managerially able to
procure, store, distribute, and market drugs, as well as provide public information and possibly
quality assurance services.
B.    SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
3.8   The total project cost of the project was estimated at appraisal to be US$85.1 million
with the Government contributing US$17 million. Loan cancellations prior to the closing date
totaled US$16.2 million. Total disbursements of the Loan as at December 18, 1997 were
US$35.2 million, with an outstanding balance of US$ 16.7 million. There remains a need to
correct a few outstanding payments totalling under US$200,000, so the remaining balance will
be canceled in January 1998. Government contributed US$3.7 million to the project.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.9   The project was signed on May 7, 1990, and became effective September 10, 1990. The
original amount of the loan was US$68.1 million. Implementation was monitored through
annual reviews of past performance, and annual work programs and budgets for each SEDP and
6



the FMOH. Nonetheless, implementation was very slow during the first three years of the
project life, particularly as new project States were created and assets were divided, staff were
reassigned, new institutions were formed, and new methods for managing pharmaceuticals were
being introduced. Major reviews of project objectives, design, and performance occurred in
1994 and 1995. The reviews affirmed the program and project objectives, though were not able
to resolve all the difficulties concerning efficient institutional systems for the SEDPs, nor among
competing public sector schemes for drugs (see below). Implementation improved between
1995-97 in most States, whereas the FMOH implementation continued to deteriorate until its
subproject was suspended, and then canceled in August, 1996. The loan was closed on time on
June 30, 1997. No application for extension of the project was made, by mutual agreement with
the borrower, largely out of a consideration to reduce the amount of IBRD debt of Nigeria.
D.    ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING MAJOR OBJECTIVES
3.10  Project achievements were constrained by a number of factors. Among those factors,
some are not generally subject to government control. The most significant of these are rapid
emergence of the private sector pharmaceuticals market and the increasing prominence of illegal
activities. The private sector has grown much more rapidly than the public sector during the
project and dominates drug sales in Nigeria. Although it was not known what the size of the
private sector was at the beginning of the project, it is now estimated that the private market
accounts for about $200 million in drug sales per year in Nigeria, of which about 60% are from
local manufacturers (International Medical Statistics, 1996). There are several hundred firms in
the market, with the top seven firms controlling only about 31% of the market. The amount of
private sector drugs sold may be as much as 40 times larger than the public sector sales in 1995
and 1996, not accounting for the additional smuggled, expired, or dumped drugs. The PTF
increased the amount of public sector drugs sold in 1997, though the amounts of their purchases
or their sales prices were not made available to the Bank. The emergence of the illicit drug
market (e.g. narcotics, cocaine, and other controlled substances) has also affected the
pharmaceuticals market. Pharmaceuticals have become a good commodity for laundering
money made on illicit drug sales. The magnitude and intensity of these illegal activities is
unquantified, but because it is essentially unregulated and commercially oriented (rather than
public health oriented), the public is still exposed to high cost, low efficacy drugs, many of
which are substandard or fraudulent. There are estimated to be over 35,000 patent medical
vendors in Nigeria, in addition to a large number of private pharmacies, and an uninformed
public with little disposable income. As distinct from the assessments made at the beginning of
the project, the problem at the end of the project is not an absolute shortage of drugs. Rather, the
available drugs are of largely unknown safety and efficacy, and there is little ability to protect
the public from these supplies, other than providing a small amount of alternatives through the
SEDPs. Other factors affecting the project outside the direct control of government include
significant amounts of civil disturbances, strikes, and fuel shortages, primarily between 1993-
1995, which impeded planning, monitoring, and the delivery of drugs. The management of
procurement and distribution remained hampered by poor communications and transportation
infrastructure in Nigeria, so that it was difficult to monitor the performance of individual
suppliers or needs of SEDP customers on a frequent basis.
3.11 A number of factors that are generally considered under government control also affected
the project. Unsound macroeconomic policies resulted in significant currency devaluation and
7



inflation, particularly between 1991-1996. This undermined the ability of DRFs to recover costs
until the exchange rates stabilized, and made pricing practice difficult. The failure of numerous
Nigerian banks also made access to project accounts difficult, and resulted in implementation
delays in a number of States (notably Kwara State). Continual turnover of State Governments
(about once every year) and sector Ministers (there were five federal Ministers of Health during
the project) and project staff significantly affected implementation. Probably the most consistent
determinant of the performance of the SEDPs and the FMOH was the level of government
commitment to the project. Commitment was demonstrated in the timely provision of
counterpart funds, ensuring that good project staff were retained, and in ensuring a relative
degree of autonomy to the SEDPs, while not creating conflict with other public sector
pharmaceutical agencies. Counterpart funds were often delayed in many States, though this was
largely resolved in the last years through the use of automatic deduction of funds at source. In
some States, such as Adamawa and Delta States, the level of government commitment fluctuated
between administrations, though they both ended up with fairly strong SEDPs. In States such as
Edo and Cross River, the SEDPs did not receive consistent support form their governments and
the projects suffered. In Edo State, the subproject was suspended in 1995 due to the continued
lack of counterpart funding and support for project management, though this was later lifted
when funds were supplied. Yet Edo SEDP was undermined as government continued to support
a parallel procurement system under the Hospital Management Board. In Cross River State, the
State administration at one time authorized the use of funds from the DRF and Special Account
for ineligible expenditures that did not support the project. Though the Special Account was
refunded, the money taken from the DRF account was never paid back. The recent provision of
drugs by the PTF has adversely affected the operation of the SEDPs. Large quantities of drugs
were provided, usually without appropriate quantification, upsetting the planning and
management of stocks. SEDPs are also expected to manage the logistics for PTF drugs in
parallel system, adding to their administrative burden. The price of PTF drugs, which were
initially higher than drugs procured by SEDPs, have since been priced well below their cost and
below SEDP prices, further undermining the pricing systems and financial sustainability of
SEDPs.
3.12   Corruption and inefficiencies adversely affected procurement activities, including
interference during bidding exercises. Several states received substandard drugs or drugs near
expiration, and even a drug which was not permitted in Nigeria. Some drugs and supplies
provided to the SEDPs were damaged during shipment and at the port due to poor containers.
The inspection agents who were appointed by the Nigerian government often failed to provide
accurate inspection reports. As a result, the project could not claim the compensation for their
loss from the suppliers. After taking into account of all the cost on clearance charges,
demurrage, deliveries, stock loss, bribery, mishandling at the port, as well as the costs for the
States to travel to the Ministry of Finance in Abuja (in most cases more than three times) to get
duty exemptions, the States did not always find ICB procured drugs cost-effective.
3.13   There were also a number of constraints subject to implementing agency control. In
most of the SEDPs, operating costs were high relative to sales, though these also improved in the
last year of implementation. In the early years, implementation procedures were not well known
to many of the SEDPs, and it took time to learn them. This was particularly true for
management of procurement, dealing with customers, and in dealing with customs procedures.
8



However, major problems came from the reliance on a poorly performing FMOH. The pre-
qualification of suppliers was done very slowly and inadequately, and was not maintained. As a
result, many reputable firms did not bother to enter the bidding for pharmaceuticals, and the pre-
qualification procedure needed to be dropped by the States. Other responsibilities of the FMOH
were not carried out, particularly for the new States, including the planned technical assistance
and training on management information systems. The technical assistance intended for training
and supervision on these systems was not allowed to continue by the FMOH for many years,
during which time the computer software and hardware became outdated and damaged due to
viruses and electrical fluctuations. By the last two years of the project, most SEDPs had
virtually started over again with computer hardware and computer training for staff, while the
use of indicators was re-started through annual meetings and Bank supervision, rather than
through the FMOH and the technical assistance planned for the project.
E.    ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER'S AND THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
3.14  The Borrower's performance was mixed. Implementing agencies which received the
most consistent support from State Military Administrators (or Governors) and Health
Commissioners were able to perform the best. State project staff in general performed very well
under difficult circumstances. The FMOH performance was highly unsatisfactory, and led to the
suspension and cancellation of the FMOH subproject. Unfortunately, some key aspects of the
SEDPs were dependent on support from the FMOH. This included a FMOH responsibility for
pre-qualifying drug suppliers, developing the management information systems, reviewing
essential drugs policies and EDLs, organizing technical assistance and training in procurement
and stock management, and leading implementation on drug quality assurance. As a result, the
States had to pick up some of some of these functions individually, resulting in a loss of time and
economies of scale.
3.15  The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. The Bank identified a project that
was clearly a high priority at the time, and contributed to the development of significant policy
changes. The Bank also took part in project design which overly specified implementation
details in a political and economic environment that was much less stable than had been
anticipated. Though this may not have been foreseen, the appraisal over-estimated the
continuation of commitment and stability, and placed too much reliance on the FMOH while
supporting an institutional structure for the Federal EDP that wasghardly destined to succeed.
The Bank did provide significant resources during supervision to solve implementation problems
flexibly, explore alternatives for implementation and institutional arrangements, define and meet
standards for project monitoring, and support project management. Nonetheless, SEDPs would
have preferred more on-site supervision, particularly to speed up implementation and better
manage the many changes in State Administrations.
F.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME
3.16   The Essential Drugs Project has produced mixed results. Most SEDPs have developed
the managerial and technical skills needed to be sustainable. Some SEDPs (e.g. Delta, Kwara
and Kogi) can be financially viable, provided that States continue to partly fund the operation of
SEDPs. Edo SEDP is operating at a loss and is clearly not sustainable if its current structure
remains. For others, the future is uncertain. Given the large existing private drug market and the
9



danger of decapitalizing their DRFs. Considering the overall dependence on borrower
commitment and need for ongoing public financing, the rapid turnover of policy-makers upon
whom the SEDPs depend, and the poor policy environment of Nigeria, the sustainability of the
project remains questionable.
3.17  The development objectives have been met to different degrees in all States. In the
majority of participating States, SEDPs have improved access to safe and affordable drugs and
strengthened their capacity to procure, store and distribute drugs. Delta, Kwara, and Adamawa
States clearly achieved more than others. Taraba and Kogi States were making steady progress
toward the end of the project. The achievement in Edo and Cross River SEDPs was very limited.
Implementation of the FMOH subproject was a failure, despite early achievements in policy
development and program design. On balance, though most of the project objectives were met in
a bare majority of States, the inability of the project to deal with larger factors threatening the
supply of safe, affordable, and effective drugs from the private and illegal markets, and the
uncertainty of its sustainability, point to an unsatisfactory outcome. Nonetheless, given the
economic and social environment that was present during the project, a better outcome would
have been improbable.
4.   SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
A.    IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.1   SEDPs have become acutely aware that securing political support from the State
Administrators and State Health Commissioners is vital to project implementation. Most SEDPs
are now being more persuasive to policy-makers, often by demonstrating the success of their
programs despite the poor conditions under which they operate. Another key finding is that
SEDPs have recognized that marketing to their customers, rather than operating in a traditional
civil service mode, will help to increase sales and improve efficiency.
4.2   The use of ICB was effective in obtaining low prices of quality drugs. However, the
trade-off was a significantly longer lead time for delivery and numerous difficulties in obtaining
duty exemptions and clearing customs. Pre-qualification of drug firms was not as successful as
expected, since it toQk over one year to complete, the list was not maintained, and the
requirements were such that substantial number of firms from Europe declined to participate. By
the fourth year, pre-qualification was abandoned by most States in favor of post-qualification
approaches. Unfortunately, greater economies of scale by combining State orders were never
achieved, and much effort was wasted in attempting to get different States to collaborate on
procurement. The repeated bifurcation of States (this happened three times in Nigeria during the
project period) probably mitigated against inter-State cooperation on procurement matters.
10



B.    FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY
4.3   The SEDPs, along with their respective State Ministries of Health, each prepared
operational plans outlining their strategies to carry on the work initiated by the project. The
coming of the PTF as a source of drugs is a new challenge to the SEDPs. The SEDPs are trying
to develop new approaches to consolidate public pharmaceuticals systems. However, the
success in merging these efforts remains to be seen. For the most part, the SEDPs have adopted
an approach of planning and review according to a regular cycle, using management indicators
developed under the project. However, with the shortages in foreign exchange, it is unlikely that
much ICB will be pursued by the SEDPs after the project period, which will likely increase their
costs. On the other hand, most SEDPs are getting more aggressive about marketing and
providing services to their customers, which bodes well for future operation.
4.4    With the current suspension of lending to the Nigerian government, it is difficult to
describe specific plans for Bank's support in the sector. Nevertheless, the Bank will continue to
work with the Nigerian counterparts to improve the health, nutrition, and population status of the
poor, and to enhance the performance of health care systems, as well as to secure sustainable
health care financing. If future strategy is to concentrate on areas where success is more likely,
than greater support would be given to selective States, rather than the FMOH, and with even
more vigilance paid to continued political support for the project. Before re-investing in public
drug supply systems in Nigeria, attention should be first given to assessing the dynamics of the
private pharmaceuticals sector, illegal drug flows, and their relationship with the SEDPs and
regulatory and enforcement bodies. Policy interventions affecting the private market should be
tested, but there is little point in proceeding as long as Government promotes conflicting public
drugs systems.
C.    LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR
4.5    Key lessons learned for future projects in the sector include:
(a)    A well defined project is an appropriate way to lend in a new area, as was done
under this project.
(b)   If the Borrower had allowed it, and had there been better incentives in the Bank
to make smaller loans, it also would have been better to start smaller and with
fewer States.
(c)    Baseline measurements are especially needed when introducing innovations to
better draw lessons.
(d)   Even under extremely difficult conditions, projects can be successful where there
are motivated and capable project staff, supportive supervision is given, attention
is paid to customers of the SEDPs, and efforts are made to securing ongoing
political support to a project. The design, appraisal, and supervision of projects
would benefit from a better understanding of the political economy. When
political support for a project is lacking (or where interference continues) over a
sustained period, project cancellation may be prudent. Project cancellation,
11



however, carries substantive costs to staff time and to continuation of
constructive dialogue with a Ministry.
(e)    Projects dealing with pharmaceutical systems should seriously assess the private
legal and illegal sub-sectors in the country as consideration of project design.
The appropriate roles for the state also need to be well thought out. Success in
public sector systems for pharmaceutical supplies does not assure that the
majority of the public will benefit, particularly when they compete with an
unregulated private market that has unfair advantages (illegal supplies and
activities, a lack of quality requirements, and an ill-informed consumer). An
environment that supports regulation and enforcement is required if intervention
through the private sector is to succeed. Tools to deal with these issues need to be
developed and tested.
(f)    Regular project review and re-planning are helpful, though projects need to have
an environment where they are able to take advantage of this flexibility.
(g)    The use of international competitive bidding resulted in cost-effective, safe and
affordable drugs when procured in large quantities, though also brought other
problems. It exposed the States to the international drug market and standards,
but required better communications infrastructure, and ability to deal with port
officials and suppliers. Other means of procurement are also needed because of
time constraints.
(h)    If the opportunity arises in our continued dialogue with Nigeria in the HNP
sector, attention should be given to assessing the dynamics of the private
pharmaceuticals sector, illegal drug flows, and their relationship with the SEDPs
and regulatory and enforcement bodies. Policy interventions affecting the private
market should be tested before re-investing in public supply systems, particularly
while Government continues to promote conflicting public systems.
12



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table IA:    Summary of Assessments
Table IB:    Key Assessments for Individual States
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 1O:    Bank Resources: Missions
1 3



Table IA: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                        El
Sector Policies                                                      El
Financial Objectives                 z                                E3                El
Institutional Development           E               l3               i                 i
Physical Objectives                 El                                El 0      
Poverty Reduction                                                     E                 El
Gender Issues                                       E                [1
Other Social Objectives             r               r3                 ]               I
Environmental Objectives            E               E                 El
Public Sector Management            E                                 E3                 El
Private Sector Development          E               E                 El
Other (specify)                     E               E                 El
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     Satisfactoy           Satisfactoy                Deficient
Identification                       n                                                  El 
Preparation Assistance               n                                                  El
Appraisal                           E                        El
Supervision                         E                                                   El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                 Satisfactory         Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                      El                                                  El
Preparation Assistance              E                                                   El
Appraisal                           E                        El
Supervision                         E]                       El
E. Assessment of Outcome                Satisfactory          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
Ol                       El
1 4



Table 1B: Key Assessments for Individual States
Adamawa   Cross River   Delta       Edo           Kogi        Kwara      Taraba
Institutional   Substantial  Negligible  Substantial  Negligible  Partial  Substantial  Partial
Development                                                               _
Project      Uncertain    Unlikely    Likely      Unlikely      Uncertain   Likely     Uncertain
Sustainability
Borrower     Satisfactory  Deficient  Satisfactory  Deficient   Deficient    Satisfactory  Deficient
Supervision
Perfonnance
Assessment of Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory
Outcome
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                  Purpose           |  Year of approval      Status
Preceding operations
Ln. 2503                  Sokoto Health                       1986            Closed
Ln. 2925                 Urban Infrastructure                 1988
Ln. 2963                  Highway Sector                      1988
Ln. 2985                  Lagos Water                         1988            Ongoing
Ln.3034                   Imo Health & Population             1989            Closed
Following operations
Cr. 2517                  Lagos Drainage & San                1993            Ongoing
Cr. 2485                  State Roads II                      1993            Ongoing
Cr. 2481                  Development Communication           1993            Ongoing
Cr. 2431                 Economic Management                  1993            Ongoing
Cr. 2415                  State Roads                         1993            Ongoing
Cr. 2372                  State Water I                       1992            Ongoing
Cr. 2353                  Environmental Manage                1992            Ongoing
Cr. 2261                  Agricultural Research               1992            Ongoing
Ln. 3451                  FADAMA                              1992            Ongoing
Cr. 3483                  Agriculture Tech.                   1992            Ongoing
Cr. 2238                  Population                          1991            Ongoing
Cr. 2191                  Primary Education                   1991            Ongoing
Ln. 3322                  Water Rehabilitation                1991            Ongoing
Ln. 3326                  Health Fund                         1991            Ongoing
Ln. 3183                 National Seed                        1990
Ln. 3238                 Oyo State Urban                      1990            Ongoing
Cr. 2139                  Federal Univ. Development           1990            Closed
1 5



Table 3: Project Timetable
I                   J        Date actual!
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned             latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  February 04, 1988       December 13, 1987
Preparation                                                            June 29, 1987
Appraisal                                                               May 1988
Negotiations                                                         January 30, 1989
Board presentation                                                   October 17, 1989
Signing                                                                May 7, 1990
Effectiveness                                                       September 10, 1990
Project completion                            June 30, 1997            June 30, 1997
Loan closing                                  June 30, 1997            June 30, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 1991   FY1992    FY1993    FY1994             FY1995    FY1996         FY1997    FY1998
Appraisal estimate         1.40       10.90       25.90       43.60        55.80       62.60       68.10
Actual                     6.10        6.10        8.28       16.65        20.76       24.92       30.10       35.18
Actual as % of          436%          56%         32%         38%          37%         40%         44%         52%
estimate
Date of final                                                                                               January,
disbursement 1                                                                                               1998
1 As of December 18, 1997, a small number of outstanding payments and special commitments totalling under
US$200,000 require correction or finalization. This should be done by January, 1998, and the residual balance of the
Loan canceled.
1 6



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Page I of 2
Nigeria Essential Drugs Project
Key Annual Monitoring Indicators - January, 1997
Adamawa   Cross River Delta        Edo         Kogi         Kwara       Taraba
I  Year End Management Report                        YES         YES         YES        YES         YES          YES         YES
2   Opening DRF Account (N) (Jan 1, 1996)            3,000,000    19,572,664  635,896    6,264,422   133,474     792,878      1,440,435
3   Closing DRF Account (N) (Dec 31, 1996)           5,024,800    6,193,683   840,762    9,474,372   296,870     1,566,214    1,580,037
4   1996 Opening CMS Stock Value (N) (Jan 1, 1996)   45,500,000   1,571,731   9,876,465   3,636,657   9,293,952    13,619,215   34,240,000
5   1996 Closing CMS Stock Value (N) (Dec 31, 1996)  79,727,783   4,461,219   58,480,269  32,570,952  39,240,265   22,229,191   41,441,558
6   Opening Cash + Accounts Receivable on Drug Sales (N)  500,000  340,203   2,514,315   2,133,234   1,092,457    3,914,717    1,676,305
(Jan 1, 1996)
7   Closing Cash + Accounts Receivable on Drug Sales (N)   1,050,000    368,788  5,394,920   7,434,439   5,958,020    4,462,888    1,580,037
(Dec 31, 1996)
8   Drug Seed Stock Additions in 1996 (N) (purchased from   40,500,000   4,607,610   58,195,478  44,000,000  37,592,051   8,093,642    19,111,196
Special Account, not from DRF)
9   Total Drugs Sales in 1996 (N) (annual)           24,500,000   1,435,721    18,687,395  8,114,536   12,855,122   5,314,897    8,059,902
10  Months Covered by Sales                          12          12          12          12         12           12           12
11  Monthly Sales (N) (9/10)                         2,000,000    119,643    1,557,283   676,211     1,071,260    442,908     671,658
12  Stock Turnover (months) (5/11)                   39.8months  37 months   37 months  48 months  37 months    58 months   62months
13  Total Non-Drug Costs (N) (in 1996)               3,200,000    35,029,458  15,211,296  15,000,000  10,536,013   7,997,394    21,021,395
14  Total Non-Salary Recurrent Costs (N) (in 1996)   2,300,000    3,049,000   4,931,267   5,753,268   3,138,013    3,000,587    19,370,025
15  Personnel Costs (N) (in 1996) (salaries + stipends)  900,000  1,620,458   1,715,994   1,912,081   1,252,728    948,500    1,651,145
16 Number of Staff                                   64          56          24          32         37           33           69
17  Total Recurrent Costs / Sales (%) ((14+15/9) (in 1996)    13.06%  325%   36%         71%        34%          74%          261%
18 Non-Salary Recurrent Costs / Sales (%) (14/9)     9.38%       212%        26%         47%        24%          56%          240%
19  Monthly Sales / Staff (11/16)                    50,000      2,136       64,887      21,132     28,953       13,452       9,734
20  Stock Loss / Year (compared to closing stock) (%)  NA        not known   2.2%        4.5%        0.0%        6.4%         13%
21  Annual Decapitalization (%)                      17.7%       70%         50%         54%        25%          (10)%        32%
[(2+4+6)-(3+5+7)+8)]/(2+4+6)                     __(4)%*                             _                       _
22  Stockouts of Indicator Drugs in Last Quarter (at CMS)    8/28  10/20     1/28        19/28      4/26         1 /217       __
* Delta State - the 1996 drugs working capital would have increased by 4%, but the DRF account was used instead of counterpart funds to cover clearing charges for
new drug purchases (N 6,965,156)



Page 2 of 2
Nigeria Essential Drugs Project
Key Monitoring Indicators - First Quarter, 1997
Adamawa   Cross River Delta         Edo         Kogi         Kwara       Taraba
I   First Quarter Management Report                  YES          YES         YES         YES        YES          YES          YES
2   Opening DRF Account (N) (Jan 1, 1997)             1,616,091    3,589,469   791,937    9,474,372   296,870      1,622,562    1,580,037
3   Closing DRF Account (N) (March, 1 1997)           3,822,654    3,853,010   2,458,106   10,443,000  948,690     2,392,840    1,128,857
4   1997 Opening CMS Stock Value (N) (Jan 1, 1997)    105,677,26   4,461,219   58,480,269  32,570,952  39,240,265   22,038,184   41,754,414
5_
5   1997 Closing CMS Stock Value (N) (March 1, 1997)  98,470,000   47,440,067  56,627,837  28,600,000  45,228,930   71,349,522   46,151,487
6   Opening Cash + Accounts Receivable on Drug Sales (N)  5,038,688    418,816  6,197,098   7,434,439   1,092,457    21,260,694   1,580,037
(Jan 1, 1997)
7   Closing Cash + Accounts Receivable on Drug Sales (N)  2,531,754    693,025  10,083,106  6,175,000   5,958,020    22,028,972   1,128,857
(March, 1, 1997)
8   Drug Seed Stock Additions in 1997 (N) (purchased from   0     42,914,653   1,328,640   0          2,829,513    50,039,287   6,769,550
Special Account, not from DRF)
9   Total Drugs Sales in the first quarter of 1997 (N)  7,658,695    586,517  5,768,554   3,000,000   3,566,773    1,159,654    2,071,608
10  Months Covered by Sales                          3            3months    3            3          3            3            3
oo  -   Monthly Sales (N) (9/10)                          2,551,898    195,505     1,922,851   1,000,000   1,188,924    386,551     690,536
12  Stock Turnover (months) (5/l 1)                  31           243         29          28         38           55           66
13  Total Non-Drug Costs (N) in the first quaater of 1997  567,325  734,958   716,661     756,844    2,634,003     1,839,766    779,085
14  Total Non-Salary Recurrent Costs (N) in the first quater  955,600  603,464  707,511   600,000    536,377      326,051      261,270
of 1997
15  Personnel Costs (N) from Jan. to March, 1997 (salaries   246,750  131,494  302,985    198,000    313,182      216,000      517,815
+ stipends)
16  Number of Staff                                  66           45          28          32         37           33           69
17  Total Recurrent Costs / Sales (%) ((14+15)/9) (in 1997)   19.9%  125      18%         29%        24%          47%          38%
18 Non-Salary Recurrent Costs / Sales (%) (14/9)      12.5%       103         12%         22%         15%         28%          13%
19  MonthlySales/Staff(ll/16)                        38,665       4345        68,673      31,250     32,133       11,714       10,008
20  Stock Loss / Year (compared to closing stock) (%)  NA         NA          <1%         <1%         <1%         2.3%         <1%
21  Annual Decapitalization (%)                       6.6%        (1%)        3%          8.6%       (21%)        (2%)         7.3%
[(2+4+6)-(3+5+7)+8)]/(2+4+6)                                 I           I_I_ I
22  Stockouts of Indicator Drugs in Last Quarter (at CMS)    8/25  4          1/28        19/28       1/26         1/27        NA



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study               appraisal/redefined       Status       Impact of study
1. DRF Cost Recovery -  Minimise of if possible      complete    Record of low
Kwara State          eliminate decapitalization of            leakages and losses.
DRF.
2. Rational Drug Use -    Educate the population and  complete    Awareness created
Kwara State           health workers on rational               among the users,
prescribing, administration              prescribers. More
and use.                                 precautions are now
in place.
3. Market Survey -      Price determination for      complete   Project pricing
Kwara State          effective price monitoring                method was
and management decision                  enhanced in favour
making.                                  of clients and
general market
strategy.
4. Supplier's Profile   Record genuine suppliers for   complete    Established database
Study - Kwara State   future patronage                        of categories of
suppliers.
5. Drugs Quality Survey-  Determnination of quality of  complete   Increased safety of
Kwara State          drugs procured.                          the life of clients.
6. Drug Utilization in the  Ascertain the degree of  complete    Confirmed the need
Health Facilities -  rational drug use in health              to educate
Delta State          facilities                                prescribers in
rational drug use.
7. Cost Effectiveness   Ascertain whether the        complete    The construction of
Study on Alternative    construction and                      the CMS was found
ways of Storage and    maintenance of the CMS is              to be more desirable
Distribution of Drugs-  more cost effective than               and has since been
Delta State          contracting out storage and               carried out.
distribution of drugs
8. Cost Effectiveness   Ascertain whether the        complete    The construction of
Study on Alternative    construction and                      the CMS was found
ways of Storage and    maintenance of the CMS is              to be more desirable
Distribution of Drugs-  more cost effective than               and has since been
Kogi State           contracting out storage and               carried out.
distribution of drugs
1 9



9. Market Surveys on    Compare EDP prices with     complete   Promoted patronage
Price - Taraba State   the market                            of EDP drugs.
10. Drug Supply        Decide on way forward in     complete   Yet to be seen.
Management - Edo     streamlining drug
State                management
11. Review of          Review the best strategy on  complete   Federal component
Pharmaceutical          way forward for EDP                     was cancelled and
Procurement - Federal    project, particularly in terrns        the report
Ministry of Health      of drugs procurement.                  recommendations
for future was not
followed up.
20



Table 7A: Project Costs
Item                  Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
1. Drugs seed stock                           39.70                          21.66
2. Vehicles, equipment, and                   8.59                            6.98
materials
3. Consultancy services,                      6.85                            3.12
fellowships, and studies
4. Civil work                                 3.03                            4.68
5. Project preparation grants for             0.58                            0.31
other states
6. Operating Costs                            4.76                            2.10
7. Base Costs                                 63.51
Contingencies
Physical                                  7.62
Price                                    13.98
TOTAL COSTS                          85.10                          38.85
Source: Project Files, States Completion Reports, and Bank Staff estimates.
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actuallatest estimate (US$M)
Source               Local costs Foreign costs  Total    Local costs Foreign costs Total
IBRD                   3.60         64.55       68.10                  35.18       35.18
Federal Government     6.70                      6.70     1.55                      1.55
State Government &
Local Government    10.30                       10.30    2.12                      2.12
TOTAL                 20.60         64.50        85.10    3.67         35.18       38.85
Source: Project Files, States Completion Reports, and Bank Staff estimates.
21



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                          COVENANT                          C = In Comp.             COMMENTS
LOAN AGREEMENT                                                               NC = Not in
Compi.
CP =Comp.
with Part.
NYD = Not
yet due
3.01                  FMOH to deposit in Project Account counterpart contribution  CP      Not relevant, FMOH component
for each quarter.                                                    cancelled.
3.03                  Government shall submit to the Bank a project performance   CP       Fulfilled as of todate. The latest reports
audit no later than 6 months after end of each fiscal year.          are not due.
3.04                  FMOH shall furnish to the Bank its annual work programs and  CP      Not relevant - FMOH component
budgets.                                                             cancelled, states complied.
3.04                  Borrower shall commence actions to assist hospitals in the  CD
effective provision of drugs.                                                                            l
3.04                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank proposal for updating of its  CD
ED list.                                                                                                 l
N)          4.01                   Government shall submit to the Bank annual audit of Special  CD
Accounts, Project Accounts and Drug Revolving Fund
Accounts.



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                          COVENANT                          C = In Comp.             COMMENTS
PROJECT                                                                 NC =Not in
AGREEMENT                                                                   Compl.
CP = Coup.
with Part.
NYD = Not
__yet due   ___
2.01 (d)              Paricipating states to employ eligible merchant banks for two  C     Arrangements tried, but dropped because
years.                                                               of non-performance.
2.01 (b)              Federal and State governments to provide in their annual    CD       Extent of fulfillment varies by State - Edo
budgets amnounts sufficient to cover counterpart contributions.      State deducts at source after suspension
based on SOEs.
Text Reference: Sch. I I  The States shall not revise their Essential Drugs Lists more  C
than once every year.
Text Reference: Sch. 1 2  The States ensure that only drugs listed on their Essential  C
(a)                   Durgs Lists shall be procured and financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
ri        Text Reference: Sch. 1 2  The States shall promptly pay into their Drug Revolving Fund,  CD  Other mechanisms agreed in principle for
w-4       (b)                    amounts adequate to cover the cost of drugs supplied by the          some States.
state to patients exempt from paying for such drugs.



Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                Planned                   Actual
Project Cycle
Staff       US$          Staff        US$
Weeks                    Weeks
('000)                   ('000)
Preparation to appraisal                           51.2         101.3
Appraisal                                          33.8         70.7
Negotiation through         -           -           32.9        75.4
Board approvall
Supervision*              48.0         86.1        268.2        549.1
Completion*               23.0         45.6         5.1         12.8
TOTAL                    71.0        131.7        391.2        809.3
Infornmaton available from FACT only for FY96-FY98.
24



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/   Number                 Specialized            Implemen.   Develop.
project cycle       year        of                staff skills             Status    objectives
i _____________________    ________  persons           represented
Through appraisal       8/87         4       PHN, PI, HS, PhS, 00, PhS, IS,
7/87        4       PHN, PH, HS, PhS, 00, A, PhS,
Appraisal through                            PhS, PSM
Board
9/88        3       PHN,PhS,HS
Board through
effectiveness
12/89       5        PHN,PI,PhS,00(2)
Supervision             7/90         5       PHN,FM,PI,A                          2           I
11/90       4        HS(2), A,PHN,PhS                    2            1
8/91        5       PHN,PhS,A,HS,F                       2            1
11/91        5       A,MM,PHN,PhS;FS                     2            1
4/92        7       PHN,PI,PSM, PhS, HFA, FM, A          2           2
11/92       5        PHN,PH,O0,PO,PhS
7/93        6       PHN,PH,00,HFA,PhS,A                  2            2
9/93        6       PSM,A,TM,HFA,PH                      2            I
11/93        4       PHN,PH,00,PO
11/94        6       PH,PA,00,MM,PHN,PhS                 U            S
4/95        2       PhS,00                               U           S
10/95        3       PH,PhS, HE
11/95        5       PA,PhS,PO,00,PH                     U            U
5/96        4       00,PH,PhS,PA                         U           U
6/96        4       00,PA,PH,HE,                         U           S
11/96        3       00,PA,PH                            U            S
2/97        5       HE,PH,PA(2),00                       U           S
Completion              6/97         3       HE,PA,00                            U            S
*Key to Specialized Staff skills: A=Architect; PHN=Population, Health and Nutrition Specialist; FM=Financial Management
Specialist; PhS= Pharmaceutical Specialist; PI=Project Implementation Spec;HS=Health Spec.; MM=ManagementtMIS
Spec.;PSM=Public Sector Management Consultant;TM=Task Manager; HFA=Health Fin/Accountant; PH=Public Health Spec.;
OO=Operations Officer; PO=Procurement Officer, PA=Procurement Analyst; HE=Hcalth Economist
2 5






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
[Ln. 3125-UNI]
APPENDICES
A. Mission Aide-memoire
B. Summary of Borrower's Contribution to the ICR






AIDE MEMOIRE
NIGERIA ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT (EDP)
(LN 3125-UNI)
Project Implementation Completion Mission
November 10-21, 1997
Introduction
1.    A World Bank team consisting of Hong Chen (Procurement Analyst) and Shiyan Chao
(Health Economist and mission leader) conducted the project implementation completion
mission from November 10-2 1, 1997. Mr. Bayo Awosemusi from the Nigeria Resident Mission
participated in part of the mission. The main objectives of this mission were to evaluate the
overall performance of the project; complete the Project Implementation Completion Report
(ICR); and review the operational plans.
2.    The mission visited Edo, Delta, Kogi and Kwara States and discussed with government
and project staff their evaluation of project performance and the sustainability. The mission
visited the Central Medical Stores and Quality Control Laboratories in the four states. The
mission also met with Adamawa, Cross River and Taraba State EDPs in Abuja on November 17
and reviewed their evaluation reports and operational plans for the future. The mission shared
the draft ICR with the EDP states and sought their comments and suggestions. A workshop was
held in Abuja on November 18 and 19, 1997 to review the draft ICR and discuss the operational
plans among all the EDP states. Seven State EDPs provided their evaluation reports and their
operational plans, summaries of which will be attached to the ICR.
3.    The mission wishes to express its appreciation to the Honorable Commissioners for
Health, Director Generals, the officials and staff from state EDPs for their hospitality and support
to the program. The mission also recognizes the commitment and hard work demonstrated by
many EDP staff during the implementation of the EDP.
4.    This Aide Memoire summarizes the overall assessment of the project performance and
key issues discussed during the review meeting.
Project Overview
5.    The objectives of this project were to support the Federal Government of Nigeria to
ensure that: (a) the public has access to a sustainable supply of safe, effective and affordable
drugs; (b) the skills of health workers in providing drugs are improved; (c) patients and the



public are educated in the proper use of drugs; and (d) the capacity of participating institutions
responsible for carrying out the essential drugs programs are strengthened.
The overall opinion from the review meeting and discussions during the mission visits are that
the project has generated numerous benefits to the participating State EDPs:
*  Drug storage and distribution capacities were strengthened. Seven SEDP constructed or
renovated Central Medical Stores and provided vehicles for drug distribution.
*  Procedures for selection, quantification and procurement of drugs were developed and
implemented. EDP staff have been trained on how to quantify the needs for drugs and how to
procure drugs through international and national competitive bidding.
*  Ability to test drug quality has been improved. All the SEDPs have procured civil works and
equipment for establishing quality control laboratories and trained lab technicians. Kwara's
quality control lab has already been put in use. It allows Kwara EDP not only to test the
drugs they procured, but also to provide services to other agencies.
*  Technology on drug management such as inventory control and managing drug revolving
funds was introduced and practiced. As a result, stock-outs of essential drugs was
significantly reduced in the participating states.
  All the participating states have essential drugs policies, and operate based on essential drugs
lists. Because of the project, more essential drugs of better quality are available to
population in the participating states.
6.    In spite of the above mentioned positive results, the overall impact of the project on the
pharmaceuticals sector in Nigeria was limited. During the past few years, there has been a
substantial increase in the drug supply by the private sector and other sources, such as provision
of drugs by the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF). The provision of US$19.5 million worth of drugs in
five years from the project is very small compared with the total drug sales in the private market.
Factors Affecting Project Performance
7.    Project implementation was slow. Bifurcation of the States, and frequent changes in State
Administrators and Health Commissioners hampered implementation of the project. Lack of
commitment from some governments and delays in releasing counterpart funds led to delays and
cancellation of some project activities. Institutional structures did not provide State EDPs enough
autonomy from the civil service, and conflicts with Hospital Management Boards or PTF drug
supplies caused inefficiency and wastage in the system. Inefficiencies and the high costs of
clearance charges at the ports cause delays, stock loss, and cost overruns. Poor communications,
lack of information, and transport capabilities made procurement, marketing, and monitoring
difficult and expensive.
2



Sustainability Issues
8.    Sustainability of EDP. During the period of project implementation, the private sector in
the pharmaceutical area has grown much more rapidly than the public sector. The public sector
only contributes a small fraction of the drug market and the private sector dominates drug sales
in Nigeria. The private pharmaceutical market has greatly increased the availability of drugs to
the public. However, it also increased the amount of low quality drugs, some are substandard or
fraudulent. The EDPs are facing difficulties in competing with the private sector and other
public drug supply system such as PTF drug supply. Most recently, due to a large quantity of
drugs provided by PTF to the states, the EDP states are facing the problem of oversupply of
drugs. Central Medical Stores in Kogi, Taraba, Adamawa were full of both PTF and EDP drugs
and some of them are near expiration. Adamawa already suffered a loss of N43 million from
expiration of drugs and reduction of sale prices. Sales of EDP drugs in most states were reduced
in the second quarter of 1997. Most of the EDPs could not reach out LGA facilities, therefore
their supply coverage is limited, which, in turn, reduces their profit margins. The available data
on decapitalization indicates that without subsidization, most state EDPs are clearly not
sustainable.
9.    Collaboration with PTF. PTF has become a major drug supplier for the public health
facilities in 1997. All the EDP states, except Kwara, have been receiving PTF drugs. States have
different arrangements for handling PTF drugs. For example, Kogi State has established a
committee including consultants for PTF and EDP staff. Such a committee makes decisions on
the drug sales and prices for PTF and EDP drugs. During the review meeting, it was agreed that
collaboration with PTF is an important element for sustaining the EDP and preventing costly
duplication and wastage. EDP states recommend that PTF drugs should be channeled through
the state EDPs.
10.  Institutional Arrangements for EDP. Since the project closed in June 30, 1997, all the
state EDPs have continued to be semi-autonomous and operate under the State Ministry of
Health. The state governments continue to pay the salaries of the EDP staff and some states
continue to provide funds to cover operating costs. Kogi State is restructuring its EDP program
and making it more business orientated. All the EDPs recognized that the political support from
the state government is critical to sustain the programs.
11.   The EDP states recognized that past review meetings to share the experiences and
strategies have a positive impact on their work and agreed to continue such activities even
though the project has closed. The EDP states will take turns in organizing such meetings. The
next meeting is scheduled to be held in Adamawa State in February 1998.
Lessons Learned
12.   This project is the only free-standing pharmaceutical project among Bank assisted
projects. Many lessons can be drawn from its five-year implementation experiences. State
EDPs' assessment on key lessons learned from the project were discussed during the review
meeting and are summarized below:
3



*  Political support from the government for a project is critical to its success and sustainability.
The States where there has been less political support from State Administrators or Health
Commissioners, perform poorly and are unlikely to be sustained;
*  The level of commitment and managerial skills of the implementation agency makes a big
difference in project outcomes. The outcomes from seven EDP states indicated that project
staff, especially the managers' level of commitment and their managerial skills are key
factors to the success of the project;
*  A certain degree of autonomy for the implementation agency would increase efficiency and
accountability. The failure of the Federal EDP was largely due to its institutional
arrangements and lack of autonomy;
*  Regular project review and supervision had a positive impact on the implementation. All the
EDP states agreed that the supervision visits have been a good learning experience for the
EDP management team, accelerating implementation;
* The use of international competitive bidding allows the states, in most cases, to get cheaper
and quality drugs when procured in large quantities. However, the states have experienced
enormous problems and difficulties during their ICB exercises. There are both external and
internal problems. Some suppliers, notably Tablets India and American Remedies, provided
substandard drugs or drugs near expiration. Some drugs and supplies were damaged during
shipment and at the port. Some major internal problems are poor performance of the
inspection agents, high costs of clearance charges, difficulties in obtaining duty exemptions.
After taking into account all the cost on demurrage, deliveries, stock loss, bribery, mis-
handling at the port, as well as the costs for the states to travel to Abuja to get one duty
exemption, the states do not always find ICB cheaper than locally procured drugs.
Audits Status
13.   The audit reports have indicated some serious problems in the project management and
use of the funds such as the ineligible use of the Drug Revolving Funds. The Bank provided its
comments to the 1996 audit reports to the EDPs and urged them to follow up on the
recommendations.
4



Page 1 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT'S REPORTS
I.    The overall objective of the Essential Drugs Project was to provide a sustainable
supply of safe, effective and affordable drugs on a continuous basis, at all levels of the
health care delivery system. The drug supply had been hampered by: (i) declining
financial resources for procurement of drugs, particularly at the Local Government Area
(LGA) level; (ii) poor skills of health works in drug management, including prescribing
and dispensing; (iii) misinformation and inappropriate practices on the part of the
patients; and (iv) institutional weaknesses in the drug supply.
2.    The accomplishment of the overall project objectives is a product of the sum of
various accomplishments in the areas where problems had been identified. In
summarizing the performance of the seven states (Adamawa, Cross River, Delta, Edo,
Kwara, Kogi, Taraba) participating in the Essential Drugs Project, it is best to first review
the achievements of the project. For the majority of the seven states, program
achievements included the following:
* Providing a sustainable supply of safe, effective, and affordable generic nomenclature
drugs.
* Obtaining drug seed stock to serve as working capital.
* Development of improved systems for selecting, procuring, storage, and distribution
of drugs.
* Strengthening of the procedures for assuring drug quality.
* Institution of cost recovery and establishment of Drug Revolving Funds (DRFs).
*  Institution of a program aimed at improving the skills of health workers through
training, workshops, and seminars.
* Full reports are available in the Africa Information Services Center.



Page 2 of 3
* Implementation of a public enlightenment program.
*  Strengthening institutional capacity.
3.    Project sustainability is expected, provided the problem of decapitalization
resulting from expiration and price adjustments can be overcome. This major difficulty
plagues all seven states, and there appears to be a general concern that any advances made
under the program will be lost unless the decapitalization question is resolved.
4.    Despite this optimism, the Program was not without its setbacks. Chief among
them were the difficulties involved with procurement through international competitive
bidding (ICB). Several state reports note that the expected savings were not as high as
anticipated due to costs such as exchange rates and bank, port, and clearing fees. The
program also was subjected to unscrupulous suppliers, primarily from India and Egypt,
who provided substandard drugs, which resulted in delays in implementation. The
program also suffered from a lack of LGA participation (no clear guidelines were given
in the program documents which would ensure their participation), Federal Government
support from one administration to the next, and the inability of the Federal Government
to meet its counterpart funding obligation. Finally, the local markets appear to be flooded
with pharmaceuticals from questionable sources which has hindered the use of
Government drug stocks.
5.    Specific evaluations of the Borrower's performance were, for the most part, not
included in the reports. However, the states' reports are quick to point out two
shortcomings of the Bank: difficult procurement procedures, and lapses in
communication. Several reports also drew attention to the fact that program
implementation improved in the periods immediately following Bank supervision
missions, and they would have liked more frequent missions to have taken place. The
Kogi State report suggests that the Bank should have financed "at least a percentage of
staff remuneration to improve efficiency and staff morale".



Page 3 of 3
6.    The main lessons learned cited in the reports includes the following:
*  It is necessary to apply techniques which more closely resemble those of the private
sector: autonomy, cost reduction, client satisfaction, planning, and informed
decisions.
*  Continuous advocacy with policy makers to obtain support for both financial backing
and the introduction of necessary changes is needed.
*  Health facilities staff need to be treated as clients, and not just selling points.
*  Autonomy in staff matters is critical.



