*             Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
i-A  3/ -JuJ
Report No. 7428-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
AUGUST 10, 1989
Western Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be di-closed without World Bank authorization.



CURkENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
US$1.00 = N7.00
(The exchange rate has been moving up and down as the result of biweekly and,
more recently, daily sales; the above rate approximates the average for the
period between late 1988 and mid-1989 and was consequently used for costing
this project.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMS       -    Central Medical Store
CPU       -    Central Procurement Unit
DAC       -    Drug Advisory Committee
DFDAC     -    Dept. of Food and Drug Administration and Control
DHST      -    Department of Hospital Services and Training
DPHC      -    Department of Primary Health Care
DRF       -    Drug Revolving Fund
ED        -    Essential Drug
EDP        -    Essential Drugs Program
EDU       -    Essential Drugs Unit
FGN       -    Federal Government of Nigeria
FMOH      -    Federal Ministry of Health
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IEC       -    Information, Education, and Communication
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
LGA       -    Local Government Area/Local Government
Administration
MB        -    Merchant Bank
PHC       -    Primary Health Care
SEDP      -    State Essential Drugs Program
SHMB      -    State Health/Hospital Management Board
SMOH      -    State Ministry of Health
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditure
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
WHO        -    World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................................  iv
I .   INTRODUCTION .........................................               1
II.  THE DRUG SUPPLY SUBSECTOR     ................................        1
A.  Overview of Nigeria's Health Sector .......     ..................   1
B.  Issues in the Drug Supply Subsector .......     ..................   4
C.  Government's Policies and Strategies .......     .................   6
D.   The Bank's Sectoral Strategy ............ ....................   8
E.   Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Drug Supply Subsector..  10
III. THE PROJECT.11
II. TH  PRJEC  ......................................................  1
A.   Project Objective and Scope ..........    .......................  11
B.   Project Description .........................................  12
Developing an Affordable and Sustainable
Supply of Safe Drugs . ......................................  12
Improving the Skills of Health Workers in
Providing Drugs ............................................  15
Changing the Practices of Beneficiaries ......    ...............  17
Strengthening Institutional Capacity to
Undertake EDPs .............................................   18
C.   Project Costs and Financing ..........    .......................  20
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...........................................  22
A.   Status of Project Preparation ........     ....................... 22
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions
to Nigeria in November 1987 and May-June 1988. The missions consisted of D.
Radel (senior population and health specialist, mission leader), J.
Barrientos* (project adviser), L. Domingo (demographer), V. Kumar
(pharmaceuticals specialist), K. Mojidi (population, health, and nutrition
specialist, Resident Mission, Lagos), A. Adedeji** (architect, consultant), S.
Gothoskar** (drug quality assurance specialist, consultant), J. Hasfeldt
(essential drugs specialist, consultant), G. Lee (public sector finance
specialist, consultant), E. Rosenberg* (economist/implementation specialist,
consultant), and J. Satia** (public sector management specialist, consultant).
D. Radel and L. Domingo prepared the report; and R. Kirubaidoss, A. Keck, and
K. Amatayakul assisted in its processing.
*Pre-appraisal mission only                           **Appraisal mission only
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page
B.   Project Management and Coordination                ..                22
State and Local Government EDPs .....................  23
The Federal Government's EDP .....................  25
Operation of Drug Revolving Funds .....................  26
Project Monitoring and Reporting .....................  26
C.   Procurement .................................................  27
D.   Disbursements .........              ............   30
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................  33
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..........          ...........  34
A.   Agreements Reached .....................   34
B.   Conditions .....................   36
C.   Recommendation .....................  36
ANNEXES
2-1  Comparative Indicators of Population, Health, and Nutrition
Status for Nigeria and Selected Countries
2-2 Composite Outpatient Morbidity Profile for a Northern State
2-3  Structure of the Federal Ministry of Health (Organigram)
2-4  Structure of Health Agencies in a Typical State (Organigram)
2-5  Percentage of Recurrent Health Expenditures Allocated to
Personnel, Federal and Selected States and LGAs, 1981-85
2-6  Main Issues in the Drug Supply Subsector
2-7  Local Production of Pharmaceuticals in Nigeria
2-8  Agreed Contents of a State Essential Drugs Policy
2-9  The Drug Supply Subsector: Issues, Corrective Government
Actions, and Bank Requirements
3-1  Summary Characteristics of the Four Participating States:
Bendel, Cross River, Gongola, and Kwara
3-2  Criteria for Phasing in LGAs
3-3 Detailed Description and Implementation Arrangements--
Bendel State Subproject
3-4  Detailed Description and Implementation Arrangements--
Cross River State Subproject
3-5 Detailed Description and Implementation Arrangements--
Gongola State Subproject
3-6 Detailed Description and Implementation Arrangements--
Kwara State Subproject
3-7  Illustrative State Essential Drugs List
3-8  Estimation of Working Capital Requirements
for Drug Revolving Funds
3-9  Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Category



- $ii -
Annexes (cont'd)
4-1 Preparation Studies and Pre-Implementation Systems Development
4-2 Main Functions in Project Implementation of the Essential
Drugs Unit, Department of Primary Health Care, Federal
Ministry of Health
4-3 Structures of the Three Federal Ministry of Health Departments
Responsible for Project Implementation (Organigrams)
4-4 Outline of Guidelines for Subproject Implementation
4-5 Agreed Responsibilities of Merchant Banks and other Financial
Institutions under the Project
4-6 Provisions of a Typical Agreement between a State and
Its LGAs under the Project
4-7  Operation of Drug -Revolving Funds
4-8 Provisional Indicators for Monitoring Project Implementation
4-9 Basic Procedures for Procurement of Drugs
4-10 Summary of Consultancies
4-11 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4-12 Setting Up ar dLiective Cost Recovery System:
An Operational Definition
4-13 Overview of Accounts Being Established under the Project
5-1 Projected Drug Prices under the Project as Percentage
of Current Prices
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAP
IBRD 21180 - Location of Project States and Major National Activities



- iv -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Beneficiaries: Bendel, Cross River, Gongola, and Kwara States, including their
local governments; and the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH).
Loan Amount:   US$68.1 million equivalent.
Terms:          Payable over 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
variable interest rate 1982.
Relending       Up to US$41.2 million equivalent would be relent to the
Terms:          State Governments by the Federal Government on the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan, with the states bearing the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:   The overall objective of the project is to support Liigeria's
plans, under its new national essential drugs policy, to ensure
that the public, particularly low-income groups, has access to
a sustainable supply of safe, effective and affordable drugs.
Due to significant demand, limited budgetary resources and high
prices, most public health facilities have had little or no
drugs in recent years. The project would enable the health
agencies of the participating states and their local
governments, as well as the Federal hospitals, to overcome this
problem and implement the national essential drugs policy by
reorienting, consolidating and strengthening existing drug
supply efforts. This restructuring--and hence the project--
entails four main strategies which correspond to those of the
national policy and address the major issues in the subsectot:
(a) developing an affordable and sustainable supply of safe
drugs, (b) improving the skills of health workers in providing
drugs, (c) changing the harmful practices of beneficiaries, and
(d) strengthening institutional capacities to undertake
essential drugs programs (EDPs).
To develop an affordable and sustainable supply of safe drugs,
the project w-ould provi   sced _t'z'hs of th.se dr-gs (known ae
"essential drugs") needed to prevent or cure the diseases most
commonly suffered by Nigerians; improve the systems for
selecting, procuring, storing and distributing drugs;
strengthen procedures for assuring drug quality; and institute
cost recovery and drug revolving funds to help ensure program
sustainability. To improve the skills of health workers in
managing drug supply and in prescribing and dispensing drugs,
the project would support in-service training, reorient the
curricula of basic training institutions, and strengthen drug
information services for practitioners. To change the harmful



- v -
beliefs and practices of clients regarding drugs and to help
them understand the reasons for charging for drugs, the project
would develop educational materials and support public
information campaigns. Finally, to strengthen the
institutional capacity at the three levels of government to
support and implement EDPs, the project would finance
additional staff and technical assistance in critical fields,
especially financial management; undertake special stidies; and
finance the preparation of EDPs in additional states. The
project would be implemented in four states, one in each of the
country's health zones, and in all major urban areas served by
the 18 Federal hospitals. Guidelines and systems developed
under the project would be available to other states, which
could obtain the required financing under possible follow-on
projects.
Proiect
Benefits
and Risks:      The principal benefit of the project would be the availability
to the public in four states and in major urban areas in other
states of a sustainable supply of safe, effective and
affordable drugs. Assuming that 60Z of the population has
reasonable access to public health services, about 12 million
Nigerians would potentially benefit from the project. As a
result of the efficient procurement, storage, distribution and
prescription of drugs introJuced through the project, the
public would pay less than 50Z of present costs for drugs and
aiso be assured of better quality. A reliable supply of drugs
would, in turn, increase the credibility and ultimately the
impact of the public sector's major preventive and promotive
health programs such as maternal and child health and family
planning. EDPs are not without risks, however, particularly in
light of the strong vested interests in this subsector. To
reduce this risk, each state has agreed to several critical
reforms. Another major risk is that the drug revolving funds
may be "decapitalized" due to poor management or unanticipated
losses, thereby reducing sustainability. To reduce this risk,
special attention has been paid to designing effective
financial management systems and controls, including
appropriate pricing policies, the implementation of which would
be supervised by experienced local financial institutions. In
addition, loan proceeds would not be released for drug
purchases until adequate cost-recovery systems are in place and
health workers at all levels have been trained to operate them.
Economic Rate
of Return:      Not applicable.



- vil -
Summary of Project Costs and Financing
Estimated Project Costs:
Local         Foreign        Total
--(US$ millions)---------
1. Developing an Affordable and
Sustainable Supply of Safe Drugs            9.0            43.9          52.9
2. Improving the Skills of Health
Workers in Providing Drugs                  3.4             1.5            4.9
3. Changing th_.. Practices of
Beneficiaries                               0.3             0.3            0.6
4. Strengthening the Institutional
Capacity for Supporting EDPs                3.4             1.7            5.1
Total Base Costs                           16.1            47.4           63.5
Physical Contingencies                      1.1             6.5            7.6
Price Contingencies                         3.4            10.6           14.0
Total Project Costs                        20.6a/          64.5           85.1a/
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign    Total       Percent
------(US$ millions)-------
Federal Government               6.7           -          6.7          7.9
State and Local Governments    10.3            -         10.3         12.1
World Bank                        3.6        64.5        68.1         80.0
Total                           20.6a/       64.5        85.1        100.0
Estimated Loan Disbursements:
World Bank Fiscal Year
1991     1992     1993      1994     1995    1996      1997
…---------… --…------…(US4 millions)-
Annual        1.4      9.5      15.0      17.7     12.2      6.8      5.5
Cumulative   1.4      10.9      25.9      43.6     55.8    62.6      68.1
a/ Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$2.7 million equivalent.
Western Africa Department
Population & Human Resources Operations Division
August 10, 1989



NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01         Hpalth services in Nigeria have been severely handicapped by an
acute shortage of drugs needed for preventing and c *ing the diseases most
commonly suffered by Nigerians. This problem has reached crisis proportions
in recent years, particularly in the public sector, with the most serious
constraints occurring at the primary health care (PHC) facilities operated by
local govern-ments. The main reasons for the shortage of essential drugs are:
major cutbacks in public expenditures on health following the decline in oil
revenues; pervasive inefficiencies in selecting, procuring, storing and
prescribing drugs; and the increased cost of drugs due to exchange rate
adjustments undertaken as part of the country's structural adjustment.
Besides compromising most treatments, the frequent lack of drugs in many
public health facilities has other adverse effects; these include a major
decline in facility utilization rates with a concomitant increase in
self-medication, demoralization of health workers, and a loss of public
confidence in important preventive programs such as maternal and child health.
Alternative private sector sources of these vital preventive services are
limited, and while the private outlets have a more reliable drug supply, they
are generally unaffordable to the poor and limited to urban areas. Recently,
as a result of the growing demand for reasonably priced drugs and the
Government's declining capacity to monitor drug quality, adulterated and fake
drugs have begun flooding the market, often with harmful consequences.
1.02          In 1987 the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) declared its
intention to meet this crisis by establishing a National Essential Drugs
Programme, which would reform or strengthen drug supply and quality assurance
at all levels and introduce equitable cost recovery. The Government is
seeking the Bank's assistance in financing this high-priority program through
the proposed Essential Drugs Project. The project would be implemented by the
Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) and four states representing about 15% of
Nigeria's population.
II. THE DRUG SUPPLY SUBSECTOR
A. Overview of NigerLa's Health Sector
2.01          Health status and trends.  Data on mortality and morbidity in
Nigeria, although unreliable and incomplete, point to health conditions that
despite improvements since independence are poor by international standards.
By 1985, life expectancy had reached 50 years, up from 39 years in 1960 but
eight years below the average for countries with similar per capita incomes
and close to the levels prevailing among Nigeria's poorer neighbors. (See
Annex 2-1 for comparative socioeconomic indicators.) This low life expectancy
is largely the result of high infant mortality and child death rates,
estimated at 110 and 21 per 1,000, respectively. Maternal mortality is



- 2 -
likewise high. Among the major sources of Nigeria's high mortality are
infectious and parasitic diseases: in 1981 about 80% oi reported deaths were
due to measles, malaria, pneumonia and diarrhea--all readily treatable or
preventable. Similarly, the profile of outpatient attendance for a typical
state (Annex 2-2) shows that half of the patients suffer from three readily
treatable problems: malaria (30Z), diarrhea (10Z), and respiratory diseases
(10Z). Frequent pregnancies and closely spaced births--Nigeria's total
fertility rate is nearly seven--contribute to the high mortality and morbidity
rates among mothers and children. The available data also point to the
existence of serious nutritional problems, especially among children, one
survey revealing that one-fifth to one-half of children in various communities
are moderately to severely malnourished.
2.02          Organization ot the sector.  The structure of Nigeria's health
sector is complex, with responsibility for services and programs shared con-
currently by all three government levels--Federal, state and local--along with
an active private sector. Overall responsibility rests with FMOH, which
establishes national health policies and guidelines and monitors the state and
local programs and, to a limited extent, the private sector. FMOH also has
direct responsibility for operating national health institutions such as
hospitals and laboiatories (e.g., for testing drug quality), monitoring
communicable diseases, setting uniform standards for training health
personnel, and controlling drugs and vaccines. Reorganized in mid-1988, the
Ministry now has eight departments (organigram is at Annex 2-3). The
Department of Primary Health Care (DPHC), in particular, works closely witr.
the states and local governments; to facilitate this effort, FMOH has divided
the country into four health zones (IBRD Map No. 21180), each with a small
zonal support team. Formal linkage between FMOH and the states occurs through
the National Council on Health, chaired by the Federal Minister of Health and
composed of the State Commissioners of Health. In each of the 21 states,
major responsibility for policy-making, planning and training rests with a
State Ministry of Health (SMOH), headed by the commissioner. Also typically
reporting to the commissioner, but sometimes to the governor, is a State
Health (or Hospital) Management Board (SHMB); it operates the state's
hospitals, health centers and clinics, and usually also provides logistical
support for the state's programs, especially Grug supply. (Annex 2-4 shows
the structure of a typical state health program.) Each state is divided, on
average, into 14 local government areas, under Local Government
Administrations (LGAs). Headed by a Health and Social Welfare Councilor, a
typical LGA health program has two main elements: (a) PHC services, including
immunizations, maternal and child health care, and basic treatment; and (b)
public health inspections and sanitary services. With the growing emphasis on
PHC, the state agencies, as well as FMOH, are beginning to provide some
technical supervision and financial support to LGAs, but for the purchase of
drugs LGAs are still largely dependent on their own resources. Many important
health activities take place outside the public sector. With the support of
traditional leaders, communities in many areas have undertaken health
development activities, some of substantial magnitude. There is also a
variegated private sector, which includes church-related health services,
private practitioners (modern and traditional), pharmacies, and unlicensed
drug vendors.
2.03         Health services.  Nigeria's health delivery system consists of
an extensive network of relatively well-staffed public and private facilities.



About 802 of them are in the public sector; the private facilities are
concentrated in the south. In 1983, the last year for which data are
available, primary care was provided by about 3,700 health clinics and
dispensaries, and basic maternal care by some 2,700 maternity centers and
homes. Secondary care was provided by approximately 700 health centers
(average of less than 10 beds) and by nearly 800 general hospita'ls (average of
60 beds), although the outpatient services of these facilities basically offer
primary care. Tertiary care was available at a dozen large teaching hospitals
(average of over 500 beds) and about 30 specialized liospitals. In the
deployment of health manpower, Nigeria has made major strides over the past
decade.  The number of doctors, for instance, increased from about 4,900 in
1976 to nearly 14,800 a decade later, resulting in a doctor-to-population
ratio of about 1:6.750, comparable to that of many middle-income countries.
During this same period the number of nurses more than doubled to about
93,000, and the number of pharmacists increased by two-thirds to about 3,600.
By 1985 there were also over 19,000 community health workers--a new cadre
introduced in 1979 to provsAe PHC services. Nigeria has a wealth of health
training institutions, incluv'ing 12 medical and six pharmacy faculties
(Federal), 167 nursing and midwifery schools (Federal and state), and about 20
state schools of health technology responsible for training community health
workers and other auxiliaries, including pharmacy technicians.
2.04         Overall issues in the sector.  The paramount issue in the health
sector is the declining quality and consequently the reduced use of health
services stemming from the financial constraints imposed on public funding
following the decline in the country's oil revenues. In real terms, Federal
per capita expenditures on health fell by over 60Z between 1981 and 1985,
while state expenditures fell by about 45%. Initially, as capital projects
were postponed or cancelled, these fiscal constraints resulted in recurrent
costs assuming a larger proportion of the health budget and the impact on
health services was limited. As the cuts in public funding became more
severe, however, personnel costs, which tend to be highly inflexible, soon
claimed a disproportionate share of recurrent budgets; in Oyo State, for
example, non-personnel costs decreased from 352 of the 1981 budget to less
than 7% by 1984, as shown in Annex 2-5. In some LGAs this situation has
become more serious, with less than 1% of the recurrent budget available for
non-personnel costs. As a result, deep cuts in operational expenditures have
had to be made, particularly for drugs, which normally constitute the second
largest recurrent expenditure in the sector after personnel. Without a drug
supply, the productivity of health personnel is limited and the public soon
bypasses their services in an effort to obtain drugs directly. This is
confirmed by a preparation study for the Imo Population and Health Project,
which found the lack of drugs and other supplies, along with the simultaneous
introduction of high user fees, to be the main reason people cited for no
longer using public health services. In another state, Kano, the impact of a,
ever decreasing drug supply shows up in figures for out-patient attendance,
which fell from 104 per 100 persons in 1981 to 40 per 100 in 1985.
2.05         Although inadequate and imbalanced allocations of funds are
having a profound impact on health services, four other constraints adversely
affect their effectiveness: (a) an inadequate emphasis on preventive and
primary health care, (b) institutional fragmentation and duplication, (c)
inadequate manpower planning, and (d) inadequate cooperation between the
public and private sectors. The first, inadequate emphasis on preventive and



- 4 -
primary health care, has been decried in health policies since the mid-
1970s. Nonetheless, recent state health budgets reveal that curative care,
which has always received a disproportionately large share of public
expenditures, is now receiving an even greater share (e.g., in the states for
which data are available, the proportion allocated for curative programs has
increased from 72% in 1981 to about 802 in 1985). Institutional fragmentation
and duplication is particularly serious at the state level, where the
functions of SMOHL and SHMBs (para 2.02) overlap and are often conflicting.
Moreover, a number of state facilities have been developed without regard to
the services already provided, albeit inadequately, by LGAs. The local
authorities generally lack the technical and managerial capacity to carry out
their mandate to provide vital PHC services and only recently have begun to
receive some assistance from the states. The abilitv of the states to provide
the needed technical and logistical support is limited, however, by their own
poorly organized capabilities in such areas as in-service training, health
education, and management information, which are split among various SMOH and
SHMB programs. The nearly total absence of manpower planning represents yet
another major constraint in the health sector. Little attempt has been made
to link the national priorities in preventive and primary health care with the
production of health manpower and to re-direct priorities accordingly.
Consequently, vast sums are being expended to train highly skilled
professionals whose main interest is to work in urban-based hospitals (e.g.,
in 1984 nearly twice as many doctors and nurses graduated as did all
categories of PHC workers). Finally, the public sectcr has failed to
establish effective cooperation with the private sector--modern or
traditional. Unlike in many African countries, there is virtually no
cooperation between the public sector and Nigeria's many church-related health
providers. Likewise, except for pioneering training programs for traditional
midwives in Sokoto and several other states, the public sector has been
reluctant to develop relations with traditional practitioners, who in many
areas of the country remain the preferred choice for health care.
B. Issues in the Drug Supply Subsector
2.06          The key drug supply subsector, on which much of the
effectiveness of the country's health services depends, faces four major
issues: (a) an inadequate supply of drugs at all levels, particularly at the
PHC facilities operated by local governments; (b) poor performance of health
workers in drug management and in the areas of diagnosis, prescribing and
dispensing; (c) misinformation and inappropriate practices on the part of the
public; and (d) critical weaknesses in public sector institutions. These four
issues are summarized below and discussed in more detail in Annex 2-6.
2.07          Inadequate supply of drugs.  Most of the public sector health
facilities have had little or no drugs in recent years, due to the major
reductions in budgetary resources and the cutbacks in operational expenditures
that have had an especially severe impact on the purchase of drugs (para
2.04). Besides the fiscal constraints that underlie these drug shortages,
other factors contribute to the inadequacy of drug supply in Nigeria:
inappropriateness of the drugs being procured and their poor quality; the
severely limited capacity at the LGA level to select, procure, sture and
dispense drugs effectively; and the inadequacy of alternative private sector
sources for drugs. Health officials have often failed to select appropriate
and cost-effective drugs. This wasteful use of scarce resources is a major



reason the health services are experiencing critical shortages of essential
drugs. Other factors in the drug supply crisis include inefficiencies in drug
quantification and procurement procedures, insufficient competition, losses
due to inadequate storage and distribution and to poor stock control, and an
inadequate capacity to register drugs and monitor their quality as they move
through commerce and after they are delivered. At the LGA level nearly all of
the deficiencies affecting the public sector's ability to provide safe and
affordable drugs are the most serious. With personnel costs absorbing most of
their health budgets (para 2.04), the LGAs have virtually no funds for
purchasing drugs for their dispensaries and maternities--the cornerstone of
the PHC program and the main source of modern health care in rural areas,
especially in the northern states. With respect to alternative private sector
sources, while they have a more reliable supply of drugs, they are generally
unaffordable to the poor. Also, as a result of the growing demand for drugs
that the public facilities cannot meet, coupled with the Government's limited
capacity to monitor drug quality, the markets are being flooded with
adulterated and fake drugs.
2.08         Poor performance of health workers.  The health workers
responsible for selecting, procuring, storing and distributing drug supplies
have insufficient knowledge and skills in those areas; however, they are
relatively few in number and therefore this is a manageable problem to be
dealt with through operational improvements and additional training. It is in
the areas of diagnosis, prescribing and dispensing that poor performance has
the most profound Jmpact on drug availability and use. Widespread
overprescribing is a basic problem, making average drug costs per patient much
higher than they would be if sound diagnostic and prescribing practices were
used. While a lack of diagnostic equipment and supplies is a contributing
factor, the main reasons for overprescribing are inadequate training, lack of
cost consciousness, a desire to please patients, and the promotional
activities of drug companies. Since an ever increasing number of users at the
public facilities have to pay for their drugs, overprescribing is leading to
costs that are intolerably high for the poor. Other unsound practices among
health workers include prescribing more expensive drugs than necessary,
prescribing ineffective or harmful drugs, and the use of injectable
preparations when oral versions would be equally effective, less costly, and
with the growing threat of AIDS, also safer.
2.09         Misinformation and inappropriate practices on the part of the
public. The unsound practices of health workers have some basis in faulty
expectations of patients regarding the amounts and kinds of drugs they should
receive and in popular misconceptions about drugs (e.g., it is widely believed
that injected medicines are the most effective and that more drugs mean better
treatment). These faulty expectations, which influence the benavior of
dispensers and patients alike, make it difficult simply to give and receive
advice on, for instance, better feeding practices for a sickly child. Another
common problem is the failure of patients to follow instructions on proper
drug use; frequently this is due to drugs being dispensed in scantily labeled
pieces of paper with little opportunity given patients to ask questions.
Often the poorer patients, with multiple prescriptions and faced with an
unavailability of free drugs, ignore their prescriptions altogether and go to
vendors willing to sell very small amounts of the drugs; little or no
therapeutic benefit results from taking less than the full course of a drug
and can be more harmful than not taking any as it may promote resistance to



- 6 -
the drug. There is an increasing tendency to self-medicate as drugs are
becoming less available in the public sector and the health services are being
bypassed as people seek care elsewhere. In patronizing patent drug shops and
other kinds of drug vendors, they anticipate getting quicker and better
service than from public facilities. Unregulated promotion of drugs through
the mass media and by unlicensed traders is leading to overuse of drugs and is
another factor contributing to self-medication.
2.10         Institutional weaknesses in drug supply.  Fragm>entation and
duplication of institutions throughout the health sector underlie many of the
problems that are affecting the quality and availability of health care, and
have a particularly detrimenta'l impact on the ability of the public facilities
to provide adequate supplies of safe and affordable drugs. A related issue is
the lack of effective support from better-endowed to weaker levels, especially
from states to LGAs, although the states themselves have limited resources for
providing logistical and technical support (para 2.05). The independence of
the LGAs in the selection, procurement and management of drug supplies,
coupled with their limited capacity in those areas (para 2.07), is the most
serious institutional problem as it causes major inefficiencies. Other
factors that have contributed to the critical shortages of drug supplies in
Nigeria are the lack of a strong political will to deal with the problems that
have been handicapping the health services, and inadequate analysis of the
potential for local manufacturing of drugs to help overcome the critical
shortages and reduce costs. Only under the present Government has a political
will emerged to tackle some of the basic problems, primarily in the context of
the national structural adjustment program, with its strong emphasis on more
efficient use of public sector resources. There has been very little ana'ysis
of the potential for local manufacturing of essential drugs, although this
solution to the scarcity of drugs has strong popular appeal, and the
Government has not yet formulated policies or enacted leg_-slation that would
provide incentives for Nigeria's pharmaceutical industry, now mainly in the
processing field, to expand its scope and focus on essential drugs. Details
on this local industry and the prospects for its expansion into competitive
drug production are set out in Annex 2-7.
C. Government Policies and Strategies
2.11         Policies and programs in health and population.  In the past
three years, FGN has approved two major policy statements on health and
population:  in 1986 a health policy that commits the Government to a renewed
effort to make PHC services readily available, especially in rural areas, and
in early 1988 a strong population policy that sets the stage for a major
intersectoral population and family planning program aimed at substantial
reductions in the population growth rate. To implement the health policy, the
new National Health Development Plan focuses on the rehabilitation and
increased utilization of existing facilities. In support of this effort, FMOH
has issued guidelines to the states that call for gradually reducing the share
of recurrent expenditures devoted to personnel until it reaches 602 (at
present, personnel costs in most states account for 85-95% of the recurrent
budget). The guidelines also urge the institution of cost-recovery measures.
Although no sanctions for enforcing these guidelines have been devised, FMOH
is undertaking an extensive program of technical assistance to help the states
apply the guidelines. In light of the weak planning and implementation
capabilities of the states and LGAs, the FMOH intends to provide increased



support for the states and LGAs; for this purpose the Ministry established
DPHC and has strengthened it considerably over the past two years. In
recognition of past neglect of LGA health services, DPHC is giving major
attention to a pilot program to strengthen the provision of PHC services
through LGA-operated dispensaries and maternities. Initially, 52 LGAs (out of
311), scattered across the entire country, were selected to receive technical
assistance from FMOH, medical schools, state schools of health technology, and
SMOHs. FMOH is providing a one-time grant of 1500,000 to each LGA to launch
its PHC program.
2.12        National policies on essential drugs.  Building on the national
health policy's commitment to ensure that "essential drugs ... are available
at all levels of the health care system", in June 1988 FMOH and all the states
endorsed a national policy on essential drugs as a basis for development of
the proposed liational Essential Drugs Programme. This policy defines
essential drugs (EDs) as safe, effective but inexpensive drugs that satisfy
the health care needs of the majority of the population and hence are
available at all times throughout the health care system. To ensure their
wide availability, the health policy identified four main strategies:
approving a standard ED list, quantifying requirements, establishing efficient
procurement and distribution systems, and, as necessary and feasible,
producing drugs locally. The new ED policy elaborates on these and adds two
critical new strategies, one related to the human dimension of effective drug
use and the other to the sustainability of the ED program:  changing the
prescribing and utilization practices of health workers and their clients, and
introducing cost recovery and drug revolving funds (DRFs).  Bank staff are
impressed with the basic soundness of this national policy, but effective
implementation requires a continuing strong political will and major financial
resources. The policy paper estimates that to implement the new program
throughout the country will require incremental resources amounting to nearly
N600 million (at current prices) over the next 10 years; however, calculations
by Bank staff put the estimated cost at more than twice that level. The ED
policy focuses on the provision of a sustainable supply of safe, effective and
affordable drugs through the public sector, but several broader issues also
require urgent attention, particularly the need to improve quality assurance
covering all drugs available in Nigeria, both locally produced and imported,
as well as other regulatory issues such as the advertising of drugs.
Consequently, the Federal Minister of Health has appointed a committee to
develop a national drug policy that will be broader in scope but fully
consistent with the ED policy.
2.13         Emerging state ED policies and programs.  One of the next steps
in the evolution of Nigeria's ED policy is the development by the states, in
collaboration with their LGAs, of operational policies upon which state
essential drugs programs (SEDPs) can be based. Such policies will represent a
commitment by the states and their LGAs to reforms and key actions that will
help to ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of their SEDPs. The
standard elements of a state ED policy, as agreed between FMOH and the Bank,
are set out in Annex 2-8. The key actions to which such a policy commits a
state include: (a) establishing a consolidated drug supply system to meet the
needs of all state and LGA health programs; (b) preparing and approving ED
lists for different levels of the health system, based on the state's disease
pattern; (c) procuring drugs in bulk using generic specifications and
international competitive bidqing (ICB); (d) introducing cost recovery



-8-
immediately and moving to full cost recovery within no more than five years;
(e) establishing a DRE, maintaining its integrity, and having it audited
annually; and (f) undertaking effective staff training and public education
programs. Since the reforms and other commitments espoused through an ED
policy are essential for an effective program, each state participating in the
Essential Drugs Project has developed and approved an ED policy acceptable to
the Bank. Other states would adopt similar policies as they seek financial
assistance through subsequent Bank-financed projects. Annex 2-9 shows the
relationships between the main subsectoral issues, the national and state ED
policies, and the proposed actions to be supported through the project.
7.14          Proposed Federal essential drugs program.  In addition to
encouraging the states to develop their own ED policies and programs through
technical assistance and some financial support, FMOH is designing its own
essential drugs program (EDP). This Federal EDP would have three main
elements. First, in support of the overall effort to ensure the availability
of safe and effective drugs, the Ministry intends to strengthen its quality
assurance capabilities; this would consist of building up its capacity to test
imported drugs and raw materials and to inspect local production facilities.
Second, FMOH would work with the health sciences faculties of the Federal
universities to reorient and strengthen those portions of their curricula that
deal with managing, prescribing and dispensing drugs. This effort would
ensure that basic training programs for the country's health leaders address
the main issues in the subsector and provide the otientation and skills they
need to participate fully in the National EDP. Finally, with regard to its
own network of 12 teaching and six specialist hospitals, FMOH would introduce
a full range of essential drugs activities parallel to those at the state and
LGA levels (para 2.13), including cost recovery and DRFs.
D. The Bank's Sectoral Strategy
2.15          Current and proposed operations in health and population.  The
Bank's health and population strategy in Nigeria is focused on the national
policy and program initiatives identified in para 2.11. Specifically, the
five Bank-assisted health and population projects under implementation or
preparation have the following emphases: (a) increasing access to PHC
services and improving their quality, with special emphasis on maternal and
child health/family planning services; (b) developing the institutional and
human resource base required to implement the new national population program
at all levels, including development of effective public and private sector
linkages; (c) mobilizing the support of local leaders and the active
participation of beneficiaries in health and population programs through
various educational and communication channels, including the formal education
system; (d) assisting the health sector in adjusting to the country's new
economic circumstances by introducing equitablG and well-managed cost recovery
and emphasizing more efficient use of existing resources; and (e)
rationalizing and consolidating institutional capacities, especially at the
state level in support of LGA health programs in such areas as planning,
in-service training, management information, and logistical support. The
Bank's involvement in the sector is relatively recent, with only two projects
under implementation: the Sokoto Health Project (Loan 2503-UNI for US$34.0
million), which became effective in January 1986, and the Imo Population and
Health Project (Loan 3034-UNI for US$27.6 million), approved in March 1989.
While basically state-level projects, each has a Federal component to



- 9 -
strengthen FMOH's capacity to assist state and local health programs and to
prepare new projects, e.g., this proposed Essential Drugs Project. FMOH is
preparing two other projects: the proposed National Population Project, which
would help launch or strengthen the population efforts of FMOH and about four
other Federal agencies, including the Ministries of Education and Information,
as well as of their state and local counterparts; and the proposed Health
Systems Fund Project, which would use merchant banks (MBs) and other financial
institutions as intermediaries for on-lending funds to the states and their
LGAs to support priority health programs. Sectoral dialogue with the
Government has emphasized two urgent needs--to undertake a strong population
program and to address key health financing issues. With support from the
Bank, FMOH took the lead in developing the new national population policy
(para 2.11). Efforts to encourage health officials to focus on health
financing issues have also begun to have visible results (e.g., the guidelines
urging the states to reduce recurrent expenditures on personnel). FMOH and
several states have commissioned health financing studies with Bank
assistance. To help ensure effective use of these studies, the Bank is
preparing a sector report on health financing focusing on costs, utilization
and efficiency of health services, especially from the user's perspective.
2.16          Experience with ongoing lending.  Identification of the need to
revitalize and reform the public sector drug supply system had its genesis in
the ongoing project in Sokoto State (para 2.15). Designed prior to the
economic downturn, the project had to be restructured soon after approval in
order to be responsive to the weakened financial capacity of the state and its
LGAs; emphasis was shifted to rehabilitation of existing facilities, with
expansion of the health delivery system postponed pending completion of a
financing study to review the full range of opportunities for cost recovery
and increased efficiency in the sector. In the meantime, the severe shortage
of drugs was leading to rapidly decreased utilization in a state with few
alternative private sector providers; for this reason, three months after
effectiveness, Sokoto began designing its own state EDP with WHO technical
assistance. Because of delays in obtaining approval of some of the reforms
entailed in its SEDP, implementation is just now getting underway.
Nonetheless, the design for the Sokoto EDP, along with that developed as part
of preparation of the Imo Population and Health Project (para 2.15), has been
instrumental in guiding preparation of the National EDP. There have been
serious delays in implementation of other components of the Sokoto Health
Project as well, which stem from poor planning and execution of procurement,
conflicts within the project management unit, and inadequate coordination
between it and the state Ministry of Health. In addition, there has been a
tendency to move toward more elaborate upgrading of existing facilities than
justified. Recently FMOH, Sokoto State, and the Bank agreed to remedial
actions designed to accelerate project implementation with an even greater
focus on revitalization of priority PHC services. An important lesson
emerging from the Sokoto Health Project, which was taken into account in
preparing the new project in Imo, is the need to involve the LGAs from the
beginning in the design of state health programs, in view of their key role in
implementing vital PHO services. The Imo project has also addressed two other
deficiencies in the original design of the Sokoto project, which had omitted
the educational and community participation dimensions of PHC programs and had
not sufficiently integrated management of the project into the basic
institutional structure of the sector. The Federal component of the Sokoto
Health Project has demonstrated tne value of a flexible source of funds for



- 10 -
research and development, having enabled FMOH to undertake activities ranging
from development of the national population policy to strengthening of state
health planning capacities.
2.17         Present dialogue:  adding ne? approaches.  The Government's
strong commitment to expanding the availability of health services has led to
its becoming impatient with the slow pace of a state-by-state approach.
Several steps have been taken to address this growing concern. First,
emphasis has been shifted to national projects, each entailing support for a
number of states and/or LGAs through participating Federal agencies. The
proposed Essential Drugs and National Population Projects follow this
approach. A critical constraint, however, is FMOH's inability to serve as an
apex organization to manage simultaneously a number of national projects; in
any case, the Ministry has neither the capacity nor desire to administer
disbursements and take on other financial responsibilities associated with
on-lending to the states. Hence, as a second step, the Government and the
Bank have been k.xploring ways to adapt to the health sector the on-lending
arrangements developed under the Infrastructure Development Fund Project (Loan
2925-UNI), approved in March 1988. This approach, which delegates major
responsibility for subproject development and administration to qualified MBs
and other financial intermediaries, is being refined during preparation of the
Health Systems Fund Project (para 2.15). Already, under the proposed
Zssential Drugs Project, the Government and the Bank have agreed that MBs
should perform various oversight functions, including advising on and
monitoring and evaluating DRF policies, management, and operations. (The
arrangements for this aspect of project administration are described in para
4.05.)
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Drug Supply Subsector
2.18          There are three reasons for the Bank to become involved in the
drug supply subsector in Nigeria. First, it would be consistent with the
Bank's broader support for the Government's structural adjustment program and
with the Bank's commitment to support the Government's efforts to *ncrease
accessibility and improve efficiency in the health sector. The drug shortage
in the public sector deserves special attention in the context of the Bank's
support for structural adjustment, for it represents one of the 'social costs"
of adjustment; recent adjustments in the exchange rate have substantially
increased the budgetary resources required to purchase a given volume of
drugs. Second, encouraged by the Bank, the Government has decided to
introduce cost recovery in the social sectors, including health. Findings of
the Bank's health policy research highlight the appropriateness of focusing on
drugs in this regard: they are the most tangible aspect of public health
services, and in every society there is widespread acceptance of the idea of
purchasing drugs. Moreover, a revolving fund system for drug purchases is one
of the best ways to establish accountability for cost recovery in the health
sector. Third, the Bank has a comparative advantage in working in this
subsector, simply because of the level of financing required, which other
agencies involved in Nigeria's health sector are not capable of providing. In
any case, the tied procurement that generally characterizes bilateral
assistance would be particularly inappropriate in this area, inasmuch as a
major strategy for improving sectoral efficiency is to strengthen the capacity
to manage ICB. In view of the strong vested interests that characterize the
drug supply subsector, the Bank's leadership has proven beneficial in



- 11 -
mobilizing the support and cooperation of several external agencies; for
instance, the former Director General of the World Health Organization (WHO)
committed his agency to supporting the National EDP, provided the Bank
continues its active involvement. In addition, encouraged by the Bank, the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has agreed to finance some of the
core technical assistance requirements of the program.
2.19         Rationale for undertaking an ED project.  There is ample
justification for responding favorably to the Government's request for
assistance in implementing its National EDP (para 2.14). The public,
especially low-income families and rural dwellers, is suffering from the
widespread lack of reliable drugs in the public health facilities. People are
ill longer and more seriously than need be, and when they turn to alternative
drug sources they all too often are victimized through tainted or fake drugs.
The public health care system, particularly at the periphery, has been much
weakened in recent years; a sustainable supply of safe and affordable drugs,
while not solving all problems, would make a substantial contribution toward
its revitalization, thereby improving the credibility of the whole system and
increasing utilization of the vital preventive health services. There is wide
scope for introducing efficiencies into the drug supply subsector;
furthermore, the introduction of reasonable charges for drugs would generate
sufficient resources to make the subsector basically self-sustaining.
Finally, various reforms being promoted in this subsector, such as
consolidation of the institutions involved in drug selection, procurement,
storage, distribution and control, would pave the way for broader sectoral
reforms. While this would be the first essential drugs project financed by
the Bank, experience with ED components of health projects elsewhere has been
positive.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objective and Scope
3.01          Project objective.  The overall objective of the project is to
support FGN's plans, under the new national ED policy (para 2.12), to ensure
that the public has access to a sustainable supply of safe, effective and
affordable drugs. To achieve this, the project would enable participating
local, state and Federal health agencies to reorient, consolidate and
strengthen existing drug supply and quality control efforts. This
restructuring entails four main strategies which are designed to address the
major issues in the subsector: (a) developing an affordable and sustainable
supply of safe drugs, (b) improving the skills of health workers in providing
drugs, (c) changing the harmful practices of beneficiaries, and (d)
strengthening institutional capacities to undertake essential drugs programs.
3.02         Project scope.  The project would be implemented in four
states--Bendel, Cross River, Gongola and Kwara (IBRD Map No. 21180)--and in
all major urban areas served by the 18 Federal hospitals. The four
participating states were identified on the basis of three main criteria:
their interest in undertaking state essential drugs programs (SEDPs),
geographical spread (each is in a different health zone), and absence of other
Bank support for health activities. The total population of these four states
is about 15 million and they consist, in total, of 55 LGAs (for other basic
features of these states, see Annex 3-1). Within each state, because of staff
limitations and to avoid overloading the system, facility and/or LGA



- 12 -
participation would be phased in, based on agreed criteria (Annex 3-2). The
proposals from the four states on behalf of themselves and their LGAs (Annexes
3-3 through 3-6) were appraised by the Bank in cooperation with DPHC. Under
the project, two other FMOH departments would support implementation of
similar ED activities in the Ministry's nation-wide network of 12 teaching and
six specialist hospitals. Located in all major urban areas, these 18
hospitals collectively serve 3.5 to 4 million natients annually, most of them
through outpatient services. Still other pro, .t activities, such as
strengthening FMOH's capabilities in quality assurance and drug information,
would have nationwide impact. The project would also have an imp%ct in
additional states by making av'ilable to them the guidelines and systems
developed under the project, and by including funds to enable them to prepare
essential drugs subprojects consisting of the basic elemencs of an SEDP as
outlined in para 2.13.
B. Project Description
3.03         The four strategies described in para 3.01, by which existing
drug supply efforts would be restructured and revitalized, comprise the
project's main components. In the participating states and in the urban areas
served by the Federal hospitals, these four components would be implemented
through the activities summarized below:
(a)   To develop an affordable and sustainable supply of safe drugs, the
project would (i) provide seed stocks of essential drugs to serve as
working capital; (ii) improve systems for selecting, procuring,
storing and distributing drugs; (iii) strengthen the procedures for
assuring drug quality; and (iv) institute cost recovery and set up
DRFs.
(b)   To improve the skills of health workers in managing drug supply and
in prescribing and dispensing drugs, the project would (i) support
in-service training, (ii) reorient the curricula of basic training
institutions, and (iii) strengthen drug information services for
practitioners.
(c)   To change the harmful beliefs and practices of clients regarding
drugs and to help them understand the reasons for charging for
drugs, the project would develop educational materials and support
public information activities within health facilities and campaigns
through the mass media, complemented by activities to generate
support from professional and leadership groups.
(d)   To strengthen the institutional capacity at the three levels of
government to design and implement essential drugs programs, the
project would (i) foster institutional restructuring and
consolidation and bring new skills into the subsector, especially in
financial management; (ii) undertake special studies; and (iii)
support the preparation of EDPs in additional states.
Developing an Affordable and Sustainable Supply of Safe Drugs
3.04         Providing essential drugs.  To overcome the problem of the
failure of health officials to select appropriate and cost-effective drugs,
leading to the procurement of excessively expensive or unnecessary drugs (para



- 13 -
2.07), the project would foster the development of improved procedures for the
selection, quantification and procurement of eseential drugs. In each state,
an agreed list of EDs, including contraceptives, would be prepared, with
separate sublists for the main levels of the health care system. Each ED list
would consist of the minimum number of drugs, in the most cost-effective
form(s) and with generic specifications, required to meet about 95? of the
needs of people served by a given level. The ED lists for state general
hospitals are likely to contain no more than 150 substances; for LGA
facilities, no more than 35 (an illustrative state ED list is at Annex 3-7).
In view of the importance of such lists in improving the efficiency of drug
procurement, the four participating states have prepared and approved initial
ED lists that are acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, it was agreed
that each state would have the opportunity to adjust its list once again prior
to the first round of drug procurement under the project. FMOH already has
the basis for an acceptable list in the form of the National Drug Formularv
and Essential Drugs List, approved by the Council of Ministers and published
in 1986. From this master list, FMOH and the Federal hospitals will agree on
a common list of 250-300 of the most frequently used drugs for the purposes of
procurement under the project. During negotiations FMOH gave an assurance
that by January 1, 1991, it will propose to the Bank a process for the
systematic updating of the national ED list. In addition, each state and FMOH
gave assurances during negotiations that their revised ED lists, updated no
more often than once a year, would be submitted for review. FMOH would review
the states' lists, whereas the Bank would review those for the Federal
hospitals.  Quantification of needs would initially be based on a combination
of data or nast consumption and on disease patterns, but as these data are
generally   complete in Nigeria, adjustments will have to be made year by year
on the basis of actual experience.
3.05          The project would finance the procurement of sufficient
essential drugs to capitalize the DRFs (paras 3.08 and 3.09) in each state,
based on the estimated needs of all state and local government facilities.
For the four states, the estimated requirements, with contingencies, range
from US$4.8 to US$12.0 million equivalent, representing on average 66? of
their subproject costs. Financing would be spread over about five years as
the state facilities and LGAs are phased in and then brought up to full
capacity. Similarly, at the Federal level the project would capitalize DRFs
for the Federal hospitals, phased over five years. Drugs would be procured i.n
accordance with efficient procedures acceptable to the Bank, with each state
and FMOH adopting standaru procurement documents.  The project would finance
the production and distribution of procurement manuals, and provide each state
with a telex machine and incremental staff with commercial skills to manage
procurement. Since procurement at the Federal level has not been adequately
institutionalized, the project would support development of a Central
Procurement Unit (CPU) in FMOH, including renovation of an office block;
provision of computers, software, and office and communications equipment;
funding for incremental staff and a specialist in procurement management (12
months); and operating expenses. The project would also support development
of a procurement information service to prequalify ED suppliers and provide
other information needed for efficient procurement (e.g., on drug standards,
specifications and costs, and supplier performance). To help rationalize
FMOH's small drug production unit in Yaba, the project would provide modest
support in the form of matching equipment, reference books and periodicals,
and one year's supply of raw materials for manufacture of about ten essential
drugs commonly used in PHC. Support for provision of additional raw materials



- 14 -
would be contingent upon a performance evaluation at the beginning of the
second year of the project. Finally, in six regional teaching hospitals which
have heavy demand, the project would finance basic equipment and raw materials
for blending pharmacies to facilitate provision of drugs to patients in
appropriate dosages.
3.06          Improving drug storage and distribution.  To overcome the
problem of losses due to inadequate storage and distribution and to poor stock
control (para 2.07), the project would improve medical stores, provide
transport, and develop systems for effective stock management and physical
security. In the states and LGAs, the project would upgrade and re-equip or
construct central medical stores (CMSs); rehabilitate or construct, where
required, and equip zonal and LGA medical stores; and rehabilitate the storage
areas in hospitals and PHC facilities. To overcome the problem of inadequate
cool storage, the project would provide refrigeration, low-cost cooling
systems, and standby generators for the stores and larger facilities. The
state CMSs or the zonal stores would deliver drugs to state facilities and LGA
stores; to facilitate this, the project would either finance a small number of
trucks and pick-ups, including in some cases repair of existing vehicles, or
finance contracts with private carriers. The project would also finance
maintenance and operating costs for facilities and vehicles. To assist staff
responsible for storage and distribution, the project would produce and
distribute forms and manuals on supply management. At the Federal level, the
project would upgrade and re-equip the Federal CMS to permit efficient storage
and materials handling; finance incremental staff and an inventory management
specialist (12 months); construct, equip and staff two regional stores at Kano
and Port Harcourt; and provide vehicles for collection of drugs at ports. For
cost-effective delivery of drugs to the Federal hospitals, the project would
finance contracts with transport firms.
3.07         Assuring drug quality.  The above-described improvements in the
selection, procurement, storage and distribution of drugs to be undertaken in
the participating states and the Federal hospitals (paras 3.04-3.06) would go
a long way toward overcoming the problem of the poor quality of the drugs
available in their health facilities. In addition, however, it is necessary
to develop a capacity to monitor the quality of drugs once they have been
procured and to check the quality of drugs moving in commerce. This includes
improving the capacity to register drugs and to check their quality at ports
of entry. At the state level, the project would support the quality assurance
ftnctions of the SEDP field surervisors by financing materials, transport and
other operational costs. These supervisors would constantly monitor the
adequacy of storage procedures and conditions, as well as inventory
management, at all levels of the distribution chain. At the Federal level,
the project would support a number of activities to help assure the quality of
the drugs being dispensed throughout the country. To test domestically
produced and imported drugs, including samples provided by the states, FMOH
would upgrade its quality assurance laboratory in Yaba (Lagos) and construct a
new regional laboratory in Kaduna. The project would also provide incremental
staff and finance equipment, reference standards, reagents and other
chemicals, books, journals, technical assistance (a drug testing expert for 24
months and an instrumentation engineer for 12 months), and incremental
operating costs. FMOH's Inspectorate Unit, responsible for the inspection of
imported drugs, would be assisted through the provision of office equipment,
vehicles, and incremental staff. To enable the Inspectorate Unit to undertake
timely analysis of imported drugs and chemicals, the project would also



- 15 -
construct, equip and staff three basic testing laboratories at the major ports
that lack this capacity--Calabar or Warri, Kano and Port Harcourt. Drug
registration is not yet mandatory in Nigeria, but it can help assure the
quality of both imported and domestically manufactured drugs (e.g.,
registration of a product may be a criterion for participating in public
sector procu.ement) and at present there is a huge backlog of requests for
registration. To assist FMOH's Drug Registration Unit in establishing an
effective registration system, the project would provide additional staff,
reference books and periodicals, data processing and office equipment,
technical assistance (a drug registration expert for 6 months), and external
training.
3.08          Instituting cost recovery and establishing DRFs.  This aspect of
developing an affordable and sustainable supply of drugs plays a key role,
since it would bring more resources into the drug supply subsector and thus
alleviate the severe constraints in recurrent financing, particularly at the
LGA level (paras 2.04 and 2.07), that underlie the country's drug shortage. To
this end, the project would support the introduction or strengthening of cost
recovery mechanisms at all levels and the establishment of DRFs to retain the
funds recovered in order to purchase replacement drug supplies. As this
frequently would entail bringing into the program financial managers from
other sectors and accountants (e.g., in many LGAs) and since these skills are
generally scarce in the health sector, the project would finance such
incremental local personnel. It would also finance the purcbase of equipment
(computers, safes and strong boxes), the preparation of financial management
systems and distribution of forms and manuals, technical assistance (e.g., in
setting drug prices), training programs, and annual audits of each DRF.
3.09          To ensure a fully sustainable system, the states have committed
themselves to instituting full cost recovery before the end of the project.
Full cost recovery entails recovering the full replacement costs of the drugs,
including costs associated with likely inflation, exchange rate adjustments,
and losses due to spoilage or pilferage. These costs would add, at most, 50Z
to c.i.f. prices. Depending on experience and detailed pricing studies, some
states are also likely to recover variable operrating costs and might even
cross-subsidize the costs of drugs for exempt patients. An important
consideration in operating an effective cost-recovery scheme in this subsector
is the necessity, on humanitarian and equity grounds, of providing subsidized
drugs to those with chronic illnesses (e.g., leprosy and tuberculosis) and to
very low income groups. Each state, as well as FMOH, is devising a mechanism
to cover these costs, which are expected to entail supplementary payments
into the DRF and/or a scheme to reimburse actual costs of eligible users.
Nonetheless, even with careful planning, a DRF may not recover sufficient
funds to pay for all the drugs required in a subsequent round of procurement;
therefore, the states, as well as FMOH, have indicated their willingness to
provide some budgetary resources to top up the DRFs, as may be required. In
the context of approving its overall ED policy (para 2.13), each state has
agreed specifically that it will (a) institute full cost recovery within the
project period, (b) establish a DRF, and (c) maintain its integrity. (The
operation of DRFs is discussed in more detail in para 4.10.)
Improving the Skills of Health Workers in Providing Drugs
3.10          In-service training and supervision.  To overcome the problem of
poor performance by health workers in providing drugs. particularly with



- 16 -
respect to inadequate knowledge and skills in the critically important areas
of diagnosis, prescribing and dispensing (para 2.08), the project would
support the comprehensive staff development efforts that the states in their
ED policies are committed to undertake (Annex 2-8). It would do so by
providing support for a major in-service training effort to improve the skills
of health workers, more intensive supervision of their performance,
reorientation of curricula in the health sciences to improve pre-service
training, and the strengthening of drug information services. In-service
training would aim at improving capabilities in five main areas, with varying
emphases depending on the category of worker: (a) proper use of drugs, (b)
cost recovery and operation of DRFs, (c) communication skills, (d) management
of drugs and other supplies, and (e) methods of monitoring drug use. At the
state and local level, the project would finance workshops (both initial and
periodic refresher training) for most state and local government health
workers. Project support would include participants' travel and per diem
allowances, trainers' expenses, and training equipment (audio-visual
equipment, generators, etc.) and materials, including development and
reproduction of a therapeutics manual for every health worker. As follow-up
to this training, regular and special supervisors would intensify their
emphasis on improved performance, using special checklists to be developed for
this purpose. To oversee the in-service training effort and mobilize existing
training capabilities, a training coordinator would be seconded or added to
the core ED staff in each state.   Some core ED staff woula themselves receive
intensive training in specialized areas, in some cases overseas (e.g., in use
of computers for managing drug supply). It would be inefficient, however, for
each state separately to mount its own training program for the small number
of specialized staff--general and financial managers, procurement staff,
senior store-keepers, and state training coordinators--responsible for
managing the drug supply system or providing high-level technical support.
Hence, the project would provide DPHC with resources to undertake such
training on a multi-state basis. In addition, DPHC would conduct workshops
for selected specialists from universities and the private sector to prepare
them to serve as consultants to the states and LGAs. With the assistance of
consultants and in close coordination with other FMOH departments, DPHC would
also prepare prototype training materials for adaptation by the states. At
the Federal level, the project would finance similar training for the staffs
of the teaching and specialist hospitals, including per diem allowances and
trainers' expenses, training materials and supplies (especially hospital
formularies for every participant). Fiiially, the project would finance highly
specialized overseas training (e.g., in quality assurance technique. ) for
selected staff from FMOH's Drug Regulation and Registration Division, Drug
Inspectorate Division, and the quality assurance laboratories (para 3.07).
3.11         Reorienting curricula in health sciences.  While the in-service
training effort described above would compensate to some extent for
deficiencies in the basic training programs in the health sciences-- medicine,
nursing, pharmacy, etc.--in the long run it would be more efficient to correct
these deficiencies. Moreover, improving these programs would have a broader
impact by influencing the practices of health care professionals throughout
the country, in both the public and private sectors. The project would
therefore promote needed adjustments in the curricula of the schools of
medicine (13), nursing (40), and pharmacy (6) through the preparation and
production of training modules and associated resource materials and
instructional aids. Since the individual schools of medicine and pharmacy
have the prerogative to decide on &djustments in their curricula, the project



- 17 -
would also finance workshops and other promotional activities involving the
deans and key faculty members to encourage them to adopt the new materials.
In the case of nurses' training, after clearance from the Nursing and
Midwifery Council, the revised curriculum would be adopted by the Federal and
state nursing schools; thereafter, the project would support brief in-service
training for the relevant instructional staff. To assist DPHC in bringing the
critical PHC training programs of the states' schools of health technology
into line with the new emphasis on essential drugs, the project would support
the development of appropriate instructional materials, primarily with the
assistance of local consultants, and subsequent activities (e.g., workshops
for selected tutors) to facilitate their adoption by the schools.
3.12          Strengthening drug information services.  To complement the
training activities described above, the project would provide modest support
for ncontinuing education" on drugs, especially for physicians, including
those in the private sector. This would take the form of drug information
services to provide up-to-date information on such problems as adverse drug
reactions, drug interactions, overprescribing, high-cost drugs, drug recalls,
and fake drugs on the local market. In the Federal hospitals, the project
would support small drug information units by providing books and periodicals,
computers and software, office equipment, stationery and other supplies. For
a wider professional audience in the public and private sectors, the project
would enable FMOH to publish and distribute bulletins and a periodical
newsletter with current information on the above-mentioned topics. The
project would finance additional staff, computers and software, books and
periodicals, office equipment and stationery, printing and postage costs, and
consultancies in drug information and information management (12 months each).
Changing the Practices of Beneficiaries
3.13          Educating clients of the health services and conducting public
information campaigns. The widespread faulty expectations, misconceptions and
consequent harmful practices which are a major factor in the ineffective and
inappropriate use of drugs (para 2.09) point up the need to educate the public
in drug availability and use. This includes explaining the reasons for
charging for drugs, since without adequate public information the introduction
of cost recovery often leads to widespread public misunderstanding and even
hostile reactions. Hence, the project would support a variety of information,
education and communication (IEC) activities to convey two basic sets of
messages: (a) the benefits of proper drug use, including problems associated
with self-medication; and (b) the need for cost recovery and the operation of
the scheme, including price information. In recognition of the importance of
opinion leaders in determining acceptance or rejection of new behavior in
communities, the project would also support information activities aimed at
various influential and leadership groups. The importance attached to helping
people change their beliefs and practices regarding drugs is reflected in
FMOH's requirement that the states commit themselves to undertaking a
comprehensive IEC program as part of their ED policies (Annex 2-8).
Specifically, at the state and local levels, the project would finance
workshops for state officials, LGA chairmen and councilors, religious and
traditional leaders, private practitioners, and pharmacists. Project support
would include development of IEC strategies and the production of materials
aimed at the clients of health services: radio and video programs,
educational aids, and simple handouts on major diseases and proper drug use
for distribution at service delivery points. To coordinate the resources



- 18 -
needed to carry out these IEC activities (the state health education unit.
mass media outlets, commercial printers, etc.), an IEC coordinator would be
seconded or added to each state's core ED staff. The project would finance
the preparation and distribution to the states of prototype IEC materials
under the guidance of the health education specialist in FMOH's Essential
Drugs Unit. For use at the Federal level similar patient education materials
would be developed and distributed to the Federal hospitals. In addition, in
view of the serious problem of fake and adulterated drugs, FMOH would launch a
national campaign on proper drug use, using project financing to prepare and
distribute radio and video programs, newspaper articles, posters, etc.,
primarily by using commercial media production capabilities.
Strengthening Inatitutional Capacity to Undertake EDPs
3.14          Strengthening institutional capacity at state and local levels.
In devising the project's implementation strategy, special attention has been
given to the need to strengthen institutional capacity at the three levels of
government to undertake ED programs. This involves tackling the most serious
institutional problems affecting the efficiency of the public health care
system and the drug supply subsector in particular: fragmentation and
duplication of the sectoral institutions, lack of effective support from
better-endowed to weaker levels, especially from states to LGAs, and the
latter's severe financial and managerial limitations (paras 2.07 and 2.10).
Hence, a twofold approach would be taken--consolidation of existing resources
and activities related to drug supply, and the strengthening of arrangements
for supporting program development so that state agencies would provide
technical assistance and other support to LGAs, while FMOH, along with more
experienced states (e.g., through exchange visits), would support other
states. A major reform under the project would be consolidation of drug
supply activities now split among SMOHs, SHMBs and LGAs. With safeguards to
ensure that the needs of LGAs are fully met, a consolidated SEDP would be
managed by the SMOH or SHMB for the entire public sector in each participating
state. The importance which FMOH attaches to such consolidation of existing
activities and staff is reflected in the requirement that the states commit
themselves to carrying out this reform as part of their ED policies (Annex
2-8). The LGAs would be relieved of the onerous task of procuring their own
drt:& supplies, but several significant tasks would need to be undertaken by
each LGA health office; these include providing more effective management of
the LGA stores, and overseeing cost recovery and quality assurance procedures
at the individual facilities. While cost recovery could be managed adequately
in many cases by existing staff with some additional in-service training in
financial management, in some LGAs it would be necessary to augment the staff
with an accountant, financed under the project, to oversee the DRF. At the
state level, it is estimated that, on average, 10 new professionals, plus
support staff, would need to be provided through the project (or transferred
from elsewhere in the sector) for critical functions not previously performed
in the drug supply subsector. Typically, these new posts in the core unit
managing the SEDP would include a director with a good knowledge of commercial
practices, a financial controller and an accountant to run the DRP (para
3.08), about four field supervisors/auditors, a traJriing coordinator (probably
a physician or a nurse tutor) (para 3.10), an IEC coordinator (para 3.13), and
to support existing staff responsible for procurement, a specialist in
commercial practices (para 3.05). The project would provide operational
support for this core unit: funds for consultancies, evaluations, simple
studies, general operating costs and audits; office equipment, furniture and



- 19 -
vehicles; and specialized training. The project would also finance the fees
of merchant banks (MBs), which would undertake various oversight functions
(para 4.05).
3.15          Strengthening Institutional capacity at the Federal level.  DPHC
is the focal point in FMOH for providing technical assistance to the states
and, through them, to the LGAs. During project preparation a small Essential
Drugs Unit (EDU) was set up in DPHC to coordinate technical and financial
assistance to the state EDPs. The project would finance: additional staff (a
financial analyst and support staff); office and training equipment; vehicles;
per diem and travel allowances; technical assistance for developing
prototypes, evaluating proposals, and providing support to the states and
LGAs; fellowships and study tours; in-service training for specialized state
staff (para 3.10); workshops, including a project launch workshop; and
operations research. Two FMOH departments would be central to implementation
of the Federal EDP--the Department of Food and Drug Administration and Control
(DFDAC) and the Department of Hospital Services and Training (DHST). To
facilitate implementation, the project would provide a small number of
additional staff for the DFDAC units responsible for procurement (para 3.05),
storage (para 3.06), testing, inspection and registration of drugs (para 3.07)
and drug information (para 3.12). To coordinate the project-assisted
activities under DHST, including the Federal training activities described in
paras 3.10-3.11, a planning officer and administrative staff would be provided
under the project, which would also finance office equipment for the
department and operating costs. Building on the conclusions of the committee
preparing a national drug policy (para 2.12), the project would finance
feasibility studies on local production in both the public and private
sectors. The project would also support a program of institutional review and
development activities, coordinated by the office of FMOH's Director General,
which would aim at identifying the new tasks and roles that should be taken on
by the Federal, state and local governments, as well as by communities and the
private sector, to ensure effective implementation of tie Government's new
health policy (para 2.11). An assessment would also be undertaken to identify
the indigenous skills and infrastructure available to help strengthen
managem.ent capabilities in the health sector. This program of institutional
development activities would build on modest Bank assistance already provided
through the Federal component of the Sokoto Health Project.
3.16         Preparing follow-on projects.  The EDPs of the four
participating states would be funded under the project, and two other states
(Sokoto and Imo) are undertaking EDPs as part of their Bank-assisted statewide
health projects (para 2.16). Of the 15 remaining states, some have already
indicated their interest in undertaking EDPs. Therefore, the project would
include funds that FMOH would provide on a grant basis to enable interested
states to prepare proposals for funding through other channels, including the
line of credit under the proposed Health Systems Fund Project (para 2.15).



- 20 -
C. Project Costs and Financing
3.17                  Estimated cost.  Project costs, by component, are shown in the
table below:
NIGOIA: ESSENTIAL SUO PRDJECT
ESTINATED PROJECT COST BY COMENT
(NAIRA '000)                                          (USS  000)
I Total                                             S Total
I Foreign   8aa.                                    S Foreign   Bass
..cal    Foreign    Total  Exchange    Costa       Local    Foreign    Total  Exchange    Costs
A. DEVEL3PINO AN AFFORABLE AND
SUSTAINABLE SWPLY OF SAFE ORUOS
IMPROVINO MOM PROCURiT. STORAE
AND DISTRIPJTION                          42,546.2 290,288.7 332.809.0         87        76    6,166.1  42,067.2  48,233.3         87       76
ASSLRINO ORUO WALTY                          9,568.   8,681.5  18,188.0          47         4    1,886.0   1,260.0   2,63S.9         47         4
INSTITIrrINO COST RoWVERY AND
DCRU  REVOLVIN  RAWD                       9,928.6   8,819.2  18,747.8         28         8    1,438.9      868.5   1,992.4        28        3
Sub-Total: DEVE,.OPINQ AN AFFORDABLE AND
SUSTAINABLE SUPLY OF SAFE ORUOS             62,081.8 802,714.8 864,748.7         8S        88    8,000.0  48,871.7  52,861.7         83       83
S. IMPROVING TME SKILLS OF HEALTH
WORKERS IN PROVMDINO DIRS
STAFF TRAININO                              21,849.7   8,972.8  27.822.8         21         6    8,166.8      868.6   4,082.2        21         6
RESRIENTINO CURRICLA IN HEALTH
SCIENCES                                     268.8      89.8     888.0         25         0       88.9       18.0      81.9        25        0
STRENCTHENCING DRIJ REWSTRATION AND
INFOR4ATION SERVICES                       1,686.8   4,021.2   8,678.0        71          1      240.1     582.8    822.9          71        1
Sub-Total: IMPROVIN3 THE SKILLS OF
HEALTH WORKERS IN PROYZVINO  RUBS         2S,778.0  10,088.5  8S,868.8         SO         8    8,448.6   1,461.4   4,907.0         SO        8
C. CHANCINO PRACTICES OF BENEICIARIES           2,182.6   1,801.1   8,988.7         48         1      816.S      261.0    877.8         45         1
D. STRENITHE4IO THE INSITUTIONAL
CAPACM  FOR SUWPRTINO EDP.
STReOTHI4I1 INSTITUTIONIL CAPACTY
AT STATE LEVEL                            18,624.4   4,292.8  17,916.7         24         A    1,974.6      622.1   2,896.6        24        4
STREINGTHENWC INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITy
AT FEDSRAL LEVEL                           9,877.6   8,887.4  17,716.0         47         4    1,869.1   1,208.8   2,667.4         47        4
Sub-Totel STRGlTHNING THE D6T11UIONAL
CAPACITY FOR SUPORTDAO EDPs               28,002.0  12,629.7  S6,631.7         88         8    8,888.6   1,880.4  8,164.0           S5       A
Total BASELDIE COSTS                          110,990.9 827,228.7 488,219.6         78       100   16,088.6  47,424.4  68,510.1         75       100
Physical Conting*nciea                       7,478.8  48,098.8  82,874.8         86        12    1,083.8   6,8S6.6   7,619.8         86        12
Price Contingencies                         70,666.4 219,440.1 290,106.4         76        GO    S,S84.6  10,890 4  1S,976.0         76       22
Total PROJECT COSTS                           189,188.8 591,784.6 780,900.8         76       178   20,S64.0  64,580.8  8S,104.8         76       134
-    -    -    a  =                                  .a             n.as~  ~=a==xns
Estimates include taxes and duties
The total cost of the project is estimated at N780.9 million or US$85.1
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$64.6 million
equivalent (76Z of total project cost). Of this total, N23.8 million or 3.0t
represents taxes and duties, which since January 1988 are levied on government
purchases (except for drugs). Estimates are based on June 1988 prices. The
foreign exchange component for drugs is estimated at 951 in view of the
limited availability of competitively priced EDs manufactured locally, for
which, in any case, the local value added is rather small. A typical
methodology for inventory planning was applied to estimate the requirements



- 21 -
for capitalizing the DRFs; it takes into account such factors as the length of
the pipeline (number of levelR in the system), the required buffer or safety
stock at each level, the rate at which LGAs are to be phased in, likely
losses, and anticipated increases in attendance (details are at Annexc 3-8).
Because of the uncertainties in some of these factors, relatively high
physical contingencies (15Z) have been applied to the base costs for drugs.
Physical contingencies of 101 have been applied to other investment costs.
Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of the following
assumptions regarding inflation rates: domestic, 25Z in 1988, 15Z in 1989,
and 102 in 1990-95; foreign, 5.41 in 1988-90 and 3.6% in 1991-95. Exchange
rate movements over the life of the project have been derived from the
differences between these anticipated domestic and international inflation
rates. Contingencies, calculated on the above basis, are equivalent to about
25.4Z of total project costs and 34% of base costs. Project costs by
expenditure category are summarized in Annex 3-9. Separate cost tables for
each of the participating states (Bendel, Cross River, Gongola and Kwara) form
part of Annexes 3-3 through 3-6.
3.18         Financing plan.  The proposed Bank loan of US$68.1 million would
be made to FGN.  This represents 1002 of the foreign exchange costs plus 17%
of the local costs and is equivalent to 80% of the total estimated costs of
the project. Up to US$41.2 million of the total loan amount would be relent
b;- the FGN, through Subsidiary Loan Agreements and on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan, to the four participating states, as follows:
Bendel, US$9.8 million; Cross River, US$13.9 million; Gongola US$11.7 million;
and Kwara, US$5.8 million. The states would assume the foreign exchange risk.
The execution of one such Subsidiary Loan Agreement is a condition of loan
effectiveness. (Unlike previous state-level projects in health and
agriculture, FGN would not assume any portion of the states' counterpart
costs.) FGN would provide the remaining funds from the Bank loan (US$26.9
million) to FMOH. At negotiations, it was agreed to include provision for
retroactive financing totaling US$2.7 million equivalent to facilitate key
start-up activities, such as designing financial management systems. Eligible
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1989 would be covered.
3.19         Sustainability.  A major objective of the project is to ensure
the sustainability of state and Federal EDPs through the establishment or
strengthening, where they exist, of cost-recovery mechanisms and DRFs. As
noted in para 2.18, the Bank's analysis of the worldwide experience in health
financing identifies drugs as the most appropriate focal point for cost
recovery in the health sector. Preliminary analysis during project
preparation confirms for Nigeria the widespread willingness to pay for drugs
at levels sufficiently high to permit full cost recovery--i.e., full
replacement costs of drugs, assuming that efficient procurement, storage and
prescribing are instituted as intended under the project. Therefore, the
project would permit a redirection of regular budgetary funds previously
expended on drugs, although some of these funds would continue to be required
to underwrite the costs of drugs for exempt categories and for ad hoc
purchases of special drugs not on the ED list. It is anticipated that at the
Federal level, the funds that are freed up would largely provide the
additional recurrent financing needed for effective operation of the quality
assurance laboratories (which, in addition, may recoup some of their expenses
by charging local manufacturers and others for assays) and other FMOH units
involved in quality assurance and drug information. Thus, it can be
anticipated that, overall, the project would create very little additional



- 22 -
claim on recurrent health budgets, provided the political will to continue
charging for drugs does not falter. On the other hand, should the DRFs prove
less effective than anticipated, the other reforms introduced through the
project, such as the use of ED lists and more efficient procurement, would
nonetheless markedly increase the level of drugs available through the public
health care system.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
4.01         Preparation guidelines and systems development.  Because of the
urgency of resolving the drug supply crisis, FMOH has dedicated substantial
resources to preparation so that the project can move quickly to full
implementation after approval. In late 1986 the Ministry approved the
original project concept prepared by the Bank at the request of the Federal
Minister of Health; thereafter, it set up an ED Working Group, which organized
workshops for all the states and selected LGAs to explain the new policy
direction and determine their interest in participating. In early 1987 the
Ministry requested the assistance of the World Health Organization (WHO) in
managing the preparation process and established a trust fund for that
purpose, funded out of the Federal component of the Sokoto Health Project.
The Ministry also established in DPHC the Essential Drugs Unit (para 3.15);
initially charged with management of preparation, EDU's first major task was
to participate in a series of studies on logistics, training, public
education, quality assurance, local production, etc. (details on these and
subsequent preparation studies are at Annex 4-1). In mid-1987, based on this
work, the Ministry drafted the new national ED policy (para 2.12) to further
lay the foundation for the project. Thereafter, more intensive work was
launched with the project states, beginning with Bendel, whose draft proposal
served as a model for the use of other states. To consolidate their
preparation work, these other interested states met together in early 1988, at
which time detailed planning and implementation guidelines for the states were
tested and further refined. Prior to appraisal, two additional preparation
activities were launched--development of detailed mechanisms and supporting
manuals for managing the DRFs and for procuring drugs. In mid-1988, FGN also
requested a grant of around US$250,000 from UNDP to finance an international
adviser on EDP management and various local consultancies and staff training.
To assist in devising effective financial management systems, the US Agency
for International Development financed an assessment of Nigeria's experience
with DRFs. A two-year program for 1988-89, worked out jointly among FMOH, WHO
and the Bank, includes additional key pre-implementation activities in support
of the participating states.
B. Project Management and Coordination
4.02         Overall coordination.  While a number of health agencies at all
three levels of government would implement the project, responsibility for
overall project coordination of the project rests with FMOH, as the Federal
agency responsible for the quality and adequacy of the country's drug supply.
Hence, the official ultimately responsible for the project is the Federal
Minister of Health, who not only is the top policy-maker for the Ministry, but
as the result of the 1988 Civil Service Reforms, also its chief accounting
officer. The directors of the three participating FMOH departments--DPHC,
DFDAC and DHST--would have direct responsibility for implementing project



- 23 -
activities in accordance with their present schedules of duties and would be
responsible to the Minister, through the Director General of Health, in
accordance with normal reporting arrangements. Any high-level coordination of
activities across two or more departments would occur in the routine meetings
of FMOH's Top Management Committee, on which all department heads sit. The
inter-departmental ED Working Group (para 4.01), composed of middle-level
officials and technical specialists, would continue to function, primarily to
plan and carry out activities that cut across the domains of several
departments.
State and Local Government EDPs
4,03          FMOH Support for the states and LGAs.  Under the project, DPHC
would continue to serve, as it has throughout preparation, as the focal point
for FMOH's efforts to stimulate and facilitate the planning and implementation
of state EDPs.  It would provide technical support to the states and LGAs
through training, development of prototype manuals and materials,
commissioning of studies, and technical assistance by its staff or consultants
(detailed responsibilities of the department's EDU are at Annex 4-2).  These
activities are consistent with the support already being provided by DPHC to
the states and LGAs in implementing their PHC programs. To enable DPHC to
fulfill its responsibilities in the project, its EDU is to be staffed
initially by five full-time professionals, along with the adviser on EDP
management funded by UNDP (an organigram for DPHC is at Annex 4-3). During
the early stages of preparation, three staff (a physician, a health planner,
and a health education/training specialist) were assigned to EDU, but FMOH has
agreed that two more staff (a pharmacist and a financial specialist) will be
assigned to EDU on a full-time basis in early 1989.
4.04          Collaboration between FMOH and Nigerian financial institutions
in supporting the states and LGAs. To respond to FGN's strong desire that
health projects include as many states as possible, it is necessary that
Nigerian institutions begin assuming some of the responsibilities for project
appraisal and supervision and for loan administration that would normally be
the Bank's. The Bank and FGN have agreed that the Essential Drugs Project
will take the first step in this direction. FMOH, through EDU, would maintain
overall responsibility for relations with the states participating in the
project and, in particular, would be responsible for the quality of the
technical aspects of the states' policies, plans and program implementation.
In consultation with the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development,
FMOH has concluded, however, that it does not now have nor should it try to
develop a capacity to oversee the financial side of the states' projects,
including procurement. Therefore, it has been agreed among the states, the
FGN, and the Bank that MBs, which combine the requisite banking and financial
skills, will be involved in the project to provide key services, as outlined
in para 4.05 below. As a basis for shifting selected responsibilities to FMOH
and the MBs, detailed guidelines for program preparation and implementation
have been drawn up and agreed to (an outline is at Annex 4-4).
4.05          Responsibilities of the merchant banks.  Each participating
state would select an eligible MB to advise on and monitor .he financial
aspects of its subproject. Those Nigerian MBs whose overall capacity to
administer Bank-related on-lendiTg and provide related services was appraised
for the recently approved Infrastructure Development Fund Project (Loan 2925-
UNI) are considered precaalified for providing similar financial services



- 24 -
under the Essential Drugs Project. Responsibility for the MBs' fees would be
assumed by the states as part of project costs. The key functions to be
performed by the MBs include confirming compliance with loan disbursement
conditions, providing advice on and monitoring cost recovery and operation of
the DRFs, monitoring procurement and advising on international business
transactions, and maintaining various accounts or. behalf of the states (a
detailed description of responsibilities of MBs and other financial
institutions is at Annex 4-5).
4.06          States.  What is ultimately the most important aspect of
implementation--providing safe, effective and affordable drugs to the public--
rests with the state and local government health systems as an integral part
of their day-to-day health care activities. The small number of staff with
full-time responsibility for a state's EDP would be brought together into a
permanent, consolidated management unit under either the SMOH or SHMB,
depending on where the bulk of drug supply responsibilities rests at present.
The SEDP management unit's title, institutional linkages and legal status
would vary from state to state, and its structure and staffing would be
dictated by the long-term requirements of the SEDP as it would not be a
traditional project implementation unit. The state's central medical stor-
(CMS) would be placed under its direct administrative control. The key
functions of the SEDP management unit would be established by state policy, as
set out in Annex 2-8, including responsibility to provide drugs to the LGAs,
procure and store drugs cost effectively, manage the state's DRF, and
coordinate in-service training and public education programs on proper drug
use. In light of the critical role of the SEDP management units in launching
project implementation, it was agreed during negotiations that by June 30,
1989 each state would designate a manager for its SEDP whose experience and
qualifications are acceptable to the Bank. Likewise, it was agreed that each
state would appoint a financial controller before the end of 1989 whose
experience and qualifications are acceptable to the Bank. An important
function of the SEDP management units would be to put together, in
consultation with their constituencies, annual work plans and budgets; the
release of loan funds and of state counterpart funds into various accounts
(para 4.16), as well as agreement on the subsequent year's drug seed stock
requirements (para 4.15), would be based on these work plans and budgets.
During negotiations, it was agreed that by September 30 of each year, each
state would submit the subsequent year's work plan and budget to EDU and the
Bank for review.
4.07          To ensure the broad responsiveness of its SEDP, each state would
also set up an ED management advisory committee, composed of senior officials
of such bodies as the SMOH, the SHMB, the State Ministry of Finance, and, with
a special brief to represent the LGA needs, the State Local Government
Inspectorate in the Governor's Office. In some states, health-related non-
governmental organizations or professional bodies might also sit on this
advisory committee. Technical guidance for the SEDP would be provided by a
state drug advisory committee (DAC), which would also be responsible for the
preparation and periodic updating of the state's ED list; however, DAC members
would not participate in procurement or in any other dealings with suppliers.
A DAC would be broadly representative of public sector health programs, with
its membership ranging from hospital specialists to PHC practitioners from the
LGAs. A key principle in setting up project implementation arrangements is
that existing structures be used to the maximum extent possible, provided they
are not dysfunctional. Hence, an SEDP would not set up its own training or



- 25 -
public education capacities;   instead, under the leadership of a coordinator
in each of these areas it would make use of and even help to strengthen a
state's health training unit and health education unit, both of which would
typically be in the SMOH. (Organigrams showing the implementation structures
in the four states are appended to the descriptions of their subprojects in
Annexes 3-3 through 3-6.)
4.08         Local governments and communities.  To come into the program,
each LGA would have to meet certain criteria, including signing an agreement
with the SEDP and preparing an implementation plan and budget (for details see
Annex 3-2). The states are taking responsibility in the first instance for
purchasing drug seedstock and equipment for the LGAs out of the proceeds of
the Bank loan. In most states, however, these drugs and other items are being
provided on a loan basis to the LGAs, which will need to repay the states in
accordance with terms being worked out between each state and its LGAs. In
addition, each LGA will be making small counterpart contributions by
renovating its medical store and financing modest operating costs. As noted
in para 3.08, any LGA without sufficient capacity in accounting needs to
recruit qualified staff to manage its DRF and supervise the cost-recovery
activities of individual LGA facilities; existing staff would continue to be
responsible for the LGA stores, but they would receive special training in
stores management. Otherwise, as with the state-owned facilities, the program
would be implemented by regular staff and their supervisors as part of their
day-to-day health care activities. Staff development and public education
would be carried out in LGAs with technical and logistical support from the
states. A state's obligations to its LGAs would be formalized in agreements
executed between the state and individual LGAs as they come into the program
(provisions of a typical agreement are set out in Annex 4-6). Local health
committees being formed under the PHC program would be encouraged to assume an
oversight role with regard to the functioning of the SEDP at the community
level, with special reference to cost recovery.
The Federal Government's EDP
4.09         FMOH and the Federal hospitals.  Implementation of the Federal
Government's EDP (para 2.14) would be carried out by two FMOH departments
--DFDAC and DHST--as part of their ongoing but much strengthened activities,
and by the Federal hospitals themselves. The DFDAC would be responsible for
quality assurance, drug information, and procurement of essential drugs for
the Federal hospital system, arnd for operation of the Federal DRF. Those
activities involving the hospitals would be carried out in consultation DHST.
One staff member in DFDAC would be assigned full-time responsibility for
coordinating project-financed activities among the relevant units in both
departments, including preparation of reports and the development of annual
work plans and budgets, which would be submitted by the end of October of the
preceding year for review by the Bank. DHST would be responsible for all
training activities at the Federal level, the coordination of which requires
the appointment of a new administrative officer. The appointment of both
coordinators by FMOH is a condition of loan effectiveness. (Organigrams for
DFDAC and DHST are at Annex 4-3.) Preparation of withdrawal applications for
FMOH activities would be centralized in the Department of Finance and
Supplies. At the Federal hospital level, project-assisted activities would be
basically carried out through existing structures although a focal point for
coordination will be identified in each hospital. Any hospital without a DAC



- 26 -
would establish one to oversee the program and to prepare and periodically
update that hospital's inputs for the common ED list.
Operation of Drug Revolving Funds
4.10         As DRFs are the basic mechanism for ensuring the sustainability
of the EDPs of the local governments, the states and the Federal Government,
their effective operation at all three levels is critical to the project's
ultimate success. The basic objective of a DRF is to guarantee the continued
provision of drugs by collecting sufficient funds through drug sales to cover
the full replacement cost of new drugs as well as losses incurred through
deterioration or pilferage (para 3.09). By end of the fifth year of their
operation, it is estimated that the four participating states' DRFs will
experience annual turnovers ranging from about US$3 million to US$6 million
equivalent (at 1988 prices). To be viable, DRFs must be allowed to retain all
funds collected through charges for drugs; as this may not be consistent with
present practices in every state, such a guarantee is included in each state's
ED policy (Annex 2-8). In light of the financial independence of the three
levels of government, it is necessary that each level maintain a separate DRF
even if a higher level procures drugs on its behalf, as in the case of states
procuring drugs for their LGAs. As a basic principle, no credit would be
provided between levels, and even within levels, drugs would be provided
largely on a cash-and-carry basis, i.e., every drug distributed by a CMS
would be paid for by its recipient--a hospital, state PHC facility or LGA. In
turn, drugs distributed by the LGA stores would be paid for by the LGA
facilities. (An exception to the above would be the initial infusion of
project-financed seed stock or incremental working capital, which would be
provided free of charge to the facilities at which retail sales occur.)
Accounting systems would be put in place to help ensure that the drugs
distributed and funds collected balance. This greatly increased
accountability, along with improved security, would help to reduce leakages in
the drug supply system, which have been rampant. Detailed procedures are
being drawn up to specify clearly such matters as responsibility for losses at
each distribution point and operation of a system for providing facilities
with credit for exempt patients (e.g., through periodic deposits by states,
frequently in advance, out of regular budgetary resources). The DRFs at each
level--LGA, state and Federal--would be audited annually by outside auditors.
The operation of DRFs would be fully codified in procedures manuals to be
produced and distributed through the project (para 3.08). Additional
information on the operation of DRFs is at Annex 4-7.
Proiect Monitoring and Reporting
4.11         Project monitoring.  Readily measurable indicators would be used
by various levels of the drug supply system in monitoring the performance of
lower levels; states would monitor the performance of LGAs; DPHC ana MBs, the
performance of states; and DFDAC, the performance of the Federal hospitals.
Special attention would be paid to indicators of DRF financial viability.
Because of their importance in monitoring implementation and as an aid to EDP
management, draft indicators were discussed and provisionally agreed during
negotiations (Annex 4-8).
4.12         Reporting arrangements.  The legal and financial relationships
among the different parties play a major role in dictating the reporting
relationships among them. Thus, LGAs would be expected to provide simple



- 27 -
annual reports to the SEDP management unit (para 4.06); each state in turr.
would submit annual progress and financial reports, as well as a completion
report, to FMOH for review, consolidation, and onward transmittal to the Bank.
Specifically, it was agreed during negotiations that each state would submit
its annual progress and financial reports within three months of the end of
its fiscal year, and its completion report within six months of loan closing.
Likewise, it was agreed that the three implementing departments of FMOH--
DFDAC, DHST, and DPHC--would submit annual progress and financial reports to
the Bank within three months of the close of each fiscal year. A consolidated
project completion report, including inputs from the four states, would be
prepared by FMOH and submitted to the Bank within nine months of the loan
closing date. It is estimated that the project would be completed by December
31, 1996; therefore, the loan closing date would be June 30, 1997. (Audit
reports are discussed in para. 4.17.)
C. Procurement
4.13          Summary of procurement arrangements.  The project's procurement
arrangements are summarized below:



- 28 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
Procurement Method         Total
Project Elements           ICB      LCB       Shopping   Other 
---------     CUSS Millions)----------------- ------
Drug Seed Stock                49.4   8.2          2.6       -       65.1
(48.2)  (2.7)      (1.8)             (62.7)
Civil Works                     -      2.9         -         0.9      3.8
(2.5)                         (2.5)
Vehicies, Equipment, and        1.1   8.6          1.0       0.3    11.0
Materials                    (0.9)  (65.)       (0.3)              (7.0)
Consultancy Services (in-       -      -           -         5.1      6.1
cluding services of MBs),                                  (6.1)   (6.1)
Fellouships, and Studies
Training Incremental            -      -           -         9.3      9.3
Salaries, & Other
Operation Costs
Grants for Project              -      -           -         0.8      0.8
Preparation                                                  (0.8)   (0.8)
TOTALS                     60.6  14.7         3.6       18.4    86.1
(49.1) (11.0)      (2.1)     (6.9)  (88.1)
Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by the loan, which include contingencies,
but exicude duties and taxes.
Special attention is given to the procurement of drugs, as an important
outcome of the project would be a more cost-effective system of drug
procurement. Procurement of drugs under the project by states and by FMOH
would be through ICB, except as noted below, and would normally take place
annually. It is estimated that drugs financed through the loan would total
about US$53 million equivalent, excluding those purchased with funds recycled
through the DRFs, which would also largely follow Bank ICB procurement
guidelines during the life of the project. All drug specifications would use
official international non-proprietary ("generic") names. At Government's
request, in accordance with Bank guidelines, a margin of domestic preference,
depending on the applicable customs duties and taxes but not exceeding 152,
would be available to local drug manufacturers, provided their products have
the required minimum local value added (20%). In the case of emergencies, as
declared by properly constituted authorities, required drugs could be procured
in accordance with international or local shopping procedures given below. In
addition, to provide further flexibility, especially in the early years of the
project when drug estimation procedures will not yet be fully refined, a
limited amount of drugs may be procured using local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank. This provision would be limited to bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or less and would also
be subject to the following agreed aggregate limits: FMOH, US$1.1 million;
Bendel, US$0.5 m'llion; Cross River, US$0.7 million; Gongola, US$0.6 million,
and Kwara, US$0.3 million. Notwithstanding the above, there may be one or two
appropriate drugs available only in branded form, in which case sole source



- 29 -
procurement would be acceptable. In those cases where imported products are
not likely to be competitive (e.g., saline solution) the states or FMOH may
agree with the Bank to limit procurement to locally produced products
(reserved procurement), in which case Bank loan funds could not be used. In
any case, proceeds from the loan would be used only to finance procurement of
those items on the then current and fully agreed ED list for a given state or
for the Federal hospital system. The participating states and FMOH gave
assurances to that effect during negotiations. In addition, each state and
FMOH would adopt standard procedures and documents for drug procurement.
Draft procedures prepared by FMOH's consultants and discussed during
negotiations are acceptable to the Bank. To help ensure the quality of drugs
purchased under the project, prequalification of manufacturers/suppliers would
be required, but it would be inefficient for each state and FGN to undertake
prequalification separately. Therefore, because FMOH has the most capacity in
this regard, which would be strengthened under the project (para 3.05), all
project-financed drug procurement would be limited to manufacturers/suppliers
on the prequalified list prepared by FMOH. This list and any revisions would
be subject to the Bank's review prior to its distribution and use.
Accordingly, tbe participating states and FMOH itself gave assurances during
negotiations that procurement of project-financed drugs will be limited to
products of those manufacturers/suppliers prequalified by FMOH. (More details
on prequalification and other aspects of the drug procurement procedures being
adopted under the project are at Annex 4-9.)
4.14         Procurement of civil works, goods and services.  Civil works
contracts, which would amount to about US$2.9 million equivalent, would be
awarded on the basis of LCB, for they are not likely to attract foreign
bidders in view of their being widely scattered geographically and over time.
Because of the relatively small amounts involved (an average of US$750,000 per
state for a wide variety of vehicles and equipment spread over several years),
all procurement of vehicles and equipment by the states would also be through
LCB, as would be the procurement of the small amounts of various materials for
training and other purposes. Procedures for LCB would be agreed with the
Bank, and would, inter alia, incorporate explicit statements to bidders of the
evaluation and award criteria, would be broadly advertised in local
newspapers, and would not preclude foreign bidders from participating.
Vehicles, equipment and materials required by FMOH would be packaged across
implementing units and departments to permit economies of scale. Packages
estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or less could be purchased using LCB
procedures, whereas those costing over US$300,000 would be procured through
ICB. The aggregate limit for LCB procurement of non-civil works items by FMOH
would be US$1.5 million equivalent. Notwithstanding the above, procurement of
items or groups of items (including, in the case of emergencies, drugs)
costing less than US$60,000 equivalent may be procured by local or
international direct shopping on the basis of comparison of price quotations
from at least three eligible suppliers; the aggregate limits for such
procurement would be US$500,000 equivalent for each state and US$1.5 million
equivalent for FMOH. These limits are judged to be sufficiently high to
permit quick responses to genuine emergency requirements for drugs over the
life of the project. Books and journals of a proprietary nature, as well as
spare parts for existing equipment which are available from a sole source, may
be procured directly and would not contribute to these aggregate limits.
Procurement by FMOH of goods, including drugs, equivalent to US$500,000 or
more would be subject to the Bank's prior review of bidding documents and



- 30 -
contract awards. Likewise, procurement by a state equivalent to US$100,000 or
more would require the prior review of the Bank, except that in the case of
drugs procured by the states the Bank's prior review would be required for any
proposed procurement equivalent to US$300,000 or more. Notwithstanding these
limits, the first sets of bidding documents to be used by each state and by
FMOH for both ICB and LCB procurement would be reviewed by the Bank.
Application of the above limits for prior review by the Bank would result in
about 802 of the Bank-financed procurement being subject to prior review. The
selection of consultants would be in accordance with Bank guidelines. The
Bank's prior concurrence would b.. obtained by FMOH or the states with regard
to the terms of reference, qualifications and estimated cost of consultants to
be hired under the project (except those whose contracts are estimated to cost
less than US$5,000 equivalent). An overview of consultancy requirements under
the project is given in Annex 4-10.
D. Disbursements
4.15          Disbursement categories and procedures.  Standard profiles (both
sectoral and country) array disbursements over an eight-year period. In this
project, however, the projected disbursement period has been shortened to
seven years due to the strong emphasis of project financing on drug seed
stock, which is likely to be procured relatively quickly. (The estimated
schedule of disbursements is at Annex 4-11). The Bank loan would be disbursed
as follows:
Summary Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Millions)
Amount of the      Percentage of Expen-
Category              Loan Allocated    diture to be Financed
1.   Drug seed stock         39.7             100? of the foreign expenditures;
85? of local expenditures
FMOH                   (15.1)
Bendel State            (5.7)
Cross River State       (8.5)
Gongola State           (6.9)
Kwara State             (3.5)
2.   Vehicles, equipment,    6.7              100? of foreign expenditures;
and materials                           85? of local expenditures
FMOH                    (2.5)
Bendel State            (1.6)
Cross River State       (0.8)
Gongola State           (1.2)
Kwara State             (0.6)
3.   Consultancy Services    4.1              1002
fellowships, and
studies
FMOH                    (1.8)
Bendel State            (0.7)
Cross River State       (0.8)
Gongola State           (0.5)



- 31 -
Kwara State              (0.3)
4.   Civil Work                2.1            85Z
FMOH                    (1.3)
Bendel State            (0.1)
Cross River State       (0.3)
Gongola State           (0.1)
Kwara State             (0.3)
5.   Project preparation       0.6            1002
grants for other states
FMOH                    (0.6)
6.   Unallocated              14.9
FMOH                    (5.6)
Bendel State            (1.7)
Cross River State       (3.5)
Gongola State           (3.0)
Kwara State             (1.1)
Total Loan Amount             68.1
ai  Including mechant bank fees.
bl For states, Central Medical Stores only.
Withdrawal applications to the Bank would be grouped into packages of at least
US$50,000 equivalent. Withdrawal applications would be fully documented
except for contracts below US$60,000 equivalent where certified statements of
expenditures (SOEs) would be acceptable. Evidence of expenditures and related
dacumentation for these items would be retained for inspection by Bank
missions and project auditors. As noted above, loan funds and funds from the
DRFs would be combined to finance all qualified drugs. The amount to be
disbursed from the Bank loan would be determined by the portion of drugs
representing a given year's requirements for drug seed stocks/incremental
working capital. Although working estimates of these amounts were made during
project preparation (Annex 3-8), they will need to be adjusted year by year as
a firmer basis for estimation becomes available, including the previous year's
consumption. Accordingly, the specific upper limit for disbursement of loan
funds for drug seed stock for each state and FMOH would be agreed annually
among the involved parties (e.g., in the case of states, the states
themselves, the MBs providing oversight, and the Bank). These agreed amounts
would be based on data provided as part of the work plans and budgets to be
submitted annually by each state and FMOH (paras 4.06 and 4.09); in addition,
certain safeguards are to be agreed so that drugs will not be procured in
advance of adequate preparatory measures being taken. Specifically, it is a
condition of disbursement against drug purchases by any given state that the
state will have established an effective system for managing cost recovery and
associated DRFs, including employment of a financial controller with
qualifications acceptable to the Bank (a full operational definition of an
effective cost-recovery system is at Annex 4-12). Furthermore, in order to
make effective use of funds provided for procurement of drugs, each state gave



- 32 -
an assurance at negotiations that no later than as part of its second year's
work program, commencing on January 1, 1991. it will initiate the following
additional actions: (i) renovation of its CMS, including installation of
adequate refrigeration and cooling and an effective security system; (ii)
initial adaptation of the three bas'c procedural manuals (procurement,
supplies management, and cost recovery/DRF); (iii) initial briefing of
leadership groups on the SEDP and rationales for cost recovery; (iv)
development of materials for the public education campaign; and (v) in-service
training of at least some health workers in all facilities participating in
the SEDP. Similarly, it is a condition of disbursement against drug purchases
by FMOH for the Federal hospitals that acceptable systems for managing cost
recovery and the associated DRFs be established in the Federal hospitals and
FMOH itself (Annex 4-12). FMOH gave an assurance during negotiations that no
later than as part of its second year's work program, commencing on January 1,
1991, it would initiate improvements in the capacity of its hospital system
for the effective p.-ovision of drugs through the following additional actions:
(i) distribution of initial drafts of the three basic procedural manuals; (ii)
provision of initial patier,t education materials; and (iii) conduct of in-
service training for at least those staff who are responsible for out-patient
services.
4.16          Accounts and audits.  To expedite project implementation, three
types of accounts (Annex 4-13) would be established: (a) special accounts for
Bank loan proceeds, which would preclude the Government's having to prefinance
expenditures, local or international, that are eligible for financing from the
loan; (b) project accounts for advance deposits of counterpart funds; and (c)
DRF accounts for maintenance of funds generated by drug sales and, as agreed,
for deposit of supplemental funds from government to cover the cost of exempt
categories of patients. A special account, denominated in US dollars, would
be established by each state at an MB of its choice. A single special
account, also denominated in US dollars, would be established by FMOH covering
all of its activities under the project. In each case, an initial deposit
would be made by the Bank, upon application by the recognized authority,
equivalent to four months' estimated expenditures. The amounts of such
advances would be: Bendel, US$1.0 million; Cross River, US$1.0 million;
Gongola, US$0.9 million; Kwara, US$0.7 million; and FMOH, US$2.5 million.
Special accounts would thereafter be replenished upon submission to the Bank
of properly documented withdrawal applications totalling at least US$100,000
equivalent. Project accounts would be established by FMOH for the two
distinct parts of the project for which it is responsible (Project Account A
related to FMOH's technical support for the state and LGA EDPs and Project
Account B related to the Federal EDP) and by each participating state. Unless
agreed otherwise, deposits would be made quarterly into these accounts,
representing three months' anticipated counterpart financing requirements.
The four states would make initial quarterly deposits into their project
accounts as follows: Bendel, NO.6 million; Cross River, NO.8 million; Gongola,
NO.7 million; and Kwara, NO.5 million. FMOH's initial deposits into its
project accounts would be as follows: Project Account A, NO.3 million, and
Project Account B, N1.0 million. As conditions of loan effectiveness, (a) at
least one state, which has signed a subsidiary Loan Agreement, would have
established its project account and made the agreed initial deposit into it;
and (b) FMOH would have established its two separate project accounts and made
the agreed initial deposits into both. Finally, each LGA, each state and FMOH
would establish a separate DRF account for deposit of the proceeds of drug



- 33 -
sales and of budgetary funds to cover the cost of drugs for exempt patients;
these accounts would then finance replenishment stocks. FMOH gave assurances
during negotiations that it will make subsequent quarterly deposits into its
project accounts in adequate amounts and on a timely basis and that it will
make the necessary deposits from budgetary resources or other sources into its
DRF in accordance with the principle of full cost recovery in order, among
other things, to cover anticipated drug costs for exempt patients. Likewise,
each state gave assurances during negotiations that it will (a) make quarterly
contributions in adequate amounts into its project account, and (b) deposit
promptly into its DRF account adequate funds to cover the cost of drugs for
exempt patients. All of th; above accounts, as well as any other project-
related accounts, would be subject to annual audits by independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank. Such audits should provide separate opinions with
regard to expenditures claimed through SOEs. Audits would be completed within
six months of the end of each fiscal year.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01          Benefits for the public.  The principal benefit of the project
would be the availability to the public in about four states and in major
urban areas in other states of a sustainable supply of safe, effective and
affordable drugs. Assuming that 601 of the population has reasonable access
to public sector health services, about 12 million Nigerians would potentially
benefit from this aspect of the project. Eventually, almost every Nigerian
would benefit from the project in two other ways: (a) from the impact. of
FMOH's strengthened quality assurance capabilities on the improved quality of
the country's drug supplies regardless of their source, public or private,
domestic or foreign; and (b) from the improved prescribing and dispensing
skills of future physicians, nurses and pharmacists resulting from the
reorientation of basic training programs. Conservative estimates of the
savings to users of public sector health services in the four states suggest
that, after introduction of the project and even with full cost recovery,
patients should be able to obtain drugs for one-half or less of what they
currently pay. Specifically, under the project, the public would be able to
purchase drugs for about 55Z of what several existing state DRFs now charge,
about 50? of prices at several teaching hospitals, and about 42? of prices
charged by private pharmacies (projected drug prices are shown in Annex 5-1).
In absolute terms, with full cost recovery, it is estimated that on average,
patients would nay the equivalent of US$1.40 for drugs at PHC facilities
compared to US$14.00 as hospital in-patients; at the same time they would be
assured of better quality. This would have an immediate impact on the health
status of those who, in the absence of drugs, have either gone without or been
victimized by sellers of adulterated and fake drugs. In the medium term, the
availability once again of drugs in the public sector would increase the
utilization and credibility of the full range of available health care
services. This, in turn, has the potential of even greater impact on the
country's health status as people take advantage of major preventive and
promotive health programs such as maternal and child health. Indirectly,
increased use of the health services will also help to promote acceptance of
family planning services, which are being introduced throughout the public
sector under the new National Population Programme.



- 34 -
5.02          Benefits for the health system.  The project would also have a
positive impact on the public health system, especially with regard to
ameliorating some of its financial constraints. By introducing cost recovery
in an acceptable form, the project would assist the health sector in dealing
with the serious imbalances in the allocation of resources. Indirectly, the
strong emphasis on efficient financial management and the introduction of
management techniques through the project would help to strengthen overall
management in the sector. Having higher utilization levels as a result of the
steady supply of drugs would increase the productivity of large investments in
staff and facilities, thereby reducing the unit costs for various services,
which are extremely high at present. The availability of drugs and higher
levels of use should also improve staff morale, which has declined in recent
years. All of the above assumptions about project benefits are reinforced by
the successful implementation of EDPs in other African countries, notably
Kenya and Zimbabwe.
5.03          Risks.  EDPs are not without risks, however, especially as a
result of the strong vested interests in the drug supply subsector. To reduce
this risk, each state has committed itself to initial reforms in, among other
areas, drug selection and procurement. This commitment was formalized through
approval by its State Executive Council of an ED policy embodying the basic
elements agreed between FMOH and the Bank (Annex 2-8). Another major risk is
that the DRFs may be decapitalized due to poor management or unanticipated
losses. A series of steps have been taken to reduce this risk. First, during
project preparation special care was taken to develop effective financial
management tools and systems with a number of built-in checks and balances,
including "early warning" indicators and annual independent audits of the
DRFs. Second, pricing of drugs will be realistic, taking into account the
various sources of decapitalization experienced elsewhere. Third, lessons
from existing DRFs in Nigeria were also applied to the project design (e.g.,
the importance of not allowing control over DRFs to be diluted). Fourth, the
merchant banks and other groups with skills in financial evstems and their
management will apply their capabilities in assisting with and overseeing
implementation of-the DRFs. Finally, loan proceeds will not be released for
drug purchases until adequate cost-recovery systems are in place and health
workers at all levels have been trained to operate them. It should be kept in
mind, however, that even if some DRFs were to falter, the improved procedures
for drug selection, procurement, storage and prescribing being introduced
through the project would have considerable benefit in their own right. By
increasing the efficiency with which budgetary resources are used, these
reforms could in some states at least double the amount of drugs now obtained
with current budgetary allocations, and at the same time increase their
quality and appropriateness. Finally, risks associated with the weak
implementation capacity of the states and LGAs are being reduced through
technical assistance, including that provided by FMOH, the MBs and WHO, and
through the use of state-of-the-art planning and implementation guidelines.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
6.01          Assurances by FMOH.  During negotiations, FMOH gave assurances
that it willt



- 35 -
(a)   propose a process to the Bank by January 1, 1991 for systematically
updating the national ED list on the basis of which a shorter list of
essential drugs for the Federal hospitals will be prepared, doing so
no more often than once a year and submitting the latter, shorter
version ("Federal essential drugs list") thereafter to the Bank for
comment (para 3.04), and use this agreed shorter list as the sole
basis for procuring drugs financed out of loan proceeds, following
the standard drug procurement procedures agreed for the project (para
4.13);
(b)   no later than as part of its second year's work program, commencing
January 1, 1991, initiate further strengthening of the capacity of
itE hospital system for the effective provision of drugs through (i)
distribution of initial drafts of the three basic procedural manuals;
(ii) provision of initial patient education material; and (iii)
conduct of in-service training for at least those staff responsible
for delivery of outpatient services (para 4.15); and
(c)   make, in a timely fashion, the required quarterly deposits from
budgetary resources into its two project accounts to meet its
counterpart funding obligations and make the necessary deposits from
budgetary resources or other sources into its DRF in accordance with
the principle of full cost recovery in order, among other things, to
cover anticipated drug costs for exempt patients (para 4.16).
6.02         Assurances by the states.  During negotiations, each of the four
participating states (Bendel, Cross River, Gongola and Kwara) gave assurances
that it will:
(a)   update and submit its ED list no more than once a year to FMOH for
review (para 3.04), and use loan funds to procure only those drugs on
the agreed list, following the standard drug procurement procedures
agreed for the project, including limitation of bidding to those
manufacturers/suppliers prequalified by FMOH (para 4.13);
(b)   no later than as part of its second year's work program, commencing
on January 1, 1991, initiate further strengthening of its capacity
for the effective provision of drugs by (i) renovation and equipping
of its CMS, including installation of adequate security; (ii) initial
adaptation of the three basic procedural manuals (procurement,
supplies management, and cost recovery/DRF); (iii) initial briefing
of leadership groups on the EDP and rationales for cost recovery:
(iv) development of materials for the first phase of the public
education campaign; and (v) conduct of in-service training of at
least some health workers in all facilities participating in the SEDP
(para 4.15); and
(c)   make, in a timely fashion, the required quarterly deposits from
budgetary sources into its project account and make promptly adequate
payments into its DRF account to meet the anticipated cost of
exemptions (para 4.16).



- 36 -
B. Conditions
6.03           The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)   signing between FGN and at least one state of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (para 3.18);
(b)   appointment of two coordinators for project-financed activities, one
in each of the two FMOH departments responsible for the Federal EDP
(para 4.09);
(c)   establishment of a project account with the agreed initial deposit by
at least one state that has signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para
4.16); and
(d)   establishment by FMOH of two separate project accounts (A and B) with
the agreed initial deposits (para 4.16).
6.04           The following are conditions of disbursement:
(a)   before funds are disbursed to or on behalf of any given state for the
purchase of drugs, a system acceptable to the Bank for managing cost
recovery and DRFs will have been established, including employment of
a financial controller with acceptable qualifications (para 4.15 and
Annex 4-12); and
(b)   before funds are disbursed to or on behalf of FMOH for the purchase
of drugs for Federal hospitals, a system acceptable to the Bank for
managing cost recovery and DRFs will have been established in the
Federal hospitals and FMOU itself (para 4.15 and Annex 4-12).
C. Recommendation
6.05    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$68.1 million to the Federal Government of
Nigeria for 20 years, including five years of grace, at the variable interest
rate 1982.
AF4PH
August 10, 1989



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Comparative Indicators of Population. Health A N4trition Status
for Nigeria and Selected CountriesA.
(1986 Data Unless Stated Otherwise)
GNP        Total          Average            Life           Crude      Infant         Daily per Capital
Country              per        Fertility      Annual Rate        Expectancy     Death      Mortality      Caloric SUDDIV
Capita     Rate           of Population      at Birth       Rate       Rate           Total     As Percent ?f
(USS)                    Growth                                                                 Requirement4
(1980-86)
NIGERIA                840J/         8.94/          3.3                SO           1C         104           2,139           94
Other anglophone
West-Atr. Countr.:
Ghana                390          8.8             3.5                54          13           89           1,785           78
Liberia              460          6.6             3.3                64           13          87           2,373          103
Lower
MiddlI-Income
Countrioe              760          4.7             2.8                S9           10          77           2,511          169
Middle-income
Oil Exporters          930          4.9             2.7                69           10          83           2,460          107
Other countries
with similar
per capita income:
Bolivia              6e6          8.1             2.7                S3           14         113           2,171           95
Zimbabwe             620          6.0             3.7                s8           11          74           2,144           93
Dominican Rep.       710          3.8             2.4                as            7          67           2,680          110
Pnpun New Guine*    720           5.2             2.1                52           13          64           2,146           94
Sub-Saharan
Africa                 370          6.7             3.1                se           16         113           2,097           91
/ Extracted from 'World Development Indicators,* World Develooment Report 1988, published for World Bank
by Oxford University Prese, New York.                                                                                                 0 
Z/ 2,286 is considered 100I  X
0I
!J Revised considerably downward for 1987 to USt370.
V  Estimated at 6.3 in Nigerian Fertility Survey, 1981-82.



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Composite Outpatient Morbidity Profile
for a Northern Stat.
HEALTH PROBLEM                         Cases/1000 Attendances                 HEALTH PROBLEM                        Cases/10O0 Attendances
All Ages    (6        >=6                                                   All Ages    (5         >=6
MALARIA
Mild-Moderate                              260      130       130          ANAEMIA  MALNUTRITION                         16        8         8
Severe                                      40       20        20          MENTAL 6ISORDERS
DIARRHEAL AND RELATED DISEASES                                           :      Neurosis  Other Non-psychotic               4        0         4
Acute Diarrhea, Gastroenf;eritis            as       50        15     :    EAR DISEASES
Bacteria Dysentury, NEC                     30       10        20     :      Acute Otitis Media                          14        6         9
Amoebic Dysentary                            8        0         6          MOUTH AND TEETH DISEASE
Typhoid Fevor                                2        0         2            Stomatitis, Mouth Sores                      6        6         0
RESPIRATORY DISEASES                                                            Dental Abscess                              8         0        6
Cough  Common Cold, URI                     40       30        10          GENITO-URINARY DISEASE
Tonsillitis, Pharyngitis                     4        1         3            Gonorrhoea
Bronchitis                                  12        6         6               Uncomplicated Gonorrhoes                 20        0        20
Pneumonia                                   20       10        10               PID, Persistent Gonorehoea                6        0         5
Asthma                                      20        6        15            Urinary Tract Infection                     18        0        18
Tuberculosis, pulmonary                      7        0         7            Vaginitis                                   10        0        10
CHILDHOOD INFECTIOUS DISEASE                                                 PREGNANCY, CHILDBIRTH
Measles                                                                      Uterine Blooding, Abortion                   5        0         5   °°
Secondary Conjunctivitis                   6        4         2            Antenatal Care                              30        0        30
Secondary Pneumonia, Otitis Media         10        8         2     :   ARTHRITIS  RHEUMATISM                          12        0        12
Secondary Diarrhea                         4        4         0          OTHER INFECTIOUS DISEASE
WOUNDS, BURNS, INJURIES                                                         Other Bacterial Infections                  9        3         6
Laceration, Open Wound                      24       10        14               (eg., Adenitis, Sinusitis)
Contusion, Abrasion                         20        8        12            Schistosomissis                              8        0         8
Other Injury                                20        8        12            Leprosy                                      4        0         4
SKIN PROBLEMS                                                                   Filariasis                                 10        0        10
Boil, Cellulitis  Abcoss                    14        9         t             Infoctious Yaws                             2        0         2
Mild Bacterial SRin Infection               14        9         6          OTHER ILLNESSES
Fungal Infections                            8        4         4            Allergic Reactions                           S        0         5
Tropical Ulcer                               8        0         8            Headache                                    20        0        20
Scab leo                                     8        .6        2             Fever, NEC                                 10       10         0
Eczema  Hives, Pruritis                      4        2         2            Hypertension                                 8        0         8
EYE DISEASES                                                                    Heart Failure                               a        0         6
Conjunctivitis                              45       30        15            Diabetes Mellitus                            B        0         6
GASTROINTESTINAL PROBLEMS                                                       Seizures, Epilepsy                          5        2         3
Intestinal Worms                             6        4         2     :      Illnesses Not Classified Above              34        0        34
DYSPOepSia, Heartburn                       18        0        18
Abdomenal Pain, Spasm                        6        0         8     :          TOTAL                                 1000      404       598
Constipation                                 4        0         4
Nausea, Vomiting                             4        2         2
oQ z
0I



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Structure of the Federal Ministry of Health
(September 1988)
|Minister
National Council
on  Health        -----__-------------------------________
|Drector  |                               Internal  Le I" I Informationl   Build ng
General                                  I Audit  I IUnit       Unit    I    Uni |
Department                   Department of   Department                        Department of    Department      Department
of        Department of   Planning,        of Diseases     Department of   Food A Drug       of Hospital    of Primary
Personnel    Finance and     Research and    Control and      Population       Administrationl  Services and   Healthl
Management   Supplies        Statistics       International   Activities       and Control      Training        Care
l l l
Three departments responsible for project
implementation; for detailed structures
see Annex 4-3.
0Q
o 
F-h 



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Structure of Health Agencies in a Typical State
LGovernor|
as Cmisoner                        Other Commissioners/                 LoaCvenstUi 
|oHelth                                Ministries      ||ion Governor's Office|
Ministry                   Health or Hospital                                                      I
of Healthi/                Management Board                                                        I
St te-operatod St to~~~~~~~~~~-op;t---------------e-------------------
State-operated               State-operatedI 
training                     health facilities
institutions                 (hospitals, health                              Local Government Authorities (about 14)
centers, etc.)
Chairman
Health and Social           Other
Welfare Councillor        Councillors
Santaio            Primary Health Care 
and Health       Fclte     porm
Inspection 
Will consist of eight departments as a result of 1988 Civil Service Reform;  state ministries
0w
will probably follow pattern of the Federal Ministry of Health (Annex 2-3).



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 1
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Percentage of Recurrent Health Expenditures Allocated to Personnel,
---------------------------------------------------------------__--
Federal and Selected States and LGAs, 1981-85
---------------------------------------------
1981         1982          1983          1984         1986
FEDERAL             71.8%         69.1%        89.9%         53.0%         68.0%
STATES:
Anambra MOH           -             -         75.6%        69.1%         44.6%
Imo SUOH              -         82.8%        87.9%         84.8%         57.9%
SHMB              -             -             -        72.0%             -
Ogun SUOH         73.5%         89.8%        92.7%         97.7%             -
SHUB          1/            1/            1/          95.3%         93.8%
Oyo SUOH          62.6%         94.9%        92.0%         79.4%         83.0%
SHUB          66.6%         81.6%         83.2%        98.9%         90.8%
AVG LOAs            84.2%         86.3%        95.4%         96.1%         93.1%
(# in avg)          (3)           (4)          (6)          (15)          (14)
N.O.  In this table, the Federal percentage is based on
expenditures of the central ministry only; Grants A
Subventions are excluded, although they include
expenditures for personnel at federally supported
institutions, such as federal hospitals.
1/ Data not separated



- 42 -                     ANNEX 2-6
Page 1 of 6
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Main Issues in the Drug Supply Subsector
Inadequate Supply of Drugs
1.        Frequent unavailability of drugs.  Perhaps the most serious
result of reductions in public funds for health in recent years has been a
substantial decrease in resources for operating costs, particularly for
purchasing drugs. Traditionally in Nigeria, as in most of Africa,
government health services have provided drugs to all users at little or no
cost. Vdrious assessments over the past two years by Government and the
World Health Organization (WHO) have found chronic shortages of drugs at
every level of health care. In turn, whenever drugs are out of stock,
utilization rates fall by 50% to 75Z. Several states and Federal hospitals
have tried to remedy the situation by instituting cost recovery, but only
with partial success in most cases. In some states, users have been
charged fees for various health services, but in the absence of immediate
improvements in these services, utilization dropped even further. In any
case, as a result of inadequate controls and competing claims on these
funds--with some even being used to pay salaries--little new money was
available for procuring dri.gs. In the past two years, however, at least
two states--Bendel and Ogun--have established reasonably well-managed drug
revolving funds (DRFs), although both are badly undercapitalized.
2.        Inappropriateness of drugs being procured.  Even the dwindling
funds available for purchasing drugs have often been used wastefully
because of poor selection, inaccurate quantification, and inefficient
procurement. The challenge to health officials of selecting appropriate
and cost-effective drugs is formidable, with well over 80,000 branded drugs
in different dosage forms from which to choose and little information on
world market prices. Consequently, those responcibie for selecting drugs
for use in the public sector in Nigeria, as in many other countries, have
generally resorted to procurement of specific brand-name drugs from
suppl'ers with whom they have well-established links. The results are
extremely high prices and, worse yet, some very questionable products.
WHO's analysis of one state's procurement shows that shifting completely
(instead of partially, as had already been done) from branded drugs to
generic drugs would have reduced costs by about 25%, and eliminating three
drugs considered useless or dangerous by many countries would have saved
another 25Z. A detailed price comparison (Attachment 1) £hows that for
specific drugs this state paid up to 12.5 times the world market price
(adjusted for freight and other costs). A second source of inefficiency
found in the WHO review is inaccurate quantification, which can be wasteful
in two ways.   Drugs that are purchased in excessive amounts have to be
destroyed if they are not used before they expire, while those that are



- 43 -                     ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 6
purchased in insufficient amounts must be procured frequently and hence at
higher cost. Insufficient competition is a major source of inefficient
procurement in Nigeria. For instance, the 1986 drugs tender in another
state was awarded to three local suppliers, whose charges were 2.7 times
adjusted world market prices.
3.        Poor quality of drugs.  Analyses of procurement and storage
practices in the public sector reveal a number of ways in which the quality
of drugs is decreased. Inadequate specifications are resulting in
procurement of substandard drugs or of formulations or packaging that are
not suitable for tropical climates. Even with widespread shortages, some
drugs are expiring before they can be used due to inadequate scheduling of
deliveries and poor inventory management. This is exacerbated when
suppliers fail to supply fresh stock due to inadequate terms in contracts.
Poor storage conditions, especially inadequate cooling, accelerate the
degradation of drugs, resulting in further losses. A WHO team found the
temperature in one state's central medical store (CMS) to be consistently
10-15° C higher than the recommended storage temperature for most drugs.
Moreover, Nigeria's ability to check the quality of drugs has declined in
recent years as basic equipment in FMOH's two quality-assurance
laboratories has deteriorated and funds for operating costs, such as for
reagents, have been cut. In 1987, expenditures for this critical function
totaled less than N40,000, exclusive of salaries.
4.        Severe constraints at the local government administration (LGA)
level. LGA dispensaries and maternities, the intended cornerstone of the
country's PHC program and the major source of modern health care in rural
areas, especially in the North, are experiencing the most serious problems
in supplying drugs to their clients. Consequently those with the least
access to alternative sources of drugs--the rural poor--are the most
deprived. In fact. nearly all of the constraints affecting the public
sector's ability to supply drugs are most severe at the LGA level.
Although some state governments provide LGAs with emergency drugs during
epidemics, the LGAs' own limited budgets are the only source of drugs and
other supplies for routine purposes. As noted in para 2.04, many LGAs are
spending virtually all of their health budgets on personnel, and so in
practice they have virtually no drugs. The few they do have are purchased
locally in small amounts. Often they are purchased at retail prices, but
even if the LGAs procure drugs at wholesale prices, costs are extremely
high. Lagos wholesale market prices, for instance, average between six and
seven times adjusted world market prices for common drugs (Attachment 1).
In additional to these financial constraints, the LGA level, due to the
limited availability of trained staff, is also the least capable of
selecting, procuring, storing, and prescribing drugs effectively.
5.        Inadequacies in private sector alternatives.  Except for remote
rural areas, the public has rather good access to private sector outlets
for drugs, but in spite of the competition, markups are high, especially
for quality products. In one state, for instance, there are over 700
registered patent medicine stores, which is more than twice the number of
public sector facilities (334). (Although patent medicine stores are



- 44 -                     ANNEX 2-6
Page 3 of 6
normally licensed to sell only over-the-counter drugs, in fact they are the
major source of all drugs, including antibiotics.) Since rural
dispensaries in that state have virtually no drugs, patients, if they
bother to come at all, must then go to these stores for the drugs
prescribed in the public facilities. The prices they pay, however, are ten
times those at which the SMOH has obtained its drugs, in spite of
relatively inefficient procurement. In response to the growing demand for
drugs that the public sector can no longer meet, the market has been
flooded during the past one or two years with lower priced drugs of dubious
quality. Many are adulterated versions of genuine drugs, but others--and
the numbers seem to be increasing--are outright fakes. This is occurring
just when the Government's capacity to detect poor quality drugs has nearly
evaporated (para. 3). In the absence of a mandatory licensing and
inspection system, many of these fake drugs are being produced locally by
unscrupulous manufacturers, although there are, of course, a number of
legitimate local manufacturers. Due to inadequate incentives, however,
they tend not to produce low-cost, essential drugs, which would meet the
needs of the public sector, but to concentrate on branded items with the
potential for high markups. In fact, since the economic slump began, the
interest of local manufacturers in public sector sales declined
considerably as state governments failed to pay their bills.
Poor Performance of Health Workers
6.        Some of the sources of an inadequate supply of drugs cited
above, such as inefficient procurement and poor stock management, stem in
part from inadequate knowledge and skills in drug management. The number
of health workers who are responsible for selection, quantification,
procurement, storage, and distribution of drugs is rather limited, however.
Hence, the problem of changing their practices is manageable, given the
right policies, effective systems, and additional training. It is in the
areas of diagnosis, prescribing, and dispensing, however, where virtually
all health workers have a profound impact on the availability and use of
drugs as they work directly with patients. A basic problem in Nigeria, as
in many countries, is widespread overprescribing. A WHO team concluded
from its review of prescribing practices in one state that average drug
costs per patient are two or more times what they would be if physicians
and others engaged in sound diagnostic and prescribing practices. Among
the unsound practices they observed are prescribing a more expensive drug
when a less expensive one would do as well or even better, prescribing
ineffective or harmful drugs (e.g., use of expensive antidiarrheal
preparations when simple oral rehydration salts would be far more
effective), and use of injectable preparations when oral versions would be
equally satisfactory without the added costs and risks associated with
injections. The lack of diagnostic tools, due to the absence of test
equipment or of laboratory reagents, contributes to overprescribing, but
the major sources are lack of cost consciousness, inadequate training, the
promotional activities of drug companies, and the desire to please
patients, who have clear expectations about what good prescribers should do
(para 7 below). As more and more users of public facilities have to pay
for their own drugs, overprescribing is leading to drug costs that are
intolerably high for the poor.



- 45 -                       ANNEX 2-6
Page 4 of 6
Misinformation and Inappropriate Practices on the Part of the Public
7.        Faulty expectations, misconceptions, and incorrect use.  The
situation described above is further complicated by the expectations of
patients regarding the numbers and kinds of drugs that they should receive
and by their failure to take drugs properly. That injected medicines are
the most effective and that more drugs means better treatient are both
widespread beliefs in Nigeria. These expectations influence the behavior
of both prescribers and patients, making it difficult simply to give and
receive advice on, for instance, better feeding practices for a sickly
child. In addition, many patients fail to take their medicines properly.
Indeed, studies in Nigeria and many other parts of the world have found
that only 20-50% of outpatients comply with instructions for proper drug
use. Some of the fault lies with health workers, of course. Most
instructions on drug use are given by prescribers very quickly with little
opportunity for patients to ask questions. Frequently, the drugs are
dispensed in scantily labeled pieces of folded paper. Finally, with the
decreasing availability of free drugs at public facilities and in the face
of multiple prescriptions, the WHO review found that poorer patients are
ignoring their prescriptions altogether or go to a drug vendor willing to
sell very small amounts of the drugs, perhaps just one or two tablets.
(Taking less than the full course of a drug has little or no therapeutic
benefit, of course, and in some cases, can even be more harmful than not
taking any as it may promote resistence to the drug.)
8.        Increasing tendency to self-medicate.  As drugs have become less
and less available in the public sector, people have increasingly bypassed
public facilities to seek care elsewhere. Western-trained private
practitioners are too expensive for many former users of public sector
services, however, so they have turned directly to retail pharmacies and
other kinds of drug vendors. In a study of users of such outlets in one
northern state, people were particularly positive about the quick service
(342), perceived quality of the drugs and accompanying advice (33Z), and
the continuous availability of drugs (13Z). Unexpectedly, better physical
access was a relatively unimportant consideration (5Z) compared to the
speed and perceived quality of service. Another factor contributing to
self-medication and overuse of drugs is the unregulated promotion of drugs
through the mass media and by unlicensed traders in nearly every market,
who frequently dispense powerful drugs that are of limited usefulness or
have been banned elsewhere.
Weakness of Public Sector Institutions in Effectively Supplying Drugs
9.        Fragmentation and other institutional problems.  The pervasive
problem in Nigeria's health sector of institutional fragmentation and
duplication (para 2.05) also impacts on the effectiveness of the public
sector to delivery safe and affordable drugs. For the area of drug supply,
the most serious institutional issue is the total independence of the LGAs
in selecting, procuring and managing drugs, which, due to the lack of
appropriate skills and the small volumes involved, leads to major
inefficiencies. Some degree of fragmentation characterizes all levels of



- 46 -                     ANNEX 2-6
Page 5 of 6
the system, however. In the typical state, independent, uncoordinated
decisions are being taken about drug purchases in the SMOH, the SHMB, in
each LGA, and, if cost recovery has been introduced, even in each facility,
using a portion of the funds that it has collected. For the Federal
hospital system, some drugs are being procured centrally, but many are
selected and purchased independently by each hospital.
10.       Lack of strong political will.  During the period of the oil
boom, Nigeria had relatively little difficulty providing an adequate volume
(albeit not necessarily the best selection) of drugs to users of public
health facilities. Consequently, past Governments were unconcerned about
the serious inefficiencies in the subsector, including substantial
leakages. Over the years, strong vested interests developed in maintaining
the status quo. Only under tie present Government has the political will
emerged within and outside the health sector to tackle some of the basic
problems, primarily in the context of the national structural adjustment
program, with its strong emphasis on more efficient use of public sector
resources. Nonetheless, there is still some reluctance among officials,
particularly at the state and local level, to introduce obviously needed
reforms. Even basic policy statements are just beginning to be prepared.
11.       Inadequate analysis of the potential for local manufacturing.  A
common response to the scarcity of drugs in Nigeria is to call for more
local manufacturing, which it is assumed will reduce the cost of drugs.
Unfortunately, for all of its popular appeal, this solution has received
very little dispassionate analysis. Results of a preliminary review in
mid-1987 by representatives of the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO) aid WHO suggest that while there are few technical
barriers, the short- and medium-term prospects for competitive
manufacturing of essential drugs in Nigeria is quite limited. Analyses for
several major drugs show that the ratios between the wholesale prices that
would need to be charged for those manufactured locally and the prices for
imported finished products, at the then prevailing exchange rates, ranged
between 1.4:1 and 2.5:1. In fact, it appears that as long as tariffs on
raw materials are not substantially lower than those on finished products
and other special incentives are not offered for local manufacturing (e.g.,
tax holidays), there are very few essential drugs that can be manufactured
competitively in Nigeriall. It also was clear that in the absence of a
fine pharmaceutical chemicals industry, which, according to UNIDO
estimates, will still probably require a number of years to develop, local
drug manufacturing will continue to be almost totally dependent upon
imported inputs. Consequently, local value added is very small, often just
10-20Z. If such poor prospects exist in the private sector, whiclI largely
1/   Still missing, however, is a broader analysis of the present
disincentives for manufacturing essential drugs and development of an
appropriate strategy for overcoming them. This issue goes far beyond the
capabilities of the health sector, however, requiring much more active
participation from other ministries, including Finance and Economic
Development; Industries; Science and Technology; and Employment, Labour,
and Productivity.



- 47 -                      ANNEX 2-6
Page 6 of 6
consists of experienced and well-connected multinational drug
manufacturers, manufacturing essential drugs in the public sector is even
less likely to be cost-effective. (More details on the local
pharmaceutical industry and its potentials for producing essential drugs
are at Annex 2-7.)
A4PH
June 21, 1989



ANNEX 2-7
- 48 -                              Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Local Production of Pharmaceuticals in Nigeria
1.        Local production of drugs has strong appeal to Nigerian health
officials and laymen alike, and yet no clear-cut policies are in force to
encourage local production. Even the tariff structure provides no incentive
for local processing of imported raw material against importation of
finished products.
2.        Legal issues in local production.  Although as many as seven
ministries are directly or indirectly involved in licensing or other aspects
of local production, the body with principal competence in this area, the
Federal Ministry of Health's (FMOH's) Department of Food and Drugs
Administration and Control (DFDAC,, does not have the legal back-up to
license, register, and inspect production of drugs in the country. The
present drugs and pharmacy laws, which were enacted some 25 or 30 years ago,
do not provide an adequate basis to monitor, let alone control local
manufacturing. Completely lacking is the capacity to restrict the
manufacture of drugs to those manufacturers with good manufacturing
practices and adequate quality control. Any firm with 1002 Nigerian equity,
provided it can mobilize the necessary capital and foreign exchange, can
manufacture drugs, and may remain undetected by DFDAC for some years. This
deficiency, coupled with lax control on the sale and promotion of drugs, has
contributed to the widespread prevalence of misbranded, fake, and
substandard drugs, which are mainly being sold by patent medicine shops and
street drug vendors. The only legislation so far with any impact on local
production of drugs has been the "Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Act," which
has fixed ceilings on foreign equity participation at 602 for manufacturers
and 402 for manufacturer importers.
3.        Present local production activities.  Until the early 1980s, the
local processing industry was insignificant and most of the drugs were
imported by trading houses or agents of international companies. Even by
1983, there were still only 11 units in the country engaged in processing of
drug formulations, including the two Federal drug manufacturing units at
Yaba. As of June 1988, however, 61 firms were known to be manufacturing
drugs and allied products. Out of these, five were in the allied product
field and another eight were either inactive or still setting themselves up.
Thus, there were 47 units known to be actively manufacturing drugs. Most of
these processing units have started operations in the past three years. The
breakdown of the 47 active units, in terms of ownership, is as follows:
Foreign collaboration units          27
Local Nigerian units                 18
Public sector units (FMOH)            2
Except for the Federal manufacturing laboratory and the Federal intravenous
fluid unit, these units manufacture and sell mostly branded products. A
large proportion are antibiotics; pain, cough, and cold remedies; roborants
and tonics; vitamins; and antidiarrheals (other than oral rehydration
salts). Their output accounts for about 20Z of the total national drug
market.



- 49 -                           ANNEX 2-7
Page 2 of 2
4.        Production by the Federal Government.  The Federal manufacturing
laboratory in Yaba is the principal unit for manufacture of essential drugs.
However, for various reasons, its performance has been dismal for the past
few years. Presently, it is only processing the limited raw materials
received from donors, primarily UNICEF. Its total 1987 production was
valued at N100,000 as against an operational expenditure of N300,000
(including wages).
5.        Prospects for expanded local production.  As the above indicates,
pharmaceutical manufacturing in Nigeria is mainly in the processing field,
limited to blending of various dosage forms from imported raw materials and
excipients. In certain cases, even the minimal blending processes are not
carried out locally, for the raw materials are imported in pre-finished,
ready-to-compress form so that local omanufacturing" is limited to
tableting. In these cases, especially, the value added benefit to the
country is marginal. A policy of backward integration to develop a
petrochemical and fine chemicals industry to support manufacture of basic
drugs has not been clearly defined, however, even though Nigeria is
fortunately placed in respect of petrochemical resources. Development of
local basic industry cannot be foreseen in the near future even though
Nigeria's market for formulated products totalling US$700-800 million could
certainly support a viable local raw material manufacturing industry
annually. The FMOH has established a committee to develop a National Drug
Policy and in particular to reccmmend strategies for development of a
stronger local pharmaceutical industry. Based on the committee's
recommendations, the Government may finally formulate a policy for
encouraging local production of drugs.
AF4PH
June 21, 1989



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Coeparison of One State's Tander Prices with World Harket Prices and with Lagos Wholesale Prices
Therapeutic Category                                   STATE TBNER            WORLD MAR(ET            LACOS WVDLESALE                 PRICE RATIOS
Drug Naine   Doozge                                    ------------      -----------------------      ----------------      -----------------------------------
Unit   Unit       Unit   Unit   Adjusted        Unit      Unit         State/      Lagos/       Lagos/
Pack   Price      Pack    Price   Price,        Pack      Price       Adjusted    Adjusted      State
World       World
NUIB  OF PRICES COMPARD                                                                                                               18          20          18
AVERAGE PRICE RATIO                                                                                                                  2.1         6.6         3.5
RANGE OF PRICE RATIOS                                                                                                           0.4-12.5    1.0-18.4    2.1-12.0
A. LOCAL ANESTHETICS
Lidocain. 2% i-j.                                      25       18    50ml    0.24       0.31        25x2ml    26.8              NC          NC          NC
B. ANALGESICS
Aspirin 300 eg tablet                                1000    2.21      1000     0.94     1.22          1000         6           1.8         4.9         2.7
Par.ceta.ol 500 g tablot                            10000    38.43     1000      2.6    3.38           1000        15           1.1         4.4         3.9
C. ANTI-ALLERCICS A ANTI-E1ETICS
Proimethazine 25 mg tablet                            SOO      2.9      100     0.34     0.44           SO0       35            1.3        15.8        12.1
D. ANTH1.MINTHICS
Mebendazole 100 mg tablet                                               100     0.61     0.79           240        35                      18.4
E. ANTI-BACTERIAL A ANTI-AMOEBIC DRUGS
Aspicillin 250mg capsule                             1000       27     1000    30.5   39.65            1000        80           0.7           2           3                  Un
Chlorsmphenicol 250 mg capsule                       1000     18.5    1000       9.8   12.74           1000       55            1.5         4.3           3                  0
Co-trimoxazol* 400+80 cg tablet                       50    10.08       5010    7.45     9.69           500       25              1         2.6         2.5
Metronidazole 250 mg tablet                                             100    0.82      1.07          1000    10.34                          1
Phenoxymethyl penicillin 2SO mg tablet                                 1000     7.51     9.76          1000       30                       3.1
PhtnalyleuphstMiazole 500  g tablet                  1000    11.19                                      SOO       23                                    2.1
Prob-necid 500  g tablet                                                 30      1.5    1.95            500       62                        1.9
Tetracycline 240 mg tablet                           1000     12.5    1000       7.9   10.27           1000       40            1.2         3.9         3.2
F. ANTI-TUbEROJL0SIS A ANTILEPROTIC DRUGS
C. ANTIFILARIAL DRUGS
H. ANTI-RN4GALS
Criseofulvin 250 mg tablet                                             1000       35     45.5   500mg x 250       30                         NC
I. ANTI-MALARIALS
Chloroquine 150 mg tabl-t                            1000    10.1    1000       5.95     7.74          1000       25            1.3         3.2         2.5
Chloroquin. syrup (#el)                             I lit    2.61    1 lit      1.29     1.68          1000        8            1.6         4.8         3.1
Chlorquin* injection S ml                             100      8.5       10    0.53      0.69           100       30            1.2         4.4         3.5
J. ANTI-SOiISTOSOI4AL
Niridazole 400-SOO mg tablet                         1000    69.59                                      200       SO                                    3.6
K. CARDIOVASCULAR * DIIRETIC DRUGS
Furenomide 40 mg tablet                                                 100     0.47     0.61           250       27                       17.7
Hathyldopa 250 mg tablet                             1000   28.34      1000     24.3   31.59                                   0.9
L. DEBMATMLOGICAL MRUGS A DISINFECTANTS                                                                                                                                             >
Benzyl benzoata conc. 90S                           2 lit    13.5    1 lit      1.57     2.04        200 ml      4.4           3.3         10.8         3.3                   3
Tincture benzoin compound                                                                                                                                                  CoiC
M. CASTROINTESTINAL DRUCS, including ANTIEMETICS                                                                                                                                M
Aluminium hydroxide 500 mg tablet                    1000   21.53       100     0.58     0.75           500       28            2.9         7.4         2.6
ORS                                                sachet    0.65       pkt    0.04      0.05    200 ml x 40      40           12.5         NC           NC
---------------------------------------         __-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------       1-h :g



Therapeutic Category                                    STATE TENDER           WORLD MARKET             LAGOS WHOLESALE                 PRICE RATIOS
Drug   Name  A    Db o age                                                  --                          ---------------       -----------------------------------
Unit   Unit       Unit   Unit  Adjusted          Unit      Unit         State/       Lagos/       Lagos/
Pack   Price      Pack    Price    Price*        Pack      Price       Adjusted    Adjusted       State
World       World
N. ANTIDIABETIC DRUGS
0. OPTHALMOLOOICAL DRUGS
Chloramphenicol eye/eur ousp                           bat    0.43                                        bot      1.4                                    3.3
P. OXYTOCICS
Q. PSYCHCTHEAPEJTIC DRUGS
Phenobarbital 50-60 mg tablet                         1000     2.01      100     0.36      0.47                                   0.4
Chlorpromaz;ne 100 mg tablet                          1000     4.65      100     0.67      0.87                                   0.5
Chlorpromazian 25 eg tablet                                                                               500       10
R RESPIRATORY TRACr DRUGS
S. SGWTIONs
T. VITA4INi A MINBRAS
Ferrous sulfate 200 mg tablet                         1000     2.05     1000     0.82      1.07          1000        9            1.9         8.4         4.4
Folate 5 mg tablet                                    1000     2.32                                      1000        5                                    2.2
Vitamin b complex (or yeast) tablet                   1000     2.86     1000     0.63      1.08          1000        6            2.7         5.6         2.1
* Adju-ted price is World Market Price (Price in Europe) plus 15S currency fluctuation
plus 15 freight and handling charges to the state's central medical store
MC = Non-coeparable packaging or dosage forms.
Dates of Prices-
State Tender      June 1985
World Market      Noveeber 1985
0



ANNEX 2-8
- 52 -                             Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Agreed Contents of a State Essential Drugs Policy
The Federal Ministry of Health, several states, and the World Bank have
agreed that the Government of each state interested in participating in the
Essential Drugs Project will prepare and approve, through its State
Executive Council, a state policy on essential drugs as a basis for its
participation in the project. To ensure an affordable and sustainable
supply of safe drugs for all the people of the state and to ensure adequate
provision of the implementation of the state's essential drugs program, the
policy would commit each participating state to:
(1) The establishment of an essential drugs (ED) program for the public
sector, encompassing all state- and local government-operated health
programs and facilities throughout the state;
(2) Specific procedures for the orderly development, approval, publication,
distribution, and updating (no more than once a year) of the state's ED
list, which would have sublists for the main levels of the health
delivery system;
(3) The procurement of drugs for all state and local government programs
and bulk facilities centrally, through a single organ of the State
Government, using generic names in specifications and international
competitive bidding, based on prequalification of producers/suppliers;
(4) The introduction of cost recovery for drugs at all levels of the health
care system and establishment of a drug revolving fund (DRF), which
would entail retention of all funds collected within the system in a
separate account and which would be audited annually by an independent
auditor;
(5) Putting into effect as soon as possible full cost recovery, covering at
least the cost of drug replenishment, or if a phasing-in period is
required, instituting partial cost recovery immediately with the aim of
reaching full cost recovery within no more tbon five years;
(6) Maintaining the integrity of the DRF by covering the cost of drugs for
specified exempt groups (e.g., tuberculosis and leprosy patients and
indigents) through direct financing out of health or social welfare
budgets, preferably in advance, or, if drug prices can remain
affordable, by charging higher prices to other users (cross-
subsidization);
(7) The development of an in-service training capacity in the health sector
and through it, the provision of adequate training for all state and
local government health staff on the proper storage, prescribing, and
dispensing of drugs and on the operation of the DRF;
(8) The conduct of public information activities on proper drug use and on
the revolving drug fund, entailing the specific allocation for this



ANNEX 2-8
- 53 -                             Page 2 of 2
purpose of health education staff and of time in state-owned media
(radio and/or television);
(9) The institutionalization of an efficient and effective organizational
structure for the management of the above activities, consolidating, as
required, relevant staff and resources from different state bodies,
adding new skills as required (especially in financial management), and
involving the active cooperation of all relevant state bodies (ministry
of health, health management board, ministry of local government) and
all local goverDnment councils.
AF4PH
June 21, 1989



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
The Drug Supply Subsector:
Issues, Corrective Government Actions, and Bank Requirements
I       Subsoctoral          I                                         I                          l                              I
|     Issues/Problems        I    Correcttve Govornmont Actions        I   Bank Requirements    I                                |
(Por Chapter 1I)       I (PollcleseL and Program Initiatives)  I    (Conditionality)                    Coemnts            I
IA. Inadequate Drug Supply   !
I1 Fr!qujnt unavail-       I                                         I                          l
l   at;lI        rugs i t  o f
I          I                                         I                          I                              I
a) Inadequate allocation  Ia) Policy: Introduction of full cost    la) 100  cost recovery    la) Reduced demand on current
I    to pay for drugs        l  recovery A recycling of funds              w within five years;    I  budgets to be used for
l                            l  through use of drug revolving funds; l   loan funds not dis-   I  project counterpart, new  I
I                            j  Program: technical and other support I  bursed until well-    I  recurrent costs for systeml
Tor development & installation of    I  managed DRF installed I                                 l
I  DRFs.                                                            I
b) Low value for money    Ib) PolŽy: Procurement of generic         Ib) Virtually all loan    Ib) Bank would accept
I    due to inefficient      I  formulation using ICB; Program.            fund, as well as re-  I  competit;ve shopping in
l    procurement             l  technical A other support f                cycled funds used at  l  declared emergencies         l
strengthened procurement systems          same time, subject to I                              I
I                            I                                         I   ICB                    I                              I
l c) Too many of some drugs ic) Program: Introduction of more          Ic) Annual review of       I                              I
I     (resulting in even     I  systematic quantification methods    I  all drug requirements I                                  I
I     less of others)                                                      A l  & capitalization  l                              I
I                            I                                         I  needs with state,
I                            I                                         I  FIIMQ, and WB           l
I d) Decapitalization of    id) Policy: Strict financial controls;   id) Release of funds for                                    I
l    previous drug revolvingl   to extent possible direct financing  I  drug procurement
I    funds                     i in advance of exemptions; independ-  I  contingent upon systeml                                 I
I                                a end annual audits                   I  being in place that   I                                I
I  I                                      I  minimizes chances of                                  IZ
|                                         I |  decapitalization     I
0 l
1/ National essential drugs policy endorsed in June 1988 and individual states' policies prepared and approved as a                    °
condition of negotiations by participating states.                                                                                   n



Subsectoral
Issues/Problems              Corrective Government Actions             Bank Requirements
(Per Chapter II)          (PoliciesM.. and Program Initiatives)         (Conditionality)                 Comments
2) Inappropriateness of
u-rugs oeing procured
a) Poor selection, (e.g..  a) Policy: Essential drugs lists (EDLs)  a) EDL prepared and            a) FMOH would review updates
more expensive drugs,       as basis for procurement of drugs;          approved as con-           of sttroes' EDLs and WE, of
less useful formula-        disaggregated by level of health care    dition of negotia-            FMOH's cwn EDL
tions)                      system; Program: broadly representa-        tion; updated versions
tive comffiTees set up to prepare          must be approved; loan
and update EDLs                            funds will only be
disbursed for drugs on
the EDL
b) Formulations not         b) Policy: Careful selection of dru s    b) Review of standard
suitable for tropical      o5n  UUs; Program: Use of standardized    procurement documents
conditions                  procurement systems will include           will examine proposed
carefully designed specifications          specifications
for drugs
3) Poor quality of drugs
a) Inadequate storage       a) Program: Construction/renovation of   a) Renovation of stores
conditions (generally       storae sace to be better insulated;    agreed part of work
too hot or moist)           insta lat on of shelving, appropriate    program no later than                                        .
cooling equipment                          second year
b) Spoilage (e.g., as a    b) Policy: Selection of more approprtate b) Insistence on more
result of short shelf         uon  EDL; Program: Introduction           rigorous contract
life or poor inventory      of more systematTc stock control            terms to ensure
management) & pilferage    procedures through training, a               freshest possible
storage & distribution manual;             stock; improved
strengthened security                      security as agreed
part of work program
no later than second
year
c) Packaging not suitable   c) Program: Use of adequate specifica-   c) Insistence on adequate
for tropical conditions    tlon xor -tropicalizedv packaging            specifications for
during procurement                         packaging as part of
procurement documents
1 National essential drugs policy endorsed in June 1988 and individual states' policies prepared and approved as a
condition of negotiations by participating states.
OQ 
0I
0 I
o .O
L t



Subsectoral
Issues/Problems              Corrective Government Actions              Bank Reqtirements
(Per Chapter 11)          (Policies-V and Program Initiatives)          (Conditionality)                   Comments
d) Inadequate inspection   d) Policy :Prequalification of suppliers; d) Insistence on well-
of imported products        In i   _oi m:Prequalification system,       designed prequalifica-
of local production          inc uaing incremental staff & oper-        tion system & sample
facilities                  ational costs; establishment of drug        tests upon delivery as
inspection & testing capacity at           part of procurement
ports not adequately covered;               system
strengthening overall drug testing
& inspection capacity of FOH (staff,
construction, equipment, reagents,
etc.)
4) Inadequacies in rivate
sector alternatlves
a) Good products very       a) Poics: Safety net in form of free
expensive                   a f or poverty groups. Program:
Efficient procurement witl or gi
drugs sold at public sector outlets
to more affordable levels
b) Many adulterated or      b) Pro ram: Strengthening and expansion                                 b) Legal basis for
fake drugs being sold       ot Fiirug testing labs & inspectbrate                                   effective inspection
unit                                                                    still missing, however         I
LP
c) Inadequate incentives   c) Policy: Separate policy committee at  c) Issues need to be
for local producers to      worT with major focus on local              raised with appro-
make essential drugs         production- Program: Financing, as         priate Bank groups
required, fotrfoiLow-up technical          after policy study
studies & analyses of financial            is avallable
feasibility; support also provided
for key missing equipment to maximize
production of EDs by Federal drug
production laboratory (Yaba)
B. Poor Peirformance of
Health worsers
a) Poor skills in pro-       a-c) Policy  Endorsement of effective    a-c) In-service training
curement & stoc              re fai4ng program at all levels            undertaken for some
management                   of the health system; Program:              staff in all partici-
Extensive in-service trafinTni g           pating facilities as
11 National essential drugs policy endorsed in June 1988 and individual states' policies prepared and approved as a
condition of negotiations by participating states.
0Ix
Ln



Subsectoral
Issues/Problems              Corrective Government Actions              Bank Reoirements
(Per Chapter 1I)          (Policies"L and Program Initiatives)          (Conditionality)                   Comments
b) Overprescribing etc.         programs for various categories of          Agreed part of work
due to inadequate           health personnel (managers, drug            program no later than
skills in diagnosis,         supply specialists, clinical staff,        second year
prescribing, and             etc.); adjustments in basic curricula
dispensing                   for doctors, nurses, and pharmacists
and preparation of necessary training
c) Lack of cost conscious-    material; also training in operation
ness on part of              of DRF system & strong emphasis on
prescribers                  financialieconomic issues in training
d) No unbiased source of   d) Program: Development of drug informa-
contintxing information     tIon services, including widely
on drug-related              circulated newsletters for public and
problems                     private sector practitioners;
internal drt?g information services in
key teaching hospitals
C. _nappropriate Knowledve
i ?ractices on tne rar'
ar tne Public
a) Faulty expectations.    a-c) Policy: Endorsement of strong             a-c) Initial briefing of
misconceptions, and          intormationleducation/communication          leadership groups on
incorrect use                (IEC) programs on proper drug use           EDP & rationales for
& rationaIes for/working of cost             cost recovery plus
b) Misunderstandings,           recovery; commitment by states of            preparation of ini-
misconceptions re cost       time over state-run radio & TV;              tial public education
recovery                     Program: Multimedia IEC program             materials agreed part
orlented to various audiences                of work program no
c) Increasing tendency to       (state & local officials, local              later than second
self-medicate                leaders, users of health facilities          year
& the general public) training of
health staff in techniques of
patient education aimed at improved
compliance
1/ National essential drugs policy endorsed in June 1988 and individual states' policies prepared and approved as a
condition of negotiations by participating states.
OQZ
0'
n-,~



Subsectoral
Issues/Problems              Corrective Government Actions             Bank Requirements
(Per Chapter II)          (PoliciesLL and Program Initiatives)         (Conditionality)                 Comments
D. Wedkness of Public
sector institutions
in the Drug Supply Area
1. Fragmentation
a) Total self-reliance of  a) Policy: LGAs would join unified,          a) LGAs would need to
weak LGAs in selecting      sa ewide essential drugs programs;          meet certain minimal
& procuring drugs,          Program: Technical support for LGAs         standards re cost
resulting In poor            n planning & managing their part           recovery capability
selection & high prices    of state EDPs, including training by         to qualify for loan-
states                                      financed drugs
b) Split drug supply        b) Policy: Drug supply functions would    b) Study of institution-
functions among S6OHs       De ionsolidated at state level;             al issues, especially
and SUMBs                   Proram: Development of integrated           at the state level
itiEewide EDPs is major thrust,            would need to be
including involvement of all major          undertaken within two
state agencies & LGAs under sD ecial        year of effectiveness
coordination units; missing skills,
especially in financial management,
being added through incremental
staff & training
c) Independent selection & c) ProRram: Development of an integrated c) Agreement to central-
procurement by Federal      Fe   ra  EDP, including a Central          procurement is
hospitals                   Procurement Unit & expanded Central/       essential to inclu-
Zonal Medical Stores                       sion of drug supply
for Federal hospitals;
appointment of coor-
dinators in two
involved FHOH
departments as condit-
ion of effectiveness
2. Past lac1 of political    Policy: National & state policies           Bank support for state E
wLi to aaaress Ke            ieveloped or being developed in            Federal EDPs contin-
Prolems  eg., 18x             support of disciplined essential           gent upon approval of
procurement or  rugs            ugs approach, consistent with new        basic policies (e.g..
nat lonal health policy & national         per Annex 2-8)
structural adjustment programme
1L National essential drugs policy endorsed in June 1988 and individual states' policies prepared and approved as a
condition of negotiations by participating states.
OQ z
0I
Ln
o l
ll    "o



- 59 -
ANNEX B-1
Page 1 of 1
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Summary Characteristics of the Four Participating States: Bendel. Cross River. Gongola. and Kwara
Capital    No. o         Est  mid-1988        No. of PHC            No. of
State             city      LOAs _         Population            F ctities        St to Hospitals
(ml II Ions) L    (Stat. A LOA)
Bendol           Bonin         19              4.9                 508                  48
city
Cross River      Calabar        7              1.9                 119                   6
Gongola           Yola         17              6.2                 466                  15
Kwara            liorin        12              3.4                 819                  18
Total*                         55             16.4               1,897                  S1
(where
/ Numbors prior to mid-1989 decision to expand the number of LOAs in most states of the
Federation.
!/ Population ostimates for states as announced to the press by Federal Government In
February 1909.



ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 2
- 60 -
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Criteria for Phasing in LGAs
Proposed Rate of Entry
1.        In each of the participating states, a series of activities will
be undertaken: some will be implemented in the whole state simultaneously
and some will be implemented in a phased manner in individual local
government areas (LGAs) as they are brought into the system.
2.        The need to phase in LGAs stems from the limited number and
experience of the essential drugs programme (EDP) staff at the state and
Federal levels. For this reason, it is important that the LGAs' rate of
entry into the system is controlled according to the capacity of the EDP
staff. It is difficult to give general guidelines for the number of LGAs a
given state can handle a year, but for practical reasons it is recommended
not to bring into a state's EDP more than five new LGAs a year.
Criteria for Selecting LGAs
3.        One criterion for the selection of LGAs would be to start with the
model LGAs, with which the Federal Department of Primary Health Care has
already worked. Having already been introduced to various innovations in
the primary health care, including essential drugs, these LGAs are likely to
be able to respond better and more quickly to the EDP.
4.        In addition, however, it is important to assess the readiness of
individual LGAs to participate in the EDP. The following three conditions
would be the minimum that an LGA would need to meet before entering the EDP:
(a) A State-LGA agreement has been signed (the contents of a prototype
agreement can be found at Annex 4-6);
(b) Jointly with state EDP staff, the LGA's basic requirements have been
assessed in terms of: i) extra staff, ii) renovation, rehabilitation
and extra equipment for the LGA store and dispensaries, and iii) the
financial systems to be introduced;
(c) An implementation plan has been prepared, including a budget estimate
for the incremental costs.
5.        Once a LGA has been brought into the EDP, but before it receives
the first supply of drugs under the project, certain activities must be
carried out. The most important are:
(a) Accountant for the LGA's drug revolving fund (DRF), LGA store keeper,
and field supervisors are in place and trained in drug supply and
financial management;
(b) Health personnel working in LGA health facilities have been trained on
drug use and in financial and supply management;



ANNEX 3-2
- 61 -                              Page 2 of 2
(c) Stores have been renovated or rehabilitated according to the identified
needs, both at LGA headque-ters and individual facilities;
(d) The following minimum financial requirements having been introduced in
the LGA store and at LGA facilities:
i) a suitably experienced and qualified individual has been
nominated as being responsible for financial management at
each fanility;
ii) the functions of a facility with regard to the collection and
safekeeping of funds is clear and the responsibilities of
each staff member in this regard have been worked out;
iii) adequate accounting and financial management systems have
been prepared in accordance with sound accounting practices
and these will be applied consistently and continuously by
the facility;
iv) financial management systems are fully documented, including
written Financial Regulations, and the facility has an
adequate supply of these documents;
v) books of account are prepared, and any opening balances
written in (or adequate arrangements exist to value any
existing stocks and other balances that will be transferred
to the DRF and to record the same in the books of account);
vi) initial training in the operation of the financial management
system has been completed;
vii) adequate supplies of accounting books and controlled
stationery (receipts, order books, etc.) are available;
viii) arrangements for the safe collection and storage of cash have
been made, and any necessary bank accounts have been opened;
ix) a program of supervision, assistance and additional training
during the initial implementation of systems has been
prepared and agreed with the state and/or Federal authorities
(including specification of the number of days and timing of
assistance and the designation of the staff to provide the
assistance);
x) monitoring arrangements have been specified, including the
timing, content and responsibility for monitoring reports and
management information to be provided to higher authorities.
(e) A public enlightenment campaign has been prepared for intt,duction as
soon as the first supply of drugs is about to be providea.
AF4PH
June 21, 1989



ANNEX 3-3
- 62 -                             Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Detailed Description and Implementation Arrangements:
Bendel State Subproject
A. Special Features of the Drug Supply Subsector in Bendel State
1.        Cost recovery in the health sector is not new to the people of
Bendel State. Before 1979 drugs were sold to patients although between 1979
and 1985 drugs were free of charge. After a period of severe shortages,
charges for drugs and services were reintroduced in 1986 with the
establishument of a drug revolving fund (DRF), known as the State Trading
Concern (STC), under the State Hospital Management Board (SHMB). The STC is
believed to be the first of its kind in Nigeria.
2.        The STC was created to: (a) centralize procurement for state
health facilities, thus lowering the cost of drugs, (b) create a self-
sustaining pool of funds for drug purchases, (c) reduce dependency on state
and Federal funding, and (d) provide drugs to all patients in state
hospitals and health centers, regardless of their ability to pay. The STC
has only been partially successful thus far in meeting its stated
objectives. This is due to inadequate capitalization of the drug seed
stock; cumbersome tender procedures resulting in piecemeal purchases; need
for modifications in central warehouses to minimize losses; and poor
prescribing practices of health personnel. The STC's turnover was about
US$1.05 million equivalent in 1986 and US$1.15 million equivalent for the
first nine months of 1987.
B. Objectives and Main Strategies of the Subproject
3.        The objective of Bendel State's Essential Drugs Programme (EDP) is
to ensure the availability of essential drugs that are safe, effective,
acceptable and affordable on a continuous basis to all levels of the health
care delivery system. The main strategies are:
(a) imprn ing coordination of drug supply to state hospitals and health
c    :s and including for the first time the local government health
facilities;
(b) establishing one institution in the state to handle all the functions
of drug selection, quantification, procurement, and distribution, and
to promote cost-effectiveness in the subsector;
(c) providing, on a regular basis, a supply of essential drugs to all
health facilities at prices that all but the poorest of the population
can afford;
(d) training all health personnel in rational use of drugs and related
matters; and
(e) promoting cost-effective use of essential drugs by the public through
health education.



ANNEX 3-3
- 63 -                              Page 2 of 4
4.        The subproject would not create new institutions, but would build
on the existing STC. In addition, it would coordinate and enhance existing
capacities in the SHMB and the State Ministry of Health (SMOH) that would be
used to train all prescribers in rational drug use and management, and to
change the population's negative attitudes toward public health services.
C. Subproject Description
5.        Scope and phasing.  All the existing 43 state hospitals and 53
state health centers would be included in the subproject, as would the 19
local government administrations (LGAs), with a total of 202 maternities and
248 dispensaries. Drugs for these facilities would be phased in over a
three-year period. (An implementation plan for the subproject is at
Attachment 1.)
6.        Developing an affordable and sustainable supply of safe drugs.
During the National Workshop on Essential Drugs in December 1986, the
participants from Bendel drafted a State Essential Drugs List (SEDL). The
SEDL has since, with minor modifications, been adopted and made compulsory
for all drug procurement in the state.
7.        Over the period of the subproject, the investment in new drug seed
stock is estimated at US$5.7 million. Of this amount, US$1.5 million is
reserved for the LGAs and the rest (US$4.2 million) is earmarked for state
hospitals and health centers. This represents an increase of about US$3.2
million over the existing capitalization of the DRF.
8.        It is expected that introduction of international competitive
bidding (ICB), using generic specifications, will lower the prices of drugs
considerably. The subproject would establish a procurement unit within the
Central Medical Store (CMS), and train its staff, to undertake this task.
The state intends to exercise the option permitted under World Bank
procurement guidelines that would give a margin of preference in bid
evaluation to local drug manufacturers and suppliers. In addition, the
state will seek the Bank's agreement to reserve certain drugs for
procurement from local manufacturers, using its own resources.
9.        As part of the subproject, the CMS and all the stores in
hospitals, health centers, LGA headquarters and dispensaries would be
renovated. Drug supplies would be delivered directly from the CHS to
hospitals, health centers, and LGA headquarters, while the staff at the
dispensaries would collect their supplies from the LGA headquarters when
they collect their monthly salaries.
10.       Fake and adulterated drugs are a major issue in Bendel State.
Therefore, the state wishes, in addition to utilizing the strengthened
Federal drug quality assurance services, to carry out basic tests in
laboratory facilities in the CMS. The subproject would provide modest
support for such testing.
11.       The existing mechanisms for cost recovery and operation of the DRF
would be utilized. In particular, however, the accounting and monitoring
side of the program would be strengthened.



ANNEX 3-3
- 64 -                             Page 3 of 4
12.       Improving the skills of health workers in providing drugs.  An on-
going, comprehensive in-service training program would be developed for
policy makers, senior staff, and regular health personnel. Policy makers
would be trained in the concept of essential drugs and in the interaction
between the various components of the program. Senior staff and line
personnel would, in addition, be trained in proper use of drugs, cost
recovery and operation of DRFs, communication skills, managing drugs and
other supplies, and patient education. After the initial training, follow-
up courses would be undertaken during the life of the subproject.
13.       In the state schools of nursing and midwifery, the state school of
health technology, and three mission schools of midwifery, relevant
curricula would be reoriented to encompass the same subjects as given in the
in-service training program.
14.       Changing the practices of beneficiaries.  The subproject's
information, education and communication (IEC) activities would be aimed
primarily at (a) reinforcing support from SMOH officials, health personnel,
local government administrators, village leaders, religious leaders, and
other local influentials, and (b) educating the public with respect to
proper use of drugs and the need for paying for drugs. The campaign would
include team building exercises, information meetings, posters, radio
programs, special campaigns, hand-outs on preventive measures, and for local
television video tapes on effective use of drugs.
15.       Strengthening the institutional capacity for supporting the
State's EDP. Under the existing system, drugs are procured by the STC,
hospitals, and LGAs. This inefficient system would be consolidated under
the State's EDP. The EDP would procure, store, distribute and operate the
DRF in addition to coordinating training and IEC activities. Support to
program development has been designed in such a way that the Federal
Ministry of Health's (FMOH's) Essential Drugs Unit (EDU) would provide
technical assistance to the state's EDP and the state, in turn, would
support the LGAs' development.
16.       The core staff for the EDP would consist of a Program Manager,
Financial Controller, Administrative Secretary, Transport Officer,
Procurement Officer, Central Store Officer, Training Officer, and IEC
Officer. With the exception of a few incremental positions, most of the
core staff would be seconded from the SHMB or the SMOH. To ensure efficient
implementation, management consultancy would also be provided. At the LGA
level, an additional post of accountant would be needed to look after the
DRF.
D. Subproject Costs and Financing
17.       The estimated total cost of Bendel State's subproject is US$12.3
million equivalent, which would be partially financed through a loan of
US$9.8 million. The counterpart financing of $2.5 million equivalent would
be provided almost entirely by the State Government, although the local
governments are expected to finance the required renovations in the PHC
facilities. Detailed cost estimates are at Attachment 2.



ANNEX 3-3
- 65 -                              Page 4 of 4
E. Subproiect Management and Coordination
18.       The EDP would be administratively responsible to the Commissioner
for Health (see organigram at Attachment 3). A Steering Committee would be
established to give guidance and ensure the smooth implementation of the
program. This committee would be chaired by the Director-General of Health
and would include the Directors-General of Finance and other relevant
ministries and senior officials of the SHMB and SMOH. The committee would
report to the Commissioner for Health. In addition, a Drug and Therapeutic
Advisory Committee would be established to review the SEDL annually and
develop clinical and therapeutic guidelines for prescribers, based on
prototype guidelines developed by the FMOH. At the LGA level, a Drug
Revolving Fund Committee would established to oversee the implementation of
the DRF.
F. Arrangements for Procurement, Disbursement, and Auditing
19.       All procurement of drugs would be through ICB, using generic
names. The DRF would operate as a trading account with all funds from the
sales of drugs flowing into the fund (and all purchases of drugs being made
from the fund). The DRF would be separate from the Treasury Consolidated
Fund, into which the State Government receipts typically flow. Profit from
operations would be retained within the DRF to the extent needed to ensure
that the DRF can be sustained or expanded as required. Proceeds from sales
of drugs in all health facilities would be deposited into separate bank
accounts and transferred via normal banking procedures to the DRF trading
account. The State Government would establish a Project Account for its
counterpart funding into which it would initially deposit NO.6 million.
Annual auditing of the DRF, the Project Account, and statements of
expenditures would be conducted by external auditors.



Implementation Plan for Bendel State Essential Drugs Programe (SSEDp)
Yr3   PRE-PROJECT        YEAR 1          YEAR 2          YEAR 3    YEAR 4 YEAR S
ACTIVITY                   RESPONS.      Mo:    3  6   9        3   6   9       3  6   9        3  6   9        6       6
…i-------------------------i------I…---------I …--------I…… --
PROGRAIME MGMTM
-Establish BSEDP            State Gov't, MON
-Establish Steering         State Gov't
Comuittee
-BSEDP begins all           BSEDP                           <0
operations except
CHS &distribution
-BSEDP assumes              BSEDP ?>
responsibility for CMS
& distribution to
hospitals & LGA HQs
-Annual BSEDP Work          BSEDP. CON                       (-'             '-) <->                         C>
Planning & PrograLae
Evaluation
-Review Hospital,           BSEDP-ACC                        <_>
Health Center
accounts procedures
-Develop LGA accounting     BSEDP-ACC, CON                       ------->
procedures & review
SELECTION
-A goint State Drug                                                                                                                  a
T erapeutic Cousittee     M-H------>
-Review & Ratify Revised
Essential Drug List       DTC
-Annual Review of
Essential Drug List       DTC                                              C--             <__>            C)
QUANTIFICATION
-Review & up-date
morbidity & utiliza-
tion data                 BSEDP                       c-->                                                             IC> c-  c-  c
-Review & approve
quantities                 BSEDP                                                                                  < >       >
PROCUREMENT   A
-First Procurement Cycle
Initiate Tender (I)       BSEDP-PU                            I
Award Contract            BSEDP-STB
Receive first 213
of order                 CHS                                    --------R
Receive seconc 113
of  order                CMS                                    ---------  ------- R
-Second Procurement Cycle
Initiate Order (I)        BSEDP-PU                                            I                                              w 
Receive Drugs (R)         CHS                                                  -----R_
-Third Procurement Order    BSEDP-PU.STB,CMS                                     _      ---                                    _ 
-Fourth Procurement Order   BSEDP-PU,STB,CMS                                                            I---
-Fifth Procurement Order    BSEDP-PU.STB,CHS                                                                      I-
-Sixth Procurement Order    BSEDP-PU,STB,CHS                                                                             I--   w
.                                                  .    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Implementation Plan for Bendel State Essential Drugs Programe (BSEDP)
Yrs   PRE-PROJECT         YEAR 1           YEAR 2           YEAR 3      YEAR 4  YEAR 5
ACTIVITY                    RESPONS.       Mo:    3   6   9         3   6   9        3   6   9        3   6   9        6        6
…TORAGE                                             I DISTRIBUTION   ----------------- --- I --- ---…I---I---I--- ---1--- ---1 ---- ---  --…   -1--
-Renovate CMS                BSEDP                              < --------->
-Renovate hospitals          B BSEDP                                     ------>
bealth center stores
-First hospital and health  ESEDP                                                 <------>
center delivery
-Renovate LGA stores &       LGAs, BSEDP                             <3 LGAs>         <6 LGAs)        <10 LGAs>
dispensaries (no. of                                                            <>
LGAs)
-LGA delivery (no. of        BSEDP                                                <---3 LGAs----> <---9 LGAs---- <--19   <--19
LGAs)                                                                                                               LGAms   LGA.>
USE
-Produce Therapeutics
Manual/Formulary
-Hospital Edition         BSEDPIDC                                 ---->                               <->                   >
-PHC Edition              BSEDPIDC                                   <-__>
-Conduct Training (see
below)
-hospital Drug Comiittees                                                            (__-
beg. drug utilization      Hosp. Drug Com.
review
TRAINING & PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
-Develop Training Plan       CON. BSEDP-TU                          C-->
-BSEDP Staff                 CON, BSEDP                                <->
-Doctors                     BSEDP-TU                                    <-->
-Hospital Pharmacists        BSEDP-TU                                        <--
-Hospital Nurses & Other    BSEDP-TU                                                C->
Cl mical Staff
-LGA Administrators          BSEDP-TU                                                    >               <->         <>
Workshop
-LGA DRF Managers            BSEDP-TU                                                    -->               C->        C>
(nurses, etc.)
-Community Health Staff at  BSEDP-TU                                                       C-->                -->    (-->
PHC Facilities
IEC ACTIVITIES'
-Develop IEC Plan            CON, BSEDP-CU                       <-->
-BSEDP Staff                 CON. BSEDP-CU                          C-->
-SHO  &* LGA policy makers   BSEDP-CU                                   C>
-Health personnel (see       BSEDP-CU
training above)            BSEDP-CU
-LGA administrators          BSEDP-CU                                     <>>                                  >
-Village & Religious         BSEDP-CU                                        <->              <->              <->
Leaders                                                                                                                               m .
-Public                                                                            <    ,---->        -,            C,    C--
P1h 



Implementation Plan for Bendel State Essential Drug Programme (BSEDPI
Yr:  PRE-PROJECT         YEAR 1          YEAR 2           YEAR 3     YEAR 4  YEAR S
ACTIVITY                    RESPONS.       Ho:    3   6   9       3   6   9        3   6   9       3   6   9       6        6
…IN_T0R_NG_ - VALUAT10N --------------I----… I----    --… I----    ---…-----I---I…- --I…-  -I---
MONITORING & EVALUATION
-Monitoringjit>                                                                   >            >     <_>     < >  <> - >  C> < >
-Annual Audit               SMSB, CON                                      -<>
-Evaluation Team            FMOH-EDU, CON                                                            '-<>
ACC - Accounting Unit                                   SHOB - State Ministry of Health                           _
CMS = Central Medical Store                             DTC - Drug & Therapeutic Comittee
CON - Consultant                                        PU - Procurement Unit
FMOH-EDU - Federal MOH Essential Drugs Unit             STB - State Tender Board
BSEDP   B Bendel State Essential Drug Programe          CU - Comunications Unit
SNMB - State Health Management Board          ,         TU - Training Unit
lb
CT,
go .4



NICGEIA: ESPFNTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
SUZHARY OF ESTIMATED COSTS - 8BEDEL STATE
(Nasra '000)                                     cUSs '000)
Tosa I                                          Total
S Foreign   Base                                 S Foreign   Oase
Local   Foreign    Total  Eschange    Cost.      Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange    Costs
I. INVESTNT COSTS
A. ORUC SEED STOCK                                   1,955.8  37.160.3  39,116.1        95        61    283.5  5,385.6  5,669.0          95         61
B. CIVIL WOIRS                                         838.6    359.4  1,198.0          30         2     121.5      52.1    173.6        30         2
C. VHICLES                                             3t'4.0  1,152.0  1,536.'b        75         2      56.7    167.0    222.6         75         2
D. EIPFMENT                                            574.2  2,296.8  2,871.1          80         5      83.2    332.9    416.1         80          5
E. TeIICAL ASSISTANCE
____________________
1. LOCAL CON9SLTDC SERVICES                         804.0         -    804.0          -         1    116.5          -    116.5         -         1
2. FEES FOR NHERCKr BANKS                         2,450.0         -  2,450.0          -         4     355.1         -    355.1         -         4
Sub-Tateul TECHNICAL ASStSTANCE                      3,254.0         -  3,254.0          -         5    471.6          -    471.6          -        5
F. FEEL01SHIPS                                             -   1,200.0  1,200.0        140         2         -    173.9    173.9        100         2
0. TRAININ1                                          1,502.8    375.7  1,873.6          20         3     217.8      54.5    272.3        20         S
H. KATERIALS, SUPPLIES AND PRODJCTION COSTS          5,302.4  5,302.4  10,604.7         50        17    768.5    768.5  1,536.9          50         17
________ ___ ------- -----____ --------- ---------  -------- --------- --------- --------- ---------                        0Nf
Total INVE5TPVT COSTS                                  13,811.8  47,846.6  61,658.4        78        97   2,001.7  6,934.3  8,936.0         78        97
Physical Contingencies                               1,234.0  6,642.7  7,876.6          84        12    178.8    962.7  1,141.5          84         12
Price Contingencies                                  8,209.4  29,060.1  37,269.6        78        58     399.1  1,421.0  1,820.1         78        20
Total INCLUDING CONTINCB1CIES                          23,255.2  83,549.4 106,804.6        78       168  2,579.7  9,317.9  11,897.6         78        129
II. RhCURFT   COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES                                      850.0         -    850.0          -         1    123.2          -    123.2         -         1
S. VE4ICLES NADNTB4ANCE                                337.5    337.5    675.0          s0         1      48.9     48.9      97.8        60         1
C. EWUIPMEtT MAINTENANCE                                60.0         -      60.0         -         0       8.7         -      8.7         -         0
D. BUILDINM I4ADIANCE                                   60.0         -      60.0         -         0       8.7         -      8.7         -         0
E. SE4INAR EXP84SES                                    221.7         -    221.7          -         0      S2.1         -     32.1         -         0
F. CENERAL OPERATINC COSTS                             235.0         -    235.0          -         0      34.1         -     34.1         -         0
Total  hCRT  COSTi                                      1,764.2    337.5  2,101.7          16         3     255.7      48.9    304.6        16         3
Physical Contingencies                                  22.2         -      22.2         -         0       3.2         -      3.2         -         0
Price Contingencies                                  1,234.0    254.3  1,488.5          17         2      68.2      11.9     70.1        17         1
Total INCLUDIC CONTINCBECIES                            3,020.4    592.0  3,612.4          16         6    317.1       60.8    378.0        16         4                        X
= . .==  _ =-          =         =         n         C            -      C         C   -                       p. -
Total BASELI?E COSTS                                   15,576.0  48,184.1  63,760.1        76       100   2,257.4  6,983.2  9,240.6         76       100                       00 H
Physical Contingencies                               1,256.1  6,642.7  7,898.8          84        12    182.0    962.7  1,144.8          84        12                        M
Price Contingencies                                  9,443.5  29,314.7  58,758.1        76        61     457.4  1,432.8  1,890.2         76        20                           0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    26,275.6  84,141.4 110,417.0        76       173  2,896.8  9,378.8  1.2,275.6        76       133
_ = _                        ==                             C         =h
_______--_______________ ____________-- _________ ___________________---- _________-- _____________ __---- _____________---- _______-- ________----__ ___________- __________-



NIGERIA: ESSENT!AL DRUGS PROJECT
Proposed Structure of Bendel State's Essential Drugs Progra m
Commissioner for Hoeath                     Essential Drug* Programme
I            ~~~~Steering Committoe
F____________-----------------  (chaired by Dir;ctor-General
of Health and inciuding
Director General                         Directors-General of Finance
and other ministrios)
Ministry of Health                          Hospital Uanagement Board
(Chief Exc utiv_)
State-operate                                                                           Drug and Therapeutic
Training and                                       _________________-_______________-        Committee
IEC Programs
I~                                                                                                                         -l
Other                                Essential Drugs Programme
Dep rtments                             Management Unit (Programme
Manager, Financial Controller,
Administrative Secretary,
I                                                   Procuremont Officer, Central
+……--------- ----… -----------------------------Store Officer, Transport
_  l           Officer, Training Officer,
Stato-owned       I               IEC Officer)
Heoalth                                                          _
Facilities
In each LGA:
Chairman 
I    I ~~~~~~~ I
Drug Revolving
Fund Committee --------        ---------
Councillor for Health 
and Social Welfare I tc
LGA Health
Programs



ANNEX 3-4
- 71 -                             Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Detailed Description and Implementation Arrangements:
Cross River State Subproject
A. Special Features of the Drug Supply Subsector in Cross River State
1.        Structurally, the health system in Cross River State is unique
among the 21 Nigerian states. Since 1985, when the Health Management Board
was abolished, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has been the sole state body
responsible for health. Moreover, the State Government owns all public
sector health facilities, including the small primary health care (PHC)
facilities that elsewhere are typically owned by the local government
authorities (LGAs). The salaries of PHC staff have been financed by the
states through the MOH, which provides technical supervision. At the state
level, the newly formed Department of Local Government in the Governor'e
office will also have certain supervisory functions with regard to the LGAs.
Currently, however, serious consideration is being given to decentralizing
more of the responsibility for the PHC program to the LGAs. The state's
efforts in PHC have placed considerable emphasis on community participation,
including establishment of active village health committees. Under the
Essential Drugs Programme (EDP), they are expected to have a key role in
monitoring cost recovery activities and promoting public understanding of
the essential drugs concept at the local level.
2.        Another important feature of the health sector in the state is the
drastic impact of the state's being split in two in late 1987. About 80? of
the senior administrative and technical staff in health, including the chief
pharmacist and most of the health education officers, transferred to Akwa
Ibom State, leaving glaring gaps that are proving difficult to fill.
3.        Charges for drugs were instituted throughout the state in 1984,
but the system is seen as having several critical problems. Due to
inefficient procurement, drug costs have been high; hospitals have been
permitted to purchase drugs with their own resources, which has also
resulted in highly variable costs. As a result, public acceptance has been
mixed. Not only is the budget for drugs exceedingly low--about 20Z of the
estimated need--but in the absence of effective controls, recycled funds
have often been spent for other urgent expenses.
B. Objectives and Main Strategies of the Subproject
4.        The overall objectives of the state's EDP are to make essential
drugs available to the entire population of the state, including all PHC
facilities, by 1995 and to ensure that the drugs provided are safe,
effective, acceptable, and affordable. To accomplish this, the State
Government will establish the Cross River State EDP, which wil' be
responsible for selecting, quantifying, procuring, and distributing drugs to
all public health facilities and for promoting cost-effective use of drugs.
It is intended to introduce proper accounting and cost-recovery measures and
to ensure that the State Government covers the costs of exemptions in order
to maintain the integrity of the drug revolving fund (DRF). Strong emphasis



- 72 -                              ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 4
will also be placed on training health staff at all levels to promote
rational and cost-effective diagnosis, prescribing, and dispensing.
C. Subproject Description
5.        Scope and phasing.  Unlike other states, Cross River does not need
to link the phasing of the program to LGAs, and hence the program will be
launched in all parts of the state. Because of serious staffing
constraints, however, it has opted for a gradual pace for phasing in
individual facilities. Specifically, the volume of drugs provided to the
state's 5 hospitals, 88 health centers/ clinics, and 31 dispensaries/
maternities will be phased in over four years as follows: 40Z, 30Z, 20Z, and
10. A plan for further preparation activities during year zero has been
developed, identifying start-up activities and responsibilities for them.
An overall, five-year implementation plan has also been prepared (see
Attachment 1).
6.        Developing an affordable and sustainable supple of safe drugs. A
number of steps will be taken by Cross River State to strengthen its present
drug supply system. One of the first steps was drafting an essential drugs
list (EDL) which has been endorsed by the State Executive Council. The
state's drug storage system has badly deteriorated, and consequently a new
central medical store (CMS) has just been constructed. It will need to be
expanded, however, under the project, and three zonal stores (in lieu of
separate LGA stores) are to be constructed, equipped, and staffed. Storage
areas in many facilities will be renovated and re-equipped with
refrigeration units and other basic equipment. Various options for the
distribution system are still being refined, but on the basis of preliminary
analysis, the State proposes to establish its own fleet of vehicles for this
purpose. Consideration is also being given to integration of the vaccine
storage and distribution system developed under the Expanded Programme of
Immunization with the new drug logistics system. Ar. efficient drug
procurement system is being developed (para 12). It is estimated that about
US$8.5 is required to capitalize the state's DRF. For checking the quality
of drugs, the state will rely on the drug testing laboratories being
strengthened or established by the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) under
the project. Finally, the EDP will develop a DRF and plans to recover 100?
of the costs of replacing the drugs sold along with a small margin to cover
other costs. Variable pricing will be instituted. The State Government has
committed itself to protect the integrity of the DRF, including provision in
advance of funds to replace drugs that are provided to exempt patients.
Children and civil servants will no longer be exempt, with the latter now
having to reclaim the cost of drugs from their own departments, but
exemptions will continue to be granted to destitutes in general and to
leprosy, T.B., and cancer patients. Among subproject inputs for the cost-
recovery system would be accountancy staff for the zonal stores and
hospitals, cash boxes/safes, stationery and other supplies, and
microcomputers.
7.        Improving the skills of health workers in providing drugs.  A
comprehensive, decentralized in-service training program would be developed
covering all relevant health staff in the state. It would provide skills
training in a number of areas, including proper use of drugs, operation of
the cost recovery scheme, managing and storing drugs effectively, and



- 73 -                               ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 4
communication skills and patient education. The therapeuLics manual and
other training materials being developed by the FMOH will be adapted. The
subproject will cover all costs, including training equipment and mass
production of training materials. Training teams will be prepared to carry
out training of PHC staff in the field. The training strategy is aimed at
building an on-going training capacity that will facilitate development of a
long needed in-service training unit in the MOH to support all priority
health programs. Supervision check lists will be developed as part of the
process of strengthening the essential drugs content of on-going
supervision. New content on essential drugs will also be added to the basic
training programs of the School of Health Technology and various nursing and
midwifery schools. Finally, the subproject will finance some short- and
medium-term specialized training--domestic and overseas--for core EDP staff.
8.        Changing the practices of beneficiaries.  Although patients have
gradually become used to the system of charging for drugs, more information
will need to be conveyed on the new, more systematic approach to cost
recovery. In addition, there are several widespread problems of misuse of
drugs that need to be corrected. Due to the absence of a health education
unit in the MOH, subproject inputs will help with initial development of an
organized health education capability. The subproject will also support
specific information, education, and communication (IEC) activities,
including seminars for LGA officials and local leaders, patient handouts,
and radio and TV programs and spcts. Special attention will be paid to the
multi-language situation characterizing the state. In the context of the
in-service training effort described above, health staff will be given
training in IEC skills and appropriate messages to convey to the public.
9.        Strengthening the institutional capacity for supporting the EDP.
A coordinating unit would be established to manage the Cross River State EDP
(para 11), consolidating drug related activities formerly carried out by
individual hospitals and various units in the MOH. The subproject would
finance various operating costs of this unit. In view of the limited staff
available to the State Government as a result of its being split in two, the
subproject would have to finance various incremental staff. For the central
unit, this would likely include the program coordinator, financial
controller, senior accountant, medical adviser, and IEC coordinator, some of
whom would be recruited on long-term contracts while they groom their
successors. Consultancy support for the unit would be financed through the
subproject and, in part, by the FMOH.
D. Subproject Costs and Financing
10.       The estimated total cost of Cross River State's subproject is
US$17.4 million equivalent, which would be partially financed through a loan
of US$13.9 equivalent. The counterpart financing of US$3.5 equivalent would
be provided almost entirely by the State Government, although the local
governments are expected to finance the required renovations in the PHC
facilities and to share the cost of constructing LGA/zonal stores. Detailed
cost estimates are at Attachment 2.



74                                ANNEX 3-4
Page 4 of 4
E. SubproJect Management and Coordination
11.       In view of the magnitude of funds to be handled by the EDP
coordinating unitJl/ it wil be given special status by the State
Government. Specifically, it is expected that the unit would report
directly to the Commissioner of Health (see the organigram at Attachment 3).
Various committees would also be established. A Management Committee
consisting, among others, of the Directors-General of MOH and the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Planning, would provide high-level oversight of the
program. This committee would meet quarterly to review the implementation
and financial status of the EDP and assist in solving major problems. A
Drugs and Equipment Advisory Committee would be established to give advice
on technical matters and, in particular, to revise the state's essential
drugs list and monitor drug use. Procurement of drugs would be overseen by
a Drugs Tender Committee, chaired by the Commissioner. To formalize the
interagency cooperation required for the success of the EDP, it is proposed
to execute agreements among the involved ministries and between the MOH and
each LGA. Among other things, these agreements would commit the
participating agencies to a single system of drug procurement and
distribution. While the unit would be relatively small, it would have
technical supervisory responsibility for accounting and pharmacy staff in
all of the state's health facilities and its IEC and Training Coordinators
would work closely with health education and training staff in other parts
of the MOH. Tentatively, a series of key performance indicators have been
identified for monitoring the subproject. They include the value of drugs
issued to and cash received from each facility, the frequency of stock outs,
the frequency of supervisory visits, and usage rates for selected drugs
subject to over-prescription.
F. Arrangements for Procurement, Disbursement, and Auditing
12.       Cross River State, in its essential drugs policy statement, has
committed itself to efficient procurement, based on international
competitive bidding, generic specifications, and use of a list of
prequalified bidders to be developed by the FMOH. Loan funds, as well as
recycled funds from the DRF, will be used to procure only those drugs on the
state's current essential drugs list. If and when special drugs not on the
list are raquired, they would be procured separately with regular state
funds. The state would establish a Project Account for its counterpart
funds, into which it would initially deposit NO.8 million. Annual audits of
the Project Account, the DRF, and statements of expenditure would be carried
out by independent auditors.
AF4PH
June 21, 1989
1/   By the final year of the subproject, for instance, annual turnover in
the DR. would be over US$6 million equivalent. This is equivalent to about
8OX of the total state health budget for 1988.



Implementation Plan for Cross River Essential Drugs Programme (CRSEDP)
ACTIVITY                    RESPONSIBILITY    PRE-PROJECT        YEAR 1          YEAR 2           YEAR 3       YEAR 4    YEAR 6
a  c   9         8 6  9         a 8     9        a 8     9        6         6
……I---          ---   --------    ---   ---…---                     ----  ---I  ----g---i …-
PROGRAMME PLANNING
-Establish Policy
Authority                         U               (-->
-Establish Coordinating Comm.      i s--)
-Estabilh Terms of Reftrence       n                  <-->
-Set up Implementation Tem         WB
-Establish and list logistics      4                          <-->
POLICY, ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT
-Prepare and Obtain Approval       CRam, MOH           <-->
-Establish Key Elemente            CRSG, MON           (--)
-Establish Administrative and
Legal Responsibility             CRam, MCWH
-Determine staff requirements      CRSC, MOH H--)
-Establish standing comittee       CRS0, MCH                           <-->
-Dotermine sources of financing    CRS0, MOH                           <-->
-Prepare Manuals                   CRS0, MOHC_ <-->
LOA EDP DEVELOPMENT
-Establish responsibilities
-Federal Level                                                                 <-->
-State Level                       CRS4, MOH                                   <-->
-LOA Level                         CRSC, MOH                                   <-->
-Community Level                   CRSG, MCH                                   <-->
-Deflne process and phasing        CRSO, MOH                                   <-->
-Set criteria for funding          CRSC, MOH                           <--)
-preparation funds                 CRam, MOH                                        <-->
-Seed stock                        CR, MCI                                                --
-Start lot LOA ED progrm           CRSEDP                      <                 >
-StOrt the second phase            CRSEDP                                                       <-->
-Start remaining LOAs              CRSEDP
SELECTION AND FORLLARY MANAGEMENT                        X
-Draft pol Icy:complianco with EDL DC                   X
-Identify mnsbers of ED community  CRSEDP               X
-Draft oporattons policies         CRSEDP              X
-Survey current activities         CRSEDP              X            X               X                X               X         X
-Establish ED list by use level    DC                         X
-Distribute policy A ED list       DC                         X
-Distribute formulary manuals      DC                         X
o-.



Implemneldtation Plan for Cross River Essential Drugs Programme (CRSEDP)
ACTIVITY                    RESPONSIBILITY    PRE-PROJECT       YEAR 1           YEAR 2          YEAR 3       YEAR 4    YEAR 6
3   6   9       3  6   9        3  6   9        3   6   9         6         6
………--- - ------------------                     --  ---    - ---I … --------------                                 ---- I--- -  -- -
QUANTIFICATION OF DRUG
REqUIREMETS
-Survey current list               DC                              X       X      XX       X      X X      X      X XX   X X   X  X
-Identify personnel                DC                                  X       X    X               X               X          X
-De.iilop schedule                 DC                              x                x               x               x          x
-Provide Information for exerciso DC                               X                X               X               X         X
-Decide quantification methods    DC                                  X                X               X              X         X
-Analyze mour recent drug order    DC                               X               X               X               X         X
-quantify drug noed                DC                                       X     X         X     X         X     X      X X        X X
-Adjust drug requireoents          DC                              X                X               X               X         X
-Adjust drug requirements to       DC
budget                                                                X               X               X              x         x
-Approval for quantity calculated  DC                                    X                X               X             X          X
PROCUREMENT
-Identify current activities       DC, PO                          X
-Establish procurement office      CRSEDP                          X
-Dvoviop MIS                       CRSEDP-PO                       X
-Provide quality assurance         CRSEDP              X                X               X               X             X           X
-Establish contract terms          PO                  X                X               X               X             X           X
-Produce quality assurance manual  PO                  X               X                X               X             X           X
DISTRIBUTION, STORAGE, TRANSPORT
-Assess current systems            CRSEDP              X
-Develop SWEDS distribution plan                       X
-Plan upgrade storage              CRSEDP              X
-Plan improved transport           TC                  X
-Prepare SWEDS manual                                              X                X               X               X         X
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
-Feasibility study                 CRSEDP-CO                                  X
-System analysis                   CRSEDP-CO                                  X
-Design inforertion system         CRSEDP-CO                                  X
-Train staff                       CRSEDP-CO                                      X        X               X            X
-Develop supervisory checklist     CRSEDP-CO                                      X        X               X            X
-Develop component of SWEDS        CRSEDP-CO                                      X        X               X            X
-Start operating the system        CRSEDP-CO                                      X        X
qUALITY ASSURANCE
-Supplier selection                DEAC                                                                                                    ov  H
-Supplier performance monitor      DEAC
-Deoign pro-qualification process  DEAC
-Product *pecit;cations            DEAC
I-



Implementation Plan for Cross River Essential Drugs Programme (CRSEDP)
ACTIVITY                    RESPONSIBILITY    PRE-PROJECT       YEAR 1         YEAR 2           YEAR 3       YEAR 4    YtAR 5
a 8     9       a  a   9       a 8     9       3  6   9         6         6
------ ----------…--------…---- ---                        …-----------------------…-
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
-Detormine cost of seed stock      CRSEDP-PO
-Source of Initial financing       CRSEDP-PO
Decid, which drugs to se1l        CRSEDP-PO
-Free drugs for which diseasea?    CRSEDP-PO
-Deter-in- population exampt       CRSEDP-PO
-Identify Manag_ment revolving
f und                            CRSEDP-PO
-Determine percentage recovery    CRSEDP-PO
-Determin, resupply subsidy        CRSEDP-PO
-Set method for setting prices     CRSEDP-PO
-Analyz, current system            CRSEDP-PO
-Determin, changes to system       CRSEDP-PO
-Deter Ine sharing of costs        CRSEDP-PO
-Det.rm)n- personnel               CRSEDP-PO
-Determine supervisory systen      CRSEDP-PO
-Foreat Incoe/expense statement   CRSEDP
-Write financial rogulations       CRSEDP
-Establish DRF accounting records CRSEDP
-Establish audit for DRF           CRSEDP
TRAINING AND SUPERVISION
-Assess training requirements      CRSEDP-CO
-Assess current training
logisttices                      CRSEDP-CO
-Identify training temm            CRSEDP-CO
-Determine target groups           CRSEDP-CO
-Determine subject areas           CRSEDP-CO
-Deqlgn  training plans            CRSEDP-CO
-TfMln trainers                    CRSEDP-CO
-Conduct training                  CRSEDP-CO
-Determine supervisory schedule   CRSEDP-CO
-Identify supervisory team         CRSEDP-CO
-Develop supervision checklist    CRSEDP-CO
-Train staff to supervise          CRSEDP-CO
INFORMATION, EDUCA lON,
COMWMICATION
-Assess current activities         CRSEDP                                                                                                   oQ
-Assess current IEt ,ogistice      CRSEDP                                  
-Identify target groups            CRSEDP
-Determine messags                 CRSEDP                                                                                                   o",
-Choose appropriato  TEC msthods   CRSEDP                                                                                                   wh z
-Identify aroes for cooperstion    CRSEDP                                                                                                   JS
-Design imple_entation program     CRSEDP



Implementation Plan for Cross River Essentiol Drugs Programme (CRSEDP)
ACTIVITY                    RESPONSIBILITY    PRE-PROJECT        YEAR 1          YEAR 2          YEAR 3        YEAR 4    YEAR 5
3 6 9    36                    3        9    3   9               S          6
-______________________________  ------I-------------                                  ---… I-I-I…- I--------                   --I… I … I---I
-Identify IEC toam                  CRSEDP
-Decide on IEC approach             CRSEDP
-Train IEC staff on ED              CRSEDP
-Start IEC activities               CRSEDP
-State aid in IEC preparation       CRSEDP
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
-Performance Indicators            CRSEDP
-Formt for questionnaires           CRSEDP
-Training                           CRSEDP
-Analysis                           CRSEDP
-Feedback                           CRSEDP
-Evaluation                         CRSEDP
ACC - Accounting Unit                                        SMOH - State Ministry of Health
CMS   Central Medical Store                                  DC - Drug Committee
CON - Consultant                                             PO - Procurement Officer
FMOH-EDP - Federal MOH Essential Drugs Programme             TC - Tender Committeo e
CRSEDP - Cross River State Essential Drugs Programe          CO - Communications Officer
TBD - To be determined                                       WB - World Bank
SWEDS - Statewide Essential Drug Service                     WHO - World Health Organization
CRSO - Cross River State Government
(Note that portions of this Implementation plan are yet to be completed pending further staff appointments and/or
return of staff undergoing overseas training.)
0N 



NICERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUOS PROJECT
SU9ARY OF ESTIMATED COSTS - CROSS RIVER STATE
(Nai ra '000)                                    (USS '000)
Totsl                                            Total
5 Foreign  Base                                  S Foreign  Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Exch-nge   Costs    Local   Foreogn    Total  Exchange   Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. ORUJO SEW STOCK                                   2,971.5  56,458.2  59,429.7        95        67    430.7  8,182.4  8,613.0          95        67
B. CIVIL VORKS                                       2,194.9    940.7  3,135.5          30        4    318.1    136.3    454.4           30         4
C. VE4ICLES                                            706.0  2,118.0  2,824.0          7S        3      102.3    307.0    409.3         75         3
0. EQUIPMENT                                           688.7  2,754.9  3,443.6          80         4      99.8    399.3    499.1         80         4
E. TeO*ICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSULTINO SERVICES                      1,776.0         -   1,776.0         -        2    257.4          -    257.4          -         2
2. FEES FOR MIWOANT BANKS                         2,450.0         -  2,450.0          -         3    355.1         -    355.1          -         3
Sub-Total TECIICAL ASSISTANCE                        4,226.0         -  4,226.0          -        5    612.5          -    612.5          -         5
F. FELLOUWSHIPS                                            -  1,120.0  1,120.0         100         1        -    162.3    162.3         100         1
0. STUDIES                                              96.0        64       160        40        0       13.9      9.3      23.2        40         0
M. TRAININC                                          1,196.2    299.1  x,495.3          20        2      173.4     43.3    216.7         20         2                             1
I. MATERIALS, SUPPLIES AND PROGUCTIIN COSTS            256.5    256.5    513.0         50         1      37.2      37.2      74.3        50         1                            _
Total INVESTM84T COSTS                                 12,335.8  64,011.3  76,347.1       84        85   1,787.8  9,277.0  11,064.8         84        85
Physical Contingencies                               1,127.6   9,217.6  10,345.2       89         12    163.4  1,335.9   1,499.3         89        12
Price Contingencies                                  7,550.7  45,139.7  52,690.4       86        59    363.7  2,165.9  2,529.6           a6        20
Total INCLlDING CONTIN4CENIES                          21,014.0 118,368.7 139,382.7       85        156  2,314.9  12,778.8  15,003.7        85       117
__=t=   _======_  =t====t=  =, ==  ===t=  ==z==s=  ========  ____ ____===
II. REURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES                                    3,005.0         -  3,005.0          -        3    435.5          -    435.5                    3
B. VEHICLES MAINTWANCE                                 612.5    612.5  1,225.0         50          1     88.8      88.8    177.5         50         1
C. EQ.UIPMENT MAINTE4ANCE                               60.0         -      60.0         -        0       8.7         -       8.7         -         0
0. BUILDIN  MAINTBiANCE                                 60.0         -      60.0         -         0      8.7         -       8.7         -         0
E. CENBERAL OPERATING C03T3                          8,625.0         -  6,625.0          -        10   1,250.0        -  1,250.0          -        10
Total RECUOJRET COSTS                                  12,362.5    612.5  12,975.0          5        15   1,791.7      ERR   1,880.4         5        15
Price Contingencies                                  8,638.2    428.1  9,066.3          5         10    406.2      20.1    426.4          5         3
Total INCUDINO CONTINGENCIES                           21,000.7   1,040.6  22,041.3         5       25  2,197.9    108.9  2,306.8            5        18
Total 8AWELItE COSTS                                   24,698.3  64,623.8  89,322.1       72        100  3,579.5  9,365.8  12,945.2         72       100                       P)
Physical Contingencies                               1,127.6  9,217.6  10,345.2        89        12    163.4  1,335.9   1,499.3          89        12                      °
Price Contingencise                                 16,188.9  45,567.8  61,756.7       74        69    769.9  2,186.0  2,956.0           74        23                       M
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    42,014.7 119,409.3 161,424.0       74        181  4,512.8  12,887.7  17,400.5        74       134
_- - - -  - - - _ - --    - -                - -- - =__       __--- .=-== -= ,_ __- ==-=-==___ _
__  _  __  _     _  _     ______  ______ _____  _  __ _  ___  _  _  __ _   ____  _    _  ____  ___ _  __  ____ __  _    _  _  ______  _  _ _  _____  ___  _  _______  _  ____ _  ___ ____ ___   _ ___  __  _     _  _     ____ _________  ___  ___ 



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Proposed Structure of Cross River State's Esential Drugs Proaramme
Commissioner frr Heth
Management Committee Consisting
Dircto  _ of DG. from Health, Local
Government, A Finance Ministries
Drugs A Equipment
Advisory Coomittee -  _
_-               I_-- -                            I Drugs Tender Comittee (chaired
f Oth-r Ministry of                                    ------ | by the Commissioner of Hea!th)
H" I th D-pa rtments 
Essential Drugs Progra]
Training Unit                                      Manager/Coordinator
Helth Education                                                                   |o
[f: Un it            p                                             
Deputy Manager (Technicall)      Mdica;                Deputy Manager (Finance)/
Avisor |            Fnn'ncinl Controllor
*---[ IEC/Trsining       Control                     Procur "ont                      Aecountant |              nt rna
ICoordinator(s      an_oa                            Unit                                                  u  Adtor
StoresAdminis               U
Field Supervisore/ |                                                I
Program Auditors    ----------------------------------------------
*                                                    I
Accountancy Staff in
Pharmacy & Service                                       State Facilities and
Delivery Staff in                                        in Participating  LGAs             
State A LGA         Ii
Facilities



- 81 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Detailed Description and Implementation Arrangements:
Gongola State Subproject
A. Special Features of the Drug Supply Subsector in Gongola State
1.     Like many other states in Nigeria, Gongola State has never
instituted an official p3licy of full cost recovery in the health
sector. However, over the past few years, budget constraints have
resulted in increasing shortages of drugs in most of the state's health
facilities. Other problems which have exacerbated the drug supply
situation in Gongola, are (a) cumbersome and erratic procurement; (b)
inadequate storage facilities; (c) insufficient transport fleet for drug
deliveries; and (d) few personnel experienced in managing a drug
revo' .ving fund (DRF). In the recent past, the government initiated a
modest attempt at cost recovery by charging token fees for all
prescriptions in its health facilities. This has not yielded much
success but has proven a willingness on the part of the public to pay
for basic drugs if they can be made available on a continuous basis.
However, the state has decided to take a more concerted effort to attack
the problem by instituting a more comprehensive approach through the
project. The project has the strong political commitment and backing of
officials of the state.
B. Objectives and Main Strategies of the Subproject
2.     The major objective of the Gongola State Essential Drugs
Programme (EDP) is to ensure the availability of essential drugs that
are safe, effective, acceptable and affordable on a continuous basis to
all levels of the health care delivery system. The main strategies are:
(a)  establishing the Gongola State Essential Drigs Programme (GSEDP)
to provide drugs throughout the public sector health facilities
in the state, i.e. both state and local government health
facilities;
(b) establishing an organizational structure to handle drug
selection, quantification, procurement and distribution in a
fashion that will promote cost-effectiveness in drug supply
management;
(c) instituting and maintaining a viable Drug Revolving Fund (DRF)
system at all levels of the health care system, based on the
principle of at least 1002 cost recovery, and ensuring full
government commitment to its success;
(d) training all health personnel in rational use of drugs and
related matters; and



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 4
(e) promoting cost-effective use of essential drugs by the public
through health education.
3.     The GSEDP, which represents a new concept in the state, will be
implemented within the Ministry of Health (SMOH). Under the subproject,
skills of existing staff in SMOH, as well the SHMB, will be enhanced to
ensure effective management of the programme. Adjustments will be made
to streamline the functions of the SMOH and SHMB and promote better
coordination of functions for the successful implementation of tie
subproject.
C. Subproject Description
4.     Scope and phasing.  From the start, all 15 state hospitals and 5
state health centers would be included in the subproject. The 17 local
government authorities (LGAs), with a total of about 50 maternities, 350
dispensaries, and 50 health clinics, would be phased in over a three-
year period. (An implementation plan for the subproject is at
Attachment 1.)
5.     Developing an affordable and sustainable supply of safe drugs.
During the National Workshop on Essential Drugs in December 1986,
Gongola was one of the two states which was not able to attend due to
problems of communications in reaching that part of the country. Since
that time the state has been very enthusiastic about moving ahead with
adopting an essential drugs program. In four months the state has been
able to develop a comprehensive state ED policy and list along the lines
of the National ED Policy, which were then adopted by the Gongola State
Executive Council.
6.     Over the period of the subproject, the investment in new drug
seed stock is estimated at US$9.5 million. Of this amount, US$3.6
million is reserved for the LGAs and the rest (US$5.9 million) is
earmarked for state hospitals and health centers.
7.     It is expected that introduction of international competitive
bidding (ICB), using generic names, will lower the prices of drugs
considerably. The subproject would establish a procurement unit within
the Central Medical Store (CMS), and train its staff to undertake this
task. The state intends to exercise the option permitted under World
Bank procurement guidelines that would give a margin of preference in
bid evaluation to local manufacturers and suppliers.
8.     As a part of the subproject, the CMS, and all the stores in
hospitals, health centers, LGA headquarters and dispensaries would be
renovated. Drug supplies would be delivered directly from the CMS to
hospitals, health centers, and LGA headquarters, while the staff at the
dispensaries would collect their supplies from the LGA headquarters.
Because of the difficulties of transport in the state and poor road
network, the subproject will operate a revolving vehicle scheme in which
dispensary and maternity staff will be able to take a loan to purchase
motorcycles. Similar vehicle schemes already exist in the state ard are



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 4
proving to be an excellent incentive for staff in remote areas to better
carry out their assignments.
9.     Fake and adulterated drugs are becoming a major problem for
Gongola State. Therefore the state wishes, in addition to utilizing the
strengthened Federal drug quality assurance services, to carry out basic
tests in laboratory facilities in the CMS. The subproject would provide
modest support for such testing.
10.         The mechanisms for cost recovery and operation of the DRF
would be established under the subproject. In particular, the
accounting, financial management and monitoring of the GSEDP would be
built up with the strong input of financial expertise, which the
subproject would support.
11.         Improving the skills of health workers in providing drugs.
An ongoing, comprehensive in-service training program would be developed
for policy makers, senior staff, and regular health personnel. Policy
makers would be trained in the concept of essential drugs and in the
interaction between the various components of the program. Senior staff
and line personnel would, in addition, be trained in proper use of
drugs, cost recovery and operation of DRF's, communication skills,
managing drugs and other supplies, and patient education. After the
initial training, follow-up courses would be undertaken during the life
of the subproject.
12.         In the state schools of nursing and midwifery and the state
school of health technology, relevant curricula would be reoriented to
encompass the same subjects as given in the in-service training
programme.
13.         Changing the practices of beneficiaries.  The subproject's
information, education and communication (IEC) activities would be aimed
primarily at (a) reinforcing support from SHOE officials, health
personnel, local government administrators, village leaders, religious
leaders, and other local influentials, and (b) educating the public in
the proper use of drugs and the need to pay for drugs. The campaign
would include team building exercises, information meetings, posters,
radio programs, special campaigns, hand-outs on preventive measures, and
video tapes on effective use of drugs for local television.
14.          Strengthening the institutional capacity for supporting the
state's EDP. Under the existing system, drugs are procured by the HSMB
for its own hospitals and health centers, while the LGAs procure drugs
for the numerous dispensaries and maternities which they mange. This
uncoordinated system would be consolidated under the State's EDP. The
EDP would procure, store, distribute and operate the DRF in additior to
coordinating training and IEC activities. Support to program
development has been designed in such a way that the Federal. Ministry of
Health's (FMOH's) Essential Drugs Unit (EDU) would provide technical
assistance to the state's EDP and the state, in turn, would support the
LGA's development. The state anticipates awarding a contract to a fVrm



- 84 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 4
of management consultants to provide technical advice in financial
management.
15.         The core staff for the EDP would consist of a Program
Manager, Financial Controller, Accounts Officer, Training Officer, IEC
Officer, Logistics Officer, and Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
Officer. With the exception of a few incremental positions, most of the
core staff would be reassigned within the SMOH and/or seconded from the
SHMB or other agencies of government. To ensure efficient
implementation, management consultancy would also be provided. At tle
LGA level, an additional post of accountant would be needed to look
after the DRF.
D. Subproject Costs and Financing
16.         The estimated total cost of Gongola State's subproject is
US$14.6 million equivalent, which would be partially financed through a
loan of US$11.7 million. The counterpart financing of US$2.9 million
equivalent would be provided almost entirely by the State Government,
although the local governments are expected to finance the required
renovations in the PHS facilities. Detailed cost estimates are at
Attachment 2.
E. Subproject Management and Coordination
17.         The EDP would be managed uy an autonomous body under the
SMOH (see organigram at Attachment 3). A Steering Committee would be
established to give guidance and ensure the smooth implementation of the
subproject. This committee would be chaired by the Commissioner for
Health and would include the Commissioner for Finance, representatives
of the local governments and senior officials of the SHMB and SMOH. In
addition, a Drug Advisory and Selection Committee would be established
to review the state's essential drugs list annually and develop clinical
and therapeutic guidelines for prescribers, based on prototype
guidelines developed by the FMOH. At the LGA level, a Drug Revolving
Fund Committee would be established to oversee the implementation of the
DRF.
F. Arrangements for Procurement, Disbursement, and Auditing
18.         All procurement of drugs would be through ICB, using
generic names. The DRF would operate as a trading concern with all
funds from the sales of drugs flowing into the fund (and all purchases
of drugs being made from the fund). The DRF would be separate from the
Treasury Consolidated Fund, into which the State Government receipts
typically flow. Proceeds from the sales of drugs of drugs in all health
facilities would be deposited into separate bank accounts and
transferred via normal banking procedures to the DRF trading account.
The State Government would establish a Project Account for its
counterpart funding, into which it would initially deposit NO.7 million.
Annual auditing of the Project Account, statemerts of expenditure, and
the DRE would be conducted by external auditors.



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Detailed Description and Implementation Arrangements:
Gongola State Subproject
A. Special Features of the Drug Supply Subsector in Gongola State
1.     Like many other states in Nigeria, Gongola State has never
instituted an official policy of full cost recovery in the health
sector. However, over the past few years, budget constraints have
resulted in increasing shortages of drugs in most of the state's health
facilities. Other problems which have exacerbated the drug supply
situation in Gongola, are (a) cumbersome and erratic procurement; (b)
inadequate storage facilities; (c) insufficient transport fleet for drug
deliveries; and (d) few personnel experienced in managing a drug
revolving fund (DRF). In the recent past, the government initiated a
modest attempt at cost recovery by charging token fees for all
prescriptions in its health facilities. This has not yielded much
success but has proven a willingness on the part of the public to pay
for basic drugs if they can be made available on a continuous basis.
However, the state has decided to take a more concerted effort to attack
the problem by instituting a more comprehensive approach through the
project.  The project has the strong political commitment and Oa;;ing of
officials of the state.
B. Objectives and Main Strategies of the Subproiect
2      The major objective of the Gongola State Essential Drugs
Programme (EDP) is to ensure the availability of essential drugs that
are safe, effective, acceptable and affordable on a continuous basis to
all levels of the health care delivery system. The main strategies are:
(a) establishing the Gongola State Essential Drugs Programme (GSEDP)
to provide drugs throughout the public sector health facilities
in the state, i.e. both state and local government health
facilities;
(b) establishing an organizational structure to handle drug
selection, quantification, procurement and distribution in a
fashion that will promote cost-effectiveness in drub supply
management;
(c)  instituting and maintaining a viable Drug Revolving Fund (DRF)
system at all levels of the health care system, based on the
principle of at least 1002 cost recovery, and ensuring full
government commitment to its success;
(d) training all health personnel in rational use of drugs and
related matters; and



- 86 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 4
(e) promoting cost-effective use of essential drugs by the public
through health education.
3.     The GSEDP, which represents a new concept in the state, will be
implemented within the Ministry of Health (SMOH). Under the subproject,
skills of existing staff in SMOH, as well the SHMB, will be enhanced to
ensure effective management of the programme. Adjustments will be made
to streamline the functions of the SMOH and SHMB and promote better
coordination of functions for the successful implementation of the
subproject.
C. Subproject Description
4.     Scope and phasing.  From the start, all 15 state hospitals and 5
state health centers would be included in the subproject. The 17 local
government authorities (LGAs), with a total of about 50 maternities, 350
dispensaries, and 50 health clinics, would be phased in over a three-
year period. (An implementation plan for the subproject is at
Attachment 1.)
5.     Developing an affordable and sustainable supply of safe drugs.
During the National Workshop on Essential Drugs in December 1986,
Gongola was one of the two states which was not able to attend due to
problems of communications in reaching that part of the country. Since
that time the state has been very enthusiastic about moving ahead with
adopting an essential drugs program. In four months the state has been
able to develop a comprehensive state ED policy and list along the lines
of the National ED Policy, which were then adopted by the Gongola State
Executive Council.
6.     Over the period of the subproject, the investment in new drug
seed stock is estimated at US$9.5 million. Of this amount, US$3.6
million is reserved for the LGAs and the rest (US$5.9 million) is
earmarked for state hospitals and health centers.
7.     It is expected that introduction of international competitive
bidding (ICB), using generic names, will lower the prices of drugs
considerably. The subproject would establish a procurement unit within
the Central Medical Store (CMS), and train its staff to undertake this
task. The state intends to exercise the option permitted under World
Bank procurement guidelines that would give a margin of preference in
bid evaluation to local manufacturers and suppliers.
8.     As a part of the subproject, the CMS, and all the stores in
hospitals, health centers, LGA headquarters and dispensaries would be
renovated. Drug supplies would be delivered directly from the CMS to
hospitals, health centers, and LGA headquarters, while the staff at the
dispensaries would collect their supplies from the LGA headquarters.
Because of the difficulties of transport in the state and poor road
network, the subproject will operate a revolving vehicle scheme in which
dispensary and maternity staff will be able to take a loan to purchase
motorcycles. limilar vehicle schemes already exist in the state and are



- 87 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 4
proving to be an excellent incentive for staff in remote areas to better
carry out their assignments.
9.     Fake and adulterated drugs are becoming a major problem for
Gongola State. Therefore the state wishes, in addition to utilizing the
strengthened Federal drug quality assurance services, to carry out basic
tests in laboratory facilities in the CMS. The subproject would provide
modest support for such testing.
10.         The mechanisms for cost recovery and operation of the DRF
would be established under the subproject. In particular, the
accounting, financial management and monitoring of the GSEDP would be
built up with the strong input of financial expertise, which the
subproject would support.
11.          Improving the skills of health workers in providing drugs.
An ongoing, compzehensive in-service training program would be developed
for policy makers, senior staff, and regular health personnel. Policy
makers would be trained in the concept of essential drugs and in the
interaction between the various components of the program. Senior staff
and line personnel would, in addition, be trained in proper use of
drugs, cost recovery and operation of DRF's, communication skil'Ls,
managing drugs and other supplies, and pat!ent education. After the
initial training, follow-up courses would be undertaken during the life
of the subproject.
12.         In the state schools of nursing and midwifery and the state
school of health technology, relevant curricula would be reoriented to
encompass the same subjects as given in the in-service training
programie.
13.         Changing the practices of beneficiaries.  The subproject's
information, education and communication (IEC) activities would be aimed
primarily at (a) reinforcing support from SMOH officials, health
personnel, local government administrators, village leaders, religious
leaders, and other local influentials, and (b) educating the public in
the proper use of drugs and the need .Lo pay for drugs. The campaign
would include team building exercises, information meetings, posters,
radio programs, special campaigns, hand-outs on preventive measures, and
video tapes on effective use of drugs for local television.
14.          Strengthening the institutional capacity for supporting the
state's EDP. Under the existing system, drugs are procured by the HSMB
for its own hospitals and health centers, while the LGAs procure drugs
for the numerous dispensaries and maternities which they mange. This
uncoordinated system would be consolidated under the State's EDP. The
EDP would procure, store, distribute and operate the DRF in addition to
co3rdinating training and IEC activities. Support to program
development has been designed in such a way that the Federal Mi:istry of
Health's (FMOH's) Essential Drugs Unit (EDU) would provide technical
assistance to the state's EDP and the state, in turn, would support the
LGA's development. The state anticipates awarding a contract to a firm



- 88 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 4
of management consultants to provide technical advice in financial
management.
15.          The core staff for the EDP would consist of a Program
Manager, Financial Controller, Accounts Officer, Training Officer, IEC
Officer, Logistics Officer, and Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
Officer. With the exception of a few incremental positions, most of the
core staff would be reassigned within the SMOH and/or seconded from the
SHMB or other agencies of government. To ensure efficient
implementation, management consultancy would also be provided. At the
LGA level, an additional post of accountant would be needed to look
after the DRF.
D. Subproject Costs and Fiaancing
16.         The estimated total cost of Gongola State's subproject is
US$14.6 million equivalent, which would be partially financed through a
loan of US$11.7 million. The counterpart financing of US$2.9 million
equivalent would be provided almost entirely by the State Government,
although the local governments are expected to finance the required
renovations in the PHS facilities. Detailed cost estimates are at
Attachment 2.
E. Subproject Management and Coordination
17.         The EDP would be managed by an autonomous body under the
SMOH (see organigram at Attachment 3). A Steering Committee would be
established to give guidance and ensure the smooth implementation of the
subproject.  This committee would be chaired by the Commissioner for
Health and would include the Commissioner for Finance, representatives
of the local governments and senior officials of the SHMB and SMOH. In
addition, a Drug Advisory and Selection Committee would be established
to review the state's essential drugs list annually and develop clinical
and therapeutic guidelines for prescribers, based on prototype
guidelines developed by the FMOH. At the LGA level, a Drug Revolving
Fund Committee would be established to oversee the implementation of the
DRF.
F. Arrangements for Procurement, Disbursement, and Auditing
18.         All procurement cf drugs would be through ICB, using
generic names. The DRF would operate as a trading concern with all
funds from the sales of drugs flowing into the fund (and all purchases
of drugs being made from the fund). The DRF would be separate from the
Treasury Consolidated Fund, into which the State Government receipts
typically flow. Proceeds from the sales of drugs of drugs in all health
facilities would be deposited into separate bank accounts and
transferred via normal banking procedures to the DRF trading account.
The State Government would establish a Project Account for its
counterpart funding, into which it would initially deposit NO.7 million.
Annual auditing of the Project Account, statements of expenditure, and
the DRF would be conducted by external auditors.



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR GONGOLA STATE ESSENTIUL DRUGS PROJECT
RESPONS-                       YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4    YEAR 5
ACTIVITY                  IBILITY      PRE-PROJECT      3  6  9      3  6  9     3  6  9      3  6  9      6
PROGRAM PLANNING
-Preappraisal mission           WB          <--
-Appraisal mission              WB             <--->
-Project revised and decision                       <-->
-Establish GSEDP                GGSG, MOH              <--->
PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT
-Establish GSEDP                GGSG, MOH              <--->
-GSEDG begins all operation
except SMS and distribution  GSEDP                         <-->
-GSEPD assumes responsibility
for SMS and distribution to
hospt and LGA headquarters   GSEDP                                      <-->                                                  '
-Annual GSEDP work planning
and programme evaluation      GSEDP, CON                   C-->         <--->       <-->         C--->       <_->
-Pricing study                 CON,GSEDP,IEC :-->
-Review hospital accounting
procedures                    GSEDP, ACC
-Develop LGA accounting         GSEDP, ACC,
procedures and review          CON
SELECTION
-Appoint state drugs selec-
tion and advisory committee  MOH             <------->
-Review and ratify rev.sed
essential drugs list          DSAC                   <--->
-Annual review of essential
drug list                     DSCAC                                     <->         <--->        <--->       <->D
QUANTIFICATION
-Review and update morbidity
and utilization data          TBD                   <-- -->                                                            o 
-Review and approve quanti-                                                                                                I .
ties                          TBD                    < _    -->



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR GONGOLA STATE ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
RESPONS-                       YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4    YEAR S
ACTIVITY                  IBILITY      PRE-PROJECT      3  6  9      3  6  9     3  6  9      3  6  9       6
PROCUREMENT
First Procurement Cycle:
-Initiate tender (T)           GSEDP, PO
-Award contract                GSEDP-TBD                         <---> R
-Receive First 2/3 of order   SHS                                R----- ----->R
Second Procurement
-Initiate order (C)            GSEDP-PO                                    <-------> R
-Receive Drugs (R)              SHS
Third Procurement Cycle        GSEDP,PO,TBD,SMS                                   c-->R       %>I
Fourth Procurement Cycle           .
Fifth Procurement Cycle            .                                                                      c--> I
Sixth Procurement Cycle                                                   _
STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
-First GSEDP hospital           GSEDP                                     C---->
delivery
-Renovate LGA HQ. stores        LGA                                        ------->
-First GSEDP delivery to LGAs  GSEDP                                              <-- ---->
ESSENTIAL DIUGS USE
-Produce GSEDP therapeutics
manuals/formulary
-Hospital edition              GSEDP-DSAC                     <------->                                         <    >
-PHC edition                                                  <------->                                     >
-Conduct training (see below)                                
-Hospital drugs committees                                                                                                w H
begin drug utilization
review                       HDC
o IA



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR GONGOLA STATE ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
RESPONS-                       YEAR 1       YEAR 2      YEAR 3       YEAR 4    YEAR 5
ACTIVITY                  IBILITY      PRE-PROJECT      3  6  9      3  6  9     3  6       9  3  6  9      6
TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
-Develop training plan         CON,GSEDP,IECO                  <--->
-GSEDP staff                   CON, GSEDP                           <__>
-Doctors                       GSEDP, IECO                     <->
-Hospital pharmacists          GSEDP. IECO                           <->
-Hospital nurses and other
LGA administrators           GSEDP, ZECO                                 ----->
-Workshop                      GSEDP. IECO                                   IC ---> 
-LGA ORT managers              GSEDP, IECO                                   <__->
(Nurses et.al)
-Community health staff at
PHC facilities               GSEDP, IECO                                         <- _-
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
-Annual audit                  SMOH/CON                             <--->       <_-->         <--> >--              C-->
-Evaluation team               FKOH-EDP,CON                                               c---->                  <_>
ACC - Accounting                            DSAC - Drug Selection and Advisory Commaittee
SMS - State medical stores                 PO   - Procurement Officer
CON - Consultant                           WB   - World Bank
EDP - Essential Drugs PrograEue             IECO - Information, Education, Communications Officer
iMOH - Federal Ministry of Health          GSEDP - Gongola State Essential Drugs Progranme                            ' .
HDC - Hospital Drugs Committee               ORT - Oral rehydration therapy
TBD - To be determined                      SMOH - State Ministry of Health                                          (D P
* z
o 



NICERIA: ESSENTIAL DRI  PROJECT
S5tARY OF ESTIMATED COSTS - GONGOLA STATE
(Na ira '000)                                    (tIl '000)
Tot I                                            Tots I
S Foreign   Base o                                 Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange    Costs    Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange    Costs
I. INVESTMe1N COSTS
A. RUG SEED STOCK                                    2,396.0  45,524.5  47,920.5        95        64     347.3  6,597.8  6,945.0         95        64
B. CIVIL WORKS                                       2,631.4   1,127.8  3,759.2        30          5     381.4    163.4    544.8         30         5
C. VEHICLES                                          1,250.0  3,750.0   5,000.0         75         7     181.2    543.5    724.6         75         7
0. EQUIPMENT                                           653.2  2,613.0  3,266.2          80         4      94.7    378.7    473.4         80         4
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSULTING SERVICES                        960.0         -    960.0          -         1     139.1         -    139.1         -         1
2. FEES FOR MERCHANT BANKS                        2,450.0         -  2,450.0          -         3     353.1         -    355.1         -         3
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       3,410.0         -  3,410.0          -         5     494.2         -    494.2         -         5
F. TRAINING                                          3,167.4    791.8  3,959.2          20         5     459.0    114.8    573.8         20         5
C. MATERIALS. SUPPLIES AN) PRODUCTION COST           1,118.2  1,118.2  2,236.3          50         3     162.1    162.1    324.1         50         3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                 14,626.2  54,925.2  69,551.4        79        92   2,119.7  7,960.2  10,079.9        79        92
Physical Contingencies                               1,337.4  7,768.7  9,106.2          85        12    193.8  1,125.9  1,319.7          83        12
Price Contingencies                                  9,351.7  35,347.2  44,698.9        79       59      451.0  1,719.3  2,170.3         79        20
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          25,315.4  98,041.1 123,356.5        79       164  2,764.5  10,605.4  13,569.9        80        124
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES                                    2,204.0         -  2,204.0          -         3     319.4         -    319.4         _         3
8. VEHICLES MAINTENANCE                              1,237.5  1,237.5  2,475.0          50         3     179.3    179.3    358.7         SO         3
C. EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE                                70.0         -      70.0         -         0      10.1         -      10.1        -         0
D. SBNINAR EXPENSES                                    954.0 -             954.0                   1     138.3         -     138.3        -          1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                   4,465.5  1,237.5  5,703.0          22         8     647.2    179.3    826.3         22         8
Price Contingencies                                  3,220.0    913.1  4,133.1          22         5     1.50.     42.7    193.6         22         2
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                           7,685.5  2,150.6   9,836.1         22        13    798.1    222.1  1,020.1          22         9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   19,091.7  56,162.7  75,2S4.4        75       100   2,766.9  8,139.5  10,906.4        75       100
Physical Contingencies                               1,337.4  7,768.7  9,106.2          85        12    193.8  1,125.9  1,319.7          8S        12
Price Contingencies                                 12,571.7  36,960.3  48,832.0        74        65     601.9  1,762.0  2,363.9         75        22                       I,  >
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    33,000.8 100,191.8 133,192.6        75       177   3,562.6  11,027.4  14,590.1       76        134                      (Q 
_===  ~~=0_    _    _=0         __       = =   =        =_  -  =. _ .                       -=                         C(
__________________________-- ---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------' O                  



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Proposed Structure of Gongola State's Essential Drugs Programme
| Commiss oner for He
State Health Advisory Board
(Chaired by Commissioner for Health
…______________________  Will also serve as steering
committee for State Essential Drugs
Programme
Executive Socr t ry                                                                       Dietr-General of Health
Hospital Services Managoemnt Board                                                             Elrc:l
(HSMB)_I
Various Departments in
IStaite Ministry of Health
Othor                Modical Store                             --- Drugs Advisory and
Departments           (equipment, etc.)                               Selection Committee
(Chaired by Chief
Health Officer (SMOH))
I ~~General Manager|
Gongola State Etosential Drugs Programmue
I Medical SLogistics                              Supirvlsion,            Financial          Training          Information,
(drugs)               Officer                Monitoring,             Controller         Officer           Education and        '1 
_Lfo                   and Evaluation                                               Comunn;cation 
ceffI  r                                                     Officer
Accounta 
Officer  |                                                hZ
L-
*Housed In same facility, but physically and administratively separaee



- 94 -                              ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Detailed Description and Implementation Arrangements:
Kwara State Subproject
A. Special Features of the Drug Supply Subsector in Kwara State
1.        Although Kwara State has engaged in cost recovery in the health
sector since 1984, in the form of fees for service, the drug supply
situation in the public sector has steadily declined in recent years.
Attendance rates and the public's confidence in the health services is very
low due in large part to the lack of drugs. In 1987, for instance, only
US$0.25 million equivalent was provided for procuring drugs. Recognizing
the seriousness of this situation, the State Government decided in August
1987 to set up a Drug Revolving Fund (DRF), which was to be capitalized with
US$1.1 million equivalent. The DRF is managed by the State Ministry of
Health (SMOH).   As of mid-1988, roughly two-thirds of this amount had been
put into the DRF. However, even when the full amount has been made
available from the state, it is expected to cater for only a small
proportion of the state's drug needs. For this reason, the State Government
intends to participate in the World Bank-assisted Essential Drugs Project.
B. Objectives and Main Strategies of the Subproject
2.        The objectives of Kwara State's subproject are to make safe,
effective, acceptable, and affordable essential drugs available to all
levels of the health care system by 1991. Its main strategies are:
(a) to establish the Kwara State Essential Drugs Programme (KSEDP) to
handle all drug selection, quantification, procurement, and
distribution in the public sector and to promote cost-effectiveness in
all drug supply activities;
(b) to provide adequate storage facilities to accommodate essential drugs
at both state and local government levels;
(c) to bring all local government authorities (LGAs) into the main stream
of the KSEDP;
(d) to train all grades of health personnel in proper drug use;
(e) to promote rational use of drugs through public information activities;
and
(f) to increase the effectiveness of the current cost recovery system.
3.        The subproject would not create new inttitutions but build on
existing structures in the SMOH.



ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 4
C. Subproject Description
4.        Scope and phasing.  During the early stages of the subproject, all
the state-owned hospitals (18) and health centers/divisional health units
would be involved. The 12 LGAs, with a total of about 270 maternities and
di3pensaries/clinics, would be phased in over a three-year period at the
rate of four per year. An implementatioa plan for the subproject is at
Attachment 1.
5.        Developing an affordable and sustainable supply of safe drugs.  A
Drugs Advisory and Selection Committee is being established under the
subproject. The committee would be responsible for determining the contents
of the state's essential drugs list and for reviewing it annually.
6.        The estimated capitalization or seed stock requirements to be met
through the subproject by the time all health facilities have been included
is US$3.5 million. This represents more than a three-fold increase over the
existing DRF capitalizat4--
7.        At present, procurement methods are not highly developed in the
SMOH. However, with the expected input from the Federal Essential Drugs
Unit (EDU) in the form of procurement guidelines, manuals, and training, it
is expected that it will be possible to handlte a much larger quantity of
drugs using international competitive bidding (ICB). Kwara intends to
exercise the option, as provided in World Bank procurement guidelines, of
allowing a preference in evaluating the bids of qualified local drug
manufacturers.
8.        The existing central medical store (CMS), situated in a mechanical
workshop, is highly inadequate for storing drugs. It would be necessary to
build a new CMS. The fleet of delivery trucks would have to be
rehabilitated and new trucks bought to ensure a reliable distribution
system. SMOH would be able to serve all hospitals, health centers, and LGA
headquarters stores directly from Ilorin without setting up zonal stores.
Supplies for LGA dispensaries would be collected monthly from the LGA
headquarters stores.
9.        SMOH puts emphasis on developing a comprehensive drug quality
assurance program. In addition to the services of the upgraded Federal drug
laboratories, the SMOH would develop basic drug testing facilities within
the premises of the new CMS. Inputs would be minimal, including simple
equipment, reagents and training.
10.       The existing DRF mechanism would be strengthened considerably
under the subproject, e.g., exemptions would be funded from outside the DRF;
the DRF would recover the replacement cost of drugs and losses from waste,
expiry, and theft, as well as some overhead costs; the credit policy would
be strictly on a "cash and carry" basis; drugs would be priced individually;
and the DRF would be operated as a commercial entity.
11.       Improving the skills of health workers in providing drugs.  An on-
going, comprehensive in-service training program would be developed for
policy makers and for health and drug supply personnel. Policy makers would
be trained in the concept of essential drugs and in the interaction between



- 96 -                        ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 4
the various components of the subproject. Health personnel would, in
addition, be trained in proper use of drugs, cost recovery and operation of
DRFs, communication skills, managing drugs and other supplies, and patient
education. After the initial training courses, the health personnel would
continue to be trained in order to maintain a higher level of knowledge and
skills. Drug Supply personnel would be trained in depth by the Federal EDU
in the specific skills of drug procurement, storage, distribution and
quality assurance.
12.       The same topics as given in the .n-service training program would
be incorporated into the curricula of state schools of health technology and
nursing.
13.       Changing the practices of beneficiaries.  Information, education,
and communication (IEC) activities would be aimed primarily at policy makers
at state and local levels, LGA administrators, village and religious leaders
and the public at large. The activities would include: training of health
education officers in the essential drugs promotional activities; seminars
for LGA chairmen/administrators, community leaders, and local influential
members in the concept of essential drugs; and handouts, posters, radio
programs, and videotapes for the public.
14.       Strengthening the institutional capacity for supporting the KSEDP.
Under the existing system, drugs are procured separately by the SMOH and the
LGAs, often from the local market. This has led to high unit costs compared
to the prices that can normally be obtained in the international market.
Under the subproject, all procurement, storage, distribution and DRF
functions would be brought together under the KSEDP, in addition to training
and health education activities. The Federal EDU would give technical
support to the KSEDP, which, in turn, would support the development of the
LGAs.
15.       The core staff of the KSEDP would consist of a program manager,
assistant program manager (financial controller), assistant program manager
(technical), training officer, IEC officer, and field supervisors/auditors
plus the necessary support staff. The core staff will not exercise line
functions but strictly undertake the overall coordination of KSEDF. In most
LGAs, an additional accountant would be needed after the introduction of the
DRF.
D. Subproject Costs and Financing
16.       The estimated total cost of Kwara State's subproject is US$7.2
million equivalent, which would be partially financed through a loan of
US$5.8 million. The counterpart financing of $1.4 million equivalent would
be provided almost entirely by the State Government, although the local
governments are expected to finance the required renovations in the PHC
facilities. Detailed cost estimates are at Attachment 2.
E. Subproject Management and Coordination
17.       The KSEDP would be integrated within the existing SMOH
organizational structure, using to the extent possible, existing skills and
avoiding duplication of functions presently being carried out. (See the



ANNEX 3-6
- 97 -                              Page 4 of 4
organigram at Attachment 3.) This implies that the existing Pharmaceutical
Services Division would continue to procure, store, a-id distribute drugs;
that the General Administrative Division would continue to maintain the DRF;
that the Planning Division would be responsible for in-service training as
well as focusing curricula in schools of health technology and nursing on
essential drugs issues; and that the Health Education Section within the
Environmental and Occupational Health Services Division would be responsible
for IEC activities.
18.       A high-level, interministerial Steering Committee would be
estatlished to give guidance and assure the smooth implementation of the
program. The existing DRF committee would continue its vital functions,
and, as noted above, a Drug Advisory and Selection Committee would be
established to select and review the state's essential drugs list.
F. Arrangements for Procurement, Disbursement, and Auditing
19.       All procurement of drugs would be through ICB, using generic
names. The DRF would operate as a trading account with all funds from the
sales of drugs flowing into the fund (and all purchases of drugs being made
from the fund). The DRF would be separate from the state's Censolidated
Fund. Profit from operations would be retained withir. the DRF to the extent
needed to ensure that the DRF can be sustained or expanded as required. All
sales of drugs in the health facilities would be deposited into separate
bank accounts and transferred via normal banking procedures to the DRF
account. The State Government would establish a Project Account for its
counterpart funds, into which it would initially deposit KO.5 million.
Annual auditing of the Project Account, statements of expenditure, and the
DRF account would be carried out by independent auditors.



Implementation Plan for lwara State Essential Drugs Programe ( KSEDP)
Yr:   PRE-PROJECT         YEAR 1           YEAR 2          YEAR 3      YEAR 4  YEAR S
ACTIVITY                    RESPONS.      Mo:    3   6   9         3   6   9       3   6   9        3   6   9        6       6
…Izit-wi-------   --------- ---I---------I                                   ---… I---I--…            --    ---------I ……     --
PROGRAMIE MONT.
-Establish KSEDP             State Gov't. MOH
-Establish Steering          State Gov't
Con ittee
-KSEDP assumes               USBDP                             C
coordinating responsi-
bility
-Annual XSEDP Work           XSEDP. CON                                                          <->                      <>
Plannin1 & Program_e
Evaluation
-Review Hospital.            KSEDP-ACC
Health Center
accounts procedures
-Develop LGA accounting      KSEDP-ACC. CON                      c<------_
procedures & review
SELECTION
-Appoint State AdvLsory &
9election Committee        MOH                  <-_____>
-Develop State Essential    DASC
Drug List
-Annual Review of            DASC                                               c__                               C>      C>
Essential Drug List                                                                                                                0
QUANTIFICATION
-Review & up-date
morbidity & utiliza-
tion data                  XSEDP
-Review & approve
quantities                  KSEDP
PROCUREMENT
-First Procurement Cycle
Initiate Tender lI)         PSD                                   I
Award Contract              PSD, STB
Recelve frat 213
of order                   CMS                                      ___---R
Receive second 113
of order                   CHS                                      --------- ------R
-Second Procurement Cycle
Initiate Order (I)          PSD                                                   I
Receive Drugs (R)          C0S                                                     --_---R
-Third Procuresent Order      PSD ST8.CNS                                                    I---
-Fourth Procurement Order    PSDISTB CNS                                                                     I---
-Fifth Procurement Order      PSD,STBSCMS                                                                               I- I          >
-Sixth Procurement Order      PSD,STBICMS                                                                                      I z     
o0
:1



Implementation Plan for Kvara State Essential Drugs Prouramue (KSEDP)
Yr:   PRE-PROJECT        YEAR 1           YEAR 2          YEAR 3      YEAR 4 YEAR 5
ACTIVITY                    RESPONS.      Ho:    3   6   9        3   6   9       3   6   9        3   6   9       6        6
…_______________________ _I---I-_ ---------------  ---      --- ---         --_-------I…- -I---I--…                           -I--.
STORAGE & DISTRIBUTION
-Construct new CHS           SMOH, XSEDP                        --- -   ------- >
-Renovate hospitals &       RSEDP                                     <----->
health center stores
-First hospital and health  CHS                                                 ------>
center delivery
-Renovate LGA stores &      LGAs, KSEDP                            <3 LGAs>        <3 LGAo)         <6 LGAs)
dispensaries (no. of                                                         ->
LGAs)
-LGA delivery (no. of       CHS                                                    d3 LGAs>          6 LGA9>    <12
LGAs)                                                                                                           LGAs>
USE
-Produce Therapeutics
HanuallForMuLar
-Hospital Editlon        KSEDPIDASC                            c--> >                               <->
-PHC Edition             KSEDPJDASC                                  ->                                        <->
-Conduct Training (see
below)
-Hospital Drug Committees                                                         C-->
beg, drug utilization     Hosp. Drug Cor.
review
I'RAINING & PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
-Develop Training Plan      CON, KSEDP-TU                         --
-KSEDP Staff                CON  KSEDP
-Doctors                    KSEbP-TU                                   <__>
-Hospital Pharmacists       KSEDP-TU                                       C-_
-Hospital Nurses & Other    KSEDP-TU                                             <->
Clinical Staff
-LGA Administrators         KSEDP-TU                                                 _>               -><>
Workshop
-LGA DIP kanagers           KSEDP-TU                                                   ->               c-<
(nurses. etc.)
-Community Health Staff at KSBDP-TU                                                     c--->                _>       .>
PEC facJLties                       _                   _   ___                              I
IEC ACTIVITIES
-Develop IEC Plan           CON. KSEDP-CU                      C-->
-FSEDP Staff  -             CON  KSEDP-CU
-SHOH & LGA policy aakers   KSiDP-CU                                  <->
-Health personnel (see      KSEDP-CU
training above)           KSEDP-CU
-LGA admiistrators          KSEDP-CU                                    <->              <->              <->
-Village & Religious        ISEDP-CU                                      <-->             <->              <_>
Leaders
-Public                                                                        <------>        <------>         c-->
0o



Implementation Plan for Kwara State Essential Drug Programme (KSEDP)
Yrs   PRE-PROJECT       YEAR 1          YEAR 2          YEAR 3    YEAR 4 YEAR 5
ACTIVITY                    RESPONS.      Hot   3  6   9         3  6   9        3  6   9        3  6   9        6       6
NONITORING & EVALUATION1
…ji;ING--EV-------  ----------------                      --- -            ------I- --I-II-I-II-f --    ------ ---
-Annual Audit               SHMB, CON                                                                                    <>
-Evaluation Team            POH-EDU, CON
ACC - Accounting Unit                                  SHOH - State Ministry of Health
CMS - Central Medical Store                           PSD - Pharmaceutical Services Division
CON - Consultant                                      PU - Procurement Unit
FMOH-EDU - Federal MOU Essential Drugs Unit           STS - State Tender Board
SSEDP - Bendel State Essential Drug Progra_se         CU - Comunications Unit
TU - Training Unit                                    DASC - Drug Advisory Selection Comnittee
0
0



NIGERIA: ESSNTIAL tlRUaS PROJECr
SUKAURY OF ESTIMATED COSTS - KWARA STATE
(Na rs "000)                                    (USS '000)
Total                                           Total
S Foreign  Base                                 S Foreign  Baae
Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange   costa    Local   Foreign   Tots.l  Exchange   Costs
1. INVesTmB4 COSTS
A. DRUC SEED STOCK                                 1,215.1  23,086.7  24,301.8       95        65    176.1  3,345.9  3,522.0         95        6S
8. CIVIL WORKS                                     1,625.1    696.5  2,321.5         30         6    235.5    100.9    336.4         30         6
C. VEFICLES                                          513.3  1,539.8  2,053.0         75        5      74.4    223.2    297.S         75         5
0. E2JIPME4T                                         387.3  1,549.3  1,936.6         80         5     56.1    224.5    230.7         80         5
E. TEtHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSLTINC SERVICES                       440.0         -    440.0         -         1     63.8         -     '3.8         -         1
2. FEES FOR MERCHIT  BANKS                        950.0         -    9S0.0         -         3    137.7         -    137.7         -         3
Sub-Total TS>HNICAL ASSISTANCE                     1,390.0         -  2,390.0         -         4    201.4         -    201.4         -         4
F. FSLOWSH4IPS                                           -    420.0    420.0        100         1        -      60.9      60.9      100         1
C. TRAININC                                        1,152.0    288.0  1,440.0         20        4    167.0       41.7    208.7        2t;        4
H. MATERIALS, SUPPLIES AN PRODUCTiON COSTS           640.0    640.0  1,280.0         50        3      92.8      92.8    185.5        50         3
__ __ __ _ _____-_--_-__       _-_-__-_-__-  ---------   -_-___--_-_-_____-_--___-__-_-_--___-___-_-__-_-_-______--_-_-_  _-_-_-_-__-
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                               6,922.70  28,220.2 35,142.9        80        93  1,003.3  4,089.9  5,093.2         s0        93                         0
Physical Contingencies                               658.0  3,976.4  4,634.4         86        12     95.4    576.3    671.6         86        12
Price Contingencies                                3,736.9  17,392.1  21,128.9       82        56    182.7    850.7  1,033.4         82        19
Total  NCLUDINO CONTINGENCIES                        11,317.6  49,58M8.6  60,906.2      81       162  1,281.4  5,518.9  6,798.2         81       125
II. REFtlT COSTS
_______________
A. LOAL SALARIES                                   1,385.0         -  1,365.0         -        4    197.8          -    197.8         -         4
D. VEHICLES HAINTENANCI'                             322.5    322.5    645.0         50        2      46.7      46.7     93.5        sO        2
C. SB4INAR EXPENSES                                   60.0         -     60.0         -        0       8.7         -      8.7         -        0
0. SUIiDINC MAINTNANCE                                75.0               75.0         -        0      10.9         -      10.9        -         0
E. SEIINAR EXPENSES                                  S6.00               66.0         -        0       9.6         -      9.6         -        0
F. CENERAL OPEATINC COSTS                            271.4              271.4         -        1      39.3         -     39.3         -         I
Total R8ttlRRET COSTS                                 2,159.9    322.5  2,482.4         13        7    313.0       46.7    359.8        13        7
Physical Contingencies                                 6.6         -      6.6         -        0       1.0         -       1.0        -        0
Price Contingencies                                1,493.0    230.0  1,723.0         13        5      70.3      10.8     81.1        13         1
Total INCLOZINC CCtNTINCDtIES                         3,659.5    552.5  4,212.0         13        11    384.3      57.5    441.8        13        8                           >
=      -         _  _               -    .=              - _                    =                    .2 _ b 
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  9,082.6  28,542.7  37,625.3       76       100  1,316.3  4,136.6  5,452.9         76       100                       SQ  H
Physical Contingencies                               664.6  3,976.4  4,641.0         86        12     96.3    576.3    672.6         88        12
Price Contingencies                                5,229.9  17,622.0 22,852.0        77        61    253.0    861.5  1,114.5         77       20
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  14,977.2 50,141.1  65,118.3        77       173  1,665.6  5,574.4  7,240.0         77       133                        } Z
- - - - - - - - - -- -  - - _ _    -     -- - - _- _____ = =     _    _ - -               = - -



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Proposed Structure of Kwara State's Essential Drugs Programme
9Co  issioner for Health
Interminister;al Steering                          Director General|
Comittee for the            ------
Easontial Drugs Programme
Drug Revolving Fund |
Ccuxittee             -------------------------------------
Drug Advisory and                I
Selection Committee  ------------
Essential nDrugs             Pharmaceutical        Gennoral              Pl:?ning         Env .-onmontal
Programme Coordination       S rv; cos             Admin;stratlvo        Di is;on         and Occupational
Unit (Program Manager,       Division              Division                    _Health Services
Assistant Manager,                                                                        Division
(Financial Controller), '          r-                    I 
Assistant Manager           Medical Stores,        Accounts             Projects A
(Tochn;cal), Training      Drug Purchas            Section (Drug        Manpower            Helth
Officer, IEC Officer,       Distributio  Uanits    Revolving fund)      Section             Edcation
Field Supervisors,                                                      (In-service         Section
Auditors                                                                Training)
I                        I                     I                   I                   I
_.J~~~~~~~~~
+------------------------- --------------------+------------------F--------------------
>-,
I-:
o )



NIGERA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
ILLUSTRATIVE STATE ESSENTIAL MRUMS LIST
DRUG PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                            PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE                            DRUG PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                           PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE
Diep.  H.C.  Hoop.  Spec.                                                                        Disp.  H.C.   Hoosp. Spec.
1. 00  ANESTHFTICS                                                                                 6.00  ANTI-INFECTIVE
1.10  C84ERAL ANESTHETICS AND RELATED DRUGS                                                        6.10  ANTHELMINTIC
Ether, anaeothetic                                                  X                              Mebendazole 100 mg tab                        X      X      X      X
Ialothane 250 ml inhalation                                         X                              Piperazine citr. 500 mg (base/ 5 ml po        X      X      X      X
Ketamine 10 ag/ml 20 ml                                             X                              Piperazina citrate/adipate 500 mg tab         X      X      X      X
Thiopental 1gm powder for in.                                       X                              Thiabenzadole 500 mg chewable tab                           X      X
Nestigomine metlsoulfate 0. mg./ml in;.                            X
Suxamethonium CL 100 mg/2 ml inj.                                   X                        6.20 ANTIAMOEBIC
1.20  LOCAL ANESTHETICS                                                                                  Metronidazole 200-250 mg tab                  X      X      X
Lidocaine HCL 2X in;.                          X      X      X      X                        6.30  ANTIBACTERIAL
2.00  ANALCGiICS. ANTIPYRETICS. AND NON-                                                                   Amoxycillin 250 mg cap/tab                                  x      X
STBROIDAL ANTI-DIFLMUATORY DRUGS (NSAID)                                                             Ampicillin 125 mg/S ml oral ousp                            X      X
Ampici 1lin sodium 500 mg in.                              X      X
2.10  NON-OPIOIDS                                                                                        Benzylpenicillin IMU/0.6 gm in;                             X      X            o
Chloramphenicol 125 mg/S ml oral ouap                      X      X            1
Acetyloelicylic acid 300-325 mg tab            X      X      X      X                              Chloramphenicol 25O mg cap                                  X      X
Ibuprofen 200 mg tab                                         X      X                              Chloramphenicol sod. suce. 1gm in;                          X      X
Paracetamol 100 mg tab                         X      X      X      X                              Cloxacillin eodium 2iO mg cap                               X      X
Paracetamol 120 mg/S ml syrup                                X      X                              Cloxacillin sodium 500 mg in!                               X      X
Paracetamol S00 ma tab                         X      X      X      X                              Erythromycin 250 mag cap/tab                                Y      X
Centamicin sulfate 80 mg/2 ml inj                          X      X
2.20  OPIOID ANALG ICS AN ANTACDNISTS                                                                   Nitrofurantoin 100 mg tab                            X      X      X
Phenoxymethylpenicillin 250 mg tab           X      X      X      X
Morphine HCL/sulfate 110 mg/ml in;.                          X      X                              Procainebenzy1nenicillin 3 Mi in;             X      X      X      X
Naloxona HCL 0.4 mg/ml in;.                                  X      X                              Sulfadimidine 500 mg tab                      X      X      X      X
Pothidine HCL 50 mg/sl in;.                                  X      X                              Co-tri,o..azole 100.20 mg tab                 X      X      X      X
Co-trimoxazole 400.80 mg tab                               X      X
3.00  ANTIALLERGICS                                                                                        Co-trimoxazole 200+40 mag/S ml                       X      X      X
Tetracycline HCL 250 mg cap/tab              X      X      X      X
Chlorphenammne  aleate 10 ag/ml inj.                  X      X      X
Chlorphenamine maleate 4 mg tab                X      X      X      X                        6.33  ANTILEPROSY
Epinephrine HCL 1 mg/ml inj.                   X      X      X      X
Clofazimine 100 mg cap (Lpmprene)                          X      X
4.00  ANTIDOTES AND RELATED PRODUCTS                                                                       Dapeone 100 mg tab                            X      X      X      XI
Suramin sodium 1 gm in;                                    X      XI
Charcoal, activated oral powder                              x      x                                                                                                          Do  z
6.34 ANTITUBERCULOSIS                                                            m
5.00  ANTIEPILEPTICS
Isoniazid (It) 100 mg tab                    X      X      X      X        o   ,
Diazepam 5 mg/ml (10 mg/2 ml) in;.                           X      X                              Rifampicin 300 mg tab/cap                                   X      X        I-t -J
Ethosuximide 250 mag tab/cap                                        x                              Streptomycin sulfate 1gm inj                  x      X      x      x
Phenobarbital 30 mag tab                                     X      X                              Thioacetazone + INH 150/300 mg tab                   X      X      X
Phenobarbital 50-60 mg tab                                   X      X
Phenytoin 100 mg tab                                         X      X
- - ---- --- - - ---- --- - -- ------ - -- - ----- ---- -- - ---- -- --- -- --- -- ---- -- -- -- -- -- __  _       _  _ _  _  _   _  _   __   _       _  __-- _  _--- -- ----- -- -- -- - ---- --- -- - --- -- --_ _-__ _ -__ -_ --_-_ _ -_ --_ - -_-_ _ -_ --_-_ _ -_ -_-_ -_ -_ -_ -__ -_ -_-_ _ -__-_ -__   __-_       _ -_ __ -__ -_ ____ _- __ _-_- -_ -



ORUc PRF UXT DESCRIPTION                             PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE                             ORUC PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                           PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE
Diop. H.C.  Hoop. Spec.                                                                            Di-p.  H.C.   Hoop.  Spec.
6.40  ANTIFILARI                                                                                   12.00 CARDIOVASCuLAR
Diethylcarbazine citrate 50 mo tab                            X      X                        12.10  ANTIANCINAL
6.50  ANrIRJKAL                                                                                            Clyceri trinitrata 0.5 mg SL tab                            X      X
Ieomorbide dinitratd 5 mg SL tab                            X      X
Crisoofulvmn 12S mg tab/cap                                   X      X
Nystatin posary 1X0,OOONU                                     X      X                        12.30  ANTDYPERTENSIVE
6.70  ANTI LARLIAL                                                                                         Nydralazine HCL 50 mg tab                                          X
Methyldopa 250 mg tab                         X      X      X      X
Chloroquine 4S inj, S ml                       X       X      X      X                               Propanolol HCL 40 .  tab                                    X      X
Chloroquino phos/aul 150 .  base tab            X      X      X      X                               Reserpine 0.25 mg                                           X      X
Chioroquine phosphate 50 *g/5 ml syrup          X      X      X      X
Pyri..thIamine 2S m  tab                        X      X      X      X                        12.40  CARDIAC CLYCOSIDES
Quinine dihydrochlorida 300 mg inj                            X      X
Quinine sulfate 300 so tab                                    X      X                               Digoxin 0.2-0.25 mg tab                                            X
Sulfadoxine + pyrimethamine 500/25 mg T                       X      X                               Digoxin 0.5 sg/2 ml inj                                            X
S 80  ANTISCHISTOSOt1AL                                                                            13.00 DE 4ATOLO0ICAL
Metrifonate 100 9 tab                                         X      X                        13.10  AHTIRUNCAL
Praxiquantel 600 mg tab                                       x      x                                                                                                                 0
benzoic 5-S% + ealicylic acid 3S oint         X      X      X      X              >
8.00  ANTIZEDPLASTIC AND IMLtOSUPPRESSIVE
13.20  ANTI-INFETIVE
Bloiycin sulfate 159 g inj                                          X
Cyclophoophamide 50 mg tab                                           X                               benzoin tincture                              X      X      X      X
Nethotrexato sodium 2.5 mg tab                                       X                               Clotrimazole 13 cream                                X      X      X
MNthotrexate sodium 50 mg inj                                        X                               Cention violet                                X      X      X      X
Mercaptopurina tablets 30 .g                                         X                               Neorycin 5 mg/bacitracin 5001U/gm cint               X      X      X
10.00 BLOOD. OUCS AFFECTING THE                                                                       13.30  ANTIINFLAWMATORY AND ANTIPRURrTIC
10.10  ANTIANAEMIA                                                                                          Betamethasone valersts 0.1% oint                     X      X      X
Calamine lotion                               X      x      X      x
Ferrous gluconsto tab                          X       X      X      X                        13.60 SC4BICIDES AND PEDICULICIDES
Folic acid 5 g tab                              X      X      X      X
Iron dextran 100 mg (FE)/2 ml inj                             X      X                               Benzyl benzoate 25% lotion                    J      X      X      X
10.20  ANTICOA§ULANTS AND ANTACONISTS                                                               15.00 DISINFETANTS
Hoparin 5,OOOIU/1 ml inj                                             X                               Chlorhoxidine gluconate 5% sol                X      X      X      X         lb
Phytosanedione 50 9/5 1  inj                                         X                               Iodine 2-2.5% sol topical                     X      X      X      X        00
11.00 BLOOD PROUCTS AND BLOOD SUBSTrIUTES                                                            16.00 DIURETICS                                                                      I
Dextran 70 61 inj                                             X      X                               Bendrofluazine 5 mg tab                              X      X      X         °
Furosemide 100 mg/ml 2 ml inj                               X      X
Furosemide 40 mg tab                                        X      X         (
…-----------------------------------------------------------------------__  ---    ---------------------__-__ -----___-_----__--__----_____--_-_____-----_____--_____ __ ---_ _ -__ _ ____ _



DRG PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                             PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE                            DRUG PROrAJCT DESCRIPTION                          PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE
O;sp. H.C.  Hosp.  Spec.                                                                         Disp.  H.C.   Hosp.  Spec.
17.00 EAR, NOSE AND THlROAT                                                                        19.30  CONTRACEPTIVES
Antazoline + naphazoline nasal drnow           X      X      x      X                              Specific items per UNFPA & USAID
comxmodities I asts                        X      X      X      X
18.00 GASTROINTESTINAL
19.50 INSULINS AO OTHER ANTIDIABETIC
18.10 ANTACIDS AND OTHER ANTIULCER
Chlorpropamide 250 mg tab                                  X      X
Aluminium hydrnxide 500 mg tab                 X      X      x      X                              Clibenclamide 5 mg tab                                      X      X
Cimetidine 200 mg tab                                        x      X                              Insulin 4OIU/ml inj                                         X      X
Magnesium hydrokide 550 mg/10 ml Bump          X      X      X      X                              Insulin zinc cusp 40IU/ml inj                               X      X
18.20 ANTIEMETIC                                                                                  20.00 IIMU40LOCICALS
l4ataelopramide HCL 10 mg tab                                X      X                              Tuberculinpurprotein deriv (PPD) inj                        X      X
Promethazine HCL 25 mg tab                     X      X      x      x                              Antirabies hyperimm. serum 10OIU/S oil                     X      X
Prosethazine HCL 25 mg/1 ml inj                X      X      X      X                              Antivenom sera inj                                          X      X
Prommethazine HCL S mg/5 ml syrup oral                       X      X
21.00 OPTHALMOLOQICAL
18.40 ANTISPASMODIC
Occular chloramphenicol 1X asl (drops)       X      X      X      X
Atropine 1 mg tab                                     X      X      X                              Silver nitrate IS sal (drops)                        X      X      X
Atropine 1 mg/ml inj                                         X      X                              Pi locarpine 21 and 4X s*l (drop-)                          X      X             0
18.50 CATHARTIC                                                                                   24.00 PSYCHOTHERAPBJTIC
8isacodyl 5 mg tab                                           X      X                              Amnitriptyline (HCL) 25 mg and 50 mg tab                           X
Benzhexol 2 mg and 5 mg tab                                       X
18.60  DIARRHOEA, DRUCS USED IN                                                                           Chlorpromazine 2S mg and 30 og tab                                 X
Haloperiodol 1.5 mg and 5 mg inj 2 and S mg/ml                    X
Oral rehydration salt, 600 ml pk               X      X      X      X                              Paraldehyda 10 ml vial                                             X
Oral rehydration malts, 6 liter pk                           X      X
27.00 VITAMINS AND MINERALS
19.00 HOMIONES
Vitamin 8 complex tab and inj                X      X      X      X
19.10 ADRENAL HORMONES AND SYNTHETIC
Dexamethamone 0.5  g tab                                            X
Hydrocortioone succinate 100 mg in]                          X      X
Prednioo nne 5 mg tab                                        X      X
(DW
0I1
'"-.4j
IA



- 106 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Estimation of Working Capital Requirements for Drug Revolving Funds
l.        Project loan funds would be used to finance incremental drug stock
and other working capital requirements needed to establish drug revolving
funds (DRFs) and to accommodate growth in the use of health facilities
expected during the project period. Loan funds would not be used to
purchase replacement drugs. Resupplies are to be financed out of the DRFs
from the proceeds of sales, from government subventions to pay for drugs
given free to patients with specific diseases (e.g., leprosy), etc.
2.        The working capital needs of each state and of the Federal
hospitals have been estimated using a standard methodology that is explained
below. (Detailed estimates and the computer model used to generate these
estimates are contained in the project file.)
3.        The amount of incremental working capital required by a DRF is
determined by:
(a) the demand for drugs that is to be satisfied at various levels;
(b) the value of the drugs that have to be stored within the system in
order to ensure that the right drugs are always available where and
when they are required;
(c) the scale of the losses and waste that occur as part of the operation
of the system; and
(d) the amount of working capital already available.
The Demand for Drugs
4.        The demand for drugs supplied by public health facilities has been
estimated, based upon the number of patients attending the facilities (taken
from local, state, and Federal medical statistics) and the average cost of
drugs required for treatment at each level (as estimated by applying the
standard treatments prepared by WHO for Imo state, costed in 1988 prices).
5.        Growth in the demand for services is expected to arise once the
public becomes aware that a safe and continuous supply of drugs is available
at government health facilities. Increased demand will also occur due to
population growth. Different rates of growth in demand have been assumed
for different types of facilities, and it has been assumed that growth will
be lower initially, right after charges for drugs have been introduced, and
higher toward the end of the project period, as the public is informed of
the benefits of using essential drugs and become accustomed to regular
supplies of drugs being available. These growth estimates also differ some
from state to state.



- 107 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 2
Stock (and Liquid Reserves) Required
6.        Drugs need to be stocked at each point in the distribution chain
in order to meet the regular demands for drugs. The amount of stock
required varies according to the number of months' supplies that have to be
provided before new stocks arrive. The assumptions made are that primary
health facilities will be replenished each month; hospitals, health centers
and local government stores, every three months; and central stores will
receive new stocks from suppliers on a six monthly cycle. (Procurement
would, however, only be undertaken once a year except for emergency stocks.)
7.        A further stock of drugs needs to be maintained at each point in
the distribution system to provide a buffer in case, for example, there is
an unanticipated increase in demand or discontinuity in supply. The level
of safety stock assumed is two weeks' to one month's supply at primary
health units; one month's supply at state hospitals and health centers and
at local government stores; one and a half months at Federal hospitals;
three months' supply at state central stores; and six months' supply at the
Federal central stores.
8.        Financial management of the DRF will be based upon the principles
of "cash and carry," and thus the need for working capital to finance
debtors is relatively small. It has been assumed that finance will be
required only at the point of initial procurement (the central store). For
this purpose, an amount equivalent to three months' demand for drugs has
been included in the estimate.
Allowance for Inefficiency
9.        Inevitably some drugs will be damaged, expire, or be stolen.  In
order to ensure that the full demand for drugs for patients can be
satisfied, an allowance has to be built into procurement to accommodate such
losses. In the estimate, an allowance of 1OZ has been made, based on broad
international experience.
Existing Working Capital
10.       For state and local government health facilities, it has been
assumed that no working capital would be available from existing drug stocks
or DRFs at the start of the project. This is felt to be the prudent
0      assumption given the current uncertainties in drug supply and the overall
outlook for public expenditure in Nigeria, along with the fact that many
drugs currently being stocked are not essential drugs.
Overall Estimate and Incremental Working Capital Requirement
11.       The overall estimate of incremental working capital combines each
of the factors described above. Thus the estimates take the rate of demand
for drugs (paras 4 and 5), multiplied by the number of months' stocks that
have to be held (paras 6-8), plus an allowance for losses (para 9) and less
existing stocks (para 10). Requirements are phased over a large part of the
project period according to the rate at which health facilities (and local
government areas) are expected to enter the essential drugs program.



- ioa -
ANIEX 3-9
Page I of I
NIORIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Estimated Project Coats by Eipend;ture Category
(NAIRA '000)                                     (USE '000)
I Total                                        Total
O Foreign   Bess                               S Foreign  Bsse
Local    Foreign    Total   Exchanog   Cost    Local    Foreign   Total  Eachange   Coat
_in  o..nfhl.    SUSS uf               *.C. .      OSSUS. . .a..... .s . ........
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. ORUG SEED STOCK                              13,695.1 260,207.3 273,902.4        95       63   1,984.8 37,711.2 39,696.0       95       63
B. CIVIL W0ORKS                                 14,611.9  6.262.3  20,874.2         30        5  2,117.7   907.6  3,025.2         30        5
C. VB4ICLES                                      3,828.3  9,984.8  13,313.0         76        3     482.4  1,447.1  1,929.4       75        3
D. EQUIPMENT                                     4,928.9  19,715.6  24,644.5        80        6     714.3  2,857.3  3,571.7       80        6
E. TECO4ICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSULTING SERVICES                  5,937.4         -   5,837.4         -        1    846.0         -   846.0         -        1
2. FOREIGN CONSULTING SERVICES                      -  5,722.0  6,722.0         100        1         -   829.S3    829.3      100        1
3. FEES FOR MERCKANT 8ANKS                    9,800.0         -   9,800.0         -        2   1,420.3        -  1,420.3        -        2
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  15,637.4  5.722.0  21,359.4         27        5   2,266.3   829.3  3,095.6        27        5
F. FELLOWSHIPS                                     181.6  4,700.0   4,881.6         96        1      26.3   681.2   707.6         96        1
0. STUDIES                                       1,596.0   1,464.0   3,060.0        48        1    231.3   212.2   443.6          48        1
H. TRAINING                                     14,405.1   3,601.3  18,006.4        20        4   2,087.7   521.9  2,609.6        20        4
1. MATERIALS, SLPPLIES AND PROOUCTION CST       10,661.5  10,661.5  21,323.0        SO        5   1,545.1   154.1  3,090.3        50        6
J. FUNDS FOR PREFARING RTLfRE PROJECTS           2,000.0   2,000.0  4,000.0         50        1    289.9   289.9   579.7          50        1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             81,045.8 324,318.7 405,364.4        80       93  11,745.8 47,002.7 58,748.5       80       93
Physicel Contingencies                           7,449.7  45,095.8  52,545.6        86       12   1,079.7  6,535.6  7,615.3       86       12
Price Contingencies                             49,344.9 217,311.0 266,e65.9        81       61   2,384.6 10,490.7 1?,875.3       81       20
Total INCLUOING CONTINCENCIES                     137,840.4 586,725.5 724,565.9        81      165  15,210.0 64,029.1 79,239.1       81      125
snasann     0==s         ns4 t. .S S.....   sa..*=f... ..    ..... s... t.. '            fao
II. RECLURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES                               12,437.0         - 12,437.0          -        3   1,802.5        -  1,802.5        -        3
B. VEHICLE KAINTWBANCE                           2,910.0  2,910.0  6,820.0          SO        1    421.7   421.7   843.5          50        1
C. EQUIPMENT FAINTBEANCE                           705.0         -    705.0          -        0     102.2        -    102.2        -        0
0. BUILOING MAINTENANCE                            845.0         -    845.0          -        0     122.5        -    122.5        -        0
E. SEMINAR EXPENSES                                287.7         -    287.7          -        0      41.7        -    41.7         -        0
F, GENERAL OPERATINI COSTS                      12,760.4         -  12,760.4         -        3   1,849.3        -  1,849.3        -        3
Total RECtMREN1 COSTS                              29,945.1  2.910.0  32,855.1          9        7   4,339.9   421.7  4,76:.6         9        7
Physical Contingencies                              28.8         -      28.8         -        0       4.2        -      4.2        -        0
Price Contingencies                             21,321.4  2,129.1  23,450.5          9        5   1,000.0    99.7  1,099.7         9        2
Total INCLUDING CONTINCEGCIES                      51,295.3  5,039.1  56,334.4          9       13   5,344.0   521.4  5,865.4         9        9
.s_ .O .l .t=D .=SsB .Sa ..=s . _- r..e... ......   ....... .
Total BASELINE COSTS                              110,990.9 327,228.7 438,219.6        75      100  16,085.6 47,424.4 63,510.0       75      100
Physical Contingencies                           7,478.5  45,096.8  62,574.3        86       12   1,083.8  6,535.6  7,619.4       86       12
Price Contingencies                             70,666.4 219,440.1 290,106.4        76       66   3,384.6 10,590.4 13,975.0       76       22
Total PROJECT COSTS                               189,135.8 591,764.6 780,900.3        76      178 20,554.0 64,550.5 85,104.5        76      134
os.     .c....  .fa   ....... .fhl.fff  ...... .       fs -.Catesa W



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Preparation Studies and Pre-Implementation Systems Development
Size of Consulting Team    Approximate
Topic                 Main Products   ----------------------           Dates                  Comments
Foreign       Local!
1. Logistics Improvement          Report              2             1       5-17 April      Dealt with stores management &
1987        needs for upgrading; transport
requirement; maintenance
2. Formal & Continuing            Report              2             1          17 May -     Stressed need for in-service
Education on Essential                                                   5 June  1987   training capacities in state
Drugs                                                                                    ministries of health
3. Information, Education         Report              1             1       7-19 June       Identified audiences and
& Communication (IEC)                                                        1987        recommended messages
4. Initial Assessment of          Report              3             1        14-20 June     Showed wide range of constraints to
Domestic Production of                                                       1987        cost-effective Iocal production of
Essential Drugs                                                                          of essential drugs
5. Drug Quality Assurance         Report              3             0          30 June -    Covers a wide range of issues
& Drug Fe-istration/                                                     31 July  1987  related to quality assurance in
Information                                                                              considerable detail
6. Consolidated Project       Draft Proposal          2             0         6-29 July     Initial consolidation and costing
Design                                                                       1987        of proposal derived from studies
1-5 for broader consideration
in FMOH
7. Potential for Private          Report              1             2         7-27 July     Discussion paper that will need to
Sector Participation                                                        1987         be revisited during implementation
in Drug Supply Subsector                                                                 as a source of alternative
strategies
8. Guidelines for Planning   Practical guide-                                               Major source of guidance to states
& Implementing State-      lines & planning                               Jan.-Feb.      for subproject implementation;
wide Essential Drugs       tools & initial         2             0           1988        based on 1-7 above plus worldwide
Programmes                 application                                                   experience of consultants
through training
works ops
1/ Excludes Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) staff who actively participated in each piece of work.
a z
o l
0 I



Preparation Studies and Pre-Implementation Systems Development
Size of Consulting Team    Approximate
Topic               Main Products   -------------------------         Dates                  Comments
Foreign       Local
9. Estimation of DRF          Computer model                                                Source of project cost estimates
Capitalization             & applications          2             0         May 1988      for drugs
Requirements               for participat-
ing states
10. Developing a Framework    Report, terms of                                 May & Aug.    Clearly presents critical policy
for Drug Revolving Fund   reference for            1             3           1988        decisions required
Financial Management       systems design
(No. 13)
11. Operational Guidelines    Re prt, terms of
for Drug Procurement       reference for                                  May & Aug.    Examines current drug procurement
under the Essential        preparation of          3             2           1988        practices to determine how they
Drugs Project              procurement                                                   diverge from Bank ICB guidelines;
documentation                                                 proposes special applications to
(No.14)                                                       area of drug supply; spells out
special prequal iication system
12. Consumer Reaction to       Market Research         0            Firm      First half     Contained in agreed work program
Drug Costs/Pric ng                                                        of 1989        for financing from WHO-managed
Guidelines                                                                               Trust Fund, which in turn is            c
financed out of Part B of the
Sokoto Health Project (LN2503-UNI)
and other anticipated sources
13. Financial Systems for      Procedures.             0             2            1989
Statewide Essential        forms, manuals,
Drugs Programmes in the   etc.
Four States
14. Procurement Systems        Detailed pro-                                 About May-
cedures & proto-        1             2       June 1989
type procurement
documents, along
with a manual
15. ClinicallTherapeutics      Prescriber man-                                Second half
Manuals                    uals based on           0             3       of 1989                        *
essential drugs
list
ob'z
m m
x
o l
0



Preparation Studies and Pre-Implementation Systems Development
Size of Consulting Team    Approximate
Topic                Main Products   -------------------------        Dates                   Comments
Foreign       Local
16. In-Service Training        Prototype train-
Materials                  ing materials            1            1        Second half
for doctors,                                  of 1989
nurses. PHC
workers
17. Reorientation of the       Adjusted curric-                               Second half
curriculum of schools      ulum to reflect         0             1(?)    of 1989
of health technology       new essential
drugs emphasis
18. Monitoring & Evaluaticn/  Computerized
Management Information    system; specific          1            1        Second half
System for the States      indicators                                     of 1989
19. IEC Materials              Logo, prototype          1          Firm       Second half                    .
IEC materials                                 of 1989
20. Product-specific           Quantities of                                  Second half
Quantification             drugs to be                                    of 1989
procured initi-
tially by each         2(?)           7
state (manual
& initial
applicatSon
through training
workshops)
on z
fI
4x



ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJrCT
Main Functions in Project Implementation of the Essential Drugs Unit,
Department of Primary Health Care, Federal Ministry of Health
The Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) has established an Essential Drugs
Unit (EDU) in its Department of Primary Health Care. Its basic function is
to provide technical support to the states and their local governments in
the National Essential Drugs Programme, especially those being financed
through the Bank-assisted Essential Drugs Project.
A. Overall Role andObiectives of the EDU
The overall role and objectives of the EDU, with regard to project
implementation, would be:
(1) Oversee and co-ordinate all technical, organizational and financial
inputs to essential drugs projects in the four project-assisted states
in association with merchant banks (MBs) and financial management
firms, which are responsible for providing technical assistance
regarding the management of drug revolving funds;
(2) Provide guidelines, model designs and technical assistance to the
states and local government authorities (LGAs) in support of project
implementation; and
(3) Undertake or commission special studies aimed at improving the
technical and financial efficiency of state subprojects.
B. Detailed Responsibilities of the EDU
The EDU will initially support the planning and implementation of program
acL-vities in the four project states and their LGAs. It will also provide
some assistance to Imo and Sokoto States, which have Bank assistance for
state-wide essential drugs programs as part of broader health projects. As
other financing for state-wide essential drugs projects becomes available,
the EDU will also assist interested states in taking advantage of it. Among
the functions to be performed by the EDU, the following are the most
important:
(1) Assist with the final stages of state subproject preparation and follow
up with the states to facilitate their meeting the conditions of
effectiveness and of disbursement under the project;
(2) Prepare model designs for various sub-components of the state programs
and assist the individual States to adapt these models;



- 113 -                           ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 2
(3) Provide technical inputs for and supervise the development of cost-
efficient state drug supply systems, including selection, procurement,
storage, and distribution of drugs;
(4) Provide technical inputs for and supervise the development of state
training programs (formal and in-service);
(5) In collaboration with the MBs and other financial consultants to the
states, provide technical inputs for and supervise the development of
drug revolving funds and introduction of sound financial management in
state programs;
(6) Provide technical inputs for and supervise the development of state
information, education, and communication activities;
(7) Provide technical inputs for and supervise the development of state
monitoring and evaluation systems;
(8) With the states, determine the need for short-term cou.sultancies and,
on the basis of the unit's roster, identify, recruit, and field
consultants;
(9) In collaboration with other FMOH departments, develop clinical/
therapeutic guidelines for health personnel and manuals for drug supply
personnel;
(10) Plan and carry out training for small, specialized groups from the
states, e.g., drug procurement officers and financial controllers;
(11) Review the states' essential drugs lists, as they are periodically
updated, to see that they are appropriate and are sufficiently
consistent with the national formulary and forward them with comments
to the Bank;
(12) With the states, identify the need for special studies and prepare
terms of reference and commission the undertaking of these studies;
(13) In September of each year, review the states' annual work plans and
budgets for the subsequent year and, in conjunction with the World Bank
and the states themselves, determine for each state the requirements of
its drug revolving fund for incremental working capital to be financed
out of loan proceeds;
(14) Monitor the unit's expenditures under the project and process and
submit to the Bank withdrawal applications for the unit's own
activities and other documentation, including various reports from the
participating states; and
(15) Prepare periodic work and implementation plans for the unit itself and
review them with the states.



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Structures of the Federal Ministry of Health Departments Responsible for Project Implementation
A. Department of Primary Health Care
Minister
Director General |
Division of EPI/ORTw                     Division of Family Health            Division of Primary Health Services
Health Education,                        JEOrganization A Manpower Development                                                     F
and NGO* 
UNDP Essential Drugs Advisor
| Essntial orugs Unit |                    iFamily Hoootr Unit] 
|Drug Supply ||Finance ||Training                             |Ifrmation, Education,|    Administration,
ManagmeDnt             Section              Section               ommounication Section         Monitor ng, and
Section                                                      Ilnc                               Evalust on Section
0D 1



B.  Department of Food and Drug Administration and Control
LMinister|
Di rector-Gneral I
Manufacturi g                  Narcotics                        Regulation and                       Inspectornt              Lbrtr-
nnd Medical                   and Drug                         Registration                         Division                 D;;i   n
S"tores DivEslon               Abuse Control                    Division 
Division 
r                                                          F                  
Manufacturing   Medical Store    Norcotic   Drug Abuso   Registration   Advertise-   Regulation                 Zones DA, 'B',   Yab            Area
Branch          and Hospital      Branch       Control      Branch          sent and     Branch         ranch    C, A 'D'              r
Pharmacie                      r                           Consumer                             (Similar to       Laboratory   Brnch
Branch                                                     Affers,                             Zon- A*)
BrBnch
0t
011
"wl



C. Department of Hospital Services and Training
Minister
Director-General
Deputy Director                                                  Dputy Dirctor
(Planning, Regulation and                                       (Dental and Hospital Serv.)
Training)
Asst  IDirector    |             Asst. Director                    Asst. Director
(PRT)                           (Nursing)                           (DHS)
Chief             Chief                 Chief Nursing              Chief            Chief
forensic          Officer                  Officer                 Dental           Officer
Officer            (PRT)                                           Oir              (Hospital
L                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Services)
Asst. Chief        Asst  Chief            Asst. Chief             Asst. Chief        Asst. Chief
Officer            Offcer                 Officr                  Officer            Officer
.5:-
0lI



ANNEX 4-4
- 117 -                            Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Outline of Guidelines for Subproject Implementationl'
A.   Policy, Organisation, and Management
(1) Prepare and obtain approval for a State Essential Drugs Policy
(2) Establish the stat- programme and its key elements
(3) Establish administrative and legal responsibilities for the
programme
(4) Determine staff requirements
(5) Establish standing committees
(6) Determine sources of financing for the programme, including the
subloan
(7) Prepare operational and clinical manuals
B.   Local Government Authority (LGA) Essential Drug Programme Development
(1) Establish Federal, state, LGA, and community responsibilities for
developing LGA essential drug activities
(2) Define the development process, content, and phasing for LGA
Essential Drug Programmes
(3) Set criteria for LGAs to receive funds under the subproject
(4) Start the first LGA Essential Drug Programme
(5) Start the second phase of LGAs
(6) Start all remaining LGAs
C.   Selection and Formulary Management
(1) Assure compliance with the State Essential Drugs List (EDL) at all
health facilities in the state policy
(2) Identify suitable members for a State Drugs Advisory Committee
(DAC) and arrange for their formal appointment
(3) Draft guidelines covering DAC responsibilities and operations, for
acceptance by the DAC and ratification by appropriate agencies
(4) Survey current activities in the state, and prepare a consolidated
list of drugs currently used at state facilities
(5) Establish the State EDL, divided by level of use, in conformity
with the National Formulary
(6) Distribute the EDL all affected health care personnel
1/   This annex is based on the 132-page document entitled 'Guidelines for
Planning and Implementing Statewide Essential Drugs Programmes and World
Bank-Assisted Projects," which was drafted by consultants for the Federal
Ministry of Health in early 1988. Soon thereafter, health staff from seven
states, including most of those participating in the project, used the
Guidelines in developing or refining their own subproject proposals. Based
on this "pretest" and comments from the Bank's appraisal mission, the
Guidelines are being revised. It is anticipated that they will continue to
be revised from time-to-time as Nigeria gains experience in implementing
essential drugs programs.



- 118 -                           ANNEX 4-4
Page 2 of 4
(7) If the state has no formulary manual Nor essential drugs, and the
National Formulary Manual is not wideiy used, either develop a
state manual or distribute the national manual to each facility
D.   Quantification of Drug Requirements
General Steps in the Quantification Process
(1) Survey current state activities and provide a consolidated list
(2) Identify appropriate personnel
(3) Develop a working sc'Ledule
(4) Develop guidelines [.-or the quantification exercise
(5) Calculate drug requirements
(6) Relate calculated drug riquirements to budget and adjust.
(7) Obtain approval for determined quantities
Calculation of Drug Seed Stock Requirements
(1) Determine the quantification method to be used
(2) Calculate the average cost per patient treated
(3) Adjust for supply system factors
(4) Adjust for programme growth
(5) Adjust for the length of the "pipeline"
(6) Subtract current capital drug stocks
(7) Determine the phasing of the need for seed stock over the 5-year
subproject period
E.   Procurement
(1) Identify current procurement procedures and practices
(2) Establish a procurement office
(3) Develop a management information system
(4) Provide for quality assurance
(5) Establish and adhere to contract terms
(6) Produce a Procurement and Quality Assurance Manual
F.   Distribution, Storage, and Transport
(1) Assess current distribution, storage, and transport systems
(2) Develop an overall distribution plan that defines the network
through which drugs flow from the central medical store to all
health facilities and specifies responsibilities for storage and
transport at each level
(3) Plan for upgrading storage facilities and indicate which storage
facilities will be upgraded as part of the Essential Drug
Programme and subproject
(4) Plan for improved transport services
(5) Prepare a Supply Management Manual describing operational policies
and procedures for distribution, storage, and transport and using
this manual as the "master plan," develop appropriately
simplified operational manuals for each category of state and LGA
health facility



- 119 -                           ANNEX 4-4
Page 3 of 4
G.   Management Information System (MIS)
(1) Assess the current MIS situation, reviewing current
record-keeping, supervisory, and management systems at all levels
(2) Define information requirements, identifying information users and
their information needs
(3) Design the information system at each level, including methods of
data collection, record-keeping, reporting style, and performance
indicators
(4) Develop the MIS components of relevant operational manuals
(5) Train staff for MIS utilisation and management, and start
operating the system
(6) Develop supervisory checklists for the MIS component of the
programme
H.   Quality Assurance
(1) Assess past, current and potential quality assurance problems
related to drug procurement, as well as possible loss of quality
in the distribution system
(2) Establish the quality assurance component of the procurement
process, including product specifications, criteria for
pre-qualification of suppliers, and a system of monitoring
supplier performance
(3) Establish the quality assurance component of supply management and
distribution, including procedures for monitoring and upgrading
storage conditions
(4) Define the role of quality control laboratory testing in the
overall quality assurance program
(5) Develop the quality assurance components of. relevant operational
manuals
(6) Train staff in quality assurance
(7) Develop supervisory checklist for basic quality assurance
monitoring in the field
I.   Financial Management
(1) Estimate the full cost of providing essential drugs for all levels
of health care--administrative and other operating costs as well
as the cost of the drugs themselves
(2) Establish a system which assures the security of assets--
principally drugs and funds
(3) Establish a mechanism for sustaining the drug revolving fund (DRF)
(4) Define the operational arrangements for the DRF
(5) Prepare complete cost-recovery projections
(6) Draft the Drug Revolving Fund Operational Manual
(7) Establish an audit system for the DRF
(8) Define the necessary banking arrangements and open the necessary
accounts
J.   Training and Supervision
(1) Assess training needs, defining target groups and the areas in
which they need training



- 120 -                           ANNEX 4-4
Page 4 of 4
(2) Identify training resources and the training team, specifying
where consultants are needed
(3) Based on the assessment of needs, design the training plan--course
content, curriculum, schedule of training, training modules, etc.
(4) According to levels and needs, develop training materials, manuals
and guides
(5) Train trainers and then train state and LGA health personnel
(6, For formal education (pre-service training), identify the relevant
teachers at Schools of Health Technology and other state health
training institutions and help them initiate review and revision
of their curricula
(7) Identify supervisory needs and develop a supervision plan
(8) Develop checklist for supervision and train staff in supervisory
skills and in use of checklist
K.   Information, Education, and Communication (IEC)
(1) Assess present IEC activities and resources in the state
(2) Identify important target groups
(3) Determine the essential messages for each target group
(4) Choose the most locally appropriate and cost-effective IEC methods
and materials for each target group
(5) Design an IEC implementation programme
(6) Train IEC staff and start IEC activities
L.   Monitoring and Evaluation
(1) Design a system for routine monitoring, using performance
indicators
(2) Design questionnaires or formats for special studies to collect
information not routinely reported
(3) Train appropriate staff to monitor activities and act on the
findings
(4) Develop a system to analyze routinely collected data and provide
feedback
(5) Plan for periodic evaluations of the Programme
(6) Plan for periodic independent audits of the DRF



- 121 -                           ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of I
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Agreed Responsibilities of Merchant Banks and other
Financial Institutions under the Project
During negotiations, the following allccation of financial and
related services under the project was agreed:
Banking Functions to be Provided by Eligible Merchant Banks
(a)  maintaining special accounts and drug revolving fund accounts;
(b)  receiving funds from the World Bank to replenish special accounts;
(c)  mobilizing the foreign exchange needed to purchase drug replacement
stock;
(d)  preparing documentation and providing letters of credit;
(e)  provision of expertise in international business transactions and
commercial practices;
Banking Functions to be Provided by Merchant or Commercial Banks
(f) maintaining project accounts;
(g) disbursing funds in respect of recurrent operational costs;
(h) other banking services;
Oversight Functions to be Provided by Merchant Banks
(i)  monitoring procurement of goods and works;
(j)  advising on and monitoring and evaluating DRF policies, management and
operations;
(k)  confirming, every six months, compliance with loan disbursement
conditions including:
-    drugs purchased are those on the Essential Drugs list;
-    suppliers are included in the prequalified list;
-    drug procurement financed by World Bank loan is only for seed
stock (and not replacement stock);
-    cost recovery systems are in place prior to disbursement for
drugs.
Technical Assistance Functions to be Provided by Consultants or Merchant
Banks
(1) financial systems development.



- 122 -                       ANNEX 4-6
Page 1 of 1
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Provisions of a Typical Agreement between a State
and Its LGAs under the Project
It is anticipated that in most states, written agreements will be executed
between the state agency managing the state-wide essential drugs program
(EDP) and individual local government authorities (LGAs) as they join the
program. During pro4ect preparation, the main elements of such agreements
were worked out.1y the typical agreement between a state an.{ its LGAs
would include the following provisions:
(1) Commitment by the EDP to provide the LGA with the best quality and
lowest prices possible for the essential drugs that it requires;
(2) Agreement by the EDP to use project funds to provide essential drugs
training to LGA staff and to undertake public education activities for
the benefit of the leaders and other residents of that LGA;
(3) Commitment by the LGA to adhere to the state essential drugs policy,
especially with regard to charging for drugs at the uniform prices set
throughout the state and to retention of those monies in a drug
revolving fund exclusively for the purchase of replacement supplies;
(4) Acceptance by the LGA of the state essential drugs list (to which it or
other LGAs have made inputs) as its exclusive supply list and its
commitment to purchase all of its drugs from the centralized
procurement service operated by the state EDP;
(5) Agreement by the LGA to provide resources, as its main counterpart
contribution to the project, for upgrading drug storage capacity in
the LGA store and, as needed, in LGA-owned facilities, along with the
recurrent operating expenditures for the operation of the cost-recovery
system (e.g., stationery).
(6) Agreement by the LGA to undertake annual external audits of its own
drug revolving fund (DRF) and to provide periodically other data and
information on the performance of the program within the LGA to the
state EDP; and
(7) Agreement by the LGA to continue to make available some of the funds
formerly used to purchase drugs to cover the costs of exemptions and to
hire, if not available, an accountant to manage the LGA's DRF.
1/   This prototype agreement was developed prior to the decision that
states would in most instances onlend in kind to LGAs the seedstock,
eqpipment, and in some cases vehicles. In view of this development, the
state-LGA agreements will also encompass arrangements for repayment of these
loans.



- 123 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 7
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Operation of Drug Revolving Funds
A. Introduction
l.        The main principles in the operation of drug revolving funds
(DRFs) have been identified, and are explained in this Annex. Detailed
specifications and design of the various managerial, financial and
accounting controls will be developed during implementation of the project.
Consultants commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Health (FPOH) are
working on the first stage of this process. The draft results of this
consultancy were reviewed during appraisal.
2.        The purpose of DRFs is to provide (a) a means of controlling and
accounting for the supply of drugs to Federal end state hospitals, state and
local government administration (LGA) health centers, and the Federal, state
and LGA drug storage and distribution networks; and (b) a means of
channelling back, in order to replenish the stock of drugs held, the monies
paid by patients for drugs supplied to them.
3.        A number of Federal hospitals and some states already charge for
the drugs they supply, and this experience is a useful basis upon wlhich to
develop the DRFs that are an integral part of the project. A review of the
operation of those charging systems has been undertaken.-V It points up
the importance of establishing policies that protect the integrity of DRF
working capital (drugs and cash) and also provide DRF managers with
operational autonomy. The study also highlights the types of controls
needed to safeguard the valuable assets of DRFs from loss and waste.
4.        The DRFs to be developed during the project will be considerably
larger than those currently in operation, and will have a wider scope by
encompassing bulk procurement for Federal hospitals, and by bringing state
and LGA facilities together under a common system. These differences are
reflected in the project's requirement that improved systems be designed and
in place prior to the distribution of project-funded drugs, and in its
emphasis on the strengthening of institutional capacity to set up the
controls that are essential in operating DRFs. (Operational requirements
for installing systems in advance are described in Annex 4-12.)
Institutional capacity will be strengthened through project-financed
incremental staff, equipment and training. An especially important project
requirement is the appointment of a Financial Controller to each state
essential drugs program. Prototype terms of reference for this position are
attached to this Annex.
1/   'Assessment of Drug Revolving Fund Experiences in Nigeria,' PRITECH
Project, April-May 1988 (draft).



ANNEX 4-7
- 124 -                             Page 2 of 7
B. The Structure of DRFs
5.        The operation of DRFs in Federal hospitals or in a state will take
place within a structure or system of centrally determined policies,
financial management requirements, and technical supervision (this structure
is shown in the diagram on page 3 of this annex). Implementation, control,
and accountability for drugs and cash will be the responsibility of the
individual facilities, but initially there will be a close relationship
between a particular facility and the entity immediately above it in the
distribution chain as the accounting and operational controls are set up.
As LGAs are autonomous, there will be a less detailed involvement between
the state agency operating the essential drugs program and the local
authorities' DRFs, but the LGAs will still be subject to state essential
drugs program policies, systems and overall supervision.
6.        The diagram on page 3 illustrates the basic operations of a DRF.
Drugs (obtained by bulk procurement using international competitive bidding)
flow from the central procurement unit/central medical store through zonal
stores (if present) to state health facilities and to LGA headquarters,
which then supply their own health facilities. To start up the system, the
initial flow of drugs will be project-funded seed stocks; thereafter, all
resupplies will be made only if paid for in cash, the cash to be raised by
selling drugs to patients and subsequently passed up the distribution chain
in return for drugs flowing down. Thus, the sale of project-funded seed
stocks provides the cash to replenish stocks; replacement stocks, in turn,
are then sold to other patients; and so on, thereby providing a sustainable
supply of drugs to all facilities.
7.        Both the policies adopted by DRFs and the controls used to
safeguard drugs and cash assets are critical for their success. The
following two sections explain what these policies are and how the
operational controls will work.
C. DRF Policies
8.        The following have been agreed as the key policy issues for DRrs:
- the extent of cost recovery to be undertaken;
- the financing of exemptions from drug charges, and/or a
general subsidy;
- the level and structure of drug prices;
- creation of the environment needed for efficient and effecti-e
financial operation of DRFs; and
- selection of accounting and controls which reflect the trading
nature of DRFs.
9.        Cost recovery.  At least the replacement costs of drugs will be
recovered through charges to consumers, and consideration will be given to
recovering the variable costs of DRF operation.



- 125 -                                           ANNEX 4-7
Page 3 of 7
State Level Drug RevoMng Fund
Pouciesm Svstems                                                                    P01icies System0s
SpcificaIi S. sPectfication.
Susl  law                                                                           Supev    anic
See\ oc-\                                                                           feedCack
X                   ~~~~~~~state a
Hecith              Nmagement
Fac\ iRality^         Infamton
|                    iW~~~~~~~aient
Management
tfmiotl  n
\LGA/
\   Heailth     /
i            ~~~~~~Kei:
s - .      - Flow of Drugs
Potient                 -------,_ _  Flow of Casn
Xitbant          t    Sf ~~~~~~intonnoton Eicringe
O    MMaintenance. or roilec oversignt of
accnuits an reconCliations
Woto 6onk-43071



- 126 -                           ANNEX 4-7
Page 4 of 7
10.       Exemption and subsidy financing.  To the extent that DRFs
participate in the provision of drugs to patients who are exempt from
payment, funds to meet the costs of these drugs should to the extent
possible be paid into the DRF in advance of the drugs being supplied.
(Similar arrangements should apply to the payment of any general subsidy
into the DRF.)  When consideration is given to selecting an exempticn policy
or fixing the scale of any general subsidy, particular attention will be
paid to estimating the cost to Government of the policy, determining which
agency will pay the costs, and confirming that these costs are affordable.
11.       The level and structure of prices.  Further research is being
undertaken to gauge public reaction to paying for safe and readily available
supplies of essential drugs at public health facilities. Pricing policies
will be refined once the results of this research are available; however, it
has been agreed that drugs will be priced individually, taking into account
replacement costs and open-market prices, as well as affordability to the
public, and each price set by a state will be uniform throughout its
essential drugs program. Prices will be reviewed at least every six months
to ensure they remain current. The price structure will consider options to
recover overhead costs by "marking up" base prices (e.g., at a constant or
progressively reducing percentage of base cost) and opportunities for cross-
subsidy between different classes of drugs (e.g., to reduce the financial
burden of the unavoidable but expensive use of particular drugs).
12.       Operational policies.  The DRFs will operate as independent
trading accounts, with the flexibility to respond to fluctuations in demand.
Ali income from drug sales will be paid into the DRFs (and purchases of
certified drugs made from the DRFs), which will be maintained totally
separate from Government consolidated revenues. Any surplus from operations
.will be retained within the DRFs to the extent needed to sustain (or expand)
their operation, including the creation of adequate reserves. The
distribution of drugs within the DRFs and to end-users will be on the basis
of cash payment rather than on credit (with the exception of infusions of
seed stock provided to the health facilities).
13.       Accounting and controls standards.  The financial systems will
reflect the trading nature of the DRFs and will be designed to determine
their trading performance at all times, as well as to safeguard their
assets. Double-entry accounting will be set up using control accounts and,
as appropriate, accrual concepts, in line with commercial practice. Annual
audits will be undertaken by independent and well-qualified commercial audit
firms.
D. DRF Financial Controls
14.       Within the framework of the above-described  policies, detailed
controls will be established to safeguard the assets of the DRFs and provide
information on the actions needed to ensure their sustainability and
operational efficiency. These controls include:
- full documentation of the movement of drugs, from procurement
until eventual dispensing, enabling comprehensive records and
accounts to be maintained for each point in the distribution
chain;



- 127-                             ANNEX 4-7
Page 5 of 7
- regular reconciliation between the records of drug stock, sales,
cash, etc., which will be maintained independently (see para 17);
- regular confirmation by independent checks that the records agree
with physical stocks;
- continuous independent supervision of each facility's operation;
- an annual external comprehensive audit of the operation of
each DRF; and
- strict application of the principle of 'cash and carry."
15.       Documentation of and accounting for drug stocks.  Typically,
facilities at intermediate points in the distribution chain, and larger
dispensing facilities such as hospitals, will maintain the following types
of records in order to control drug stocks:
- the details on all drugs received will be recorded (using a goods
received note), thereby certifying that responsibility for custody
of the drugs is accepted;
- receipts of stock will be entered in the following records:
* for each item, the quantity received (and hence the new stock)
will be recorded on a bin card or equivalent, which will be
maintained by the storekeeper;
* for each item, the quantity and value received (and hence the
new quantity and value of stock) will be entered in the stores
ledger, which will be maintained by the accountancy section;
* in total, the amount paid, which will be recorded in the stores
control account, with an equivalent and balancing accounting
entry to reflect payment made to the drug supplier.
- issues of stock will be made only against approved documentation;
- inter alia, this documentation will ensure that stock issues are
made only to those facilities entitled to receive the type of
supplies requested, and which have already deposited sufficient
cash to pay for the order and will not as a result of the order
exceed the maximum stock holding of each of the particular items
requested, unless otherwise agreed.
_    issues of stock will be entered in the following records:
* for each item, the quantity issued (and hence the new stock)
will be recorded on a bin card or equivalent, which will be
maintained by the storekeeper;
* for each item, the quantity and value issued (and hence the new
quantity and value of stock) will be entered in the stores
ledger, which will be maintained by the accountancy section;



- 128 -                            ANNEX 4-7
Page 6 of 7
* in total, the value of the stock issue will be recorded in the
stores control account, with an equivalent and balancing
accounting entry to reflect the payment received from the
facility placing the order for the drugs.
- dispatches of stock will be accompanied by a copy of the issuing
documentation, signed by the receiving authority as accepting
responsibility for custody of the order as described. Where drugs
are issued to patients, d:ily procedures will be used to record
drugs issued (per prescriptions) and cash collected, reconciling
the amount of drugs issued with the amount of cash collected, and
this amount of cash with the totals of receipts given to the
patients.
16.       Smaller facilities will maintain much simplified records of the
amounts of drugs received, prescriptions filled, and cash collected. This
information will be provided to their LGA/zonal store, which will write up
the appropriate ledgers. Each facility will nevertheless be responsible for
the safekeeping of the drugs in its custody and for the collection and
banking of fees. As the ability to replenish drug stocks depends upon
collection of cash from sales, small facilities will be closely monitored to
ensure that this is done without running down the capital value of the stock
they maintain.
17.       Reconciliation between independently maintained records.  Records
maintained in this way allow each facility to be accountable for its own
stock of drugs and for the operation of its own DRF. The documentation of
movements of drug stock and collection of cash, and the separation of
functions and responsibilities, permit a number of checks to be made to
.measure the performance of each part of the system. For example, there will
be a regular reconciliation between physical stocks, stock-keeping records,
and accounting records of the amounts of individual drugs held; between the
total of the individually recorded amounts of drugs in stock and the
independently recorded total value of all stocks bought, less all issues
made; between the quantities of drugs sold, the income earned and the
banking of cash; and between recorded issues made to facilities and the
receipts of supplies by those facilities. These reconciliations will be
made either by the facility itself, or in the case of the smaller
facilities, its parent institution. The process of independent supervision
(see para. 18 below) will confirm that these checks are being made
regularly and that no anomalies are being left unresolved.
18.    Supervision.  These financial controls provide the means to confirm
the holdings and the use of drugs. At all times the controls will show
details on each type of drug, and each record should be capable of being
reconciled with another, independently maintained record. The financial
controls will be supported by a process of continuous independent
supervision. In particular, this process will ensure that drug stocks are
physically checked; this will be done using a procedure called "continuous
inventory," which involves regular and frequent stock checks, on each
occasion confirming the stock level of certain selected drugs. (The drugs
to be checked at any particular time will be randomly selected as part of a
mechanism to ensure that the stock of each drug is checked at least, say,
twice a year.)



- 129 -
ANNEY. 4-7
Page 7 of 7
19.       The process of independent supervision, which will include
randomly timed inspections, will also be used to ensure that all other
financial and non-financial procedures are being applied correctly.
20.       External audit.  Overlaying the regular internal controls, an
annual external audit will be made. It will be a comprehensive audit,
concerned with the adequacy of accounting systems, management control, and
value for money, in addition to certification of the authenticity and
correctness of the financial statements.
21.       Cash and carry.  The strict application of the concept of cash
payment, rather than credit terms, for resupplies of drugs (para 6) provides
a mechanism for limiting the adverse consequences of any failure to adopt
adequate policies or maintain effective control. If at any facility control
fails and drug stocks or cash are lost from the DRP, that loss is reflected
in the reduced ability of the facility to maintain adequate drug stocks.
Only if drugs are then supplied to that facility on credit terms (as it is
now unable to pay cash due to the losses it has incurred) is there a risk of
this loss affecting the rest of the essential drugs program. Experience has
shown that it is often the largest (and hence politically most sensitive)
facilities that abuse credit, even though at face value these facilities
appear to be the most creditworthy. Any policy other than cash payment for
drug supplies should therefore be treated with considerable caution.



- 130 -              ATTACHMENT TO ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Job Description: State-Level Financial Controller
Department:                     State Essential Drugs Programme Management
Unit
Job Title:                      Essential Drugs Financial Controller
Responsible to:                 Essential Drugs Programme Manager
Responsible to Financial
Controller
-Directly:          Headquarters Essential Drugs Programme
Financial and Management Accountants
-Functionally:      All Financial Officers within the Essential
Drugs Programme
A. Main Role and Obiectives
The Essential Drugs Financial Controller is the senior financial officer of
the State Essential Drugs Programme, responsible for overseeing all
financial aspects of the programme and for providing financial advice to
programme management.
This includes, in particular, being responsible for:
o reporting to and advising management on all matters having a material
financial impact on the operation of the Essential Drugs Programme,
especially concerning interventions required to prevent
decapitalisation of the drug revolving fund (DRF);
o developing, implementing and maintaining sound financial management and
control throughout the Essential Drugs Programme;
o overall supervision and professional direction of all finance staff
involved in the Essential Drugs Programme, including those employed by
the local governments; and
o liaison with the merchant bank and other consultants in financial
management selected by the State to provide technical guidance
regarding financial aspects of programme operation.
B. Specific Tasks
(1) At least annually, prepare medium-term (three- to five-year) financial
plans for the Essential Drugs Programme, demonstrating the financial
consequences of existing financial and related policies (e.g., of the
policy on exemptions) and illustrating the impact of the actions
recommended to sustain the DRF. Determine all associated actions
needed to implement plans. Prepare action programmes showing the
timing of and the responsibility for each action.



- 131 -              ATTACHMENT TO ANNEX 4-7
Page 2 of 3
(2) Prepare annual budgets for state-level components of the Essential
Drugs Progranmme, and liaise with local governments concerning their
Essential Drugs Programme budgets. Ensure coordination between the
financial plans and budgets of each agency that is part of the
programme, including budgets for services to be provided by the DRF
that are financed from other votes (for example, budgets for exemptions
or staff that are funded through the State Ministry of Health and/or
the State Hospital Management Board).
(3) Undertake a regular (at least six monthly) review of prices of drugs
sold under the Essential Drugs Programme, and make recommendations to
revise prices as necessary. Liaise with the officer responsible for
information, education, and communication regarding public awareness
activities on drug prices and cost recovery more generally.
(4) Develop and establish satisfactory financial management arrangements,
including accounting, control, monitoring and reporting procedures, at
each tier of operation of the DRF. Ensure that the operational
arrangements incorporate adequate internal controls, including the
checks and balances brought about by the clear separation of duties
amongst staff.
(5) Oversee the implementation and operation of economical, efficient and
effective financial management procedures throughout the Essential
Drugs Programme, including ensuring the integrity of accounts and
financial information concerning the DRF. Based upon the experience of
operating the DRF, refine and develop financial management systems,
including identifying opportunities to make use of computerised systems
for accounting and stock control.
(6) Ensure that adequate financial management and control systems are
established, with full documentation, and that staff are in post and
fully trained in the operation of the systems, prior to the
introduction of World Bank-financed drug seed stock to an entity.
(7) Make arrangements to ensure that working capital requirements of the
programme are met, and institute the necessary cash flow forecasting
and management procedures. Ensure that adequate and secure
arrangements are made to provide all the treasury functions necessary
for the efficient operation of the DRF. Arrange for banking services
to be available, including the necessary financial instruments and
foreign exchange required for international procurement of drugs.
(8) As a member of the drugs procurement committee, advise the committee of
the procurement procedures required by Financial Regulations and
Standing Orders, advise the committee of the financial requirements of
the World Bank's procurement regulations, and provide other financial
analysis and advice required to demonstrate best value for money.
(9) Keep all accounts, including the project account for deposit of the
State's counterpart contributions, and prepare all the financial
statements required by the World Bank and/or the Federal Government as
part of loan procedures and as described in loan agreements. Oversee



- 132 -               ATTACHMENT TO ANNEX 4-7
Page 3 of 3
the preparation of loan withdrawal applications in accordance with
procedures established by the World Bank.
(10) Ensure that adequate arrangements are made to supervise independently
the operation of the programme at all tiers. Make satisfactory
arrangements to reconcile, on a regular basis, physical stocks and
financial assets of the DRF with detailed and control totals maintained
through the accounting and stock control records.
(11) Monitor the implementation of the financial aspects of the programme at
all tiers, assess financial performance (including defining, from time
to time, performance measures), report financial performance to
programme management, and, at least annually submit reports on
financial performance to the World Bank through the Federal Ministry of
Health. Prior to distribution of additional tranches of seed stock to
particular health facilities, confirm that funds have been recovered
with regard to previous allocations of seed stock and that all
necessary actions are taken to eliminate any weaknesses in the
financial system prior to allocation of additional seed stock.
(12) Identify manpower and manpower development needs in the area of
finance. Arrange for training as appropriate, and liaise with the
Federal Ministry of Health concerning access to relevant project
training initiatives and project-financed consultancies. Oversee
arrangements for the development of on-the-job training in finance.
C. Qualifications
The Financial Controller must have a professional accountancy qualification
or its equivalent and previous practical experience in developing and
operating financial systems. Some eight to ten years' experience in
financial management, with five years' experience as a second-tier manager
or above in a finance department controlling an annual turnover in excess of
N5 million, is considered the minimum requirement. At least some of the
more senior experience should have been gained in a rommercial environment.
In addition, the Financial Controller must possess the qualities required to
present and defend sensitive financial issues to general management, and to
lead and motivate the finance staff involved in the Essential Drugs
Programme.
Knowledge of the wholesaling/retailing sector and the health sector and
experience in the public sector would all be beneficial.
D. Conditions of Service
In order to attract individuals with the skills required, it will be
necessary for this post to be offered on terms that are competitive with
equivalent private sector appointments. It may initially be necessary to
appoint somebody from outside of Government on a two- or three-year
contract. In this case, the job description would also include training of
an eventual successor.



- 133 -                             ANNEX 4-8
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Provisional Indicators for Monitoring Project Implementation
1.        It is important that the monitoring system for the project be
simple and practical. It should provide timely information, so that as
problems arise, they can be quickly identified and management solutions can
be found.
2.        With this aim, the project monitoring system would be developed
around: (a) input, process and output performance indicators as part of the
management information system for each subprojecticomponent, and (b) the
definition o. those areas that are most critical for the success of each
subproject/component.
3.        Each subproject/component would submit annual progress reports
based on the information from the monitoring systems. Specifically, each
state subproject would submit its annual progress report within three months
of the end of the fiscal year to the Essential Drugs Unit (EDU) in the
Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH). The EDU would consolidate these reports,
which, together with reports from the Department of Hospital Services and
Training (DHST) and the Department of Food and Drug Administration and
Control (DFDAC) would be transmitted to the World Bank.
4.        Monitoring of performance indicators.  For each of the four state
subprojects and the EDU (FMOH), management information systems would be
developed with input, process and output performance indicators. For the
Federal Essential Drugs Program (EDP), the same type of indicators would
also be developed for: i) the formal and in-service training activities
coordinated by the DHST, and ii) procurement for federal hospitals, drug
registration, drug information, drug inspection, quality control, and
federal promotional activities (all under the DFDAC).
5.        Focusing monitoring on critical areas.  The following areas have
been defined as critical for the success of each subproject. Each area
would be monitored by a minimum of two indicators (level one and level two).
Level one indicators would be collected every six months and the level two
indicators would be collected annually. A level one indicator is intended
to give an overview of the specific aspect of the subproject, whereas a
level two indicator gives more detailed insight into the area.
Critical Areas in the Statewide Sub-projects
(a) Procurement
Level one indicator. At the central warehouse, determine the amount
and duration of shortages of any essential drugs over the previous six-
month period. Record the reason for shortage and when a problem with
the delivery schedule is involved, also record the supplier.
Level two indicator. Are unit costs for the ten most commonly dis-
tributed essential drugs within 152 of the c.i.f. unit costs under
UNICEF bulk procurement contracts?



- 134 -                             ANNEX 4-8
Page 2 of 5
(b)  Drug Distribution
Level one indicator. Use stock records to determine the existence and
duration of shortages of any essential drug in the past month at three
distribution points (hospital, health center, and dispensary).
Level two indicator. Use ordering records at three distribution points
(hospital, health center, and dispensary) to calculate for orders of
essential drugs in the past month the length of time between submitting
the local order for resupply and the date of receipt of the drugs
ordered.
(c)  Quality Assurance
Level one indicator. Review records of the physical inspection of
drugs at each point in the distribution system, from central warehouse
to hospitals and to health centers, and from central warehouse to local
government stores and to dispensaries, and record the product name,
product volume, and batch number affected by quality problems.
Level two indicator. At the central warehouse, for the five essential
drugs known to be most unstable, do laboratory analysis of three
different samples to determine whether the samples are of good quality.
(d)  Proper Use of Drugs: Prescription and Dispensing
Level one indicator. At two health centers and four dispensaries
(randomly chosen), review the recorded diagnosis for all patients on
one randomly selected day during the last three months, and determine
whether the prescriptions represent appropriate treatment for the
diagnosis and whether the drug dispensed was the correct product and
was given in the dose prescribed.
Level two indicator. At two health centers and four dispensaries
(randomly chosen), review the past month's records for all cases to
find the ten most commonly dispensed drugs, and determine the
percentage of cases in which the drugs were properly dispensed for each
drug.
(e)  Affordability of Drugs by the General Public
Level one indicator. Determine the precentage of users who seek
exemptions from payment for drugs on the grounds that they cannot
afford to pay the prices being charged.
Level two indicator. Compare the prices at which drugs are being sold
in the public sector, which represent at least their replacement costs,
with the prices for indentical (i.e., non-fake) drugs available through
private sector outlets.
(f) Health Facility ManaRement
Level one indicator. Percentage increase in the number of attendances



- 135 -                            ANNEX 4-8
Page 3 of 5
at all health centers and dispensaries since the commencement of the
program.
Level two indicator. Improved referral system, measured as the
percentage of patients being registered as referral cases.
(g) ImDroved Curative Service
Level one indicator. At two health centers and four dispensaries
(randomly chosen), measure the positive responses to questions among
patients concerning satisfaction with the services they are receiving.
Level two indicator. At all health centers and all dispensaries
determine, the average number of supervisory visits last year.
(h) Sustainability of the Drug Revolving Fund
Level one indicator. Use accounting records to report on the existing
capital status of the DRF (essentially drug stock and cash less any
current liabilities) compared with current value of the working capital
that has been invested.
Level two indicator. Financial results of the DRF compared with
originally budgeted financial plans, and an analysis of the variance
between estimated and actual results.
(i) Cost Recovery
Level one indicator. Compare current prices with the replacement costs
of drugs (e.g., from UNICEF's drug price list), including any
additional add-ons and overhead charges.
Level two indicator. Make a coniparison between the revenues of the DRF
and the full costs of operation of the DRF, showing separately the cost
of sales, variable operating costs, fixed operating costs, capital
costs, etc.
(j) Financial Efficiency
Level one indicator. Use the accounting records to calculate the costs
of losses, waste, theft, drug expiring, etc., and express these as a
percentage of sales (to end users).
Level two indicator. Relate stocks of individual drugs to sales in
order to demonstrate stock turnover. Combine stock turnover with shelf
life, delivery interval and unit cost of stock in order to demonstrate
the efficiency of the level of stock held.



136 -                             ANNEX 4-8
Page 4 of 5
(k) Exemptions
Level one indicator. From the accounting records, calculate cost of
exemptions per patient treated and the total cost of exemptions per
head of population.
Level two indicator. Compare the cost of exemptions with the annual
cost of exemptions over the past three years.
(1) Accounting, Audit and Control
Level one indicator. Determine the number of facilities that have not
received at least one 'surprise" inspection and check by field
supervisors during the previous six months.
Level two indicator. Determine, for the previous 12 months, the
average and the longest number of weeks between the end of a month and
the presentation to senior management of a financial report, including
the month's trading results.
Critical Areas in Federal Training Component
In the Federal training component, it would not be appropriate to use
the same indicators as given above (see "d") for proper prescription
and dispensing in state EDPs, because the prescribing and dispensing
habits in university hospitals cannot be expected to be as rigid as in
primary health care facilities. Instead, two types of indicators would
be developed during the preparation of training material. The level
one indicator(s) should be linked to the kind of skills the trainee is
expected to have acquired during the training course and the level two
indicator(s) would represent the minimum standard requirements that
should be followed during practice. Hence, a level one indicator would
be measured at the completion of the training and a level two indicator
would be measured during practice. (Minimum standard requirements for
practice have existed in the United States and elsewhere for a number
of years and could be used as guidelines.)
Critical Areas in the Other Aspects of the Federal Program
(a) Procurement
Level one indicator. Determine the amount and duration of shortages of
any essential drugs at the central and regional warehouses over the
previous six months. Record the reason for the shortage and when a
problem with the delivery schedule is involved, also record the
supplier.
Level two indicator. For the fifty most commonly drugs purchased
during the previous year, compare the prices paid through ICB, through
other forms of procurement if used, and international market prices.
(In addition, at the end of the project, there should be a
comprehensive review of the prices obtained under the project to
determine the impact of the economies of scale through bulk



- 137 -                             ANNEX 4-8
Page 5 of 5
procurement.)
(b) DrUR Registration
Level one indicator. Note the progress on enactment of new legislation
or amendment of existing drug and pharmacy acts to provide the
necessary legal back-up for drug registration.
Level two indicator. Progress on the development and subsequent
enforcement of new drug registration protocols and the status of the
backlog of drug registration applications.
(c) Drug Inspection
Level one indicator. The extent new sampling procedures have been
introduced and the number of samples collected and sent for testing to
the drug laboratories as a proportion of all drugs inspected.
Level two indicator. The number of consignments held up at ports in
relation to the samples collected and the time taken for release of
consignments from the ports.
(d) Drug Information
Level one indicator. With regard to the Drug Information Newsletter,
the number of issues and number of copies disseminated.
Level two indicator. Whether the annual technical bulletin has been
issued and sent to relevant Federal and state health institutions.
(e) Drug Quality
Level one indicator. Comparison of number of samples received by drug
testing laboratories, number actually analyzed, number awaiting
analysis, and average time taken between arrival and analysis of
samples.
Level two indicator. Annual inventory of reagents, chemicals, and
reference standards in order to reflect shortages and surpluses in the
following year's procurement. (In addition, an ad hoc committee should
review annually the progress on developing in-house, secondary
reference standards.)
(f) Hospital Pharmacies
Level one indicator. Results of one-time-only inspection and clearance
by the DFDAC of hospital pharmacy premises at all six participating
teaching hospitals prior to commencement of production.
Level two indicator. Results of annual inspection by DFDAC to ensure
that proper manufacturing procedures are being followed and that "good
manufacturing practices" are being maintained in accordance with WHO
standards.



ANNEX 4-9
- 138 -                             Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Basic Procedures for Procurement of DrugslL
1.        An important means whereby the Essential Drugs Project would help
increase the availability of drugs at economical prices is through more
efficient procurement. The procurement of drugs is more complex than the
procurement of many commodities, however, particularly since rigorous
quality assurance procedures must be applied at various steps. In
preparation for the Essential Drugs Project, the Federal Ministry of Health
(FMOH) is developing efficient procurement procedures and model documents
that are to be adopted by all the participating states and used by the FMOH
itself. These procedures, which are being designed to be consistent with
the Bank's guidelines for international competitive bidding (ICB), will deal
with special considerations associated with the procurement of drugs.
2.        Institutional arrangements.  A basic principle underlying the
proposed approach is that for the sake of efficiency, several services will
be provided on a common basis for all participating states and the FMOH to
facilitate their procuremsnt of drugs. Paramount among these common
services is the establishment and maintenance of a single list of
prequalified suppliers of essential drugs. Actual procurement would,
however, be carried out separately by the Federal and state procurement
units.
3.        Qualification of suppliers.  The supplier qualification system
would consist of two main elements: prequalification of suppliers and
continuing performance monitoring. Careful selection of suppliers--domestic
and foreign--and monitoring of their performance constitute two of the most
cost-effective quality assurance measures available to Nigeria. The scheme
would be limited to primary manufacturers of finished products since a major
determinant of quality is the extent to which the primary manufacturer
engages in Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which have been defined by
WHO ("Good Practices in the Manufacture and Quality Control of Drugs" in
Official Records of the WHO, No. 226, Annex 12, 1975). (An agent would be
permitted to bid only if authorized by a prequalified manufacturer to
represent him.) Even limiting prequalification to primary manufacturers may
result in a formidable task, however, for as many as 300 firms worldwide are
likely to complete forms and submit supporting documentation for evaluation.
For this volume, inspection visits to the applicants' manufacturing units
would be patently impossible so key documentation would need to be acquired
from independent third parties, e.g., national drug regulatory agencies in
the country of manufacture. The prequalification process is intended to
limit bidders to those with adequate experience and technical capacity,
strong performance records, and sufficient financial resources. Among the
proposed prequalification criteria are a minimum number of years in
manufacturing a given dosage form and a given product, a GMP certification
no less than two years old, provision of certified documentation on previous
1/   This annex is based on the results of a preparation consultancy on
procurement, which was commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Health.



- 139 -                           ANNEX 4-9
Page 2 of 3
contracts to provide drugs to developing countries, and audited financial
statements. Subsequent performance monitoring would require routine
reporting by the states and the Federal hospitals on specific quality or
performance problems being encountered. There would be provision for
removing marufacturers from the list if necessary. Manufacturers would be
required to update information annually, and periodically firms not on the
list would be permitted to apply for inclusion.
4.        Product and package specifications.  In the first instance, all
products to be procured using proceeds from the World Bank loan must appear
on a current and agreed essential drugs list such as the versions being
prepared and updated periodically by the states. Preparation of good
specifications would receive special attention since well-designed
specifications are an important further means of assuring quality. They
would use exclusively the official international non-proprietary names for
drugs ("generic names"), although, of course, branded products meeting the
specifications would be acceptable. For each product, specifications would
indicate the dosage form and content, including the acceptable range, which
would be based on the most appropriate pharmacopoeial standard in a given
case (e.g., the British, United States, or International Pharmacopoeia). As
packing standards and labelling are also important considerations in
procurement of drugs, the minimum standards to be met in this regard are
those given in WHO's statement on "Good Practices in the Manufacture and
Quality Control of Drugs,' along with certain additional specifications
related to tropicalized packaging components (bottles and closures).
Shelf life requirements would also be emphasized.
5.        Contract conditions.  Most contract conditions would be similar to
those for other commodities moving in international commerce. In addition,
however, suppliers would be required to submit with each consignment a
certificate giving the results of various quality assurance tests
(quantitative assays, chemical analysis, sterility, microbial limit test,
etc.). Certain drugs would need to be shipped as 'cold chamber cargo" and
be suitable laLelled. There would be a clause specifying the conditions
under which sub-standard products could be rejected.
6.        Basic procurement procedures and steps.  Each procurement unit
would institute procurement on an annual basis, with deliveries of most
items scheduled twice during the year. Only prequalified suppliers would be
permitted to participate. Prices would be quoted on the basis of fixed
amounts for the first shipment and estimated amounts for the second and any
subsequent shipments, which would be confirmed at least three months before
the expected delivery date. Retaining the right to adjust the amount of the
second shipment would help the procurement unitc to respond to changes in
demand. Phased or staggered deliveries would also reduce the pressure on
storage faciiities and result in fresher stock. Specific steps in the
procurement process are given below in the Attachment.
7.        Quality assurance system.  The most cost-effective steps in
quality assurance, as noted above, are proper prequalification of suppliers
and development of sound specifications. In addition, all suppliers would
need to submit quality control documentation with each consignment.
Finally, arriving shipments would be subject to spot checks, which would
become more effective over time as a result of the project's inputs to



- 140 -                           ANNEX 4-9
Page 3 of 3
improve the local quality assurance capacity. Targeting sampling would be
established, emphasizing those drugs that are more sensitive therapeutically
or environmentally. To the extent that the system for prequalification or
subsequent perf-rmance monitoring classifies some suppliers as "amber,"
their products would also be targeted for a greater concentration of
testing. In the short run, enforcement would be based on the ability to
seek replacement of defective products in accordance with contract terms
and, if required, to remove a supplier from the prequalified list.
Eventually, project support for strengthened registration, along with
enforcement based on adequate legal authority, would undergird the above
procedures.
8.        Procurement information service.  The project will support the
development of a procurement information service. As mentioned above,
information would be shared among the states and the FMOH regarding the
performance of individual suppliers. Information on international market
prices for various drugs commonly being procured in Nigeria would also be
exchanged. In addition, provision is being made for procurement staff to
meet periodically and to receive specialized in-service training.
9.        Exemptions.  As a result of unanticipated crises, such as sudden
epidemics or natural disasters, drugs would occasionally need to be procured
on an emergency basis. Under these circumstances and provided a crisis has
been declared by the appropriate authority, the Federal or state CPUs would
be able to use other, procurem:nt methods to meet the exigencies.
Specifically, project procurement arrangements permit the use of local or
international direct shopping in such cases, with an upper limit of $60,000
at any one time. Quotations must be obtained from at least three eligible
suppliers which could include international agencies, such as UNICEF. In
view of the urgency associated with obtaining drugs under these
circumstances, delivery times could be taken into account in supplier
selection. No domestic preference applies, however, wh.en direct shopping
procedures are used. In the case of routine requirements for products not
likely to attract international bidders, due, for instance, to the small
volume involved, the FMOH or a state may seek agreement from the Bank to
place such items on the "reserve procurement" list and to use other forms of
procurement. Loan funds could not be disbursed for items purchased under
this provision, however.



- 141 -              ATTACHMENT to ANNEX 4-9
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIAs ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Tentative List of Steps in Procurement of Drugs by Each State
As an outcome of discussions between state officials and the
Appraisal Mission in June 1988, the following have been tentatively
identified as the main steps in the procurement of drugs using World Bank
guidelines for international competitive bidding (ICB):
(1) Conducting an annual review of the State's essential drugs list to
update it as necessary;
(2) If list has been adjusted, obtaining the concurrence of the Federal
Ministry of Health (FMOH) to the revised list;
(3) Estimating the required quantities of each drug, using an appropriate
combination of the consumption- and morbidity-based approaches;
(4) Estimating the cost of the required drugs and determining that adequate
funds are available from a combination of the revolving fund and the
special loan account (the latter being intended *o meet the
requirements for incremental capital);
(5) Seeking concurrence from the World Bank to proposed changes, if any, in
the pre-approved standard procurement documentation (instructions to
bidders, detailed specifications, and draft contracts);
(6) Obtaining from FMOH the current version of the pre-qualified list of
manufacturers/suppliers (Nigerian and foreign) that have been screened
for reliability and ability to provide quality essential drugs;
(7) Contacting all manufacturers/suppliers on the list to offer bidding
documents to those that are interested in participating in the
procurement and selling the bidding documents to those that ask for
them;
(8) Awaiting the submission of bids by interested manufacturers/suppliers
(at least 45 days and probably longer after bid documents are issued
per the deadline for bid submissions stated in the bid documents);
(9) Opening publicly all bids at a time and place pre-announced in the bid
documents and reading aloud the name of each bidder and his bid prices
including discounts if any and other relevant details;
(10) After screening the bids for their basic responsiveness, evaluating
them to determine the lowest evaluated bid on the basis of criteria and
procedures spelled out in the bidding documents, taking into account,
if applicable, the margin of preference (maximum of 15Z) for domestic
manufacturers as permitted by World Bank procedures provided that the
manufacturing cost includes a value added equal to at least 202 of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods;



- 142 -              ATTACHMENT to ANNEX 4-9
Page 2 of 2
(11) Seeking clea:ance from the World Bank with the evaluation report and
with the proposed contract award(s);
(12) Ratifying the proposed award(s) by an appropriate tenders board or
other body;
(13) Awarding the contract(s) to the lowest evaluated responsive bidders;
(14) Paying down payments or opening letters of credit as stipulated in the
contract(s);
(15) Inspecting (or arranging for inspection of) the drugs and checking on
quality as provided for in the contract;
(16) Accepting or rejecting the order or part thereof on basis of inspection
and quality assurance checks;
(17) Receiving delivery of the initial shipment and of any subsequent
deliveries (which would typically be on a semi-annual basis);
(18) Paying any retention monies due the manufacturer/supplier per the
contract terms;
(19) Reviewing the above process, especially the performance of suppliers in
order to submit information to the FMOH for its register of
prequalified suppliers;
(20) Obtaining information through the management information system on
consumption etc. to adjust the following year's orders; and
(21) Providing, as part of the annual report on project implementation,
procurement status reports to the FMOH for consolidation and further
transmittal to the World Bank.



- 143 -
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT                        ANNEX 4-10
Summary of Consultancies                          Page 1 of 2
Timing and          Likely Source
Duration          -----
Responsible Agency              Subject Matter            (Manmonths)         Local   Foreign
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-------------------
A) Dept. of Food I Drug
Administration A Control
(FMOH)                      1) Procurement management     yr 1 = 12 MM                   X
2) Inventory management        yr 1 = 12 MM                  X
A distribution
3)  Drug information          yr 1 = 12 MU          X
management
4)  Drug registration          yr I   8 MM                   X
6)  Drug Information           yr 1 = 8 MM;                  X
yr 2   6 MM
8)  Drug regulation A          yr 1   6 MM                   x
enforcement
7)  Instrumentation            yr 1   6 MM;
Abiomedical               yr 2   6 MM                    X
engineering
8)  Quality control            yr 1 = 6 MM;                  x
yr 2 = 6 MM;
yr 8 = 8 MM;
yr 4 = 6 MM
B)  Primary Health Care Dept-   1)  Preparation of manuals    Lump sum contract    X          X
Essential Drugs Unit             for state essential
(FMOH)                           drugs programs
2)  Design of training         Lump sum contract    X        X
8)  Monitoring A evaluation   Lump sum contract    X         X
systems for state
programs
4)  Overall essential drugs   yr 2   2 MM;                   X
program implementation    yr 3 = 1 MM
yr 4 a 1 MM;
yr 6 - 2 MM
6)  Assistance to states       yr 1 s 24 MM         X
In development of
DRFs
6)  Preparation of IEC         yr 1 = 8 MM;         x
prototype materials       yr 2 * 2 MM
7)  Reorientation of basic    yr 1 = 6 MM;
curricula                 yr 8 = 2 MM           X
8)  Further devolopment of    yr 1 = 12 MM;         X
MIS guidelinos &          yr 2 = 1 MM
associated
computerization
9)  Financial analyst to       yr 1 - yr 6
oversee state programs    3 12 MM each          X



- 144 -
ANNEX 4-10
__________
Page 2 of 2
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__-----------------
Timing ond        Likely Source
Duration          -------------
Responsible Agency            Subject Matter             (Manmonths)        Local   Foreign
C)  Bendel State Essential      1)  Financial management      yr 1 = 26 MM;         X
Drugs Management Unit                                     yr 2 = 17 MM
2)  Technical support for     yr 1 - yr 6          X
establishmont and
operation of DRFsD
procurement systms,
etc. (MB. and other
local firms)
D)  Cross River State           1)  Planning of training A    yr 1 = 6 MM;          X
Essential Drugs                 supervision systems       yr 8 = 6 MM
Management Unit
2)  Development of            yr 1 = 6 MM;         X
curriculum A              yr 8 = 6 MM
adaptation of training
materials
3)  Evaluation A monitoring   yr 2 = 6 MM;         X
yr 4 = 8 MM
4)  Stores management         yr 1 = 8 MM;         X
yr 2 = 8 MM
5)  Technical support for     yr 1 - yr 6          X
establishment and
operation of DRFs,
procurement systems etc.
(MDs and other local
firms)
E)  Gongola State Essential     1)  Financial management      yr 1 = 12 MM;         X
Drugs Management Unit                                     yr 2 = 6 MM
yr 3 = 6 MM
2)  Technical support for     yr 1 - yr 6          X
establishment and
operation of DRFs,
procurement systems, etc.
(M8s and other local
firms)
F)  Kwara State Essential       1)  Financial manageomnt      yr 1 = 8 MI;          X
Drugs Management Unit                                     yr 2 = 4 MM
2)  Technical support for     yr I - yr 2          X
establishment and
operation of DRFs,
procurement systems,
etc. (MBs and other
local firms)



- 145 -
ANNEX 4-11
Page 1 of 1
NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Projected Disbursements       Proportion Disbursed
(in US$ millions)
Bank Fiscal
Year and         Semester   Cumulative      Estimate for    Nigeria
Semester                                    This Project    Profile
1991   1st         0             0                OX              OZ
2nd        1.4           1.4              22              12
1992   1st         4.0           5.4              82              32
2nd        5.5          10.9             162              82
1993   1st         6.8          17.7             262             162
2nd        8.2          25.9             382             242
1994   1st         9.5          35.4             522            .34Z
2nd        8.2          43.6             642             44Z
1995   1st         6.8          50.4             742             532
2nd        5.4          55.8             82Z             622
1996   1st         4.1          59.9             882             702
2nd        2.7          62.6             922             772
1997   1st         2.8          65.4             962             87Z
2nd        2.7          68.1            1OOZ             93Z
1998   1st          --            --                             972
2nd         __            _ -1002
Assumes loan effectiveness in June 1990
Estimated date of project completion: December 31, 1996
Estimated date of project closing: June 30, 1997



- 146 -
ANNEX 4-12
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIAt ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Setting Up an Effective Cost Recovery System:
An Operational Definition
Introduction
1.        A condition of disbursement for initial drug purchases is the
establishment of an effective cost recovery system. This Annex provides an
operational definition of what constitutes a suitable system. It applies to
each state joining the project and to the Federal Ministry of Health's
essential erugs program for Federal hospitals.
2.        Prior to disbursement for initial drug purchases, it will be the
responsibility of the merchant bank providing the agreed oversight functions
for that particular state (and the World Bank in the case of the Federal
component) to confirm that the requirements set out below have been complied
with in a satisfactory manner.
Requirements for an Effective Cost Recovery System
3.        In order to demonstrate that an effective cost recovery system has
been established, it is necessary to have completed at least the following
actions:
(a) to have, in post, on a full-time basis, an Essential Drugs Financial
Controller with appropriate experience and qualifications. (Model
Terms of Reference for this appointment are given in Annex 4-7.)
(b) to have prepared in writing and to have approved, by the Commissioners
(or equivalent for Federal Government) of Health and Finance, policies
concerning the financial management of drug revolving funds (DRFs) re:
- the extent of cost recovery (immediate objectives and time-bound,
medium-term objectives);
- the level, means of financing, and methods of payment of
exemptions and general subsidies (if any);
- the form, structure, level (including in relation to the open
market), and review of prices;
- the operation of DRFs (to be self-sufficient, demand-led trading
accounts, using the principles of "cash and carry" for sales and
retaining all proceeds from drug sales fully separated from
Government finances);
- the accounting, control and external audit arrangements needed to
reflect the trading nature of DRFs and the high value of the drug
stocks;
- the internal and external monitoring and reporting arrangements
for DRFs; and
- the organization, management structure (including the roles,
powers, and obligations of each tier of management), and staffing
of the DRF.



- 147 -
ANNEX 4-12
Page 2 of 3
(c) to have prepared an initial, multi-year financial plan of operation for
the DRF, including showing all operational overhead costs and,
separately, expenditure on drug seed stock, and showing the total
finance required from each of the various sources. To have
demonstrated the affordability of the proposals and to have obtained
the agreement of each of the Government sources of finance to make the
necessary budget provisions, including the endorsement of the overall
financial plan by the Ministry of Finance. (The annual update of this
plan will form the basis of discussions with the Federal Ministry of
Health and the World Bank to determine the amount of seed stock to be
financed by the project in the forthcoming year.)
(d) to have agreed and documented the conditions to be met by each facility
prior to its receiving any project-financed drugs (para 4).
(e) to have agreed and documented the form and content of the legally
binding agreement between the State and a Local Government (Federal
Ministry of Health and a Federal hospital) prior to its involvement in
the project.
(f) to have concluded all actions required by sections (d) and (e) above
in respect of all entities receiving the initial supplies of drugs.
Financial Management Requirements Prior to Providing Drugs to a Facility
4.        It is especially important that each facility should have prepared
fully all the steps necessary for the efficient, economical and effective
operation of DRFs prior to it receiving any project-funded drugs. In order
that this can be ensured, there should be a formal review of the adequacy of
financial systems at a facility (including central stores) prior to the
distribution of new seed stock drugs. This should be the responsibility of
the Financial Controller, who should prepare and sign a report, prior to the
distribution of any project-financed drugs, certifying that adequate systems
exist at the facility, or identifying the weaknesses that have to be
eliminated before the facility can handle project-financed drugs. (The duty
of inspecting facilities may be delegated to appropriately senior staff--for
example to the Treasurer or Chief Accountant of a Local Government for its
own dispensaries--but not the responsibility, which remains with the
Financial Controller. The Financial Controller should personally inspect
arrangements at central, regional and local goverwnment stores/headquarters,
at State hospitals and at major health centers. Details of the limits of
any delegated authority should be incorporated in Financial Regulations.)
5.        The inspection and report should confirm that the following
minimum conditions are satisfied:
(a) a suitably experienced and qualified individual has been designated to
be responsible for financial management at the facility;
(b) the organizativ.sal structure of the facility, and the responsibilities
of each section (or, as appropriate, individual) within the structure
is clear;
(c) staff are in post, on a full-time basis where appropriate;
(d) adequate accounting and financial management systems have been prepared
which are in accordance with sound accounting practices and these will



- 148 -
ANNEX 4-12
Page 3 of 3
be applied consistently by the facility throughout the project;
(e) financial managemer.t systems are fully documented, including written
Financial Regulations, and that the facility has an adequate supply of
these documents;
(f) books of account are prepared, and any opening balances written in (or
that adequate arrangements exist to value any existing stocks and other
balances which will be transferred to the DRF, and to record the same
in the books of account);
(g) initial training in the operation of financial management systems has
been completed;
(h) adequate supplies of accounting books and controlled stationery
(receipts, order books, etc.) are available;
(i) arrangements for the safe collection and storage of cash have been
made, and that any necessary bank accounts have been opened;
(j) a program of supervision, assistance and additional training during the
introduction of systems to the facility has been prepared and agreed
(including specification of the number and timing of man-days of
assistance and the designation of the staff to provide the assistance);
(k) monitoring arrangements have been specified, including the timin'g.
content and responsibility for preparing monitoring reports and
management information to be provided to higher authorities.
6.        The annual external audits of DRFs should review and comment upon
the extent to which these requirements have been applied, the thoroughness
with which the actions implied by these requirements have been undertaken,
and the need for any amendment to these requirements based upon the lessons
of experience.



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Overview of Accounts Being Established under the Proiect
Implementing Entity                                                         Accounts
A. Each Participating State's
Essential Drugs Program                1.   Proiect Account - for periodic deposit of counterpart funds from
the state  ealth budget.
2.   Special Account* - for periodic deposit of World Bank loan funds
aesigntea tor the state (maintained on behalf of the state by
a merchant bank).
3.   DRF Account - for deposit of funds generated by sales of drugs
and, as agreed, for deposits of supplemental state funds to
cover the cost of exempt categories of patients (e.g., those
with leprosy and tuberculosis}, shortfalls due to gradual
phasing in of cost recovery, etc.
B.  Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH)   1.   Proiect Account (A) - for periodic deposit of counterpart funds
trom  MUMO'S Duaget for operations of the Essential Drugs Unit,
Department of Primary Health Care.
2.   Proiect Account (B) - for periodic deposit of counterpart funds
trom MFOs budget for the Federal Essential Drugs Programme
(Federal hospitals, quality assurance, and drug information).
3.   Special Account* - for periodic deposit of World Bank loan funds
designated tor support of the Essential Drugs Unit, Department
of Primary Health Care, and for the Federal Essential Drugs
Programme.
4.   DRF Account - for deposit of funds generated by sales of drugs
in Federal ihospitals, and, as agreed, for deposits of
supplemental federal funds to cover the cost of exempt
categories of patients (e.g., those with leprosy and
tuberculosis), etc.
All special accounts would be denominated in U.S. dollars.
Z..



NIGERIA: ESSENTIAL, DRUGS PROJECT
Projected Drug Prices Under Project as Percentage of Current Prices
Based on comparisons of 43 drugs.
60
50  -
40-
30-
20-
10 
0 
State MOH,HMB                    Teaching Hosp.                    Private Pharm.
z
Markup 25%,Trens.20%                       Markup 50%,Trans.25%
Statewide Drug Revolving Fund
Source: "Nigeria Essential Drugs Project:. Analysis of Projected Drug Revolving Fund Prices -
Revisited," Management Sciences for Health, 4 November 1988.



- 151 -
NIGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref.                                                                  Document
No.                                                                     Code
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Drug Supply Subsector
Al.  Nigerian Essential Drugs Programme--Policy and
Programme Description, Federal Ministry of Health,
July 1987.                                                        D26173
A2.  National Workshop on Essential Drugs--Workshop Sourcebook,
Federal Ministry of Health, December 1986.                        D26174
A3.  National Workshops on Essential Drugs--Proceedings (Lagos,
1-5 and 8-12 December 1986), including separate annex of        D26175 -
State Essential Drug Lists, Federal Ministry of Health.            D26176
A4.  National Workshop for Teaching and Specialist Hospitals.
Nigerian Essential Drugs Programme, Federal Ministry of          D26177 -
Health, 26-30 October 1987,  I. Background Materials;              D26178
II. Proceedings.
A5.  Nigeria: Sokoto State Health Project (Loan 2503-UNI):
Essential Drugs Programme and Drugs Revolving Fund, Report
of a WHO Mission, 14 April-2 May 1986.                            D26179
A6.  Nigeria: Imo State Health and Population Project: Essential
Drugs Programme and Drug Revolving Fund, Report of a WHO
Mission, 8-21 September 1986.                                      D26180
A7.  The Use of Essential Drugs and Model List of Essential
Drugs (Fourth Revision), Technical Report Series No. 722,
WHO, 1985.                                                         D26181
A8.  Assessment of Drug Revolving Fund Experiences in Nigeria,
PRITECH Project, April-May 1988 (draft).                          D26182
A9.  Underutilization of Public Sector Health Facilities in
Imo State Nigeria: A Study with Focus Groups, E. B. Attah,
PHN Technical Note 86-1, World Bank, January 1986.                 D26183
A10. Drug Financing Experiences in Nigeria: State Experiences
and Teaching Hospital Experiences, 1986-1987.                      D26184
All. Nigerian National Drug Formulary and Essential Drugs List,
Federal Ministry of Health, 1986.                                  D26185



- 152 -
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Essential Drugs Project
B1. Nigerian Essential Drugs Project: Consolidated Project
Design, Federal Ministry of Health, 30 September 1987.              D26186
B2. Proposal for Statewide Essential Drugs Project: Bendel
State, Ministry of Health and State Health Management Board,
Benin City, July 1987 [version used by other states as a          D26187 -
prototype; Bendel State Proposal (Revised), December 1988.          D26188
B3. Proposals for Cross River State Essential Drugs Programme,
Ministry of Health, Calabar, August 1988.                           D26189
B4. Proposal for Statewide Essential Drugs Programme: Gongola
State, Yola, November 1988.                                         D26190
B5. Proposal for Statewide Essential Drugs Programme: Kwara State,
Ministry of Health, Ilorin, May 1988 [draft].                       D26192
B6. Nigeria Essential Drugs Programme: Guidelines for Planning
and Implementing Statewide Essential Drugs Programmes and
World Bank-Assisted Projects, Federal Ministry of Health,
February 1988 [draft].                                              D26193
B7. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Logistics Improvement
Study, Report of a WHO Mission, 5-17 April 1987.                    D26194
B8. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Formal and Continuing
Education in Essential Drugs, Report of a WHO Mission,
17 May-5 June 1987.                                                 D26195
B9. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Information, Education and
Communication, Report of a WHO Mission, 7-19 June 1987.             D26196
B10. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Initial Assessment of the
Domestic Production of Essential Drugs, Report of a WHO
Mission, 14-26 June 1987.                                           D26197
Bil. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Consultancy on Drug
Quality Assurance and Drug Registration/Information, Report
of WHO Missions, 30 June-19 July 1987 and 14 July-31
July 1987.                                                          D26198
B12. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Study of Potential for
Private Sector Participation in Drugs Supply, Report of
a WHO Mission, 10 August 1987.                                      D26199
B13. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Consultancy on Drug
Procurement Strategy and Operational Guidelines, Part I:
Present Procurement System and Consideration for Change;
Part II: Operational Guidelines for Drug Procurement under    D26200 -
the Project, January 9, 1989.                                       D26201



- 153 -
B14. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Development of a Framework
for Drug Revolving Fund Financial Management, Report of a
WHO Mission, April-May 1988.                                        D26202
B15. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Analysis of Projected Drug
Revolving Fund Prices -- Revisited, Management Sciences
for Health, 4 November 1988.                                        D26203
B16. Nigeria Essential Drugs Programme: WHO-Coordinated Activities
during 1987 in Nigeria, WHO, DAP!38.1 Rev 1.                        D26210
B17. Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Manual for Quantification
of Drug Requirements with Special Emphasis on Total
Capitalisation Requirements, FMOH and WHO, May 1988.                D26211
B18. Development Unit for the Essential Drugs Programme, Project
Document, Project of the Government of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria, Uniteu Nations Development Programme, 19
November 1987.                                                      D26212
B19. Draft Proposal for Statewide Essential Drugs Project: Kano
State, Ministry of Health, October 1987.                            D26213
B20. Development of Clinical Manuals for Education in Rational
Drug Use, Report of a Consultancy, G._.A. Walker and A.A.
Olukoya, 28 November - 12 December 1988.                            D26214
C.   Selected Working Papers and Other Materials Prepared by Bank Staff
and Consultants
Cl.  Job Descriptions for Staff of the Essential Drugs Unit,
Federal Ministry of Health, Jens Hasfeldt, consultant,
July 1988.                                                          D26215
C2.  Projections of Annual Drug Requirements, Needed Capitalization,
and Levels of Procurement, Graeme Lee,consultant [computer
printouts based on C5 below].                                       D26216
C3.  Essential Drugs Project, Nigeria - Institutional Review
Component: Mission Report, J.K. Satia, consultant, 6 September
1988.                                                               D26217
C4.  Detailed Cost Tables for the Essential Drugs Project:
I. Federal Programme; II. Bendel State; III. Cross River          D26218 -
State; IV. Gongola State; V. Kwara State; VI. Total Project.    D26223
C5.  Minutes of the Technical Discussions for Federal EDP
Component, [V. Kamar, February 1989].                               D26228
C6.  Nigeria Essential Drugs Project: Review of Issues
Concerning Funding Mechanisms, Graeme Lee, consultant,
30 November 1987.                                                   D26229



- 154 -
C7. Terms of Reference: Development of a Financial Management
Framework for Federal-level Drug Revolving Funds, Graeme Lee,
consultant, and David Radel, 12 August 1988.                        D26231
C8. Draft Job Descriptions: I. Program Coordinator; II. State-
level FinanLial Controller, 1988.                                   D26233



NICGERIA
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROJECT
Location of Project States and
< ~~ =>~C~ Major National Activities, 
so\                 <+                                                                       MAIDUGUBORNO  * M
Z7    K NrCO                 RNNO A                   tae wthongon
<J  ,5         / <         N       A          >      (3 g~~~UNAAUCHI o             
J Reservoir NIGER                                 \                         Gomi  _
,2_f %                 L~~~MINNA z T                                               ( 
S \ ~~~~ILORIN_ '  LTAJ g
t  _>                                                                                   -232~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rjc States es
LA~~~~~~~~~~~~eu  .GOSNGOLA                                                                 St}atewithonalgHealt
IleRI O   3    lStOw                   }                r                       o   Shealth projects
\ TeachingH Hspitalsn
Schools ofMdcine
MADAN    AK* Specialist Hospitals
ABEOKUTA  D                         A                                    4M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Hospital Pharmacies
G                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Central and Regional
Medical Stores
NIN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFederalQult
7*N  B                                           As~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~surance Laboratories
*Schools of Phvarmacy
LAGOS                                                    -MILENational Health
@  I B M  \1VZone Boundaries
MO                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Selected Towns
CALABAR                              ~~~~~~~~~~~State Capitals
Gruine *9   National Capital
KILOMETERS 0,~~      1    ~           River
VIA 'A-                           -   ~~~~~~~~~~State Boundaries
MILES 0 20              ~~~~~International
IBOM  ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ ~           - Boundaries              (
-- ----- 0



