Page  1
                                        January 5, 1993
The Honourable Minister
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 14
Garki, Abuja
Nigeria
The Honourable Commissioner
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Delta State
Nigeria
The Honourable Commissioner
Ministry of Finance, Commerce and Industry
Edo State
Nigeria
The Honourable Commissioner
Ministry of Finance, Commerce,
Trade and Industries
Adamawa State
Nigeria
The Honourable Commissioner
Ministry of Finance, Commerce and Industry
Taraba State
Nigeria
The Honourable Commissioner
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
Kogi State
Nigeria
The Honourable Commissioner
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development
Kwara State
Nigeria
Dear Sirs:
          Re:  Loan NO. 3125 UNI (Essential Drugs Project)
               Amendment of Loan and Project Agreements
     Please refer to the loan Agreement (Essential Drugs Project)
between the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the Borrower) and the
International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (the Bank)
dated May 7, 1990 and the related Project Agreements of same date
between the Bank, Bendel State of Nigeria (Bendel State), Gongola
State of Nigeria (Gongola State) and Kwara State of Nigeria (Kwara
State) (hereinafter together called the former Project States).
     The creation by the Borrower of new States of Nigeria (the new
Project States) to replace the former Project States named above,
made it necessary to revise provisions of the Loan Agreement and the
Project Agreements to permit each of the new Project States to
assume the respective obligations and benefits of the former Project
States under the Project.
     The Bank, accordingly, held discussions with representatives
of the Borrower and the new Project States to determine the required
arrangements.  The Bank, on the basis of the discussions, hereby
proposes that the Loan Agreement and the related Project Agreements
be continued in force subject to the amendments set out below:
A:   Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.   Recital (B) shall be deleted and replaced by the following new
Page  2
Recital:
     "(B) Parts A through D of the Project will, except as
     otherwise provided, be carried out with the Borrower's
     assistance, by Delta State of Nigeria (Delta State), Edo State
     of Nigeria (Edo State), Cross River State of Nigeria (Cross
     River State), Adamawa State of Nigeria (Adamawa State), Taraba
     State of Nigeria (Taraba State), Kogi State of Nigeria (Kogi
     State) and Kwara State of Nigeria (Kwara State), (hereinafter
     together called the new Project States) and the Borrower, as
     part of such assistance, will relend to the new Project States
     proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and"
2.   The Project Agreement between the Association and a former
Project State shall apply, mutandis, to the related new Project
State, as if such new Project State were a party thereto.
Accordingly:
     (a)  the Bendel State Project Agreement shall be renamed and
          referred to as the Delta and Edo States Project
          Agreement;
     (b)  the Gongola State Project Agreement shall be renamed and
          referred to as the Adamawa and Taraba States Project
          Agreement;
     (c)  the Kwara State Project Agreement shall be renamed and
          referred to as the Kogi and Kwara States Project
          Agreement; and
     (d)  unless the context otherwise requires, any reference in
          the Loan Agreement to:
          (i)  "Bendel State" shall be construed as a reference
               to Delta State and Edo State acting severally;
          (ii) "Gongola State" shall be construed as a reference
               to Adamawa State and Taraba State acting
               severally;
          (iii)"Kwara State" shall be construed as a reference
               to Kogi State and Kwara State acting severally;
               and
          (iv) "Project Agreement" shall be construed as a
               reference to the Project Agreement to which each
               new Project State by virtue of this paragraph of
               this letter is deemed to be a party.
3.   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and a
former Project State shall apply, mutatis mutandis to the new
Project State, as if the new Project State were a party thereto.
Accordingly:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
          the former Bendel State shall be renamed and referred to
          as the Delta and Edo States Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (b)  the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
          and the former Gongola State shall be renamed and
          referred to as the Adamawa and Taraba States Subsidiary
          Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
          the former Kwara State shall be renamed and referred to
          as the Kogi and Kwara States Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
4.   Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 shall be deleted and replaced by
the following new paragraph:
     "(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
          open and maintain (or cause to be opened and maintained)
Page  3
          in dollars special deposit accounts for FMOH and the
          Project States in commercial or merchant banks on terms
          and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
          appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
          attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the
          Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
          provisions of SCHEDULE 5 TO THIS AGREEMENT AND (the
          preceding words are capitalised for the purpose only of
          indicating that they are the words to be inserted in
          this sentence) Schedule 2 to the Project Agreements."
5.   The table of allocation of proceeds of the Loan in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 shall be deleted and replaced by the following new
table:
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated       % of
                         (Expressed in          Expenditures
 Category                SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)Essential Drugs                              100% of foreign
   Stock:                                       expenditures
                                                and 100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
   (a)    (i) Delta State       2,850,000
          (ii)Edo State         2,850,000
   (b)    Cross River State     8,500,000
   (c)    (i) Adamawa State     3,450,000
          (ii)Taraba State      3,450,000
   (d)    (i) Kogi State        1,250,000
          (ii)Kwara State       2,250,000
   (e)    FMOH                 15,100,000
(2)Vehicles, equipment and                      100% of foreign
   materials:                                   expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
   (a)    (i) Delta State         800,000
          (ii)Edo State           800,000
   (b)    Cross River State       800,000
   (c)    (i) Adamawa State       660,000
          (ii)Taraba State        540,000
   (d)    (i) Kogi State          215,000
          (ii)Kwara State         385,000
   (e)    FMOH                  2,500,000
(3)Consultants' services,                       100%
   fellowships and studies:
   (a)    (i) Delta State         350,000
          (ii)Edo State           350,000
   (b)    Cross River State       800,000
Page  4
   (c)    (i) Adamawa State       275,000
          (ii)Taraba State        225,000
   (d)    (i) Kogi State          110,000
          (ii)Kwara State         190,000
   (e)    FMOH                  1,800,000
(4)Civil works for Central                      85%
   Medical Stores:
   (a)    (i) Delta State         500,000
          (ii)Edo state           100,000
   (b)    Cross River State
   (c)    (i) Adamawa State       300,000
          (ii)Taraba State        600,000
   (d)    (i) Kogi State          350,000
          (ii)Kwara State
   (e)    FMOH                  1,300,000
(5)Future Project Preparation     600,000
   Funds (FMOH)
(6)Unallocated:
   (a)    (i) Delta State         400,000
          (ii)Edo State           800,000
   (b)    Cross River State     3,800,000
   (c)    (i) Adamawa State     1,315,000
          (ii)Taraba State        885,000
   (d)    (i) Kogi State          145,000
          (ii)Kwara State         905,000
   (e)    FMOH                  5,600,000
          TOTAL                68,100,000
B:  Amendments to the Bendel State Project Agreement
1.  Delta State and Edo State hereby agree that:
    (a)   the Bendel State Project Agreement shall: (i) be renamed
          and referred to as the Delta and Edo States Project
          Agreement; and (ii) apply, mutantis mutandis, to Delta
          State and Edo State severally but not jointly as if they
          were parties thereto; and
    (b)   the Bendel State Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall: (i)
          be renamed and referred to as the Delta and Edo States
          Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (ii) apply, mutatis
          mutandis, to Delta State and Edo State severally but not
          jointly as if they were parties thereto.
2.  Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference in the
Bendel State Project Agreement to:
Page  5
    (a)   Bendel State shall be construed as a reference to Delta
          State and Edo State acting severally; and
    (b)   Bendel State Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be
          construed as a reference to the Delta and Edo States
          Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
3.  Recital (B) shall be deleted and replaced by the following new
Recital:
    "(B)  by the Loan Agreement the Borrower shall relend under
          a subsidiary loan agreement (the Delta and Edo States
          Subsidiary Loan Agreement) the amounts allocated to
          Delta State and Edo State pursuant to Schedule 1 to the
          Loan Agreement.  It is estimated that the amounts to be
          relent to: (i) Delta State shall be $4.9 million
          equivalent; and (ii)  Edo  State shall be $4.9 million
          equivalent."
4. Paragraph (b) of Section 2.01 shall be deleted and replaced by
the following new paragraph:
     "(b) (i)  Delta State shall: (A) provide in its annual
          budget amounts sufficient to cover Delta State's
          counterpart contributions to the costs of the Project;
          (B) open and maintain at a commercial or merchant bank
          a project account (the Delta State Project Account) to
          be used exclusively for expenditures relating to the
          Project; and (C) pay into the Delta State Project
          Account, quarterly in advance, the respective
          counterpart contributions of Delta State.  The Borrower,
          the Bank and Delta State estimate the said counterpart
          contributions to amount to $1,250,000 equivalent over
          the Project period.
          (ii) Edo State shall: (A) provide in its annual budget
          amounts sufficient to cover Edo State's counterpart
          contributions to the costs of the Project; (B) open and
          maintain at a commercial or merchant bank a project
          account (the Edo State Project Account) to be used
          exclusively for expenditures relating to the Project;
          and (C) pay into the Edo State Project Account,
          quarterly in advance, the respective counterpart
          contributions of Edo State.  The Borrower, the Bank and
          Edo State estimate the said counterpart contributions to
          amount to $1,250,000 equivalent over the Project
          period."
4.   The address specified in Section 5.01 in relation to the
former Bendel State shall be deleted and replaced by the following
new addresses:
     "For Delta State:
          The Honourable Commissioner
          Ministry of Finance and
          Economic Planning
          P.M.B. 5002
          Asaba, Delta State
          Nigeria
     For Edo State:
          The Honourable Commissioner
          Ministry of Finance, Commerce
          and Industry
          P.M.B. 1059
          Benin City, Edo State
          Nigeria
5.   Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 shall be deleted and replaced by the
following new paragraph:
Page  6
          "1.  For purposes of this Schedule:
          (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means with respect
               to: (i) Delta State, Categories (1)(a)(i),
               (2)(a)(i), (3)(a)(i) and (4)(a)(i) set forth in
               the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
               Loan Agreement; and (ii) Edo State, Categories
               (1)(a)(ii), (2)(a)(ii), (3)(a)(ii) and (4)(a)(ii)
               set forth in the said Schedule;
          (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
               expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of
               goods and services required for the Project and
               to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
               allocated from time to time to the eligible
               Categories in accordance with the provisions of
               Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and
          (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
               to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
               deposited into the Delta Special Account or the
               Edo Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
               of this Schedule equivalent to: (i) $600,000 for
               Delta State; and (ii) $600,000 for Edo State."
6.   Paragraph 1 (b) of Part C of Schedule 3 shall be deleted and
replaced by the following new paragraph:
     "(b) All drugs procured by Delta State or Edo State estimated
          to cost $60,000 equivalent or more but less than
          $300,000 equivalent per bid package (up to an aggregate
          amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent for each State)
          may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
          competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
          with procedures satisfactory to the Bank."
7.   Paragraph  2 of Part C of Schedule 3 shall be deleted and
replaced by the following new paragraph:
     "2.  Drugs required in health emergencies duly declared by
          Federal or State authorities and items or groups of
          items estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent (up
          to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent
          for Delta State and $300,000 equivalent for Edo State)
          may be procured by each State under contracts awarded on
          the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
          from a list of at least three local or international
          suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
          with procedures acceptable to the Bank."
C:Amendments to the Gongola State Project Agreement
1.Adamawa State and Taraba State hereby agree that:
     (a)  the Gongola State Project Agreement shall:  (i) be
          renamed and  referred to as to as the Adamawa and Taraba
          States Project  Agreement; and (ii) apply, mutantis
          mutandis, to Adamawa State and Taraba State severally
          but not jointly as if they were parties thereto;
          and
     (b)  the Gongola State Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall: (i)
          be renamed  and  referred to as the Adamawa and Taraba
          States Subsidiary Loan   Agreement; and (ii) apply,
          mutatis mutandis, to Adamawa State and  Taraba State
          severally but not jointly as if they were parties
          thereto.
2.   Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference in the
Gongola State  Project Agreement to:
Page  7
     (a)  Gongola State shall be construed as a reference to
          Adamawa State  and Taraba State acting severally; and
     (b)  Gongola State Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be
          construed as  reference to the Adamawa and Taraba States
          Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
3.   Recital (B) shall be deleted and replaced by the following new
Recital:
     "(B) by the Loan Agreement the Borrower shall relend to
          Adamawa State and Taraba State under a subsidiary loan
          agreement (the Adamawa and Taraba States Subsidiary Loan
          Agreement) the amounts allocated to Adamawa State and
          Taraba State pursuant to Schedule 1 to the Loan
          Agreement.  It is estimated that the amounts to be
          relent to: (i) Adamawa State shall be $6 million
          equivalent; and (ii) to Taraba State shall be $5.7
          million equivalent."
4.   Paragraph (b) of Section 2.01 shall be deleted and replaced by
the following new paragraph:
     "(b) (i)  Adamawa State shall:  (A) provide in its annual
               budget  amounts sufficient to cover Adamawa
               State's counterpart contributions to the costs of
               the Project; (B) open and maintain at a
               commercial or merchant bank a project account
               (the Adamawa State Project Account) to be used
               exclusively for expenditures relating to the
               Project; and (C) pay into the Adamawa State
               Project Account, quarterly in advance, the
               respective counterpart contributions of Adamawa
               State.  The Borrower, the Bank and Adamawa State
               estimate the said counterpart contributions to
               amount to $1,500,000 equivalent over the Project
               period.
          (ii) Taraba State shall: (A) provide in its annual
               budget amounts sufficient to cover Taraba State's
               counterpart contributions to the costs of the
               Project; (B) open and maintain at a commercial or
               merchant bank a project account (the Taraba State
               Project Account) to be used exclusively for
               expenditures relating to the Project; and (C) pay
               into the Taraba State Project Account, quarterly
               in advance, the respective counterpart
               contributions of Taraba State.  The Borrower, the
               Bank and Taraba State estimate the said
               counterpart contributions to amount to $1,400,000
               equivalent over the Project period."
5.   The address specified in Section 5.01 in relation to the
former Gongola State shall be deleted and replaced by the following
new addresses:
     "For Adamawa State:
          The Honourable Commissioner
          Ministry of Finance, Commerce,
          Trade and Industries
          P.M.B. 2088
          Yola, Adamawa State
          Nigeria
     For Taraba State:
          The Honourable Commissioner
          Ministry of Finance, Commerce and Industry
          Jalingo, Taraba State
          Nigeria
6.   Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 shall be deleted and replaced by the
Page  8
following new paragraph:
     "1.  For purposes of this Schedule:
          (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means with respect
               to: (i) Adamawa State, Categories (1)(c)(i),
               (2)(c)(i), (3)(c)(i) and (4)(c)(i) set forth in
               the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
               Loan Agreement; and (ii) Taraba State, Categories
               (1)(c)(ii), (2)(c)(ii), (3)(c)(ii) and (4)(c)(ii)
               set forth in the said Schedule;
          (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
               expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of
               goods and services required for the Project and
               to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
               allocated from time to time to the eligible
               Categories in accordance with the provisions of
               Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and
          (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
               to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
               deposited into the Adamawa Special Account or the
               Taraba Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
               (a) of this Schedule equivalent to: (i) $600,000
               for Adamawa State; and (ii) $600,000 for Taraba
               State."
7.   Paragraph 1 (b) of Part C of Schedule 3 shall be deleted and
replaced by the following new paragraph:
     "(b) All drugs procured by Adamawa State or Taraba State
          estimated          to cost $60,000 equivalent or more
          but less than $300,000 equivalent per bid package (up to
          an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent
          for each State) may be procured under contracts awarded
          on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
          in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank."
8.   Paragraph 2 of Part C of Schedule 3 shall be deleted and
replaced by the following new paragraph:
     "2.  Drugs required in health emergencies duly declared by
          Federal or State authorities and items or groups of
          items estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent (up
          to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent
          for Adamawa State and Taraba State each) may be procured
          by each State under contracts awarded on the basis of
          comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
          at least three local or international suppliers eligible
          under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
          acceptable to the Bank."
D:   Amendments to the Kwara State Project Agreement
1.   Kogi State and Kwara State hereby agree that:
     (a)  the Kwara State Project Agreement shall: (i) be renamed
          and referred  to as the Kogi and Kwara States Project
          Agreement; and (ii) apply, mutantis mutandis, to Kogi
          State and Kwara State severally but not jointly as if
          they were parties thereto; and
     (b)  the Kwara State Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall:  (i) be
          renamed  and referred to as the Kogi and Kwara States
          Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (ii) apply, mutatis
          mutandis, to Kogi State and Kwara State severally but
          not jointly as if they were parties thereto.
2.   Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference in the
Kwara State Project Agreement to:
Page  9
     (a)  Kwara State shall be construed as a reference to Kogi
          State and Kwara  State acting severally; and
     (b)  Kwara State Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be construed
          as a reference to the Kogi and Kwara States Subsidiary
          Loan Agreement.
3.   Recital (B) shall be deleted and replaced by the following new
Recital:
     "(B) by the Loan Agreement the Borrower shall relend to Kogi
          State and Kwara State under a subsidiary loan agreement
          (the Kogi and Kwara States Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
          the amounts allocated to Kogi State and Kwara State
          pursuant to Schedule I to the Loan Agreement It is
          estimated that the amounts to be relent to: (i) Kogi
          State shall be $2,070,000 equivalent; and (ii) Kwara
          State shall be $3,730,000 equivalent."
4.   Paragraph (b) of Section 2.01 shall be deleted and replaced by
the following new paragraph:
     "(b) (i)  Kogi State shall: (A) provide in its annual
               budget amounts sufficient to cover Kogi State's
               counterpart contributions to the costs of the
               Project; (B) open and maintain at a commercial or
               merchant bank a project account (the Kogi State
               Project Account) to be used exclusively for
               expenditures relating to the Project; and (C) pay
               into the Kogi State Project Account, quarterly In
               advance, the respective counterpart contributions
               of Kogi State.  The Borrower, the Bank and Kogi
               State estimate the said counterpart contributions
               to amount to $500,000 equivalent over the Project
               period.
          (ii) Kwara State shall: (A) provide in its annual
               budget amounts sufficient to cover Kwara State's
               counterpart contributions to the costs of the
               Project; (B) open and maintain at a commercial or
               merchant bank a project account (the Kwara State
               Project Account) to be used exclusively for
               expenditures relating to the Project; and (C) pay
               into the Kwara State Project Account, quarterly
               in advance, the respective counterpart
               contributions of Kwara State.  The Borrower, the
               Bank and Kwara State estimate the said
               counterpart contributions to amount to $900,000
               equivalent over the Project period."
5.   The address specified in Section 5.01 in relation to the
former Kwara State shall be deleted and replaced by the following
new addresses:
     "For Kogi State:
          The Honourable Commissioner
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.M.B. 1080
          Lokoja, Kogi State
          Nigeria
     For  Kwara   State:
          The Honourable Commissioner
          Ministry of Finance and
          Economic Development
          P.M.B. 1380
          Ilorin, Kwara State Nigeria
6.   Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 shall be deleted and replaced by the
following new paragraph:
Page  10
     "1   For purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means with respect to:
          (i)  Kogi State, Categories (1)(d)(i), (2)(d)(i),
               (3)(d)(i) and (4)(d)(i) set forth in the table in
               paragraph I of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement;
               and
          (ii) Kwara State, Categories (1)(d)(ii), (2)(d)(ii),
               (3)(d)(ii) and (4)(d)(ii) set forth in the said
               Schedule;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
          respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
          required for the Project and to be financed out of the
          proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
          eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
          Schedule I to the Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
          withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
          Kogi Special Account or the Kwara Special Account
          pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule equivalent
          to: (i) $500,000 for Kogi State; and (ii) $500,000 for
          Kwara State."
7.   Paragraph 1 (b) of Part C of Schedule 3 shall be deleted and
replaced by the following new paragraph:
     "(b) All drugs procured by Kogi State or Kwara State
          estimated to cost $60,000 equivalent or more but less
          than $300,000 equivalent per bid package (up to an
          aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent  for
          each State) may be procured under contracts awarded on
          the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
          accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank."
8.   Paragraph 2 of Part C of Schedule 3 shall be deleted and
replaced by the following new paragraph:
     "2.  Drugs required in health emergencies duly declared by
          Federal or State authorities and items or groups of
          items estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent up
          to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent
          for Kogi State and Kwara State each) may be procured by
          each State under contracts awarded on the basis of
          comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
          at least three local or international suppliers eligible
          under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
          acceptable to the Bank."
     Please indicate your agreement to the amendments proposed
above by signing the form of confirmation on this letter and the
enclosed copies thereof The Bank hereby proposes that the said
amendments shall be deemed to have come into force as of August 27,
1991.
                           Very Truly Yours
                             Edwin R. Lim
                               Director
                       Western Africa Department
CONFIRMED:
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
Page  11
By
     Authorized Representative
DELTA STATE OF NIGERIA
By
     Authorized Representative
EDO STATE OF NIGERIA
By
     Authorized Representative
ADAMAWA STATE OF NIGERIA
By
     Authorized Representative
TARABA STATE OF NIGERIA
By
     Authorized Representative
KOGI STATE OF NIGERIA
By
     Authorized Representative
KWARA STATE OF NIGERIA
By
    Authorized Representative
cc:  Honourable Minister      Honourable Commissioner
     Federal Ministry of      HealthMinistry of Health
     Abuja                    Delta State
     Nigeria                  Nigeria
     Honourable Commissioner  Honourable Commissioner
     Ministry of Health       Ministry of Health
     Edo State                Adamawa State
     Nigeria                  Nigeria
     Honourable Commissioner  Honourable Commissioner
     Ministry of Health       Ministry of Health
     Taraba State             Kogi State
