Document of              E       L
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2434-BE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 8, 1978
This document has a restricted disrlbutioa  NW may be wed by recipiets uay in the perfonnance of
tbeir efftie  dsts. lbs CestentWmY not otherwise be discoe with* World lank antbulzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 29.525
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to
the US Dollar and consequently the Taka/US Dollar rate is
subject to change (as of November 30, 1978, US$1 = Tk 15.1).
The rate below has been used throughout this report.
US$1               Tk 15.0
Tk I               US$0.0667
Tk I million       US$66,667
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:             US$10 million equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Project
Description:      Technical assistance for pre-investment planning,
feasibility and engineering studies, consulting
and advisory services, and training for project
planning and preparation.
Financing Plan:    The credit would finance 100% of the costs of
consultants, foreign or local, and 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of material and equipment
procured by the Government in support of such con-
sultants' services and of training programs. The
Government would provide counterpart staff, equip-
ment and local facilities required, which are
estimated to average up to about 25% of the total
cost of individual subprojects.
Estimated                                         US$ Million
Disbursements:                       FY79      FY80      FY81     FY82
Annual              0.5       3.5       3.5      2.5
Cumulative          0.5       4.0       7.5     10.0
Procurement
Arrangements:    Contracts for consultants' services would be subject
to prior approval by the Association.  Equipment and
materials procured by the Government in support of
such consultants' services would normally be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding, but
small contracts estimated to cost less than US$15,000
equivalent and totalling for the credit less than
US$300,000 may be let through normal Government
procedures.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$10
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a third technical assistance
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission visited the country in June 1978 and its report entitled
"Bangladesh: Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD)
is expected to be circulated in early December 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy and put it on a growth
path were complicated by the necessity to fashion a national government out of
a provincial administration; to establish development institutions serving
agriculture, industry, trade, and banking; and to reorient agriculture and
industry after the loss of the West Pakistan market.
4.        Despite the destruction and disorientation prevailing immediately
after independence, some economic improvements have occurred. GDP has in-
creased annually by an average of 5.7% between FY73 and FY78 and since annual
population growth is about 2.8%, this represents an annual growth of per
capita GDP of nearly 3%. The output of foodgrains has shown an annual aver-
age increase of 4.6% during this period, but has nevertheless necessitated
an average of 1.8 million tons of foodgrain imports per year. The growth of
output of jute - Bangladesh's major export -- has been disappointing, however:
this has declined by an annual average of 4.4%. Hence, despite a rapid growth
of non-traditional exports in recent years, export earnings have increased by
1/   Part I and Annex II of this report are substantially the same as Part I
and Annex II of the President's Report for the Drainage and Flood Control
Project (Report No. P-2373-BD), dated November 29, 1978.



about 8% annually, while imports have risen by an annual average of 7.7%,
resulting in an average external resource gap amounting to 8% of GDP during
FY74-78 and 7% in FY78.
5.        While the GDP growth rate over these five years has been relatively
high, a comparison of key indicators shows that what has happened is that the
economy has recovered from its post-independence low point, but that it has
yet to reach fully the levels of FY70 - the last normal year before indepen-
dence. Per capita GDP was then higher in real terms than in FY78. The ratio
of savings to GDP, which stood at 7.1%, averaged 2.0% during FY74-78 and had
recovered to about 3.0% in FY78. The investment ratio returned in FY78 to
about 13.0%, around the FY70 level, after lower figures in intervening years.
The volume of output of jute manufactures as well as a number of industrial
products and the volume of exports of jute and jute goods has only recently
reached preindependence levels. Thus, the encouraging trends of recent years
should be viewed as having only laid the basis for development. The dimen-
sions of the problems remaining are clearly seen at the social level. Many
Bangladeshis continue to have inadequate food, clothing, and shelter. Levels
of nutrition have declined and the number of landless and unemployed has
increased. Even primary education is still the luxury of a few. Many have
little or no access to safe drinking water and preventive or curative medicine.
The life expectancy at birth is estimated to be only 45 years.
6.        As a first effort to begin to build on the foundation laid in the
last five years, the Government has clarified its priorities -- the control
of the rapid growth of population and a substantial increase in the output
of foodgrain. In 1975, the Government initiated a stabilization program in
conjunctibn with the IMF which helped reduce drastically the rate of infla-
tion, improve the competitiveness of exports, and increase revenues. Con-
cern with monetary stability is a continuing -- and encouraging -- feature
of government policy. In recent years, steps have been taken to improve the
operational efficiency of the jute manufacturing sector. For the first time,
in FY78, steps have been taken to provide an incentive price for foodgrains
through appropriate procurement policies. Action has been taken over the last
few years to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies and to im-
prove the working of public sector corporations. The beneficial results of
these reforms are not always readily apparent, and in a number of cases will
take considerable time to show. However, the Government has made a start on
some of the issues that hamper the growth of savings and investment. The
Government has drafted a Two Year Plan (FY79-80) feeling the need for a more
fundamental reorientation of policies, and has put off the implementation of
a new five-year plan by two years. The Two-Year Plan is meant to clear the
decks for future action by completing as many ongoing projects as possible,
abandoning those that are uneconomic and creating time for thought about the
long-term direction of development. The TYP itself is, of course, unlikely to
change the course of development, since its period is too short and most of
the development budget during these two years (83%) is pre-empted by ongoing
projects. The TYP's targets in such fundamental areas as employment creation
and population control are unrealistic. A further weakness is that it does
not clearly indicate which uneconomic projects have been weeded out nor what
criteria will have to be used to make decisions about abandoning such projects
during the remainder of the TYP period.



- 3 -
7.        Nevertheless, the TYP period should be an extremely useful occasion
for defining policies relating to fundamental development issues. The TYP
document lists five important areas where the policy makers must make criti-
cal choices: the respective roles of the public and private sectors; the
organization of agricultural producers; the goals of the national education
policy; the role of subsidies in agricultural prices; and the respective
roles of foreign aid and domestic savings in development financing. While
outlining alternative solutions for these major problem areas, the document
does not present a full analysis of the options. Moreover, it seems to
skirt the question of the creation of non-farm employment for those who can
no longer be absorbed by agriculture; this problem is assuming increasing
importance and requires concentrated Governmyent attention. The Two Year Plan
offers the Government a good starting point for introducing economic reforms.
Specifically, key issues which should be addressed during the plan period
include pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings, expansion
of export earnings, and greater efficiency in project preparation and imple-
mentation. The scope of private sector participation in the economy should
be clarified, and the management of the public sector improved.
Current Economic Situation
8.        Economic growth in Bangladesh in FY78 was influenced to a large
extent by good performance in agriculture and industry. Aided by good prices
in the previous season, favorable weather, and the expectation of a further
strengthening of demand in FY78, farmers responded by increasing the acreage
sown to jute and rice, and demonstrated a willingness to invest in modern
agricultural inputs. Foodgrain output reached 13.4 million tons, the highest
level since independence. Jute production, although somewhat less than fore-
seen, due to untimely rainfall, was 11.5% higher than in FY77.
9.        A strong upturn in industrial output has occurred because of a
revival in consumer demand, an improvement in investment, and more liberal
availability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry
is being stimulated by an increase in demand for jute goods and cotton tex-
tiles, and an intensification of construction activity.
10.       The volume of exports has continued to show improvement as a result
of better market conditions for raw jute and jute goods. However, because
stocks were run down to uncomfortably low levels in FY77, the quantity of
jute effectively available for domestic and export use rose less than produ-
tion. However, since there was a concurrent: world shortage of jute, due to
poor crops in other producing areas, Banglacdesh benefited from higher export
prices. The performance of minor and non-traditional exports has been modest
as compared with the previous year, due to competition from other exporters
and slower growth in output.
11.       The Government has endeavored to adhere to prudent monetary and fis-
cal policies. Planned monetary expansion in FY78 was initially linked to the
prospective rate of economic growth and the budget, when presented, made no
provision for deficit financing. However, cluring the year, some unforeseen
expenditure was undertaken: the Government thought it was necessary to



purchase 296,000 tons of foodgrain in order to ensure adequate supplies early
in the year, at a cost of $53 million. There were other unexpected increases,
such as a rise in the fertilizer subsidy caused by sales which exceeded fore-
casts. Thus, a budget deficit of about Tk 1,100 million (9% of current
revenue) materialized, even though revenue collections, which were sluggish
at the beginning of the year, exceeded the level estimated in the budget.
12.        Imports rose by 50% in FY78, reflecting the increased tempo of
economic activity. The volume of imports of foodgrains, raw cotton, fertil-
izer and cement rose substantially. Imports of edible oil and minor consumer
products have also expanded. The biggest single factor (about 20% of the
total) was the increase in the volume of foodgrain imports. These imports
were required -- despite the record foodgrain crop -- to enable the Government
to begin moving towards the official foodgrain stock target of one million
tons. This is desired both for maintaining food security and for facilitating
open market operations to sustain the market price of foodgrain within a
desired price range.
13.        In sum, the overall rate of economic growth for FY78 was about 7.8%;
this derives from an estimated growth rate of over 7.4% in agriculture, 10.4%
in industry and about 8.3% in other sectors. Although the improved supply
position for foodgrains, combined with an increase in the volume of imports,
helped to contain inflationary pressure, the overall budget deficit suggests
a rate of inflation of about 12% as compared to 1% in FY77.
Major Developments and Policy Issues
14.       Foodgrain.  The improved harvest in FY78 was the result of a combi-
nation of good weather and improved production policies. Incentives for ex-
panding the output of rice consisted both of a higher procurement volume and
price. For the first time these were announced to the farmers well in advance
of the planting season. To facilitate procurement, many new purchasing centers
were opened, staff cadres strengthened, the number of grain dealers expanded,
quality requirements made more flexible, and the number of bank branches and
payment points enlarged. At the production level, input packages consisting
of fertilizer kits and an expanded credit program of Tk 1,000 million (of
which about Tk 400 million was actually disbursed), were introduced as an
experiment. While these latter supporting measures for increasing foodgrain
output were generally in the right direction, attention needs to be paid to
the longer term impact of some parts of the program. Repayment of agricul-
tural loans under the expanded credit program has been very slow and irregular.
Failure to ensure credit discipline could in the long run jeopardize the
Government's plans for channeling credit to agriculture and fostering the
application of inputs in the desired mix. There is evidence that the expanded
credit program has also led to some disruption of extension activities which
are indispensable for providing the foundation for sustained agricultural
growth.
15.       Further steps were taken in FY78 to reform the ration system and to
achieve a reduction in ration offtakes. The prices of rationed rice and wheat
were increased by 11% and 14% respectively; those enjoying a monthly income of



-5-
Tk 1,600 a month are to be shifted from the ration shops to "Essential Supply
Shops" where the price would be between the ration and the market prices; and
the number of ration cards is to be reduced to a maximum of 6 per household.
The composition of the ration was also changed so that 2 units of the more
nutritious but cheaper wheat are now distributed for every 1 unit of rice to
some categories of consumers. The Government has indicated that its ultimate
objective is to restrict access to the ration to vulnerable groups in urban
and rural areas. As now structured, however, the ration system still bypasses
a large segment of the poor and landless and more intensified efforts to reach
these are, therefore, in order.
16.       Jute.  Responding to last year's favorable jute-rice price ratio
and the early announcement of a higher procurement price, the area sown to
jute increased by 13% to 1.8 million acres in FY78 and, despite bad weather,
output rose from 4.8 million bales in FY77 to 5.4 million bales. An impor-
tant factor was the increase in the area under the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme to 500,000 acres. Meanwhile, the effect of the decrease in the area
available for rice production during the aus season was compensated by an
increase in productivity. Demand for raw jute -- both for export and supply
to domestic jute mills -- was buoyant. As a result of the very low level
of stocks carried over from the previous year, demand could not be met, and
prices rose throughout the marketing season by over 40%. The improvement
in price helped to raise farm incomes substantially, especially during the
months immediately following the harvest season, when prices traditionally
are depressed. The acreage sown to jute, and output, are expected to rise
further in FY79. The improved supply position should also help to maintain
the international price of jute goods at competitive levels. The Government
intends to increase jute output over the next few years -- relying to an
increasing extent on the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme. Since the current
world shortage is likely to persist for some time, Bangladesh should benefit
from these efforts to expand output over the short run.
17.       The jute goods sector still requires further rehabilitation.  The
sector benefited from the improvement in international demand in FY78 which
led to a 25% increase in export value. A reduction in the wastage rate from
11% to 7.5% in FY78 was a major achievement. Despite this and the improvement
in price, however, the industry's losses are expected to be about Tk 605 mil-
lion (Tk 525 million in FY77) which is largely explained by factors beyond the
control of the jute industry, namely the substantial increase in the price of
raw jute, though in incremental terms, most of the mills appear to be economic-
ally efficient. These losses are now being financed by a differential scale
of subsidies applied to categories of jute exports, based on the f.o.b. export
value. The weighted subsidy, which amounts to about 15% of the value of
exports, is intended to help improve the overall liquidity of the industry,
but does not fully compensate ailing jute mills whose unit losses exceed this
percentage. This new method of paying the subsidy could be of help to the
Government in separating the better performing mills from those that are not,
although once the BMR programs currently under preparation are completed
further criteria of performance can be added. Even with improvements in
efficiency, and investments in rehabilitation, some mills will continue to be
a financial liability. The need is to determine how to produce in the most



efficient manner the quantity of jute goods that the market will absorb at
remunerative prices, and then to restructure the industry accordingly.
18.       Public Enterprises.  The general upturn in economic activity in
FY78 has led to a substantial increase in capacity utilization in public
enterprises, particularly in cotton textiles, newsprint, paper, jute and
steel. The combined losses of public enterprises are expected to decline --
both because of the effect of higher capacity utilization and the decision
to price cotton textiles at a level that reflects the enhanced cost of raw
cotton. The basic problems which afflict the working of public enterprises,
however, continue; they relate primarily to the excessive centralization and
control exercised by ministries over the day-to-day commercial operations
of enterprises. Some progress has been made in alleviating the most diffi-
cult problems. However, any marked improvement in the performance of public
enterprises must be predicated on greater functional autonomy particularly in
the determination of input and output prices and the incentives offered to
personnel. A number of supplementary measures, including a decision to sell
off any enterprises that have continually been incurring losses, may also be
necessary although it may be difficult to find purchasers.
19.       Resource Mobilization.  Inadequate mobilization of domestic re-
sources remains one of Bangladesh's key problems. As pointed out, domes-
tic savings finance only a small proportion of total investment and unless
savings, particularly those of the public sector, are raised, it will be
difficult to step up the pace of development in Bangladesh. Under present
conditions, the revenue gap tends to widen as development expenditures rise.
Budget performance in FY78 provides an illustration. Preliminary estimates
of the balance for the year indicate that both revenue and current expendi-
tures increased sharply leaving a current surplus of Tk 2.1 billion (Tk 1.7
billion in FY77), which is roughly 20% below the budgeted amount. Develop-
ment expenditures, however, increased by much more and despite an increase
in aid disbursements, which amounted to 75% of development expenditures, an
uncovered gap of about Tk 1.23 billion emerged, the equivalent of 10% of
current revenue and about 10% of the money supply.
20.       More stringent action than undertaken so far is clearly needed
to put public finance on a sound footing. On the revenue side, measures to
lessen tax evasion, improve tax administration and reduce exemptions and
loopholes offer most scope for increasing resources in the short run. On
the expenditure side, an examination is urgently required of the cost effec-
tiveness of production and consumption subsidies. Further efforts are also
needed to reduce the losses of public enterprises, a major cause of which
is the failure to allow input price increases to be passed on to consumers.
There is no doubt that a combination of such revenue and expenditure meas-
ures, in spite of Bangladesh's poverty, could lead to substantial improve-
ment in domestic resource mobilization. Some modest steps have already been
taken -- improvement in the administration of the income tax, improvements in
the pricing policy of the textile industry (although here the benefits have
been eroded by changes in the price structure), and the recent increase of the
ration price for foodgrains -- and further measures are under active consider-
ation by the Government. Of course it will be difficult to implement these



measures unless the Government is at the same time successful in carrying
out its development programs. Consumption levels in Bangladesh are extremely
low and an increase of incomes arising from accelerated GDP growth is a
necessary condition for the implementation of any set of policies designed
to raise the rate of savings.
21.       Project Implementation.  A number of steps to improve the Govern-
ment's capacity to implement projects were taken during 1977. The Project
Implementation Bureau's staff was strengthened, and its ability to monitor
progress improved. Project entities were assigned much greater functional
autonomy -- especially with respect to the authorization of expenditures.
For FY78 the complex procedures for the allocation of funds to projects
were simplified, and the Government is trying to speed up the approval of
projects in the pipeline, and to weed out existing projects that do not
promise early completion. These measures aret welcome. At the same time,
it is important to focus on other major problems which have slowed down
project implementation in the past. Greater fungibility in the use of funds
appropriated for development should be introduced, so that fast moving proj-
ects can employ the funds of those that have stalled. Delays resulting from
breakdowns in machinery, shortages of supplies, absenteeism, and bad planning
of sequences of activity, must be avoided. Donors could help by ensuring that
project resources are supplemented by the provision of a higher proportion of
local currency cost in external assistance in order to ensure that the imple-
mentation of projects is sustained in the face of acute stringency of local
resources.
22.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization, Bangladesh will continue to need sub-
stantial external assistance to support its (levelopment efforts. In the short
run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact that
the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. Roughly it
is estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $797 million in FY78,
should rise to $1,095 million in FY79. These would comprise $250 mlillion of
food, $520 million of commodities and $325 million of project aid. Since
Bangladesh would commence the year with a pipeline of aid amounting to $1,912
million, it should be possible to disburse about $625 million from that pipe-
line. Hence, about $470 million of disbursements from new aid would be nec-
essary. To yield disbursements at this level in FY79 and to build up the
pipeline for FY80, it is estimated that commitments in FY79 will need to
be approximately $1,600 million. If current projections materialize, the aid
pipeline at the end of FY80 will be about $2,700 million.  It is important
to stress the widening gap in external resources which must be met by exter-
nal assistance at least for the time being, if economic growth and execution
of the development plan are not to be slowed down for lack of finarncial re-
sources. At the same time, the Government must strive to increase exports
and be prudent in the use of foreign exchange, as well as make efforts to
increase domestic resource mobilization.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.2 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under
the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were
made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of November 30, 1978, 26 new credits,
excluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph
25, have been made, totalling US$733.7 million. Of these, US$425 million have
been for six program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricul-
tural development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunica-
tions, transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th
member of the IFC, but no IFC investments have been approved as yet.
24.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bi-
lateral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became inde-
pendent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next ten years, it may
do so by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms.   With respect to
the Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA
credits extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed
before independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about
US$54.9 million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were
signed on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstand-
ing external debt is not expected to rise significantly above the present
level of about 24% over the next few years.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of October 31, 1978, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval
of contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Gov-
ernment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are
beginning to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and dis-
bursement performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain
because of shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic proce-
dures and organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues.
For example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to im-
prove organization and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies
dealing with agriculture and water resources. Further, the Government has
taken actions including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants
and increased emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps
towards gradually improving the quality of public administration, but also as
evidence of its awareness of the problem and concern to do something about



- 9 -
it. On the organizational side, the Government is in the process of. estab-
lishing planning cells in the main ministries and agencies and in strengthen-
ing the Planning Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance
both under specific projects and under the Technical Assistance Credits
(409-BD and 622-BD).
26.       Of the 20 new project credits totalling US$308.7 million, 12 credits
totalling US$216.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits allo-
cated to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of
inputs, including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low
capital intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing
so far, the fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the shorter term, the rate of planned lending for
agriculture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistance where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. Over the next year,
proposed credits for fisheries, rural works and low-lift pumps are expected
to be ready for consideration.
27.        Industry has been the main beneficiary of the six program credits
approved to date. For the reasons given in paragraphs 34-39 of my Report
and Recommendation on the Seventh Imports Program Credit (P-2373-BD, dated
November 29, 1978), program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required
while efforts are made to correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy.
Nevertheless, the share of program lending in total lending on a year-to-year
basis is planned to decline gradually during the next few years. The indus-
trial sector has also benefitted from DFC and small industry projects and a
fertilizer production project. IFC is currently in the process of identifying
suitable investment opportunities.
28.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress,
and we expect to be ready to present a proposal for a second population
project for consideration within the next few months. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural and technical training and future operations,
while maintaining a similar basic emphasis, are expected to include assistance
for vocational and management education as well.
29.        Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify and
prepare projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and
telecommunications are now under way. In this connection, particular emphasis
will be placed upon those possible projects which provide infrastructure for
the rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which
reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects
could make a significant contribution towards supporting Bangladesh's devel-
opment efforts. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position,



- 10 -
IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external
lenders are inhibited from achieving the levels of resource transfers appro-
priate to Bangladesh's economic circumstances by difficulties in the prepara-
tion and implementation of development projects. The Government's capacity
to carry out projects is constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings
rate. In these circumstances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those
sectors - such as agricultural and rural development - where the percentage
of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency
expenditures is also justified.
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation
and implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to
contemplate higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is
the case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities for
making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the people
of Bangladesh. Although progress is bound to be slow and will require pain-
staking efforts, these efforts are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
32.       Bangladesh's limited absorptive capacity at every stage of the
project cycle remains a key constraint on the country's efforts to achieve
a satisfactory rate of economic development. The lack of a sufficient number
of well-prepared investment projects inhibits the Government's ability to
utilize fully the substantial volume of project aid currently and potentially
available from bilateral and multilateral members of the Bangladesh Aid Group
(about $366 million in FY1977, $476 million in FY1978 and $620 million in
FY1979); it also results in the selection of some projects on the basis of
available studies or the preferences of donors, rather than on development
priorities, leading to potential misallocation or inefficient use of these
external resources. An equally, if not more, important aspect of the country's
limited absorptive capacity is its weak development administration and, in
particular, the urgent need to strengthen the implementation capability of the
main development ministries and agencies. The Bangladesh authorities are
aware of these problems and, during the last two years, have taken steps to
strengthen the economic planning machinery, including organizational and
procedural measures to improve project preparation and implementation in the
line ministries and operating agencies. However, significant progress is
bound to take many years and, in the meantime, there remains a continuing, and



- 11 -
perhaps growing, need for external technical assistance for the idenatification,
preparation and execution of development projects. In recognition of this
need, bilateral and multilateral agencies concerned with development assistance
to Bangladesh, including IDA, are increasingly including quite large components
of technical and implementation aid in their overall commitments to the
country. These attempts to help 'improve' Bangladesh's absorptive capacity in
the short term are particularly apt at this time when the Government is about
to start preparing a second Five Year Development Plan (1980/81-1984/85).
33.       While, as noted in paragraph 32 above, UNDP and bilateral agencies
already provide substantial technical assistance, most of these funds are
either tied or, in the case of UNDP and/or ADB, are insufficient to meet
Bangladesh's substantial requirements for such assistance. The basic concept
and objective of the two Technical Assistance credits (409-BD and 622-BD)
approved in 1973 and 1976 has, therefore, been to provide an additional
assured source of foreign exchange for technical assistance activities in
cases where other financing was not readily or quickly available on appro-
priate terms, or where IDA financing permitted more expeditious preparation
of projects specifically eligible for consideration by external aid agencies.
An evaluation of the first two projects has been carried out in consultation
with the Government and a summary of its results is included as Annex IV to
this report. It concludes that, although the progress of Credit 409-BD in
particular was slower than expected, mainly owing to initial delays in the
appointment of consultants, both credits have effectively contributed to the
preparation and implementation of specific projects. Their effectiveness in
institutionalizing improvements in overall project preparation/implementation
capacity, on the other hand, has been limited so far. While it is too soon
to make a final judgment on this latter aspect, continued efforts in this
intrinsically difficult but high priority area are necessary.
34.       In addition to the general need for technical assistance described
above, there is a specific requirement related directly to the objectives of
IDA's economic and lending activities in the country during the next few years.
Notwithstanding Bangladesh's immense needs, the amount of future external
assistance, including IDA lending, is mainly dependent upon the rate of pro-
gress in improving project preparation and implementation. Since the absorp-
tive capacity of the project executing agencies in agriculture is unlikely to
increase significantly in the immediate future, the Government and IDA have
agreed that increased efforts should be made to identify and prepare projects
in other sectors such as transport, energy, power, industry and telecommuni-
cations, while continuing activities in the priority agriculture and rural
sectors. Accordingly, during the last few months, new project identification/
preparation activities have been initiated in transport (ports and highway
maintenance), energy (gas) and power (transmission and distribution), telecom-
munications and water supply and sewerage. While some project preparation has
been, and will continue to be, undertaken by IDA staff, by other cooperating
agencies (e.g., FAO, UNDP and UNESCO) and/or in the context of existing pro-
jects (e.g., inland water transport), the need for a continuing and flexible
line of credit to finance feasibility/engineering/project preparation studies
is likely to increase in consequence of the explicit strategy outlined above.
In addition, the need for technical assistance to help strengthen development



- 12 -
administration in general and project implementation capacity in particular
will remain substantial. Thus, the basic rationale for technical assistance
financing established for the first two credits continues to be valid in terms
of Bangladesh's overall needs, with increased emphasis in the proposed third
technical assistance credit on Government/Association efforts to develop a
pipeline of projects eligible for external financing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The project was prepared between April and October 1978.  Negoti-
ations for the proposed credit were held in Washington, D.C. on November 17,
1978. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a delegation led by
Mr. Abidur Rahman, Economic Minister of the Bangladesh Embassy.  Attached as
Annex III is a supplementary project data sheet.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The proposed project would provide additional commitment authority
for the financing of subprojects of the kind approved under the first two
credits, primarily, the preparation of feasibility studies, design and
engineering work for high priority projects suitable for financing by IDA
and/or other donors. The proposed project would also assist in the strength-
ening of institutions responsible for project preparation and implementation
through the provision of consultants and training. The project would be
completed by the end of 1981.
37.       Funds from the proposed credit would be allocated to specific
subprojects by mutual agreement between the Government and the Association
(Section 3.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement [DCAI). A number of
potential subprojects have been identified as suitable for further consider-
ation by the Government and the Association. These subprojects are primarily
in the agriculture, industry, energy, power, education and transport sectors
and would prepare investment proposals which would form part of a pipeline of
projects potentially eligible for consideration by the Government, IDA and/or
other external donors through 1981. Additional proposed subprojects could
lead to institutional improvements in the Water Development Board, Agricul-
tural Development Corporation, Ministry of Agriculture, the External Resources
Division of the Ministry of Finance, and other important agencies involved in
project preparation and implementation. Criteria for subproject selection and
approval have been agreed (Schedule 1 of draft DCA).
Organization and Implementation
38.       Consultants would work directly with and for the line ministries and
operating agencies in project preparation. The External Resources Division of
the Ministry of Finance is the Government's agency for coordinating all for-
eign aid. Although it is not a large Division, it has competent, qualified
staff. An officer of this Division would be designated Project Coordinator,
responsible for ensuring effective coordination of the various government
ministries and agencies involved in the implementation of the project (Section



- 13 -
4.01(b) of draft DCA). The External Resources Division would have ultimate
responsibility for the screening and selection of the studies to be undertaken.
The consultants employed, their terms of reference and their contracts with
the Government would be subject to agreement between the Government and the
Association (Section 4.02 of draft DCA). Consultants' terms of reference
would emphasize the importance of training local staff so as to reduce the
need for technical assistance in the long term. Although it is expected that
most of the technical assistance would be provided by foreign consultants,
qualified local consultants are also expected to be used either independently
or in collaboration with foreign firms. The Association would assist the
Government in supervising the work of the consultants.
Project Cost and Disbursement
39.       Although the proceeds of the credit have not been preallocated to
specific subprojects, it is expected that approximately 30 studies would be
financed under the proposed project, amounting to about US$10.0 million equi-
valent. The credit would finance 100 percent of the costs of consultants,
whether foreign or local, and whether hired directly or as subcontractors,
and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and materials required
for the carrying out of the approved studies and procured directly by the
Government or its agencies. Such equipment would normally be procured by
international competitive bidding, but small contracts estimated to cost less
than US$15,000 equivalent and totalling for the credit less than US$300,000
equivalent may be let through normal Government procedures (Section 3.03 of
draft DCA). Credit funds would also be available for financing the foreign
exchange cost of training programs associated with project preparation and
implementation (Section 2.02(b)(iii) of draft DCA). The Government's contri-
bution to individual subproject cost would comprise the cost of providing
counterpart staff, office space and secretarial facilities -- the provision
of which would be an explicit condition of IDA's approval of each subproject.
It is estimated that such costs would average up to about 25% of the total
cost of the various subprojects involved.
Benefits and Risks
40.       The major benefit of the proposed project would be the development
of a pipeline of projects potentially suitable for financing by the Govern-
ment, IDA and/or external agencies and improvement in the Government's ability
to implement such projects. This, in turn, would help Bangladesh make more
effective use of domestic and external resources for the development of its
economy. The proposed project would also assist in enhancing the project pre-
paration capabilities of the line ministries and operating agencies, and in
the long term, reduce dependence on externally financed technical assistance
for these purposes.
41.       Risk in implementation of the project arises mainly from the lengthy
decision-making process within the Government which continues to cause delays
in appointment of consultants. The designation of a project coordinator in
the External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance, responsible for
ensuring effective coordination of the various Government agencies involved,



- 14 -
is intended to help expedite this process. The project will, nevertheless,
require close supervision and a heavier than usual commitment of staff time
is envisaged.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
42.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
43.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The designation of the Project Coordinator referred to in
paragraph 38 above is a condition of effectiveness.
44.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
45.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
December 8 , 1978



- 15 -                                                 ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BAHCLADESU                                               La
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. DI.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            144.0                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     101.1                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lk       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP if
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   40.0        60.0       90.0           167.4       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..          ..      28.0             65.7       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        53.9         70.8      82.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.8          6.4       9.2             12.8        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       374.0       492.0     574.0             85.2        46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    566.0        730.0     818.0            322.6       254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3        46.4      46.2             44.0        43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                          52.5        51.0      51.1             52.9       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2         2.6       2.6              2.9         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7         2.8        2.1 /f          2.2         2.4         2.7
URBAN                                           6.2        7.4             4.2         4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.8        50.3       49.5            45.1        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.2        22.9       28.1            17.3        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5         3.1         ..             3.2         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       345.6     655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..        4.7            13.7        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             106.2       100.0      93.7             95.6        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    89.0 Ia    89.0        93.0            91.1        92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)           42.6 14       .        58.5            49.6        50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.2 I        ..        8.0            12.6        13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..          ..         ..              ..          ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    38.7         43.3       45.0            43.1        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..      140.0            99.5       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        45.0       56.0            30.0        26.4        31.1
URBAN                                ..        13.0       22.0            66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                ..        47.0       61.0            17.2        14.1         18.2
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         6.0        5.0            15.7        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                                     40.0            66.9        65.9        69.5
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..             2.5         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10000.0 /h   7600.0/h 11000.0           8830.8    13432.7       Q359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   110000.0 /h  72030.0/h 56070.0            8479.3      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           11000.0 /i   8120.0 /a 5200.0           1624.5      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                                                                183.3       278.4
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..               ..       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
URBAN                                ...                     .               .,        4.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROO)M
TOTAL
URBAN                                                                                  4.           2.3
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLIGNS)
TOTAL
URBAN                                                      3.0
RURAL                                                                                              10.3



- 16 -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP Ie
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         61.0       73.0             59.1         62.9         75.8
FEKALE                26.0         42.0       51.0              38.4        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0       25.0              19.9        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0               9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0            1.0         ..               1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         49.0       50.0              38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                             ..         26.0       24.0              23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          21.6           ..      23.0              35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         0.4        0.4/1             2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                        6.0         ..              14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..         ..                ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..           ..       5.0               6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEhMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0        24500.0   26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.5       17.0              21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0         86.0       78.0              62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3          3.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.6       34.4              35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                   58.7         55.8      55.3              52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 11.4         11.8      12.1              15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.3          1.4        1.4              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3  k        16.7 L       ..              18.6        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5 /k        42.3 /I                     42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9 /k         7-9 L       .                7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 /k        19.61L       ..              19.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      110.0             80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       90.0             67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       29.0             39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       61.0             50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       70.0             44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  The 1970-75 growth rate is abnormally low due to the effects of the war of independence and
the mass population movement across the borders during that period.  Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimated at 2.8% per annum;  /R  Av. 1961-65;  /h  Registered, not all practicing in the
country; /L Govt. establishments only; /1 1972; /k 1963-64; /1 1966-67.
September, 1978



- 17 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
N= : The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group aver ges for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. 'xm)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Totas  surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agriculturai - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included.  Rural hospitals, hbwever, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (uS$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural.-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rote (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectivelv primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populatLins; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation  enrollment may exceed 100 percent since nome pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training ins;tructions for pupils
irons reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions  in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Pamily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 ye2ars and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUIMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and ailitary
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radim receivers (per thousand population) - All typos of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of populstion; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivero in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since nest coutries-
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished lice-sing.
ma1 activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coan-
cent for vante at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply oC protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general nees.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
hise stondards are lower than those of 75 grams of trtal protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinexas and nobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the ucrld, prrposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply iron  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grans per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous.-                  forces and usemployed but excludiog housewives, stud-nts, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent1 - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HIEALT'                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
life eopecnanoe at birth_(years) - Average nsmber of yours of life                         as perzentage of total labor force.
-emaining at birth; usually five-year averages erdisg in 1960. 1970,                  Industry (_prcent) - Labor forte in mining, a-nstrrctier, mas-f-tarofg and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
lnfant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infaots onder                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of uge per thousand live birhts.                                                'emale labor For-e  as percentages of their respective populations.
Ac  ns- to safe water (percent of popultion) - total, urban, and rural -                    I'hase are IL0's adjosted p-rticipstien rates retlooting a.a-set
irTb-r of people (total, urbar, and rural) with re..ncahle access to                     ntrlrrursa f the popalation. n-d l1n-  time tend.
safe uater supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated bat                   Econ-mic depende-; ratio - Rutis   f p.olur.otr  -cer 15 and 65 and ever to
u-c-ntaminatod water ouch an that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group ot 1-0  vyears.
sod sanitary wells) us percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fourtain or ntandpost located not sore                     INCOiiE DISTRIBUTION
chan 200 meters from a house soY be considered as being within rea-                   Perceniage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent. and poorest 40 percent
imply that tho housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of ho.seholds.
spond a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the farily's
'utr- needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
no o3   a eoecreta djsposa- (ercent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolutepoverty income level (US$ pen capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Nu.ber of people (total, urban, and rcral) served by e..reta                       Absolute poverty income level is that inco.e level below which a mininal
dsi.es-1 as p-er-etges of their respective popOl.tio.s.  Excreta                         n-tritiooallv adequate diet plus essential e.n-feod requirements is not
i ma  include the collection and disposal, with or  fithout                      affordable.
-esrttnt, _f human e--rota and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estimated. raltive povertv income  le_el (C'SS r capita) - urban and rural -
f ?vt prv4rs and similar installations.                                     Rlautivo poverty imooe level is that iacr-  Ievel less than one-third
Lo-ioner phyiiaan - Popu atin divided by nunber oe  practiciog                     per c-pita p-r-omal i--ome of tho  -o-ntrv-
ldrem a medical school at uriversitv level.                         intimated pbplulaion hbeo  poverty incom.e ltro    wsrent)  - orbsn and rural -
r'r.  a centr..,  mt-nsf  er-u  - Pop.lation divided by number of                         Peroost cc population (urban and rural) awhoore either "absolute poor" or
.ati. ii g -.:  sod fe.aie graduate curses, proccical eurses, and                       "relative poor" whichever is greater.
sen.e l  se. *S .:P .   i. to Div aon
loeno,,l  ArAvel'R 352a irc.ietloru  Department



-18-                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
ECONOMIC ZVEIDPN       DA TA
(Amounts in milllons oTflTHf dllars)
Actual                         Estimated          1960-   1965-    1973-             Av.
Av. 1967-69  1972/73  1974/75   1976/77              1977/78           1965    1970       1978           1967-69 -19 74/75 1977/78
NATIONAL ACCOWTNTS                                                                                                        __
In Constant 1972-1973 Prices & Exchange Rates              A,verage Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of G15
Gross Domestic Product             6,02-  5,833    6,514           7,255              7,833             4.7    _ 3.3       6.1            98.5   101.8   101.1
Gainis from Terms of Trade (-         89          -     -117         -148                -88                                               1.5    -1.8    -1.1
Gross Domestic Income              6,101    5,833    6 ,3 97       7,107              i774-5            5.6      2.5       5.8           100.0o  100.      100.0o
Import (ine]. NF'S)                  879       747       703         506                 791           20.6      6.8       0.7            14.4    11.0    10.21
Ehxports   '  (import capacity)    598         369       197          243                315           12.3   -14.6       -3.2             9.8      3.1      4.1
Resource Gap                         28 1      378      5306         2-63              -464.6                                                                6,
Consumption Expenditures           5,668    5,817    6,404         6,764              7,521             5.7      3.6       5.2            92.9   100.1    97.3
Investment   "(incl. stocks)    714            394       499         660                700            13.3      8.8      12.2            12.9      7.8      9.0
Domestic Savings                     433        16        -6         343                 224            4.3    10.0       72.0             6.8    -0.1       2.1
National Savings                     416        32        10          378                279            8.7    20.5       56.3             7.1      0.2      3,8
MERCHNARTSE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                              As Peccnt of Total
Imports
Capita1 goods                       .        100       135          227                318              ,       .       22.9              .      16.8    25.5
Tntermediate goods 6vmlfuels)    .           176       386         270                459                       .       21.9              .      30.4    3 4. 
Fools and related materials
of. which:  Petroleum             .         23       155         141                166               .        .      48.5              .     10.0    12
Consurmption goods                           428       726        .2Z27               406                       ..     2g.4.                    42.8      39.3
Total March. Ieports (cif)        _547      -7 27    1-,402        865              1,349                               12.2                    100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary produscts ~scl. fuels)      .        145       119         220                203..                     .       7.0                     40.9    40.8
Fuels and related materials
of which: Petroleumn
Manufactured goods                  .        195       239         240                294..                      .       8.5       ~      .     59.1    59.2
Total March. Exports (fob)         481     *_3r0       358          6_f               497                                7_.9                  100.0   100.0
Tourism and Border TracLe
Merchan,dise Trade Indices                      Average 1972-73    I 1O
Export Price Index                  61       100       133         118                137..                     .        6.5
Import Price Iode-                  52       100       215         189                18               .        .       12.5
Terms of Trade Index               118       100        62          62                 76..                     .      -5.6
Exporto Volume Codes               148       100        80         115                107..                     .        1.5
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR               Asusual Data at 1972-73 Prices and Exchange Rates                Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent uSf Total
AgrIc~ultur                     3,542    3,403    3,712          4,020              4,318..                      .      4.8             59        59       57
industry and Mining               420       412       466          582                642..                     .       9.2              7         7        8
Ser,ice                         2,050    1,848    2,146          2,442              2                  .645              7.4            34        34       35
Total                           6,012    5,663    6,324          7,044              7,605                                6.1           100       100      100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                              As Percent of GDP
(Central Govornment)
Current Receipts                   317       280       469         563                665..                     .      34.2            5.3       7.2      8.5
Current Expenditures              365       364       419          464                553..                     .      16.8            6.1       6.4      7.1
Budgetary Savings                  -48        84        30          9                                                                   .        0.8      1.4
Other Public Sector                 ..        84        ..          99                112              ..      ..08 
Public SctrInvestment             421       23        24           51                 51..                      .      10.3            7.0       3.8      6.6
CUPENT  EX(PFNDITLTRE DETAILS                            Atual                   Estimated      DETAIL ON                             At       US197/7 Piio and ER
As 5 Total Current Expend.)              1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 1976/77    1977/78           PUBLIC SECTOR.                       Two-Year Plan   7. of Toa
Education                                   ..       5.5    14.5    12.4          13.0        INVESTMENT PROGRAMO                      (1978/7-9 - 1979/80)
Other lucial Services                      .         4.5      3.6      4.2         4.8        Social Sectors                              287         13.2
Agriculture and                                                                               Agriculture                                  600        27.6
other Economic Services                   .         5.0    12.5       6.6         7.0        Industry sod Mining                         380        17.5
Administration and Delense                  .       70.4    57.1    61.5          61.2        Power                                        314        14.4
Other                                       .        4.6    12.3    15.3           13.9       Transport ar,d co-sunications                387        17.8
Total Current Expenditures                         100.0   100o .0   1005.0      100.0        Other                                       206          9.5
____________________________________________________________________________ TTotalEExpenditures                  2,174        100.
SELECTED GINDICATORS                                 1960-      1965-        1973-              FINANCING
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)               1965       1970         1976
Average ICOR                                            .        -3t'74    0_.89                    Public I.'ctor Savings                   557        25.6
Ieport Elasticity                                      .        1.29         1.11                  Program aid counterpart                  838        38.6
Marginal Doocastic Savings Rate                         .       0.22        0.05                   Foreign Project Aid                      605         27.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                          ..      0.35         0.05                  otherD (toci. dom. borroving)             174         8.0
Total Financing                      2i,174       1700.0o
LABCOR FORCE AN                                   Total Labor Force                                   Value Added Per Worker (19 72 -7 3 Prices & Exe. Bates)
OuTfPT PER WORKER                  In Millions          % of Total            19 61 - 73         In U.S.Diollars      Percent of Aver:ge          19 70 - 73
19 60/61    19 72/73 19 60/61   19 72/73  Growth Rate          19 69/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   19 72/ 73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                         16.1        20.5      85        78          2.0                 .          166         ..76
Industry                             1.0         1.8       5         7          5.0                ..         229          ..         105
Service                              1.8        -3.9      10        15          6.7                .          484          .          222
Total                               19.9        26-.2    10-0      10-0         2.8               248          217        1070        10-0         4.
not applicable         -nil or negligible
not available         --less than half the smallest unit shean
Note: Figures are on fiscal year basis (July i-due' BO).Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
/0     Plan targets.



-19-                                                                               ANNEX I
bAlA        OF PYMDSI       LXi. A3'3ISTANCE AND DEOT
eeutonte in aiflinse  of h,S, dollrs .t current priceef 
Actual                            Eesthated      Prleted
~  1002173       1976/75      197b777       0197/78        1978/79                     9194 - 1978
SLSYARY EALANCE OF PYIIICS
gap-ts (c1. TIPS)                              515          369            358          _529            588             648                        13.7
R!Potres  Psince NY-s)                       -639          -747         -142            -957         -1,427          -1,079                         9a
858 ...      1AE6I4                                         3 7-8       .4,044          -428                          iDI                            .
Interest (net)                 1
Direct T-v*eet  lae..   1
W-rkers' Rdittooce             1                              45              7            66             83              93
014444  usc Crinarso(nt 1aceseita               ..        __ _1
Privte Direct Tcveetwct
Officiri Cepita) 0arate                          .          482            397           229            346             400                        13.6
Pu blca-e                                                   76a          527           273            411             695                         5 2
-Rav fecte                                                  7             -25           -16            -5t             -54
Net Dibouresnteb
Other SLT Lane
Di.b-.-et.                                               
-Repergte                                      .
Net Dieburseante                                                             .             .              ...-
CepiLt1  .ree.tion       n e0 5 -205                                      334           -44              6             -33
ChoeBa In Bet REa-eev   (-  i-naaAe)            ..           -20          -196           -800Z                            25                                  Actual Land period                     Eatloted
Dross Neeverez feed period)                     ..           ,307          263           293            2b9             244                            1072/73   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77    1977/78
Public Debt Out. & Diub-rud           228      1,366       1,812      2,065        2,556
ORTicloLGaAnts & T runt-like                                   514            368           338            452           Intereot on Public Debt               -         10          21         25           27
RePaYant. on Public Debt              -         25          78          17          51
Public NLT Icns                                                                                                       Total Public Debt Service              -         35         99          42           78
_c 0                                                                        -            -              -           Other Debt S-OOi-c (not)
IDA                                           '             68           150            50            211           Total Debt Service (net)
ntbrr MItlnllterul                            I.             1             87           84             74
oo terc                                       ..          204            678           200            376        i-rderc - Export lE-cineg  (9/
oupplieec                                                  55             17             2             11
ineocial Iestitutioee                                        -              -            5             13          Public Debt Service                            9.8        22.4         7.9         13.7
Bands                                          ,                                         -              -          Total Debt Service
blic   anne i                                                                                                      TDS+Di-et -t 
Tota  public MhLT Lo                            ..           338          9i32           341           6i84
Average Terre of Publie Debt
Atul. D bt Outstanding  on J-ne 30, 1978                               Int. as % Prior Year DO&D                      2.0          1 5        1.4          1.3
01T8711181. TEF3T                                    Diabr.ed Only                   Percent                            A-ort. a- r Prior Year  DO&D                   5.0          5.7        0.9          2.5
Werld fank                                                 3
IDA                                                       554                        21.7                          7IRD Debt Ont. & Disbureed
Dthor WIltilatcral                                         64                          2.5                            "        1 Public Debt OhD             -       4.0         3.0         2.7          2.2
lcveransecto                                           1,746                         68 4                            1  cc % Public Debt Servic-            -          -         1.6         7.5         4.4
Noenolere                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~111                4.3
Tinencial Ictitutione                                      26                          1.0                          7A Debt Ot. & Dinbur-ed
8undo                                                                                    -                           c  Co   Public Debt OlD              7.0       18.7        21.0        72.7         21.7
Public Debts ne.i                                                                        -                               e a     Public Debt Servi-e         -       2.3         2.          7.           4.9
otdl Public hhLT Debt                                                                                                                                                  3          205 100.0
Other MILT Debts
Short-te-r Debt (dieb. o.Ly)
not applicable                                                             e*aff e.ticte
not available                                                           -  nil or nogligible
not available  serantely                                               --  lees  th-n half the
but included in total                                                      s-alleot Cait ebour
Noev-ber 1978



- 20 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of October 31, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                         Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                       Amount  Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Eight Credits Fully Disbursed                                   329.1        -
339         1972     Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)              25.0       5.4
340         1972     Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970)              13.0       1.8
341         1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No.
208-PAK of 1970)                         14.0       2.0
343         1972     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)            7.3       0.5
367         1973     Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)                7.0       0.4
368         1973     Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
replaces Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                    13.2      0.2
407         1973     Education (replaces Credit Nos.
49-PAK and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                    21.0      5.6
408         1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                 25.0     10.7
409         1973     Technical Assistance                         4.0      0.9
410         1973     Cereal Seeds                                 7.5      5.3
424         1973     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation    8.7          1.6
487         1974     Second Telecommunications                   20.0     14.3
527         1975     Ashuganj Fertilizer                         33.0     14.2
533         1975     Population                                  15.0     12.5
542         1975     Barisal Irrigation                         27.0      24.2
605         1976     Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.0      16.2



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of October 31, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CON'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                     Amount  Undisbursed
621        1976      Agricultural and Rural Training          12.0        10.9
622         1976     Technical Assistance II                   7.5         6.5
631        1976      Rural Development                        16.0        15.0
632         1976     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                   25.0        21.2
676        1977      Imports Program V                        75.0        13.3
724        1977      Shallow Tubewells                        16.0        16.0
725        1977      Muhuri Irrigation                        21.0       20.7
729        1977      Extension and Research                   10.0       10.0
735        1977      Inland Water Transport II                 5.0        5.0
752        1977      Imports Program VI                       75.0       49.6
765        1978      Jute                                     21.0       21.0
787        1978      Foodgrain Storage II                     25.0       25.0
825        1978      Second Small Scale Industry               7.0        7.0
828        1978      Agricultural Research                     6.0        6.0
SUBTOTAL                  913.3       342.9
Principal Repayment                                0.4
Effective Credits held by Association            912.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087       1975      Consolidation Loan                      54.9         0
TOTAL                  967.8      342.9



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by end 1978, about three years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System)
have been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads)
have been substantially completed except one road requiring completion of a
bridge before the remainder of the road can be constructed. Work on the com-
pletion of Part B and C (Telecommunications and Cyclone Shelters) appears to
be proceeding satisfactorily although we have had reports that the Project
Director did not get as much allocated in the budget for the cyclone shelters
as he requested.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: February 28, 1979
The project should be completed by May 1979, about two and a half
years behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor prob-
lems, shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the
embankment as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase.
While problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical
construction and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational
and major agricultural development is about to commence.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. project completion is expected around April 1979. Nearly
3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality problems have already
been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construction and engine/pump
installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural development is
about to commence on 2400 wells in the winter 1978/1979. Project audit for
1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is being awaited.
Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been agreed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been com-
missioned. The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered
together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be
commissioned by June 1979, completing the project four years behind schedule.
The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978
and a request for further extension to June 30, 1979 has been approved.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: October 31, 1978
The project is now virtually complete except for testing and pro-
cessing outstanding bills. A major setback occurred in September 1977 when
the Battali Hill Reservoir failed under test. The contractor has since
carried out all remedial work following failure and the reservoir has been
retested in June 1978. The Kalurgat treatment plant and booster pumping
station have worked successfully since commissioning in September 1977. Sub-
stantial progress has been achieved in fulfilling Section 4.03(a) of the
Credit Agreement pertaining to finances. The Water and Sewerage Authority
(WASA) has further raised tariffs in November 1977. In addition, all Govern-
ment loans have been converted to equity while IDA loans have been made repay-
able by WASA in over 30 years at 3. However, WASA has experienced continuing
difficulty in obtaining payment for arrears owed by the Government and its
agencies including arrears on Government's employees housing. WASA continues
to provide a large portion of its water to public hydrants for which it re-
ceives no revenue. WASA has also been in default of (i) Section 4.01(c) per-
taining to audit: requires that WASA furnish IDA no later than six months
after the end of the fiscal year, audited financial statements and (ii) Section
4.02(c) pertaining to insurance: requires WASA to take out and maintain, or
make adequate provision for, insurance against such risks and for such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound public utility practice.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Work on the Project is now virtual complete except for testing and
processing outstanding bills. Though final completion will be three years be-
hind original target, construction work has been on schedule as established by
the February 1975 supervision mission. The major pumping station at Narinda
has been completed and tested and appears to be a sound installation. The
meter testing stations and laboratory is now completed, equipped and staffed.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
WASA's operating results have improved during the last two years when an
earned surplus was recorded and forecasts show that it will continue to show
a surplus even after it begins servicing the IDA Credit in FY79. However,
non-revenue water through public hydrants and illegal connections remain high
and arrears owed by Government agencies have yet to be cleared. WASA is in
default on the covenants relating to (i) prompt submission of audit and (ii)
insurance.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 70% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities are now virtually completed. Staff housing is about 70% complete
and should be ready for occupancy by January 1979. Completion of remaining
civil works is expected around mid 1980, six months before the Closing Date.
A number of new programs intended to improve the practical skills of
students and increase their involvement in research and extension have been
introduced. The Technical Education component, although 30 months behind
schedule is practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only 60% com-
plete because of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies Directorate.
Efforts to revise curricula and improve quality of teaching staff are being
made. However, action has yet to be taken to complete the facilities at
Joydeppur intended to be used for the training of technical teachers.
(Construction of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Several project elements are complete with others due for completion
mid-1979 about 2-1/2 years behind the original schedule. The Sitalakhya
bridge was opened to traffic in December 1977, the Keane bridge repairs were
completed and the bridge opened June 1977, and the improved ferries have been
carrying loaded trucks since July 1977. Progress is now steady on the Feni
bypass and provided no serious problems develop with the paving and stone-
crushing equipment, the bypass should be open to traffic mid-1979. Similarly,
the Roads and Highway Directorate (RHD) building construction progress is
steady with completion also around mid-1979. However, progress on improving
RHD's equipment maintenance repair capacity is slow with no new workshop
construction having taken place. RHD is negotiating with consultants for
the Surma River Crossing Study.



ANNEX 1I
Page 6
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Contracts have been signed with consultants for eighteen sub-
projects utilizing the full credit amount. Completed studies have played
a key role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing. Due to delays
in initial commitment of credit funds, disbursements are 3 years behind
initial estimates.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 292 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers' in-
terest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway and machinery for seed processing has been ordered. Tenders are
being prepared for equipment list agreed with IDA in July 1978. Staff housing
is about 80% complete. On the other hand, five vacancies still exist in the
staff to supervise contract growers. With ten trainees presently at the
University of Maryland, most of the planned staff training has been completed.
The Seed Certification Agency has received a budget allocation of only Tk 0.5
million out of the FY79 budget request of Tk 5.3 million. Five field officers
have been sent for overseas training in September 1978.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
After initial delays, action has been taken on the procurement of
all items except the national trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the inter-
national telephone exchange. Technical specifications prepared by the T&T



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Board were found by IDA to be inadequate. At IDA's suggestion, the Board
has now asked UNDP/ITU for the assistance of a consultant to prepare spe-
cifications and bid documents for the TAXs and the international exchange
and assist in tender evaluation and subsequent supervision of their
installation. Delay in procurement of the exchanges is likely to delay
project completion until June 1981, two years behind the original estimate.
Physical progress of other works although behind schedule has begun to
improve. The T&T Board was established in July 1976 but little progress
has been achieved in meeting project institution building goals including
transfer to the Board of responsibility for its accounts (currently main-
tained by Comptroller and Auditor General) and introduction of a commercial
accounting system within the Board. The Rules and Regulations defining the
Boards power have not yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy
than the prior Director General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.   Currently the project is about two years behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the Project is now entering the construction phase. The soil com-
paction work has been completed and work is progressing on the critical com-
pensatory foundation works of the Project. Revised estimates indicate that
due to the need for additional site work, the delays and the currency fluc-
tuations, costs will be substantially higher than lender funds currently
available. Arrangements are being discussed among the Government and the
various cofinanciers to raise the additional funds required to complete the
Project. The fertilizer company has terminated the contract of che consultants
who had been providing management assistance, and has hired a new firm to
provide assistance during the construction phase. The company is considering
several possible firms which have expressed interest in providing assistance
during the operations phase.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
construction packages except the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School in
Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are underway.
Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local consultants
have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen central account-
ing system. Government is considering implementing management study recom-
mendation for strengthening district level organization. Over 60 out of 90
medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry of Health
and Family Planning to Population Division and Family Planning Division (PCFD)
have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected shortly. On the
other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning and Design Unit
(BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division while progress on service
statistic system has been discouraging.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
The project is making good progress and is expected to be completed
on schedule. Some delays have occurred in the evaluation of a tender for low
lift pumps since none of the bids received fully met tender specifications.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress the
project has again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka. If adequate
additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed on schedule.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule. All but 8 of the sites have been acquired and the major project items
have been contracted. Completion is about 50% on weighted average. Equip-
ment lists are being revised following 1978 World Bank/FAO guidelines. The
staff development and fellowship program for Agricultural Training Institutes
(ATIs) has been approved by IDA. An expert on "rural institutions" for Bogra
Academy has arrived in September 1978 for a two-year assignment. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is seeking the support of the Ministry of Planninig
to assist in resolving the staff shortage problem and the timely replenishment
of the revolving fund. The National Committee on Rural Training (NCRT) has
yet to make selection of experts for the high level consultant committee.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Fifteen subprojects have been approved amounting to about $5.6 mil-
lion. One other subproject requiring about $1.5 million has been approved in
principle, subject to formal Government approval of negotiated consultants
contract. Remaining balance has been allocated in principal but formal
approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It aims
at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven thanas
in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia for rural
roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and strengthening
of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on August 3, 1976. Ini-
tially, despite some teething problems, the project was progressing satisfac-
torily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses became apparent: (i) lack
of cooperation the various ministries and agencies involved; (ii) lack of
effective organization and ineffective supervision of the project by the imple-
menting agency, the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP); (iii) basic
deficiencies in the cooperative system (complex regulations and procedures);
(iv) inadequate training of project personnel; and (v) conflicting government
policies in the field of rural credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in
association with IRDP, undertook a comprehensive review of the project, and
an Aide Memoire, setting out an action program to overcome these problems,
was presented to the Government in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
project's subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating com-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries have, so far, not
yet received tangible benefits in the form of increased access to farm inputs
and farm equipment. (A proposal is underway to change the Credit Agreement
to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of incremental
credit for fertilizer.)



_ L9 _
ANNEX Il
Page 10
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of September 1, 1978, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has sub-
mitted 31 subprojects for IDA approval. Of these, 22 have been approved
and nine are being held up pending clarification by BSB of queries raised
during IDA reviews. As of October 31, 1978, disbursements (including QAR's)
were US$10.4 million.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of October 31, 1978, disbursements were US$69.0 million. The
credits Closing Date has been extended by three months to enable GOB to
process reimbursement from IDA under Procedure Case I.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been re-
ceived and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction cf
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to proceed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) has
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services. Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of non-extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also
requested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
BIWTA and BIWTC have started inviting firm quotations for spare
parts procurement on the basis of the lists approved by IDA during the
November 1977-January 1978. On the appointment of consultants, communications
have been sent to all short listed firms under the technical assistance com-
ponents (except for telecommunications) requesting additional information,
MPSI has received all clarifications and evaluation for final selection is
now underway. Regarding the telecommunications technical assistance compo-
nent which had been omitted by MPSI from the original published invitation
in November 1977, IDA has reviewed the proposed terms of reference and com-
ments have been transmitted to the Government.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of October 31, 1978 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$45.0 million.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
As of August 31, 1978, credit disbursements to project jute farmers
totaled about $3 million equivalent, more than four times the prior years
amount. However, this rapid increase could strain Sonali Bank's administra-
tive capacity unless additional staffing is provided. Filling of project
staff vacancies in the Ministry of Agriculture has also been a problem with
only one third of the positions filled as of August 31.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Effectiveness was delayed by almost three months due to delays
in Government approval of the project budget. However, work on site selec-
tion, land acquisition, and preparation of tender documents has been pro-
ceeding satisfactorily and physical progress of the project is not expected
to be effected by this delay.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
Progress has started in training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and ad-
vertising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Staff of the
Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin prepara-
tion of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project;  US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1974;
Effectiveness was delayed by two months, due to delays in approval
of the project budget. Meanwhile contracts with architects for design of
facilities have been signed, and technical working groups establishedl respon-
sible for drawing up research programs in specific fields.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page I
BANGLADESH
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
April-October 1978
(b) Agency which prepared project:
GOB and IDA
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
April 1978
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
April 1978
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
Not applicable
(f) Completion of negotiations:
November 1978
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
March 1979
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



_ Joj _
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
A.        Assurances have been obtained from the Government that:
(a)  agreed criteria for eligible subprojects woulcl he
eaiployed (para. 37); and
(b) an officer of the External Resources Division,
Ministry of Planning would be designated Project
Coordl iiao)r (para. 38).



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Progress of Technical Assistance
Credits to Bangladesh (409-BD and 622-BD)
1.        IDA has so far provided Bangladesh with two technical assistance
credits amounting to $11.5 million. The agreement for the first credit
(409-BD) for $4.0 million was signed on June 29, 1973; the agreement for the
second credit (622-BD) for $7.5 million was signed on April 8, 1976. These
projects are intended primarily to finance feasibility studies and other in-
vestigations required for preparing projects for financing by the Association
with emphasis on projects in the field of agriculture and water resources
development. Proceeds of the credit can also be used for the preparation of
projects for financing by other lenders, for strengthening institutions re-
sponsible for project planning and implementation (through management assist-
ance and/or staff training) and for more general studies which may be required
prior to the preparation of specific projects. Credit funds can also be
applied for the foreign exchange costs of overseas travel for training or
working with consultants in their home offices, and the foreign exchange cost
of materials and equipment directly procured by the Government in support of
consultants' services. The allocation of project funds for specific sub-
projects, and the arrangements for handling these subprojects (consultants,
terms of reference, supervising agency, etc.) are agreed between Bangladesh
and IDA on a case-by-case basis.
2.        Use of credit 409-BD was initially very slow and disappointing,
reflecting in part disagreements between the Planning Commission and the line
ministries concerning their respective roles in project preparation and a
feeling among some Government officials that asking for technical assistance
was an admission of incompetence. When requests for financing studies were
received, their progress was impeded by slow Government procedures for selec-
tion of consultants and negotiating consultants contracts. Progress accel-
erated beginning in 1975 when Government officials appeared to become more
willing to suggest sub-projects for financing and improved procedures were
introduced reducing somewhat the number of approvals required for consultants'
contracts. By December 1976, almost the whole US$4 million credit ($3.9 mil-
lion) was committed. The credit is currently slightly over-committed so as
to utilize funds expected to be released from completed subprojects. Sub-
projects financed under the credit are expected to be completed by December 31,
1978 and the credit funds should be fully disbursed shortly thereafter, taking
account of time required for processing the final bills.



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
3.        The subprojects financed under this credit have played or are
expected to play an important role in support of our lending program. Prep-
aration and engineering work for the Ashuganj Fertilizer Project (Cr. 527-BD),
the Rural Development Project (Cr. 631-BD), the Muhuri Irrigation Project
(Cr. 725-BD), the Extension and Research Project (Cr. 729-BD), and the pro-
posed FY79 Drainage and Irrigation Project and Fisheries Development Project
were all financed at least in part under this Credit. Projects under consider-
ation for gas development, agricultural credit, extension of Dacca's water
and sewerage facilities, and improving fertilizer distribution facilities may
also result from subprojects financed under this credit. In addition, one
subproject provided assistance to an import control system study designed to
assist in streamlining procedures which have impeded progress on our projects
and those of other donors; one subproject is assisting the Government in de-
signing procedures to improve the operational efficiency of its existing
fertilizer plants (a condition of our Credit for a new plant); one subproject
assisted the Government in meeting sector conditions under our Imports Credits
for improving the efficiency of the jute industry; one subproject assisted in
bringing about improvements in foodgrain silo operations which were a pre-
requisite for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Cr. 787-BD); and one sub-
project assisted USAID in designing its fertilizer sector credit. It is too
early to judge the final results of the technical assistance provided to
identify and prepare terms of reference for studies to improve the organiza-
tion and procedures of the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation and
the Ministry of Agriculture. However, the Government has submitted requests
for follow-up assistance in these fields and IDA is considering the type of
technical assistance best suited to these organizations.
4.        Under the second credit (622-BD), considerable progress was demon-
strated in accelerating the rate of credit commitment. While it took about
3-1/2 years to commit US$4 million under credit 409-BD, almost all of the
US$7.5 million under credit 622-BD has been committed within about 2-1/2 years.
However, the Government's procedures for selection of consultants and negotiat-
ing and approving their contracts are still slow and remain a problem. The rate
of disbursement is also retarded by the lack of incentive to project implement-
ing agencies for submitting withdrawal applications for completed work and the
inadequate monitoring provided by the External Resources Division. Thus, it is
often found that significant work has been completed and that consultants have
received payment, even though no withdrawal applications have been received.
The appointment of a project coordinator (as agreed under the proposed Third
Technical Assistance Credit) to be specifically responsible for following up
progress under these credits should assist in speeding disbursements. Never-
theless, the subprojects financed under this credit are expected to make sig-
nificant contributions to improving the pipeline of projects suitable for
external financing. While the progress in institution building is more dif-
ficult to measure at this stage, the continued Government interest in seeking
assistance in improving organizational arrangements and procedures provides a
basis for optimism in this field also.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
5.        In summary, although the progress of both credits and of credit
409-BD in particular, was slower than expected, mainly owing to initial de-
lays in the selection of projects and the appointment of consultants, both
credits have effectively contributed to the preparation and implementation
of priority projects and led to improvements in IDA's project pipeline.
While their effectiveness in institutionalizing improvements in overall pro-
ject preparation/implementation capacity has been limited so far, it is too
early to make a final judgement on this aspect. Intensified efforts in this
intrinsically difficult area are planned. Details of the status of the
various subprojects financed under these two credits are provided below:
Credit 409-BD
SUBPROJECT I - Inland Water Transport Study
Amount allocated: 1/ $157,565; disbursed: $157,565; project completed.
Main objectives: To review design alternatives of the inland water system
deep-draft area terminal and recommend alternatives for future investigation.
Achievement/progress: The report was prepared as part of the Bangladesh
Transport Survey which was published in November 1974. Orignally, the study
was intended for the formulation of the second Inland Water Transport Project.
However, the second Inland Water Transport Project did not materialize from
this study as conceived originally due to (i) aid received from other sources;
(ii) insufficient detail on some of the investments proposed to permit appraisal
and (iii) slow progress in completion of work under prior credits. The study
has been useful for information but not for specific project formulation of
Inland Water Transport Projects.
SUBPROJECT II - High Yielding Variety Survey
Amount allocated: $22,025; disbursed: $22,025; project completed.
Main objectives: (1) Delineation of areas suitable for rainfed cultivation
of H-YV rice; (2) defining a project for major efforts to support rainfed HYV
rice cultivation; (3) keeping expert in Bangladesh to continue work during
period of UNDP fund scarcity.
Achievement/progress: Objective (1) was achieved with very good results.
Consultant's work in identifying areas suitable for rainfed cultivation of
HYV rice and which also covered the development of data on the degree of HYV
cultivation achieved in various parts of Bangladesh is acknowledged by all
1/   Disbursement throughout this review is as of Nove'doer 22, 1978.  Amount
shown as allocated excludes any fuads released after subproject completion.



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
Credit 409-BD
concerned. Objective (2) was partially achieved. The Rainfed Rice Project
had been transferred to Minimum Package Project (rainfed rice and wheat) which
gave birth to IDA's Extension and Research Project (Cr. 729-BD) of June 28,
1978, for US$10 million. The Project involved rainfed and irrigated cultivation
of both rice and wheat but excluded supply of inputs. Objective (3) achieved.
Consultant has remained in Bangladesh carrying out follow-up work now being
funded by UNDP/FAO.
SUBPROJECT III - Rural Development Engineering Survey
Amount allocated: $41,337; disbursed: $41,337; project completed.
Main objectives: Undertaking water resources and water works studies for
nine Thanas in the districts of Bogra, Mymensingh, Sylhlet, Barisal, to
prepare data required for Rural Development Project intended to modernize
agriculture, increase employment opportunities, reduce rural poverty, and
improve nutritional standards of the rural poor.
Achievement/progress: The objectives were achieved, leading to the Rural
Development I Project (Cr. 631-BD).
SUBPROJECT IV - Technical Advisory of Urea Fertilizer Factory
Amount allocated: $650,000; disbursed; $650,000; project completed.
Main objectives: To provide (1) technical advisory services for the prepa-
ration of the Ashganj Fertilizer Project (Cr. 527-BD) and (2) the supervision
of tender arrangements up to the date of effectiveness of the proposed
Ashuganj Fertilizer Credit.
Achievement/progress: The objectives were achieved,, leading to a $142 million
fertilizer project finaned by IDA and other co-financiers (Cr.527-BD).
SUBPROJECT V - Fisheries
Amount allocated: $20,057; disbursed: $20,057; project completed.
Main objectives: Preliminary feasibility report on an inland fisheries
project in Jessore District.
Achievement/progress: Report was completed in May 1976 leading to a possible
Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project which is under consideration by IDA for financing
this fiscal year.



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5
Credit 409-BD
SUBPROJECT VI - Karnafuli Paper Mill Rehabilitation
Amount allocated: $71,000; disbursed: $38,413.
Main objectives: Carrying out a feasibility study for modernization and
balancing of the Karnafuli Paper Mills.
Achievement/progress: A draft Final Report was completed by the consultant
in December 1977. On the basis of the consultant's general recommendations,
GOB applied for a Swedish grant of US$10.0 million (Tk 140.0 million) to
implement, over a two-year period, major Balancing, Modernization and
Rehabilitation elements of the rehabilitation program proposed (see Sub-
project XI of Cr. 622-BD - Pulp and Paper Advisor).
SUBPROJECT VII - Import Control System Study
Amount allocated: $226,985; disbursed: $226,985; project completed.
Main objectives: To examine the institutional and administrative constraints
in the import control systems; suggest ways of streamlining at all stages to
ensure quick and better utilization of available foreign aid and foreign
exchange.
Achievement/progress: Consultant's report was completed on time. The report's
recommendations were accepted by the Government and implementation efforts
began September 1, 1977. An implementation cell was established in the Plan-
ning Ministry for this purpose. Also, import policy period has been changed
from 6 months to 12 months as recommended, and customs classification system
is to be restructured and streamlined using a consultant.
SUBPROJECT VIII - Muhuri Engineering
Amount allocated: $172,401; disbursed: $172,401; project completed.
Main objectives: To assist in design and preparation of tender documents
for regulators, gates, hoists, and equipment for the Muhuri Irrigation Project
and assist in evaluation of tenders submitted for the construction of the
Muhuri Regulator.
Achievement/progress: Objectives were achieved leading to a $21 million IDA
financed project (Cr. 725-BD).



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
Credit 409-BD
SUBPROJECT IX - Fertilizer Factory Maintenance
Amount allocated: $300,000; disbursed: $159,778.
Main objectives: To examine the operations of the fertilizer manufacturing
plants at Fenchuganj, Chittagong, and Ghorasal; make recommendations for
achieving increased output, especially in terms of improved operating and
maintenance procedures, and assist in implementing these recommendations.
This need was identified in the appraisal of the Ashuganj Project.
Achievement/progress: On-going. Draft report was finalized by the con-
sultants in July 1978, and is under review by the Bangladesh Chemical
Industries Corporation (BCIC). The report and its recommendations is cur-
rently under review by Bank staff.
SUBPROJECT X - Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution
Amount allocated: $225,000; disbursed: $225,000; project completed.
Main objectives: (1) To develop phased proposals for improving the fertilizer
marketing and distribution system, including transport modes and the role of
the public and the private sector in it, as well as all the personnel and
material components. Taking into account costs and benefits, foreign ex-
change scarcity and administrative constraints, the resulting system should
be the best achievable for the period 1976 through 1986; and (2) investment
proposals and, to the extent applicable, reorganizational proposal in order
to distribute and market the country's fertilizer requirements by the end of
1978, when the Ashuganj Fertilizer Plant was expected to commence commercial
operations.
Achievement/progress: Assisted USAID in designing and appraising fertilizer
storage component of recently agreed fertilizer sector credit. IDA is con-
sidering financing additional investments identified under this study.
SUBPROJECT XI - Water Development Board Project Preparation Unit
Amount allocated: $1,000,000; disbursed: $601,475.
Main objectives:   To review and update prior studies and complete feasibility
studies for selected drainage and flood control projects to a standard suit-
able for appraisal by IDA.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7
Credit 409-BD
Achievement/progress: On-going. Feasibility studies were completed for the
following four subprojects which were appraised by IDA in February 1978:
(1) Chenchuri Beel; (2) Kolabashukhali; (3) Brahmaputra Right Embankment;
(4) Surma-balai. The last subproject was dropped from the proposed Drainage
and Flood Control Project I, as it did not provide an economic rate of return
acceptable to IDA. Negotiations for the proposed credit took place in early
November 1978. A contract for preparation of feasibility studies for a pro-
posed second Drainage and Flood Control Project is currently being negotiated
with NEDECO, the original consultant who carried out the studies for the above
subprojects.
SUBPROJECT XII - Jute Factory Maintenance
Amount allocated: $300,000; disbursed: $167,768.
Main objectives:   After Bangladesh's independence in 1971, the maintenance
of the machinery in the jute mills was neglected to a degree, so that poor
condition of equipment and lack of availability of spare parts resulted.
To devise and implement a comprehensive program of preventative maintenance,
together with programs of overhauling and rehabilitation of machinery, a
maintenance task force, consisting initially of expatriate consultants who
were to train local counterparts, was to be established.
Achievement/progress: Expatriate consultants established maintenance program
and started its implementation in 16 mills. The consultants have now left but
the local counterparts whom they trained are continuing satisfactorily with
the implementation of the program for additional mills.
SUBPROJECT XIII - Grain Storage Management Study
Amount allocated: $300,000; disbursed: $273,142.
Main objectives:   (1) To review existing operations and develop a system to
provide an efficient administration, operation and maintenance for the silos
financed under Foodgrain Storage I (Ur. 381-BD); (2) to prepare operation,
maintenance and inventory control manuals; (3) to develop and organize on-the-
job training for all personnel of the existing silos in Bangladesh.
Achievement/progress: Objectives (1) and (2) have been implemented and various
reports have been submitted. For objective (3), the consultants have submitted
a detailed report recommending a program for local and foreign training of key
Silo personnel and accordingly local training has begun. Foreign training pro-
grams have been drawn up and approved by the Ministry of Food and IDA for
financing under Technical Assistance II Project (Cr. 622-BD). Implementation



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 8
Credit 409-BD
of this subproject assisted in bringing about improvements in silo operations
which were a prerequisite for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Cr. 787-BD)
of April 12, 1978 for US$25 million.
SUBPROJECT XIV - Ministry of Agriculture/Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation (BADC) Organization and Management
Amount allocated: $292,261; disbursed: $251,715.
Main objectives:   Designed to identify and prepare terms of reference
for studies required to streamline the organization of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC).
Achievement/progress:   The consultant's work was completed in July 1978,
and a two-volume report was submitted to IDA and the GOB. The report con-
tained inter alia three major recommendations for technical assistance by
IDA for both BADC and the Ministry of Agriculture. For BADC the report pro-
vided terms of reference for further studies for (a) improvement of its
financial management and (b) strengthening of its irrigation/inventory man-
agement. For the Ministry of Agriculture the report recommended a study of
its manpower requirements and resources. The Government has submitted
requests for follow-up assistance in these fields and IDA is currently con-
sidering the nature of technical assistance best suited to the needs of these
organizations.
SUBPROJECT XV - Reprinting Bangladesh Maps
Amount allocated: $72,000; disbursed: $ nil.
Main objectives:   Updating and reprinting the land-use map and if possible
to update some of the other topical maps (hydrology, transportation, land
capability).
Achievement/progress:   Multiple requests for maps have been received in the
course of the past years since the 1971 publication of the Bank's resource
map series of Bangladesh. The old base map was compiled from topographic maps
of 30 to 40 years of age and is out-of-date due to major changes in the course
of rivers and shapes of islands, and coastlines, due to silt deposits. To up-
date the base map it was deemed cost effective to utilize satellite computer
tapes to produce 14 images covering all of Bangladesh.
Tapes were ordered from NASA covering all of the country for the dry season
of 1977. The last of the tapes arrived on October 20, 1978, after which the
Remote Sensing Center in Dacca was notified that processing could begin.



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9
Credit 409-BD
A two-man technical team recently arrived at the computer lab facilities
at ERIM, Ann Arbor, Michigan, and will spend two weeks in on-the-job training
to process the tapes after which cartographic compilation will be undertaken.
The new base map of Bangladesh should be published by February 1979 completing
this subproject. GOB has requested that the Bank support a second and third
phase of the project which focuses on resource analysis and staff training.
SUBPROJECT XVI - Agricultural Credit Review
Amount allocated: $150,000; disbursed: $130,435.
Main objectives:   See Subproject II of Credit 622-BD.  Some portions of
contract are being financed under this Credit to utilize funds released
from completed subprojects.
Achievement/progress: On-going see description under Subproject II of
Credit 622-BD.
SUBPROJECT XVII - Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage II
Amount allocated: $300,000; disbursed: $ nil; Substantially completed.
Main objectives:   To prepare proposed Second Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage Project.
Achievement/progress: Appraisal mission for the proposed project is cur-
rently in field.
SUBPROJECT XVIII - Chittagong Gas Marketing
Amount allocated: $35,000; disbursed: $ nil; Substantially completed.
Main objectives:   To analyze the market for gas in Chittagong, in order
to assist in determining feasibility of proposed gas project.
Achievement/progress: Field work completed. Consultants report is expected
early December 1978.
Credit 622-BD
SUBPROJECT I - Southwest Region Studies
Amount allocated:  $600,000;  disbursed:  $528,267.



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10
Credit 409-BD
Main objectives:   (1) To review available data to assess effects of upstream
diversion of the Ganges with a view to identifying and preparing propDsals for
short-term remedial measures; (2) to assist in definition of short- and long-
term groundwater development program for the Southwest Region; (3) recommend
measures to improve hydrological data; and (4) prepare terms of reference for
studies of medium and longer term measures for development of the Southwest
Zone.
Credit 622-BD
Achievement/progress:   The consultants completed the studies as scheduled,
and a final report was submitted in September 1977. Based upon this report,
the Government of Bangladesh recently requested IDA to finance Phase II of
these studies which would include preparation of specific projects for
appraisal and some additional general planning work. Financing Phase II under
the proposed Third Technical Assistance Credit is under consideration. GOB
estimates the cost of Phase II at $3.5 million. However, further discussions
are taking place between the Government and IDA concerning proposed study
items and the specific objectives of Phase II which may also affect the cost
estimates.
SUBPROJECT II - Agricultural Credit Review
Amount allocated: $740,000; disbursed: $222,281.
Main objectives:   To examine agricultural credit practices, make recommenda-
tions on improving them and assist in the implementation, and identify and
prepare an agricultural project suitable for financing by foreign development
institutions.
Achievement/progress:   First two phases of contract covering examination of
agricultural credit system and institutions and recommendations for their re-
organization have been completed. Recommendations currently under review by
GOB. Phase III covering assistance in implementing recommended changes has
not yet started. Consultants are currently assisting in preparing project
proposals.
SUBPROJECT III - Jutton Pilot Plant Study
Amount allocated:  $605,000;  disbursed:  $15,486.



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11
Credit 622-BD
Main objectives:   To design and set up a model plant for jutton (cloth from
yarn made with a blend of jute and cotton fibres) where 10 to 20 kg. of jute
fibre will be processed at a time. Resulting fibres will be subjected to
systematic tests for fibre characteristics. It will be blended in different
proportions with cotton and resulting yarn and cloth characteristics will be
tested. The work will be extended to blending of modified jute with synthetic
fibres. The consultant will also study and establish process parameters with
respect of time, temperatures, concentrations of chemicals, etc. for a charge
of 10 kg of jute. If successful, the use of jutton in commercial production
could reduce Bangladesh requirements for importing cotton.
Achievement/progress:   A feasibility study carried out by a consulting re-
search institution recommended the setting up of a small scale "pilot" jutton
production plant. Construction and equipment specifications for the plant
have been prepared by Bangladesh Jute Research Institute and approved by the
Economic Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC). The specifica-
tions have been reviewed by IDA and tenders for the supply of the equipment
for the model plant are to be floated soon.
SUBPROJECT IV - Planning Assistance
Amount allocated: $1,250,000; disbursed: $40,000.
Main objectives:   To provide sectoral advisors for improvement of project
preparation and sectoral planning capabilities of the Planning Commission and
the Ministry of Agriculture in connection with preparation of the Second Five-
Year Plan of Bangladesh.
Achievement/progress: A contract between the consultant and the Government
acceptable to IDA was approved on October 17, 1978. Recruitment for advisors
has already begun with IDA's assistance. The first batch of advisors are
expected to be in post early next year.
SUBPROJECT V - Rural Development Thana Surveys
Amount allocated: $190,000; disbursed: $ nil.
Main objectives:   To carry out engineering and socio-economic surveys in
29 Thanas designed to prepare proposed second Rural Development Project.
Achievement/progress: Survey was completed and a draft report was reviewed
and accepted. Final report is under preparation. (Nil disbursement reflects
slow GOB procedures for requesting payment.)   While the study is expected
to lead to Rural Development II Project, appraisal has been deferred pending
improved performance under Rural Development I.



- 4: -
ANNEX IV
Page 12
Credit 622-BD
SUBPROJECT VI - Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies (BIDS) -. Training
Amount
Amount allocated: $138,000; disbursed: $ nil.
Main objectives:   To provide equipment and consultants services for the train-
ing center of the Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies, to improve the
Institute's capacity to provide training programs similar to those provided by
EDI.
Achievement/progress:   On-going.  EDI is co-sponsoring various courses with
BIDS. A list of equipment to be financed has been agreed between BIDS and
IDA.
SUBPROJECT VII - North Bengal Paper Mills
Amount allocated: $105,774; disbursed: $70,410.
Main objectives:   To examine the operational difficulties of the North
Bengal Paper Mills and to recommend measures to rehabilitate and improve
their efficiency to a satisfactory level of operation.
Achievement/progress: Consultants have completed the first phase of their
study on schedule and GOB has accepted their general findings and recommenda-
tions. On the basis of the first stage report, BCIC have submitted a formal
Balancing, Modernization and Rehabilitation (BMR) project proposal for a US$5.0
million rehabilitation program to ERD for submission to IDA for review and
possible financing. IDA has indicated to GOB that it is prepared to consider
financing the BMR project but this should be within the context of the long-
term development program currently being prepared for the industry and due
for completion in February 1979. (See Subproject XI Cr. 622-BD - Bangladesh
Pulp and Paper ADvisor).
SUBPROJECT VIII - Architectural Services-- Agricultural Research
Amount allocated: $180,000; disbursed: $ nil.
Main objectives:   To prepare site and building plants, and tender documents
required for facilities to be constructed under Agricultural Research Project
(Cr. 828-BD).
Achievement/progress: On-going. Allowed early start on design work for
facilities included in Agricultural Research Project prior to Credit signature.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13
Credit 622-BD
SUBPROJECT IX - Chittagong Water Supply
Amount allocated:  $529,000;  disbursed:  $94,560.
Main objectives:   To prepare a water supply development plan and a feasibility
study for the Chittagong metropolitan area to meet water needs through the year
2000. The proposed Chittagong Water Supply II Project falls under said plan.
Achievement/progress:   The Government negotiated and signed on March 13,
1978 a contract with the consultant. The consultant's draft final report
was submitted early October 1978 and has been reviewed by IDA and the Govern-
ment. Some further work by the consultants will be required before the pro-
posed project is ready for appraisal.
SUBPROJECT X - Small Industries Training
Amount allocated:  $17,000;  disbursed:  $17,000.
Main objectives: To finance costs of eight commercial bank personnel to be
trained in India to enable them to carry out new responsibilities under the
Second Small Scale Industry Project (Cr. 825-BD).
Achievement/progress: On-going. The training started in August 1978.
SUBPROJECT XI - Pulp and Paper Advisor
Amount allocated: $48,620; disbursed: $25,000.
Main objectives:   To advise Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC)
on long-term prospects and measures necessary for the development of the pulp
and paper industry in Bangladesh, and to assist in the evaluation of various
studies of BCIC's paper mills and to assist in initial operation of a new BCIC
paper industry planning cell.
Achievement/progress: The study is underway although progress is slower than
scheduled. GOB has indicated that it will apply for an extension of the assign-
ment term in order to allow the advisor to complete the marketing and organiza-
tional aspects of the study. The advisor's final report is now due in
February 1979.



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 14
Credit 622-BD
SUBPROJECT XII - Foodgrain Storage Training
Amount allocated: $100,000; disbursed: $ nil.
Main objectives:   To finance the training of silo maintenance personnel to
improve their ability to maintain facilities financed under the First Food-
grain Storage Project (Cr. 381-BD).
Achievement/progress: On-going.
SUBPROJECT XIII - WDB Project Preparation Unit - Phase II
Amount allocated: $1.5 million; disbursed: $ nil. Awaiting formal Govern-
ment approval.
Main objectives:   To finance consultants' assistance in preparation of
selected drainage and flood control projects.
Achievement/progress: Consultant's draft contract approved in principle.
SUBPROJECT XIV - Sector Corporation Management Training
Amount allocated: $92,000; disbursed: $ nil.
Main objectives:   Overseas training in management for key officials of sector
corporations under the Ministry of Industries.
Achievement/progress: Training to begin January 1979.
SUBPROJECT XV - Dacca Water and Sewerage Authority Engineering
Amount allocated: $450,000; disbursed: $ nil.
Main objectives:   To expedite work on components under consideration for
inclusion in a proposed Second Dacca Water and Sewerage Project, through
completion of engineering and preparation of tender documents.
Achievement/progress: Detailed TOR are being worked out between appraisal
mission (currently in Bangladesh), Dacca WASA, and the consultants who had
prepared feasibility study.



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 15
SUBPROJECT XVI - Highway Maintenance Study
Amount allocated: $560,000; disbursed: $ nil.
Main objectives:   To identify investment requirements in the field of road
maintenance and rehabilitation.
Achievement/progress: Consultants contract signed. Work expected to begin
January 1979.



