Report No. PID8845
Project Name                     East Timor-Dili Community Employment...
Generation Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Urban Environment and Labor Markets/Employment
Project ID                       TPSF70517
Borrower/Grantee                 United Nations Transitional Administration in
East Timor
Implementing Agency              UNDP for the UNTAET Department of District
Administration
Environment Category             B
Date this PID Prepared           March 27, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 21, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 28, 2000
Country Background
1.      This project follows from the   World Bank-led Joint Assessment Mission
(JAM) to East Timor in November, 1999. The JAM found that (i) virtually the
entire pre-independence governance structure has disappeared from every
level; (ii) all technical sectors have also disappeared; (iii) the loss of
physical infrastructure is pervasive, reaching as high as 100t in the cities
of Dili, Manatuto, Suai, Oekussi, and Los Palos and much of their
hinterlands. Transportation, supplies, and commercial warehouses were looted
across the country, and a commercial distribution system effectively no
longer exists. The economy has been hit by a dramatic supply shock, due to
the destruction or looting of local inventories of manufactured goods, the
closing of the border with West Timor, and the lack of civilian access to
ports. The physical infrastructure and equipment in every bank has been
destroyed or looted, and there currently is no payment system in operation
that enables public or private entities to pay salaries or suppliers for
goods and services. Even more important, there is a dramatic shortage of
skilled personnel for the secondary and tertiary sectors since most technical
positions were occupied by Indonesians, who have left the territory. It is
estimated that the destruction will result in a drop of 40-45w of GDP.
2.      Out of a pre-crisis population of 850,000 people, approximately 100,000-
150,000 are still refugees within Indonesian camps. It is estimated that in
the weeks following the ballot, 75t of the population was displaced and
almost 70t of the country's physical infrastructure was destroyed or rendered
inoperable.
3.      Within the context described above, employment generation is urgently
needed for the large numbers of people in the main urban centers who have no
means of gaining a livelihood. The principal purpose of this project is to
alleviate poverty by creating jobs and stimulating the local economy.
4.      In addition to the need for employment generation, there is an urgent



need to rebuild civil society and build social capital. The traumatic post-
conflict circumstances in East Timor has caused a high degree of social
disintegration which leaves the potential for civil unrest. This project
addresses this need by fostering the participation of local community
structures and empowering them to organize and manage daily paid workers.
The project's ethos will be the avoidance of confrontation. While the
project will have little impact on institution building at a central
government level, it could form the embryo of a future municipal solid waste
management facility.
Project Description
5.      The project has one component, for labor intensive activities of debris
collection and solid waste management. With a duration of five months, the
project will be divided into four stages:
a)      An initial pilot stage which will involve one community in the most
urgent area of Dili to establish recruitment related procedures and
their effectiveness. This phase will concentrate on removing rubble and
debris from vacant and destroyed buildings before working to remove
household refuse.
b)       A second stage which will involve removing rubble and debris from
within some 25 functional villages within Dili. Rubble will be removed
from street frontages and selected public buildings after they are
declared safe for employees to enter and work. Portugal's Bombeiros
(fire fighters) will be invited to check each building for safety. For
private buildings it is envisaged that owners may move material from
their properties to the road side. Rubble originating from both public
and private buildings will be loaded into handcarts and removed to
collection points where it will be broken down manually into chips for
urgent repair of roads.
c)      When building-rubble and debris is substantially cleared from within
a community, attention will focus on the collection and removal of
domestic refuse. This will also be taken to the community collection
point for separation into aluminum cans, plastics, ferrous metals and
biodegradable material. Cans, plastics and metals will be sold for
recycling or taken to a landfill site where they will be kept apart from
other materials for environmentally sound disposal. Biodegradable
material will be composted for later distribution to house gardens in
the community.
d)      If this project is extended beyond the currently planned 5 months, a
fourth stage would be to replicate the process, with appropriate
modifications derived from lessons learned, in another urban center in
East Timor.
Benefits and target population
6.      The target population will be up to 600 of the poorest people in village
communities in Dili. An assumption has to be made that community leaders
will identify and nominate for employment those people from within their
community who are most in need. Paying wages at a self selection rate of
US$3 per day will assist in achieving this objective.
- 2-



7.      Determining the rate of wage payment has been based on an assessment of
comparators as used by UNTAET. Because of the fluidity in wage rates and
structures, the wage rate of US$3 per day will be kept under review to ensure
that parity is maintained. Wages will be calculated on the basis of days
worked and paid in US$ or the local currency equivalent at the end of each
week. Community responsibility for keeping records of days worked and
effecting payments will be promoted under guidance and procedures established
by project management.
8.      Spreading the benefits throughout the community will depend on the
capacity for varied participation, or rotation of community members, as
determined by the community itself.
9.      Benefits from the project will derive from:
a Social stabilization through the provision of short term employment;
a Injection of funds through wage payments into local communities;
a Public health improvements through environmental enhancement;
a Builds community confidence in reconstruction efforts through visual
impact of cleaning the city, and improves capacity for social
reintegration through community cooperation.
Project Management
10.     The UNDP country office has been in existence since early October 1999
and while not yet fully staffed, is expected to have significantly increased
its operational and management capacity in the near future. The office has
already established an operational presence with procurement, accounting and
management procedures in place and linkages established with other
intermediate term capacity building projects. This project will be
implemented by UNDP in full compliance with its established operating
procedures.
11.     UNTAET will maintain a full client relationship to the project with
particular responsibility for policy guidance and linkages to institutional
building and civil society.
It is recognized that the project's success will be significantly determined
by the transfer of information to civil society. A programme of public
information will be mounted by UNTAET early in project mobilization through
its media facilities and links with civil society. Public information
posters will be widely distributed. They will emphasise transparency in
project management by itemizing terms of conditions of worker selection,
listing expectations on payment of wages, and describing a community based
complaints procedure.
12.     A Project Steering Committee convened by UNDP and consisting of
representatives of the Bank, UNTAET, CNRT will meet at regular intervals to
monitor, review and advise on implementation.
13.     The Project Management Unit will be located in UNDP.    The PMU will
consist of the Deputy Representative, the Project Manager, Administration
Officer and UNDP's Operations Manager. The Deputy Representative will be
responsible for ensuring that the project is implemented in compliance with
this document and that the agreement of all stakeholders is maintained. The
-3 -



Operations Manager will ensure that recruitment, records and accounting
procedures are maintained. The Project Manager, recruited and paid for by
UNDP through related project INT/99/705 Short Term Vocational Training, will
be responsible for all day-to-day management. Intensive activity will be
required in the first months of project start-up, beginning with the
preparation of a work plan for project implementation and including a
training workshop for Community Team Leaders (CTLs) and Community Team
Officers (CTOs) on all aspects of project implementation. The Project
Manager will be assisted by a national staff Administration Officer to be
recruited under this project to be responsible for the procurement, supply
and distribution of materials and equipment to communities; and training and
management of CTOs in organization and management of employees, record
keeping and wage payment procedures and documentation.
14.     To the maximum extent possible,   functions will be   devolved to
participating communities. The CTLs will be responsible for recruitment,
setting priorities areas for clearance, ensuring that work is actually
undertaken and that minimum performance standards are met. The CTOs will be
responsible for: recording work done; maintaining employment records
including recruitment, attendance, payment of and receipts for wages paid;
deploying equipment and maintaining its working condition.
Sustainability and Risks
Sustainability
15.     The project has been designed to enhance community cohesion through
consultation with community leaders and employment of community members. As
already noted, consistency with emerging employment policies and practices is
an important consideration which will be addressed by the Project Management
Unit. While the extent of longer term financial implications cannot be
assessed at this time, it is hoped that the project will provide a basis for
a longer term waste management capacity. Community participation in
environmental improvement is expected to be an on-going feature. It would be
desirable that a longer term waste management capacity demonstrates a high
degree of social equity both between urban areas in East Timor and within
them. This project may therefore be regarded as providing a platform from
which a sustainable program might be launched. The project will dovetail
with the FY2001 budget for administration of East Timor at which time solid
waste management capacity is expected to become an ongoing function. It is
expected that up to 25 percent of the jobs created under this project could
be sustained in the longer term.
Risks
16.     The risks associated with the project and the planned mitigating
measures are:
a) The demand for jobs may exceed the project supply with potential for
discontent. To deal with this an information campaign is planned which will
clarify the scope of the project, wage rates and employment procedures.
Recruitment will be community based.
b) The communities lacking technical and management capacities will be dealt
with by the training of key unity personnel supplemented by intensive
- 4 -



supervision in the first two months by UNDP field staff. A transparent
complaints procedure will be available through UNTAET.
c) The volatility between wage differences between the market and the
public sector will be resolved by the COLA survey currently being
initiated by UNDP for UNTAET and covering the public sector as a whole.
Wages paid under the project will be reviewed accordingly and a
contingency allowance has been built into the project budget.
d) Poor financial management and the risk of inaccurate payments will be
minimized by using the UNDP financial rules for project funds, and by
compiling monthly reports. Work records and payment forms will be
prepared by the Community Administration Officer, certified by the
Community Team leader and authorized through UNDP's Operations Manager
prior to payment. Full records of payments received by workers will be
documented.
Social and Environmental Issues
17.     The project aims to address an urgent social issue -- urban
unemployment. There are no safeguard policy issues anticipated. The impact
on the environment is likely to be positive though this is not the main
purpose of the project.
18.     The project design assumptions reflected in this PID are still
tentative, and they may be modified during appraisal and through discussions
with UNTAET, CNRT, UNDP and civil society organizations.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Sarah Cliffe
Task Team Leader
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4370
Fax:        (202) 522-1557
EMail: scliffe@worldbank.org
Disclaimer: This note is prepared by the World Bank for discussion purposes
only.
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 31, 2000.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



