Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22215
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-23623)
ON A
TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$499,000
TO THE
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR
FORA
DILI COMMUNITY EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
June 27, 2001
Urban Development Sector
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Not applicable)
Currency Unit = US$
I = US$ 1
US$1 = 1
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEG           Community Employment Generation
CNRT          National Council of Timorese Resistance
CTL           Community Team Leader
CTO           Community Team Officer
DDA           Dili District Administration
JAM           Joint Assessment Mission
MPF           Multinational Peacekeeping Force
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PMU           Project Management Unit
TSS           Transitional Support Strategy
UNCHS         United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UNTAET        United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mr. Klaus Rohland, EACNF
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr. Anirrudha Dasgupta, EASUR



FOR OFFICLAl USE ONLY
EAST TIMOR: DILI COMMUNITY EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                             1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                             I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                   1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                      3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                        6
6. Sustainability                                                                            8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                             9
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                          11
9. Partner Comments                                                                        11
10. Additional Information                                                                 13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                        14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                       15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                       17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                       18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                       19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                          20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                      21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P0705 17                                       Project Name: DILI COMMUNITY
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Anirrudha Dasgupta                            TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: .June 2 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: DILI COMMUNITY EMPLOYMENT                       L/C/TFNumber: TF-23623
GENERATION PROJECT
CountryIDepartment: EAST TIMOR                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: SE - Labor Markets & Employment; US - Urban
Environment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/20/2000                               Effective:                     04/01/2000
Appraisal:  03/21/2000                                 MTR:
Approval:  03/31/2000                               Closing:  09/30,'2000         12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: UNTAET/UNDP
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jamil Kassum                               Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager:     Klaus Rohland                               Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:      Keshav Varma                                Keshav Varma
Team Leader at ICR:   Anirrudha Dasgupta                         Sarah Cliffe
ICR Primary Author:   Lisa Campeau
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
No QA G analhsis wvas carried out.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
On August 30, 1999, 78.5% of the East Timorese population of some 800,000 chose to reject an offer
of autonomy from the Republic of Indonesia, preferring to prepare for independence. The violence which



accompanied the ballot was accompanied by the displacement of more than 75% of the population and the
destruction of 70% of all public buildings. All government functions collapsed including basic public
services. The small modem sector which existed before the ballot also collapsed, causing a shock to labor
demand. The informal sector experienced difficulties in rebuilding working capital and reprovisioning.
Government services had collapsed, with no public sector implementation capacity. The United Nations
Transitional Authority in East Timor (UJNTAET) was charged with preparing East Timor for the transition
to independence, including the provision of public services.
The Dili Community Employment Generation Project (CEG) was implemented after the 1999 crisis in
East Timor. At the time of its inception, the Gross Domestic Product had dropped by over 40% with
extremely high unemployment and consequent social tensions. By February 2000, the social unrest due to
wide spread unemployment was rising, and the need for a transitional safety net for the poor was evident.
Rubble from the post-ballot carnage still littered the streets of Dili, and with the imminent departure of the
Multinational PeaceKeeping Force (MPF), which had been clearing the rubble, a means of continuing this
solid waste service was sorely needed. Thus, the Dili Community Employment Generation Project (CEG)
was designed as a stop-gap measure, providing desperately needed employment opportunities and a
necessary service.
Objectives. In line with the above situation, the CEG's objectives were: (a) to generate short-term
employment; (b) to raise urban incomes; and (c) to build social capital through conmmunity-managed
environmental clean-up.
Assessment. The CEG objectives were clear and realistic, and were purposefully kept simple in line with
political, institutional and economic constraints. The objectives were extremely important for East Timor
and accurately reflected the priorities outlined in the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), which stated that
the Bank's program for East Timor should,
"in the short term, focus on the basics: social safety nets, private sector recovery, provision of
health and education. Through the Trust Fund for East Timor ..., the World Bank will support
programs during the transitional period for restitution of services in health and education,
agricultural recovery, loans and training for East Timorese entrepreneurs, labor-intensive public
works and economic activities at community level, and assistance to vulnerable groups and
excombatants."
The project responded directly to the TSS and to the situation on the ground.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had one component for labor-intensive employment through debris collection and solid waste
management. During preparation, it was agreed that the main objective of the project would be
labor-intensive employment generation and not waste management, as the latter would have required
quantifiable data and technical work not envisioned under the project. This component design had
envisioned implementation in three stages:
(a)    a pilot stage which involved one community in the most urgent area of Dili to establish recruitment
- 2 -



related procedures and effectiveness;
(b)    a second stage which included a much greater number of communities and villages, but involving
each community incrementally to assure effective project management (so that the project could succeed in
meeting its aim to reduce social tensions, not increase them); and
(c)    a third stage which included a shift in project focus from solid waste management to the collection
and disposal of household refuse.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
No QAG review of the project was carried-out. The project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory due to:
(a) its consistency with the objectives of the TSS; (b) its sharp focus on addressing the most urgent issues
in Diii (civil unrest due to unemployment); (c) its satisfactory project design which was kept simple to
ensure quick and effective implementation, and which took into account relevant lessons from other poverty
alleviation projects in the East Asia region (such as wages at self-selection levels and community
management structures for project implementation).
The menu of activities were kept simple and relevant to the post-conflict context, focusing on a core
objective of employment generation as a transitional safety-net. Strong demand existed from implementing
partners to expand project objectives to include a waste management institutional development component.
Given the limited implementation capacity, however, the decision to maintain a simple safety-net objective
was probably correct.
Implementing partners have suggested that urban beautification/park development could have been added
as a project component together with vocational training for youth. This could have had a positive impact
on social capital and shall be considered for future post-conflict safety-net programs, provided it does not
reduce the proportion of the total budget spent on wages.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall project outcome rating is satisfactory. The outcome of employment generation was highly
satisfactory and in fact far surpassed targets. Considering extremely limited institutional capacity, and
economic and civil instability at the time the project was implemented, project achievements are
noteworthy, as seen in the table below.
-3 -



Obiective           Key Performance Indicators            Actual Achievement
1. Generate employment;   1. At least 10 work-teams be   1. A total of 12 work-teams (rotating
employed in each neighborhood in   workers on a monthly basis) were
Dili, reaching a total of 600 workers; employed, totaling between 4,500 to 4,600
workers unskilled laborers employed in
2. At least 50% of total budget of  Dili;
USS499,000 be used for payment of
2. Raise urban incomes; and wages; and                   2. A total of 60% was used for payment
of wages; and
3. At least a number of workers
3. Build social capital.    report being consulted on project    3. A total of one out of three community
management and informed about    sites/worker groups reported being
project structures, selection and  consulted to some degree and informed
payment procedures.            about project structures, selection or
recruitment procedures and payment
mechanisms.
Project performance indicators focussed primarily on monitoring performance with regard to employment
generation. The employment creation indicators used were the number of workers hired and the percent of
the project budget spent on workers' wages. The only additional performance indicator was the degree of
community management and consultation. The first two of these project performance indicators (number of
workers and percent of budget for wages) were met and is rated highly satisfactory; the third progress
indicator is rated satisfactory.
Generate EmDlovment. The project exceeded employment generation targets and is rated highly
satisfactory for this output. The number of workers employed for waste management increased from the
proposed total number of 600 employed for the duration of the project to an actual total number of 4,500
workers rotated monthly by the end of the project. The numbers of workers drastically increased during
project implementation because selecting laborers who were the "poorest of the poor" became difficult,
especially in a situation were all Timorese were poor and destitute after the post-ballot violence and
destruction. Community leaders consulted and participating in project implementation preferred to give all
community members the opportunity for short-term employment. This had not been expected since the
wage chosen was intended to be a "self-selection wage," set below the minimum wage level to ensure that
those who were the most needy would choose to apply. In the end many more people participated than
envisioned.
Gender Impact. Besides exceeding employment generation targets, UNDP reported that some 20% of all
workers employed were women, indicating that the project had a positive impact on promoting some gender
balance. During the supervision and ICR missions, the involvement of women in the community clean-up
crews was confirmed.
Raise Urban Incomes. The project also exceeded wage disbursement targets and is rated highly
satisfactory for this output. Sixty-one percent of the budget was used for worker wages compared to the
intended 50% outlined in the PAD because of the increased number of workers working on a rotational
basis, and because of a reallocation of project savings and contingencies to wage expenditures.
During the ICR consultation session with former workers, approximately 25% reported that they now were
- 4 -



employed in "white collar" jobs, but said that they were willing to work for the project because at the time,
the CEG provided an important source of income for food, basic household items, and clothing.
Build Social Capital. The creation of links which build social capital were monitored using "the degree
that workers reported being consulted on project management" as a performance indicator. Only 1 out of 3
worker groups interviewed reported being consulted on project management. However, at an ICR
community consultation meeting with a combined group of community leaders, workers, and Dili District
civil servants (responsible for project management), 14 out of 16 people at the meeting said that the project
effectively met the urgent need for job creation and helped to curb civil unrest in their neighborhoods. Due
to the varying degrees of success, this output is rated satisfactory.
Involving workers and community leaders in project management, through community consultation, was
one mechanism of building social capital. Another was the publication of transparent and accountable
procedures. Communication was not included as a component, nor did the project performance indicators
specifically track progress on communication activities. However, the PAD stated that, "It is recognized
that the project's success will be significantly deternined by the transfer of information to civil society."
The June 2000 supervision mission recognized the conmmunication deficiencies between UNDP and
lTNTAET Dili DA project coordinators and Community Team Leaders, and recommnended that a
communication training session be provided. In mid-July a trainer was hired from UNTAET to assess
training needs and provide training required in communication and conflict resolution techniques. During
the ICR assessment mission, it was clear that communication between Dili DA and the communities had
been improved and the link created between the two could be cited as an achievement.
Other Benefits. All partners agreed (govenmment, implementing agency, and beneficiaries) that the project:
(a) built crucial links of trust and cooperation between the government and the people; (b) clarified and
established roles and expectations between the governnent and communities (a new concept in this
post-conflict context); and (c) helped develop both the government's and community's leadership and
management capacities in the delivery of public services.
4.2 Outputs by components:
As mentioned above, the CEG had only one component for labor-intensive activities of debris collection
and solid waste management. The achievements of this component are considered satisfactory based on its
record in meeting the relevant performance indicators.
Although the project did not have indicators related to physical outputs, it is important to mention that the
project contributed to: (a) cleaning the streets in Dili (they are visibly cleaner); (b) removing 2,000 tons of
rubble in five months (this is calculated using an average of 2 trips per day, 5 days a week, in a 10 MT
truck); (c) clearing asbestos from Dili streets in a safe manner with mechanized equipment and specially
outfitted workers; and (d) removing household waste after the discovery of asbestos.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As this was an emergency operation, no rate of return was calculated.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's experience with institutional development is varied, so institutional development impact is
rated as modest overall.
-5-



The project's institutional development from the top-down is rated as high. As stated earlier, the CEG
forned important links between the transitional administration and the Dili community leaders and their
neighborhoods. This relationship may not have otherwise been formed without this type of project. The
project helped to specifically form such links because of the empowerment of community management
structures, through consultations and site visits by UNTAET Dili DA, a process which was important to
the project's success during this time of uncertainty and transition. These functions were envisioned in
project design, but seen more as a role of UNDP as opposed to that of Dili DA.
To ensure project ownership by community neighborhoods, several consultation exercises were conducted
by UNTAET Dili DA staff. During this process, project staff, who are future civil servants, learned the
importance of consultation throughout implementation. The project as a whole was an important lesson in
the function and purpose of democratic processes, and what it means for the government to "represent" the
people.
Institutional development across government departments could have been stronger and is rated as
negligible. A Project Steering Committee was included in the project design, but did not involve several
different inter-related departments and did not establish linkages for coordination and policy development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Continued civil unrest over employment generation. Due to the rising social unrest in Dili in early 2000,
a decision was made by Dili DA and UNDP to accelerate the project within the first few weeks of
implementation. This immediate need for full-scale project implementation meant that there was a trade-off
between gathering lessons learned from a more lengthy pilot phase. As a result, the socialization of project
staff and comnmunity/worker communication campaigns were compromised. Accelerated project
implementation, although it was extremely difficult to manage and allowed less time for conmmunity
consultation, was considered a necessary and beneficial trade-off for quelling civil unrest and building
social capital.
Resistance over handcart repossession. During project design, the rubble collection program was to be
implemented by dividing workers into teams and providing each team with a handcart. The project had
intended to recapture and use previously state-owned handcarts, lost in the violence and looting, by
providing a small finders fee to the new handcart owners. This plan, however, was not acceptable to the
owners of the handcarts since their livelihood depended on their newly acquired transport. The time taken to
assess the number of carts available for use, and then negotiate the acceptable reward amounts for their
acquisition, not only delayed rubble clean-up under the project, but also over-burdened the community
management structures for an item which may have been better purchased new instead. A decision was
made around the mid-point of project implementation to procure handcarts from within the region;
however, this was not carried out because of the discovery of asbestos and the need to use mechanized
removal of the hazardous waste material.
Discovery of asbestos. Another major factor affecting project implementation the identification of asbestos
in the solid waste roofing material being cleared around Dili. UNTAET contracted a consultant who
confirmed the presence of asbestos in 80% of the samples examined. The most prevalent type of asbestos
found was chrysotile asbestos, which according to the report is least hazardous, but warranted special
-6 -



handling nevertheless. The project was thus revised and workers were moved to household waste collection.
Machinery was purchased to remove the building rubble and masks were made available to those who were
contracted to assist in the asbestos removal. UNTAET/ETTA government issued "Guidelines on
Maintenance, Handling and Disposal of Asbestos Materials and Asbestos Waste" in September 2000, and
a few selected workers were trained in asbestos handling and removal. This factor substantially affected the
productivity of the rubble clearing in Dili but did not affect employment generation, since most workers
were switched to household waste management instead.
Tensions between neighboring communities. In the project design, waste management was to be
conducted by combined neighborhood/aldeia teams. Such team formations were seen as an important
mechanism to build social capital among and between communities involved in rubble collection. During
project implementation tensions arose between these coordinated neighborhood teams, who refused to work
together on waste management because of a history of community rivalry. Project work ceased in areas
where such conflicts arose and only resumed after Dili DA had conducted several mediated discussions
between the community team leaders.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government's weak institutional capacity was a factor in that it disabled: (a) the establishment of a
sustainable waste management program through interdepartmental coordination; and (b) the creation of an
exit strategy. These were not adequately addressed, creating a temporary gap in the delivery of waste
management services over the first two months after the project's closing, and forgoing opportunities for
sustainable employment generation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors which were subject to implementing agency control were: supervision; wage disbursement;
procurement; and commnunity consultation and communication.
Supervision. Contrary to project design, supervision was often conducted by Dili DA instead of the
implementing agency. External supervision was seen as important to ensuring the implementation of
effective anti-corruption procedures and other quality assurance processes. This impacted project
implementation performance since the government ended up being overburdened with both implementation
and supervision, at a time when the institution's capacity was still weak.
Wage Disbursement. Management of the worker wage disbursement was within the implementing
agency's control. When the project was being designed UNDP had already established an operational
presence in country with procurement, accounting, and management facilities in place. This facility to
provide financial management and procurement was UNDP's principal added value to project
implementation. Although UNDP management of the resources allocated to the project is considered
satisfactory, it is felt that better control systems could have been developed (such as worker identity cards,
or regular roll call, or sign-in sheet) to monitor staff presence at work sites. The June 2000 supervision
mission noted worker absenteeism, which had not been reflected in UNDP's initial financial sununaries of
worker payments.
Procurement. Procurement controls were also all within implementing agency (UNDP) control and
responsibility. During the ICR mission workers complained about having inadequate or inappropriate boots
and equipment for waste management. Procurement or production of additional handcarts (in addition to
the state-owned ones that the project had intended to repossess) was delayed by a factor which was within
UNDP's control: the UTNDP Becora handcart-building factory which was discussed during the project
- 7 -



design phase did not produce the expected handcarts to be used on the project. No altemative was found.
Both the inappropriate worker equipment and lack of handcarts impaired the effectiveness and productivity
of work crews. In particular this slowed rubble collection from the streets. Rubble was gathered in piles but
left on sidewalks or street comers until the front-end loader could remove the waste. Work teams often had
to altemate between workers so as to share the available equipment.
Community Consultation and Communication. Community consultation and communication were also
within the control of the implementing agency and could have been better. Indeed, the joint team recognized
that although the project itself was not developed through community participation (because of the need for
immediate project implementation), strong community ownership had to be established during the
implementation process. This element was not satisfied by the implementing agency who was expected to
post information such as recruitment procedures and wages paid.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total actual project cost, in relation to size and complexity, was very close to the projected figures.
The original grant amount was S499,000, and at the end of the project, a total of $494,268.77 had been
disbursed, and US$4,731.23 was cancelled. Since accounts and disbursements were largely kept in US
dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates did not effect projected costs. Since a contingency had been
added for wage fluctuations (in case of civil disturbances over wage rates and demands for increases), the
increased costs to fund the wages of additional workers were covered by these funds.
The project was implemented over nine months instead of the originally envisaged six months. Delays
resulted because of difficulties in mobilizing some community work forces and in procuring handcarts and
a truck. Also by July 2000, the project's cash flow projections implied that some funds could be
re-allocated to disburse more of the grant for worker wages, but four more months would be necessary to
expend those funds.
UNDP mentioned that management fees were insufficient in relation to the expected involvement and
workload during project implementation. Also UNTAET Dili DA hired and paid for a project monitoring
and implementation staff within the government structure, a role which was not envisioned nor covered
under the project, but was important and necessary to project implementation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as likely. Sustainability is related to: (a) the government's/implementing
agency's improved ability to remount a similar safety-net operation in the future (if necessary); and (b) the
beneficial institutional impact of the project on the development of social capital and
government-community linkages. The Dili DA's capacity development and links established with the
community will contribute to the future functioning of government and to projects implemented during the
transitional period. This relationship and the lessons leamed in regard to communication are the greatest
contributions which can be made to future implementation.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In the PAD it states that "It is hoped that the project would provide a basis for a longer term waste
management capacity, since community participation in environmental improvement is expected to be an
ongoing feature of municipal services." The project design assumed that this transitional employment
-8 -



program would be replaced by a budget for waste management services as an ongoing function of
government. The development of a transitional plan or exit strategy was needed to ensure the smooth
interfacing of waste management operations from the project to a regular waste management operation.
Greater attention should have been given to coordination between international development partners,
UNDP, govemment, and other donors to ensure that a detailed plan would be drafted for a government
program.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in preparation/appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank quickly defined the project,
then prepared, appraised, negotiated, approved, arranged for Grant Agreement signing, and declared it
effective in a matter of weeks. The Bank correctly made the objective of the project poverty alleviation
instead of waste management. Quality peer reviewers, such as a municipal engineer with a poverty
alleviation background, and a senior solid waste management expert were appointed. Adequate attention to
safeguard policies, namely environmental policy, was paid in line with the emergency nature of the project.
The project was consistent with the Bank's TSS and was a logical means of addressing the social and
economical dilemmas faced at the time of implementation. The project far surpassed the goal of temporary
employment generation, acting as a transitional safety-net and addressing the temporary need for income
generation through mass unskilled employment, before the large scale reconstruction projects (building
roads, schools, clinics) could absorb some of these demands for employment.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank's strong commitment to rapid
approval and disbursements was crucial to immediate project implementation. Valuable and timely support
was provided to the implementing agency in disbursement procedures. Procurement training could have
been provided closer to project effectiveness through regular on-the-ground and imnmediate advisory
services. Though provided mid-way through implementation, procurement assistance was still valuable.
The Bank's Resident Mission had good working relations with UNDP and Dili DA prior to and during
project implementation, which contributed to effective coordination on a multiple range of issues and to
quick project implementation. The Chief of Mission was the task manager of this project during
preparation, and she and other resident mission staff remained available throughout implementation for
consultation and guidance and provided valuable continuity.
The Bank conducted one formal supervision mission which took place mid-way through project
implementation. In light of the long-term impact on employment generation and waste management in Dili,
more frequest and comprehensive missions, including a solid waste management expert, would have been
beneficial. Perhaps because of the short project implementation schedule (nine months total), additional
formal supervision missions appeared unnecessary and were not budgeted for.
Shortly after project closing, the Bank conducted an Environmental Safeguards thematic mission to assess
the environmental impacts of Bank projects and ensure safeguards were in place to mitigate potential
hazards. ETTA and UNTAET departments were consulted during the mission and infornal discussions
were held and recommendations made about environmental issues and mitigation procedures, looking
specifically at the govenmment's response to asbestos handling and disposal in the Dili CEG.
-9-



7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bank's strong commitment to quick approval and
immediate project implementation was crucial to quelling social unrest in Dili through generating
employment and raising urban incomes, and the project was in full compliance with the request of
UNTAET Dili DA's for this type of operation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
UNTAET Dili District Administration and UNDP preparation of the project was satisfactory. The project
was prepared in a timely manner and all steps needed for preparation were followed. Government and
implementing agency commitment to the project at the outset was evident and throughout project
implementation. Govemment and implementing agency chose to re-allocate project funds to spend more on
worker wages than any other project component - this is an example of commitment to the project's poverty
alleviation objectives.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Although the government's implementation performance is not relevant since they were not intended to
implement the project, it is important to note that in fact Dili DA contributed enormously to project
implementation.
As it was agreed during project design that UNDP would serve as the executing agency, Dili DA's
responsibility was limited to supporting UNDP and in participating in the Steering Committee. Dili DA
participation can be rated informally as highly satisfactory since they took over many functions that were
not envisaged nor expected, and showed great commitment to community consultation, and project
management and supervision. More effort could have been made, however, on coordination with other
departments and in the development of a coordinated exit strategy.
UNTAET together with UNDP effectively provided essential environmental safeguards by suggesting the
hiring of a consultant (hired by AusAid) to review the asbestos problem, issuing relevant guidelines for
asbestos handling, and providing training courses on the implementation of such guidelines.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
UNDP's performed satisfactorily in calling regular monthly meetings through the established Steering
Committee. UNDP was also successful at maintaining full client relationship with Dili DA and government
counterparts. However, many functions which were envisaged as the role of UNDP as executing agency
were in fact handed over to government, Dili District Administration. Areas which could have been
improved are: (a) closer financial supervision and spot-checks, in addition to greater anti-corruption
measures; (b) improved procurement of goods and materials for project implementation; (c) greater transfer
of information to communities, with a focus on encouraging community involvement in waste management
and conveying about its importance, and greater publication of recruitment procedures and wage levels; (d)
greater technical role in the provision of advice in employment generation, waste management, and social
awareness and communication campaigns.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
- 10-



The recipient's overall performance is rated satisfactory. The recipient's efforts in rapid implementation
helped quell social unrest, raise urban incomes in a time of great need, and cleared Dili's street of rubble
and eventually aided in collecting household solid waste.
8. Lessons Learned
Lessons for safety-net projects in a post-conflict context:
*   Community management structures are a successful implementation arrangement for rapid employment
generation and an important mechanism to strengthen bonds of social capital;
*   Rubble collection and waste management are suitable activities for employment creation but could be
expanded to include urban beautification initiatives;
*   Spot-checks and other supervisory mechanisms, and transparency in and communication of recruitment
procedures and wages are critical to controlling corruption risks;
*   Transition to regular operations requires more attention to the development of a longer-term waste
management plan, that may be implemented as a phase two of a project of this type;
*   Follow-on vocational education training (which could involve non-manual tasks and training in the
menu of activities) and employment generation for youth would have been advisable, since youth
unemployment is an important cause of future civil unrest, crime, and national instability.
Lessons for Implementing Institutions:
3   Community-based projects require greater investment in implementing agency's time and human
resources, and such time invested is crucial to project success;
3   Implementing institutions must establish clear team management structures and responsibilities - (a)
within implementing agency structure, (b) between municipal govemment and implementing agency,
donors, and community leadership (steering committee), (c) across government departments, and (d)
between government and parallel community leadership/counterparts at the outset of project
implementation;
3   Implementing institutions must develop and communicate clear worker selection/recruitment criteria,
which is discussed with community leaders and widely communicated in their communities (verbally,
and/or through graphic posters, and/or through radio campaigns);
*   Staff involved in implementation should be given communication techniques and conflict resolution
skills; be involved in regular intemal team meetings to ensure understanding of established selection
and implementation criteria and mechanisms to widely communicate such criteria; and be responsible
for day to day dispute resolution and development of important links needed between government and
communities it serves;
*   Community leaders assisting in mobilizing their commnunities should be explained importance of
leadership and of setting an example of cooperation with neighboring communities which are grouped
in city clean-up (especially in situations were communities have a history of rivalry);
*   Simple procurement procedures, such as national/intemational shopping for the purchase of immediate
and necessary equipmnent and supplies, are crucial to ensuring speedy project delivery.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Dili Community Employment Generation Project
TIM1OO/003
- 11 -



Institutional Development Impact
As institutional development was not one of the objectives of this project as outlined in the World Bank
Project Appraisal Document we believe the evaluation of this impact is not applicable. We therefore
suggest this section be removed from the report.
Supervision
The supervision of the project should be considered from two aspects; that of management of the project,
and that of management of the activities that the project supported.
Project supervision as outlined in the project document was fully undertaken by UNDP. In terms of the
specifics of worker attendance, the UNDP national project assistant, in conjunction with the project
manager undertook random site visits. It should be noted that it was recognised by the Steering Conmmittee
that attendance was an issue, and a number of solutions were attempted, within the limitations imposed by
the budget. These solutions included enhancing community involvement in this function and providing
additional training for supervisors.
Assumed by all partners, although not documented in the Project Appraisal Document, was that Dili
District would undertake the supervision of the debris removal activities of the project. This was in line
with UNTAET's mandate for infrastructure, and was logical in terms of ensuring synergy between this
project and similar activities funded by another donor, i.e. USAID.
Wage Disbursement
A point is made that greater control of the resources could have been developed (such as worker identity
cars, or regular roll call, or sign in sheet). From the commencement of the project, daily attendance was
monitored. Initially this was done through CTLs marking worker attendance. Recognizing mid-way
through project implementation that this system was open to abuse, workers were then required to sign in
on a daily basis.
The process involved in the financial management of the project was as follows: Dili District estimated the
funds required to pay workers for the current week. UNDP prepared those funds. Dili District staff and the
UNDP national project assistant prepared and paid individual payments against signed daily workers
sheets. The amount given as advance was reconciled by UNDP against amount claimed through signed
daily workers sheets, and the advance overpayment recovered from Dili District. We believe control
mechanisms we put in place were sufficient to monitor overall financial management of the project,
particularly wage disbursement.
Handcarts
It was anticipated in the project document that Becora STM would be able to provide handcarts, however
the feasibility of this was not fully explored, given the very rapid project development process. This
procurement option was found not to be viable, given both the costs involved and the infrastructure
capacity of Becora STM. The next option explored was overseas purchase from Indonesia, however, the
time factor in this procurement was prohibitive.
As discussed in the steering committee, other options to be explored were those of reclaiming handcarts
used during Indonesian times, however, people who were using these handcarts, in order to make a living,
- 12 -



were reluctant to part with them. Procurement of wheelbarrows from Australia was then considered, and at
the same time an option of employing people who had access to handcarts was also considered. At this
point in project implementation, asbestos was discovered and funds intended to be used in handcart
purchase were diverted into the procurement of mechanized equipment. This was done at the request of the
World Bank.
We would therefore suggest circumstances beyond UNDP's control rendered the purchase of handcarts
impossible.
Financial management
The World Bank cleared the first "withdrawal application" only four weeks after project commencement,
necessitating bridging funds from UNDP for a relatively short time. What was more problematic, however,
was establishing a system to ensure the management of contributions from the Bank met the requirements
of both the World Bank and UNDP systems.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Generate short-term employment no. of    10 teams                             A total of 12 teams (with rotationof workers
work days; no. of people employed                                             on a monthly basis) employed between 4,500
and 4,600 workers
Raise incomes: % of budget paid to                                            A total of 60% of the total grant was used to
unskilled workers                                                             pay workers wages
Build social capital through community                                        A total of 33% of workers (about 1 in 3 of
management: villagers report satisfactory                                     community sites/worker groups consulted)
degree of transparency and consultation in                                   reported being consuited to some degree and
community management structures                                               informd about project structures,
selection/recruitment procedures and
payment mechanisms.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  ActuallLatest Estimate
End of project
No output indicators were designated at appraisal.
- 14-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Debris Collection and Solid Waste Management         0.50           0.50            100
Total Baseline Cost                                  0.50           0.50
Total Project Costs              0.50           0.50
Total Financing Required              0.50           0.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.                     ~~~~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB        Mthod2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.18         0.00         0.18
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.18)        (0.00)       (0.18)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Wages                     0.00          0.00         0.30         0.00         0.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.30)        (0.00)       (0.30)
5. Operations &              0.00          0.00         0.01         0.00         0.01
Maintenance                 (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.01)        (0.00)      (0.01)
6. UNDP Administration       0.00          0.00         0.02         0.00         0.02
Fee                         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.02)       (0.00)       (0.02)
Total                     0.00          0.00         0.51          0.00         0.51
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.51)        (0.00)       (0.51)
- 15-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB         Mthod2           N.B.F.      Total Cost
NCB          Other'
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.16           0.00          0.16
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.16)         (0.00)        (0.16)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Wages                         0.00           0.00           0.30           0.00          0.30
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)        (0.30)
5. Operations &                  0.00           0.00           0.03           0.00          0.03
Maintenance                     (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.03)         (0.00)         (0.03)
6. UNDP Administration           0.00           0.00           0.02           0.00          0.02
Fee                             (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.02)         (0.00)         (0.02)
Total                         0.00           0.00           0.51           0.00          0.51
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.51)        (0.00)         (0.51)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            ActualILatest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Debris Collection & Solid  0.50                          0.49                          98.0
Waste Management
- 16 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 17 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty               Perforrance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 12,                   4   3 Economists, I Procurement
2000                                Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 21-22,                   7   2 Economists, I Legal
2000                                Counsel, I Engineer, I
Disbursement Officer, 2
Procurement Specialists
Supervision
June 19-26, 2000               3   2 Economists, I Engineer               S              S
ICR
February 19 to                 I    I Economist                           S              S
March 8, 2001
June 2001                      1    1 Economist
(follow-up visit)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
l _________________________           No. Staff weeks                 US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation                     0                              0
Appraisal/Negotiation                        .63                       4,236.73
Supervision                                  2.5                       7,569.06
ICR                                          7.3                      15,125.00
Total                                      10.43                      26,930.79
Please note that preparation and appraisal were combined under this emergency operation. Also, the figures for
staff weeks under identification/preparation, appraisal/negotiations and supervision do not accurately reflect the
actual time spent on these tasks. This is due to the fact that the trust fund for East Timor was established only after
many of these activities had already been completed, and efforts were not made to repost staff time to the project
budget. Only time spent on the ICR is reasonably accurate.
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives(Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligiblc, NA=Not Applicable)
Razing
O Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ESectorPolicies                            O H  C SU O M  O N  * NA
F Physical                                 O H  C       SU   O M  0 N  O  A
i Financial                               C H  OSUOM  0 N  * NA
I Institutional Development               C H  C SU * M  0 N  C NA
Z Environmental                           C H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  C NA
Social
IPoverty Reduction                  * H  CSUOM  O N  O NA
1Gender                             O) H  O SU  *     O N  O AA
ZOther (Please specify)             O H  C SU O M  O N  O NA
C Private sector development              C H  C SU 0 r  0 N N    ArA
Z Public sector management                0, H  * SU 3 M  C N  0 NA
r,Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSU   M  O N  O NA
- 19g-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Zi Lending                                           C HS * S  CU  C HU
Z Supervision                                        OHS *S   C U  C HU
f  Overall                                           OHS *S  C u  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
7 Preparation                                        CHS OS  C  U           HU
@  Government implementation performance             C HS * S  C  U  CD HU
Z Implementation agencyperformance                   CHS * S   C U  CHU
Z Overall                                            CHS * S  C  U          HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
ICR Mission Aide Memoire
(The recipient did not provide its own ICR.)
- 21 -



