Page  1
April 1, 2000
Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello
Special Representative of the Secretary General
United Nations Transitional Authority in East Timor
Dili, East Timor
Re:
Trust Fund for East Timor Grant for
the Dili Community Employment Generation Project
Grant No. TF 023623
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association, acting as 
Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor (the Trustee)
to indicate the Trustee’s 
agreement to grant to the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor 
(the Recipient) a Grant in an amount not exceeding US$450,000US$499,000 (the Grant). 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter-Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Letter-Agreement except to the extent that it shall have received funds for the 
purpose pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. 
IDA99-5 of the Executive Directors of the Association, as amended by Resolutions No. 
99-8/1 and No. IDA99-5/1.
The Representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in East 
Timor and any person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 4Sections 4 and 5 of 
the Annex to this Agreement.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the copy of this Letter-Agreement.  Upon receipt 
by the Trustee of the copy of this Letter-Agreement countersigned byyou and its 
acceptance of the evidence furnished by the Recipient that:
(a)
a Project Manager and a Project Administrator, acceptable to the Trustee, 
have been appointed; and
(b)
publicity materials, including posters, acceptable to the Trustee, have 
been printed.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter-Agreement.
you, this Letter-Agreement will become effective as of the date of the 
countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
AGREED:
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL
Page  2
   ADMINISRATION IN EAST TIMOR
By /s/ Sergio Vieira de Mello
Authorized Representative
Special Representative of the Secretary General
Date:
April 1, 2000
AGREED:
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT
   PROGRAMME
Acting as Executing Agency for UNTAET
By /s/ Finn Reske Nielsen
Authorized Representative
Resident Representative, UNDP
Date:
April 1, 2000
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
By /s/ Avelino Coelno
Member, National Consultative Council
Date:
April 1, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purpose and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in (i) raising urban incomes 
throughgenerating short-term employment, (ii) alleviate poverty through   the 
employment of poor, unskilled  labor, (iii) rehabilitate and enhance the urban 
environment, and (iv) institutional capacity building.raise urban incomes, and (iii) 
build social capital through community-managed environmental clean-up.
1.2.
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Carrying out of a pilot activity in a selected community in Dili of 
cleaning up rubble and debris through the employment of poor, unskilled labor.
(b)
Expansion of the pilot activity to about twenty-five communities within 
Dili, including rubble removal from street frontages and from selected public 
buildings, and processing the collected rubble aggregates for road repair and 
construction purposes.urgent road repair.
(c)
Expansion of the activities in paragraph (b) above to the collection and 
removal of domestic refuse, including separation of the refuse, at the collection 
point, into aluminum cans, plastics, ferrous metals and biodegradable material, and 
sale or disposal of such materials.
2.
Implementation  Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall:  (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time 
to time exchange views with the Bank’s representatives on the progress and results of 
the Activities and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to 
visit the territory of [member country] for the purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of 
Page  3
the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1
Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment 1 to this Annex.
Annex. Goods acquired under the Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall, after completion of the Project and except as otherwise agreed by UNTAET, 
remain the property of UNTAET and any successor thereto.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Trustee on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4 of this 
Annex, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Items
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, including 
transportation
   176,000
100%
(2)
Labor wages
   299,000
100% of local expenditures
(3)
Operation and 
maintenance
     6,500
100% 
of equipment
(4)
UNDP administration   17,500
100%
fee
TOTAL
   450,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of East Timor for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of East Timor, and the term 
"local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, 
provided, however, that if the currency of East Timor is also that of another country 
from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made:
(i)
for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Letter-Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $45,000,$50,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after March 1, 2000;
(ii)
on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory 
of the Recipient;
(iii)
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a member of the Trustee or for goods produced in or 
services supplied from such territories, except East Timor;
(iv)
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Trustee’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; or
Page  4
(v)
after September 30, 2000, or such later date as the Trustee shall 
establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), 
except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred 
prior to the Closing Date and received by the Trustee within four 
months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be 
canceled; and
(b)
if, in the Trustee’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of 
the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, it may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which in its opinion 
will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Trustee a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Trustee.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Representative of the UNDP in East Timor or such other 
person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as the Trustee shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal 
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her 
signature. Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant is supporting 
evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Trustee that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Trustee shall pay the 
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of 
the Recipient.
4.5
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, (b) labor wages, 
and (c) operation and maintenance of equipment; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Trustee, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the 
Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant 
Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter-Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Trustee.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintaindeposit Grant amounts in  United States Dollars a special deposit accountin 
the UNDP Contribution Account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Attachment 2 to this 
Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Trustee, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
theActivitiesin respect the Activities of the department or agencies of the Recipient 
responsible for carrying out related to the Activities or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, and accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
standards acceptable to the Trustee, principles and consistently applied, by 
independent auditors with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable 
to the Trustee; (ii) furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (b) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall 
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Trustee such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least after one year 
after the Trustee has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records 
and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Trustee may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the following 
event has occurred and is continuing, namely that the Recipient has failed to comply 
with any of its obligations therein specified[International].
6.2.
The Trustee may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account:  (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above, or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Trustee, within 90 days after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Credits and IDA Credits" published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Except as set forth in paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $3,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $45,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Labor required for the Activities shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank. See paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines. Tailor-made 
procedures where community participation is deemed appropriate are to be developed at 
appraisal by the Task Manager and the Borrower, in consultation with the lawyer and 
LOA and should be reflected in a manual or similar document describing procedures for 
community participation in the provision of goods and works, and outlined in the 
Project Appraisal Document. The agreed document may be referred to and attached to a 
supplemental letter or the agreed minutes of negotiations.  Issues to be addressed in 
the document would include, inter alia: who will procure what, how will the items be 
purchased, what documentary evidence will be required for the expenditures, and how 
will the procurement process be monitored, if at all Trustee, which procedures shall 
include that labor shall be selected by the Community Team Leader from poor and 
unskilled residents of participating communities.
Page  6
Part C:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply with respect to each contract for goods and labor.
Attachment to Annex 
Attachment 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)  the term "eligible categories" means the categories set forth in the table 
in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter-Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)  the Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.once 
50% of 
the aggregate amount of the authorized allocation has 
been spent.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the Grant Account 
under the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account.
(a)  if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant;
(b)  if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex of this 
Letter-Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Page  7
Special Account:
(c)  if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter-Agreement; or
(d)  once the total withdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)  If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)  If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount. 
