                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000567




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IDA-H2190)




                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.5 MILLION
                        US$ 31.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                   TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                    FOR A

 DEBT RELIEF GRANT UNDER THE ENHANCED HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR
                     COUNTRIES (HIPC) DEBT INITIATIVE




                                 August 13, 2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
AFCC1
Africa Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective 06/01/2007)

                            Currency Unit = CFAF
                              US$ 1.00 = 488.2

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1- December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APR      Annual Progress Report
DSA      Debt Sustainability Analysis
JSAN     Joint Staff Advisory Note
HIPC     Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HIV-AIDS Human Immunodeficiency Virus ­ Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
MDRI     Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
NPV      Net Present Value
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC III  Third Structural Adjustment Credit




                         Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                       Country Director: Marie Francoise Marie Nelly
                       Sector Manager: Yvonne Tsikata
                     Task Team Leader: Chukwuma Obidegwu
                      ICR Team Leader: Abdoulaye Seck

                                          CAMEROON
          Debt Relief Grant under the Enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative


                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 4
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 5
6. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 7
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............. 8
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................ 9
Annex 2: Status of the Triggers for reaching the floating HIPC completion point...... 10
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 13
MAP




                                                      1

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Debt Relief Grant
Country:               Cameroon                Program Name:         Under the Enhanced
                                                                     HIPC Initiative
Program ID:            P100965                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H2190
ICR Date:              06/27/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                     CAMEROON
Original Total
                       XDR 21.5M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 19.4M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Comite Technique de Suivi
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/24/2006     Effectiveness:       12/05/2006        12/05/2006
Appraisal:                            Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/27/2006    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:             12/30/2006        12/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:              Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:         Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:               Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators            (if any)              Rating:

Potential Problem
                                             Quality at Entry
Program at any time      No                                       None
                                             (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                       Quality of
                         No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General energy sector                                         20                 20
General transportation sector                                 20                 20
Health                                                        20                 20
Law and justice                                               20                 20
Primary education                                             20                 20


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Corporate governance                                         Primary          Primary
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                    Primary          Primary
Education for all                                           Secondary         Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                    Secondary         Secondary
Health system performance                                   Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:        Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly      Ali Mahmoud Khadr
Sector Manager:          Yvonne M. Tsikata                Cadman Atta Mills
Program Team Leader:     Chukwuma F. Obidegwu             Florence M. Charlier
ICR Team Leader:         Abdoulaye Seck
ICR Primary Author:      Abdoulaye Seck




                                            ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Provide IDA required assistance under the Enhanced HIPC Debt Relief Initiative, thus
contributing to alleviate Cameroon's debt burden and supporting the Government's
Implementation of its poverty reduction strategy.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target    Formally      Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value       Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
                                            approval          Target      Completion or
                                           documents)         Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Fund the pre-payment of remaining outstanding IBRD debt owed by Cameroon
                 at the time of HIPC Completion Point.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target     Formally     Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value       Values (from                     Achieved at
                                            approval         Revised      Completion or
                                           documents)     Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :    n/a
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs




                                            iii

                                                             Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived             DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                          (USD millions)
 1    11/10/2006         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                       iv

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      This grant originated from the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC)
Debt Initiative. When Cameroon reached the Decision Point under the enhanced HIPC
Debt Initiative in October 2000, the Executive Directors approved the provision of an
IDA supplemental credit to prepay outstanding IBRD debt at the Completion Point as
part of IDA's contribution to overall HIPC debt relief initiative. As such, this report
should be read in conjunction with the HIPC decision and completion point documents.

2.      At the decision point, Cameroon was expected to reach completion point in April
2003, upon meeting a set of triggers ranging from satisfactory PRSP implementation to
macroeconomic stability and progresses on key governance, structural and social reforms.
However, slippages in macroeconomic management and difficulties in the
implementation of the poverty reduction strategy delayed the completion point date. In
2005, the macroeconomic framework was strengthened through improved fiscal
management, and there was progress in PRSP implementation and the adoption of
governance measures. As these progresses were sustained in early 2006, Cameroon
reached completion point in April 2006 after fulfilling all agreed conditions.

3.      As a result of the attainment of completion point, Executive Directors agreed to
provide the financing needed to prepay outstanding IBRD debt, but rather than a
supplemental HIPC debt relief credit as agreed at the Decision Point, Executive Directors
provided a supplemental HIPC debt relief grant to take into account the adoption of the
IDA14 grant allocation framework. Under the new framework, countries are eligible for
IDA financing through credits or grants according to their risk of debt distress, and
Cameroon was deemed eligible for 100 percent grant financing from IDA in fiscal year
2006. The HIPC relief grant provided through the prepayment of IBRD loans
outstanding at end-June 1999 amounts to US$20 million in NPV terms, compared to
US$75 million assumed if completion point would have been reached in 2003.


1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4.      The objective of this operation was to provide Cameroon the assistance required
by IDA under the enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative upon Cameroon reaching the
Completion Point, thus contributing to improving Cameroon's overall debt sustainability
and supporting the Government's implementation of its poverty reduction strategy
through increased spending from the fiscal savings.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
Not applicable.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program




                                             2

5.       The policy areas supported by the program are those linked to the conditions for
reaching the completion point under the enhanced HIPC debt initiative, namely: (i) the
preparation of a poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP), and satisfactory
implementation for at least one year; (ii) the maintenance of a stable macroeconomic
framework and continued satisfactory performance under the IMF's Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility (PRGF) program; (iii) the satisfactorily use of budgetary savings
from the interim debt service relief; (iv) the satisfactorily implementation of the structural
reforms supported by the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) financed by IDA;
(v) the satisfactorily implementation of governance and anti-corruption measures in the
areas of judicial reform, budget execution, procurement reform, and the creation of
regulatory agencies; and (vi) satisfactorily implementation of key social reforms,
including combating malaria and HIV/AIDS


1.5 Revised Policy Areas
Not applicable.

1.6 Other significant changes
Not applicable.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Program Performance



     Tranche #             Amount          Expected Release   Actual Release     Release
                                                 Date             Date
      Tranche 1        US$31.5 million    September 30, 2006  May 3, 2007    Regular



                                              Tranche 1
  List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                        Status
   Reach completion point under the Enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative           Met


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
6.       This is a single tranche operation with no substantial implementation issues. The
tranche release was conditional to effectiveness which itself was defined by the
ratification of the grant agreement and the publication of a legal opinion.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
7.       There is no specific M&E system, implementation and utilization mechanisms for
the grant. The use of fiscal savings from debt relief is currently monitored through a
tripartite committee including Government, civil society and donors. Bank and IMF




                                                 3

staffs are observers in that committee. The functioning and performance of the committee
is explained in more details in Annex 2.


2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:
Not applicable.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

8.      The development objectives remain important. While a Debt Sustainability
Analysis (DSA) completed in May 2007 by Bank and Fund staff indicates that Cameroon
faces a low risk of debt distress, it also shows that under alternative scenarios and stress
tests, there could be a significant deterioration in the public debt outlook. Continuous
prudence in financing is therefore still warranted. In addition, poverty headcount remains
significant in Cameroon at about 40 percent and widespread in Cameroon and the
authorities have launched the revision of their PRSP in order to accelerate growth and
reduce poverty. The Bank continues to support these objectives. The Interim Strategy
Note (ISN, FY 06-08) presented to the Board in December 2006 includes support to debt
sustainability and to the revision of the PRS with a stronger focus on results. In
collaboration with IMF staff, the Bank is providing assistance to the authorities in the
preparation of a sound debt management strategy.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

9.      The program development objectives have been fully achieved. IDA assistance
under this program has been fully disbursed, allowing Cameroon to repay outstanding
IBRD debt. As a result of that assistance and additional debt relief from IDA and other
multilateral and bilateral creditors under the HIPC and the Multilateral Debt Relief
Initiative, Cameroon's debt burden has significantly improved relative to the situation
before completion point. Nominal external debt declined from US$ 6.5 billion in 2005 to
US$2.1 billion in 2006, or from 39 to 11 percent of GDP. Cameroon now faces a low
risk of debt distress.

10.     Furthermore, a satisfactory implementation of the PRSP ­ including increased
spending for social and other priority sectors ­ was a condition for HIPC completion
point, and this condition was deemed met in the HIPC completion document and in the
third PRSP annual progress report discussed by Executive Directors in February 2006. A
detailed account of achievements is provided in Annex 2.




3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory



                                               4

11.     The program development objectives have been achieved. Cameroon is pursuing
the policies needed to maintain debt sustainability and improve PRSP implementation
with the support of its development partners, including IDA. Cameroon is implementing
a fiscal strategy anchored on preserving debt sustainability. Since 2005, fiscal policy
implementation and performance strengthened substantially as evidenced by the
completion in June 2007 by the IMF Board of the third review of the PRGF. In addition,
Cameroon is preparing a debt management strategy that will guard against the risk of
over borrowing. As for PRSP implementation, Cameroon is preparing a revised poverty
strategy with a greater focus on results. The completion of the revised strategy is
expected in the first half of 2008.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

12.     As indicated earlier, a satisfactory implementation of the PRSP was a trigger for
completion point and therefore a key element for this grant. The third APR and its
accompanying JSAN - submitted to the IMF and IDA Boards in April 2006 - highlights
progress in the preparation of sector strategies in priority sectors and medium-term
expenditure frameworks to further enhance the alignment of budget allocations with the
PRSP priorities. The government also adopted an updated national program of
governance as the framework for improving governance and fighting corruption. It took
actions to strengthen economic growth and diversification and further improve social
outcomes. In the JSAN of the third APR, the staffs of IDA and the IMF have reviewed
progress on each of the PRSP pillars and concluded that PRSP implementation and
monitoring have been satisfactory in 2005. Policies in specific areas, underlying the
implementation of the PRSP and related to the HIPC completion point triggers are
reviewed in Section II of the HIPC completion point document.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
Not applicable
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
    Rating: Low
13.     A joint Bank-Fund Debt Sustainability Analysis completed in May 2007 shows
that after the full delivery of debt relief Cameroon faces a low risk of debt distress. All
external debt indicators remain below the relevant country-specific debt burden
thresholds. Alternative scenarios and stress tests reveal an upward trend for the debt
indicators but do not result in a breach of the thresholds during the projection period of
the DSA. The long term fiscal strategy is anchored in preserving overall external debt
sustainability. In addition, Cameroon's access to the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
(MDRI) has further consolidated gains achieved under the HIPC debt initiative. The
assumptions of the DSA are described in box 1 below.


                                                5

Box 1: Macroeconomic Assumptions and Borrowing Assumptions of the DSA

Macroeconomic assumptions

Real GDP growth is expected to accelerate to 6 percent in 2011 reflecting economic
stimulus from increased capital spending, the implementation of structural reforms under
the PRGF-supported program, and investment in infrastructure and energy with support
of the World Bank. Over the long-term, growth in the non-oil economy is expected to
stabilize at about 5.5 percent, while oil GDP will gradually decline. On average, the
projected growth rate is about 1 percentage point higher than the historical average on the
account of higher investment financed by debt relief. Oil production is assumed to
increase slightly in 2007, and then decline by 5 percent in 2008, 2-3 percent thereafter.
Inflation is assumed to hold steady at 2 percent over the long-term, in line with recent
historical experience. Fiscal policy would be supportive of economic growth and poverty
reduction. Nonoil revenues are expected to rise from 12 percent of GDP in 2006 to 15
percent at the end of the projection period, reflecting tax and customs administration
measures. Government expenditure is expected to rise steadily before declining to the
more sustainable level of 17 percent of GDP in the outer years. Exports of goods and
services are projected to gradually decline over time reflecting the decline in petroleum
exports. As a result, the current account deficit, including grants, is expected to increase
to about 7 percent of GDP over the medium-term, and gradually improve thereafter. The
deterioration in the current account is larger than was earlier envisaged reflecting lower
oil prices. The deficit is expected to be financed through foreign direct investment,
private capital flows, and loans, a mixture of which will be from IDA and the rest from
other creditors on less concessional terms.

Assumptions related to new borrowing and debt relief have been updated. New
public borrowing is assumed to increase gradually over the medium term to help finance
new investment. External borrowing is expected to rise gradually to 1.8 percent of GDP
in 2015 and then to gradually decline to about 1 percent by 2027. IDA borrowing is
assumed to constitute 47 percent of new borrowing, with the remainder loans originating
from other multilateral and bilateral creditors on less concessional terms. Cameroon is
projected to graduate from IDA in 2010. Starting from that year, new lending on
concessional IDA terms will be gradually phased out. Other providers of concessional
assistance are assumed to take similar action.



5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

   Rating: Satisfactory


                                              6

14.     The assessment of Bank performance through the lending phase cannot be
separated from the assessment of performance under the HIPC completion point and the
third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III). Bank's performance under SAC III was
rated satisfactory in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for that operation. The
Bank was also able to mobilize a strong team from several departments and work closely
with IMF staff to assist Cameroon in reaching completion point. In addition, Cameroon
was one of three HIPC countries where IDA had planned to deliver HIPC debt relief on
IBRD debt outstanding, and the team was only second to the Honduras team in
successfully preparing this first of its kind operation in the Bank.

(b) Quality of Supervision

    Rating: Satisfactory
15.     This is a single tranche operation with a closing date originally planned five
months after approval. The main supervision task was to assist the authorities in bringing
the grant to effectiveness, and ensure the reimbursement of all payments made by
Cameroon between completion point and grant effectiveness. The Bank team worked
actively with the authorities toward effectiveness, but the latter was delayed because of
legal issues with the evidence provided by Cameroon. The Bank team extended twice the
closing date to resolve these legal issues and allow effectiveness to take place. The
reimbursement by the Bank to Cameroon for all payments made by the latter between
completion point and effectiveness was not completed until 4 months after effectiveness,
in part because of incomplete information provided by the authorities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Not applicable

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
    Rating: Not applicable

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory
16.     Cameroon met the conditions for reaching HIPC completion point by garnering
the necessary support for implementing difficult reforms and fiscal restraints (see Annex
2). As a result, it has received significant debt relief that has brought its debt burden well
under the sustainability threshold. Cameroon now faces a low risk of debt distress.

6. Lessons Learned
17.     The substantive policy measures supported by this operation were those of the
SAC III and the HIPC completion point preparation. Lessons from this operation ­
prepared and approved in a 3-month span period ­ cannot be drawn independently of
SAC III and the HIPC process. For the latter, a close coordination with the IMF team was


                                               7

critical to the successful dialogue with the authorities along the path to completion point,
thus allowing the approval of this operation. Other lessons could be drawn from the ICR
of SAC III and include: formulating a realistic timeframe for the government to meet the
triggers of the completion point and ensuring that the government puts in place a strong
focal point/unit to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the completion point
triggers and facilitate related post completion point actions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                              8

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending and Supervision
Florence M. Charlier      Senior Economist                    AFTP3
Abdoulaye Seck            Senior Economist                    AFTP3
David Tchuinou            Senior Economist                    AFTP3
Chukwuma Obidegwu         Lead Economist                      AFTP3
Faustin Koyasse           Senior Operation Officer            AFTP3
Gilles Veuillot           Senior Counsel                     LEGAF
Wolfgang Chadab           Finance Officer                    LOAG2
Simon Ochieng Lang'o      Finance Analyst                    LOAG2
Anjana Singh              Finance Assistant                  LOAG2
Ursula M. L. Wiehl        Finance Assistant                  LOAG2
Antonio S. Davila-Bonnazi Portfolio Officer                  ACTCF
Hassine Hedda             Finance Analyst                    LOAG2
Paula Joachim White       Language Program Assistant          AFTP3
Bernadette Djapa          Program Assistant                  AFMCM
Luca Bandiera             Consultant                          EDS21
Boris Gamarra             Economist                          PRMED
Carolin Geginat           Economist                          FPDMA
Laurence Hougue Bouguen   Team Assistant                     AFMCM
Josiane Luchmun           Program Assistant                   AFTP3
Jean Marie Fouda Abega    Driver                             AFMCM
Ousmanou Ngougueu         Driver                             AFMCM



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage
                                     No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:             36                     175,557
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:               5                     20,000




                                           9

           Annex 2: Status of the Triggers for reaching the floating HIPC completion point

                      Trigger                                                             Status

Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

The full PRSP has been prepared and               Implemented. The PRSP was prepared by the government through an extensive
satisfactorily implemented for at least one       and comprehensive consultation process, adopted by the government in April
year.                                             2003 and discussed by IDA and Fund Boards in July 2003. The first PRSP Annual
                                                  Progress Report (APR) was completed in April 2004 and the JSA submitted to the
                                                  two Boards in May 2005. The second Annual Progress Report (APR) was
                                                  completed in September 2005 and the JSAN of the second APR, covering the
                                                  period January 2004-March 2005 was issued in February 2006. The third APR,
                                                  covering 2005 was completed in February 2006, and the associated JSAN is being
                                                  issued together with this completion point document. The staffs consider that the
                                                  implementation of the PRSP was satisfactory in 2005.


Macroeconomic and Structural Reforms

· There is continued maintenance of a             Implemented. Cameroon has broadly maintained macroeconomic stability since
     stable macroeconomic environment and         reaching decision point, although policy implementation has at times been
     satisfactory implementation of a new         uneven. A new three-year PRGF arrangement was put in place in October 2005,
     three-year PRGF program.                     following satisfactory policy implementation under an IMF staff-monitored
                                                  program during the first half of 2005. Performance during the first six months
                                                  under the PRGF-supported program has been good, and the first review is to be
                                                  discussed by the IMF Board concurrently with consideration of the HIPC
                                                  completion point.


· The budgetary savings from the debt             Implemented. Interim debt relief assistance has been used in accordance with the
     relief have been used in accordance with     criteria set forth at the decision point. The funds were deposited in a special
     the criteria set forth at the decision point account at the BEAC, a HIPC monitoring committee was established and annual
     (control and monitoring mechanisms).         audits of the operations conducted. There were initial delays in using the debt
                                                  resources to fund projects due to delays in putting in place the HIPC Consultative
                                                  Committee and elaborating disbursement procedures. Once the framework was in
                                                  place, HIPC debt relief was used to improve public services in education, health,
                                                  social development, urban sanitation and rural development.


· SAC III has been concluded and reforms          Implemented. SAC III was broad-ranging adjustment operation (six tranches)
     have been implemented in a satisfactory      covering privatization of utilities as well as key reform in the forestry, transport
     manner.                                      and financial sectors. The credit was concluded in March 2004 after full
                                                  disbursement of all tranches. Although implementation of the privatization
                                                  component was mixed, overall implementation and credit outcomes were, on
                                                  balance, rated as satisfactory by Bank staff and the Operation Independent
                                                  Evaluation Group
Governance and anti-corruption

The priority strategy and action plan for
improving       governance      and    combating
corruption attached to the I-PRSP have been
satisfactorily implemented, in particular:




                                                                 10

                    Trigger                                                               Status

      o In the area of judicial reform,            (i) Implemented. The law specifying the responsibilities, organization, and
         (i) the Chambre des Comptes (audit        functioning of the external control audit body for state finances (Chambre des
         office) and (ii) the Conseil              Comptes) of Cameroon's Supreme Court was adopted by the National Assembly in
         Constitutionnel have been created.        March 2003 and promulgated by the Head of State on April 2003. The audit
                                                   chamber became operational in January

                                                   (ii) Implemented. The law specifying the responsibilities, organization and
                                                   functioning of the Constitutional Council was adopted in March 2004 and
                                                   promulgated in April 2004. In June 2005, the President signed the decree
                                                   2005/250 on the organization of the Secretariat of the Constitutional Council; the
                                                   secretariat is expected to be in place by August 2006, paving the way for making
                                                   the Council fully operational by 2007.

                                                   Implemented. The public procurement system has been satisfactorily reformed.
      o The public procurement system has          A regulatory agency has been created and procurement operations are monitored
         been reformed and, in particular,         through ex-ante (independent observers) and ex-post controls (independent audit).
         audits for the preceding fiscal year      Audits for fiscal years 2000/01, 2001/02, 2003 and 2004 have been prepared and
         have been completed and appropriate       the main recommendations of these audits have been implemented.
         follow-up actions implemented, in
         accordance with the law.
                                                   Implemented. Over the period 2003-2005, the government carried out a budget
      o In the area of budgetary execution         tracking and beneficiary assessment in the health and education sectors in order to
         and service delivery, the results of      evaluate the quality of public expenditure and identify bottlenecks. The results
         the budget tracking exercises and         have been published on the website of the Prime Minister's Office. Action plans to
         beneficiary assessments for education     address identified bottlenecks have been implemented in order to strengthen policy
         and health have been published and        effectiveness in the social sectors.
         the relevant recommendations have
         been implemented.

· Regulatory agencies. Regulatory agencies         Substantially Implemented. Regulatory agencies for electricity and
    for key sectors (including water, electricity, telecommunications have been set-up and made operational. In the water sector,
    and telecommunications) are autonomous         the regulatory framework is in place. Following the advice of World Bank staff, the
    and are operating in an efficient and          authorities decided that the water sector should be regulated through the
    professional manner.                           provisions of a lease contract between the government and the lessee company
                                                   rather than through the creation of a water regulatory agency. The regulatory
                                                   framework is ready to be operational once the operator is selected and the lease
                                                   signed. Indeed, the financial model to be used to regulate the sector through the
                                                   determination of tariffs and investments has been prepared and presented at a
                                                   private sector investor conference in February 2006.
Social sectors

· Education sector. The sector strategy            Implemented. The sector strategy has been satisfactorily implemented. As a
     has been satisfactorily implemented in a      result, there has been significant progress in increasing access and reducing gender
     timely manner, and in particular:             and regional disparities in enrollment: (i) the Minister of Basic Education
     (i) 2,500 new classrooms have been built;     (MINEDUB) completed the construction of 3,768 new classrooms in November
     and (ii) teacher management has been          2005 and (ii) teacher management has been decentralized and new teacher statutes
     effectively decentralized and new teacher     have been adopted and implemented.
     statutes have been adopted and
     implemented.




                                                                  11

                  Trigger                                                            Status
· Health sector. The sector strategy has      Implemented. The government has satisfactorily implemented the health sector
  been satisfactorily implemented in a timely strategy.
  manner, and in particular (i) child         (i) Progress on immunization coverage has been substantial with differentials
  immunization rates for DPT have been             between the poor and non-poor narrowing and immunization coverage for
  increased to 70 percent; and(ii) knowledge       DPT3 reaching more that 76 percent ; and
  about protection and prevention measures    (ii) The government has prepared and implemented a national Malaria Strategic
  against malaria will have substantially          Plan, in line with the Roll Back Malaria (RBM) initiative. World Bank staff
  increased, i.e., 50 percent of pregnant          estimates that roughly 70 percent of pregnant women receive impregnated
  women are using impregnated bed-nets             bed-nets. The government is also distributing impregnated bed-nets to
                                                   children under five with resources from the Global Fund.

· HIV/AIDS. Concrete progress has been
  made to prioritize the fight against        Implemented. The fight against HIV/AIDS has been prioritized in the overall
  HIV/AIDS in the government's overall        development agenda. Concrete progress has been made through the
  development agenda and to curb infection    implementation of the 2000-05 HIV/AIDS strategic plan which provided a sound
  rates among the population, with            framework for the multi-sectoral and decentralized approach to combating the
  particular emphasis on education to         HIV/AIDS epidemic.
  promote the use of condoms by truck         The strategy emphasizes educating the population at high risk including truck
  drivers, port workers, and soldiers to 50   drivers, port workers, soldiers and sex commercial workers, through specific
  percent, and by commercial sex workers      communication campaigns and the distribution of condoms. This education
  to 70 percent.                              campaign has produced very good results. The 2004 DHS survey indicates that (i)
                                              68.7 percent of women and 82 percent of men are aware that using condoms or
                                              limiting sexual relations with one partner help reduce contamination risk, (ii) 54.7
                                              percent of men and 40.5 percent of women who had high risk sexual relations used
                                              condoms. A 2004 study indicates that 78 percent of commercial sex workers use
                                              condoms.
                                              In addition to the education campaign and condom distribution, the government
                                              implemented a broad package of curative and preventive measures. These
                                              measures were implemented beyond set targets discussed with the World Bank.
                                              Notable progress has also been made in expanding access to voluntary counseling
                                              and testing, providing care to those living with HIV/AIDS, and expanding access
                                              to treatment.




                                                              12

Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents

Cameroon: Decision Point Document for the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) Initiative", IDA/R2000-168 (09/18/2000) and EBS/00/194; 9/19/2000.

Cameroon: Completion Point Document for the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) Initiative", Report 35801-CM

Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative: Note on Modalities for Implementing
HIPC Debt Relief Under the Enhanced Framework," IDA/R2000-4, January 10, 2000.

Additions to IDA resources: Fourteenth Replenishment (IDA14)--Working Together to
achieve the Millennium Development Goals" March 10, 2005.

Debt Sustainability and Financing Terms in IDA14: Further Considerations on Issues and
Options, November 2004.

ICR of SAC III

PRSP Third Annual Progress Report




                                           13

