Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H219-CM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Debt Relief Grant under the Enhanced  
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 7, 2006
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H219-CM 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated September 7, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
CAMEROON (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Project (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association agreed to provide debt relief to the 
Recipient under and in accordance with the terms of the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor 
Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative (the HIPC Debt Initiative) at the time the Recipient reached 
the decision point (the Decision Point) under the HIPC Debt Initiative in October 2000. At the 
Decision Point, the Association agreed that it would provide a supplemental HIPC debt relief 
credit to the Recipient when the Recipient reached the completion point (the Completion Point) 
under the HIPC Debt Initiative to fund the prepayment by the Recipient of debt owed by the 
Recipient to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD or the Bank) 
as part of the debt relief to be provided to the Recipient under the HIPC Debt Initiative. The 
Recipient has now reached the Completion Point.  At the Completion Point, the Association 
agreed that it would provide a supplemental HIPC debt relief grant to the Recipient, rather than 
a
supplemental HIPC debt relief credit as agreed at the Decision Point.  The Recipient has 
given notice to the Association of its intent to prepay its IBRD Debt (as defined below) with 
the proceeds of this Grant under the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. The 
Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to grant to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant Amount. 
2.02. 
(a) 
On the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to the Bank the portion of the Grant 
Amount representing an amount in various currencies equivalent to an amount 
in Special Drawing Rights equal to: (i) the IBRD Debt; plus (ii) the interest 
accrued and unpaid on the IBRD Debt as of the Effective Date; plus (iii) any 
prepayment penalties applicable under the loan agreements documenting the 
IBRD Debt as of the Effective Date, for application by the Bank in prepayment 
Page  3
-
2
-
of the IBRD Debt, in payment of interest accrued and unpaid on the IBRD 
Debt as of the Effective Date, and in payment of prepayment penalties payable 
in respect of the IBRD Debt on the Effective Date. 
(b) 
On or after the Effective Date, the Association shall reimburse the Recipient  
the portion of the Grant Amount representing an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to an amount in Special Drawing Rights equal to the amount of all 
payments (principal and interest) made by the Recipient to the Bank to service 
its outstanding debt to the Bank during the period between the Completion 
Point and the Effective Date, by depositing such amount in the following 
account of the Recipient: 
Standard Chartered Bank 
–
Yaounde – CAA 010 4 
200 66 304
.
(c) 
The Association shall inform the Recipient as promptly as possible of the 
Grant Amount, the amount of the components that make up the Grant Amount 
and of the date of withdrawals from the Grant Account as set forth in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) above. 
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the US Dollar. 
2.06. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2006. 
ARTICLE III 
—
TERMINATION
 
3.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE IV 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
4.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Economy and Finance.  
4.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Yaounde 
Republic of Cameroon 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 MINEFI       (237) 
223 
3717 
4.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
  248423(MCI) 
or  1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Yaounde, Cameroon, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
       /s/ Abah Abah Polycarpe 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Markus 
Repnik 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the modifications set forth 
in Section II of this Appendix; 
2. 
“Grant Amount” means the amount in various currencies equivalent to an amount in 
Special Drawing Rights equal to: (a)  the IBRD Debt; plus (b) the interest accrued and 
unpaid on the IBRD debt as of the Effective Date; plus (c) any prepayment penalties 
applicable under the loan agreements documenting the IBRD Debt as of the Effective 
Date; plus (d) the amount of all payments (principal and interest) made by the 
Recipient to the Bank to service its outstanding debt to the Bank during the period 
between the Completion Point and the Effective Date; and 
3. 
“IBRD Debt” means the principal amount of the Recipient’s debt to the Bank 
outstanding as of the Effective Date. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions 
for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, are as follows: 
1. 
Paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 2.01 are deleted in their entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.02; 2.03; 2.04; 2.05; 2.06; 2.07 and 2.08 are deleted in their entirety. 
3. 
The first sentence of paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 is modified by deleting the 
words 
“by the Recipient”. 
 
4. 
Sections 4.01. 4.02, 4.03; 4.04; 4.05; 4.06; 4.07; 4.08; 4.09 and 4.11 are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Article VI is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (b) in Section 8.03 is deleted in its entirety. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted 
as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order 
to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
Page  7
-
6
-
(a) 
the definitions numbered 2; 3; 10; 11; 12; 13; 21; 24; 29; 33; 43; 44; and 50 
are deleted in their entirety;  
(b) t
he term “Project” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Project’ means the prepayment of the IBRD Debt, interest and penalties 
as set forth in Section 2.02 of the Financing Agreement.”
 
