FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Publiu Use
Report No.  158 a- IRN
IRAN
APPRAISAL OF THE TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
July 18, 1973
Urban Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be puL
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibuiyT6y
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 13, 1973)
Currency unit            =          Rials (Rls)
US$ 1.00                  -         Rials 68.2
Rials 1                   =         US$ 0.01h7
US$ 1 million             =         Ri71s 68.2 million
Rials 1 million           =         US$ 1h,651
MEASURES EQUIVALENITS
1 kilometer (km)          =         0.621 statute mile
1 square kilometer (km2)            0.386 square miles
EISCAL YEAR
Ends M4arch 20th
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND
DEFINITIONS USED a' THF. REPORT
CIF                       -         Cost, lnsurance and Jieight
Dioub                     _         Ditch along a street, used for
limited drainage and once
used to provide poor house-
holds, water for domestic needs
Doxiadis                  -         Doxiadis Associates International -
Consultants on Development and
Ekistics
FY                        -         Fiscal Year
PO                        -         Plan Organization
SOFRETU                   -         Societe Francaise d'Etude et du
Realisation de Transport Urbajn



IRAN
APPRAISAL OF THE TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa e No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......*...... ... i                      - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ......***..**..**..o*.**ee.***e                1
Ao  The Economy ...................*.....                   2
B.   Urbanization in Iran and Tehran      .........         3
C.  Urban Transport - Present Situation ...........         5
III.   URBAN GROWTH AND TRANSPORT POLICY IN TEHRAN -
MAIN ISSUES                                            8
A.   Past Approaches and Present Conflicts .........        8
B.   Alternatives and Growth Options   ..........           9
C.   The Tehran Development Council   .-..     -.. .       10
D.   Towards a Transport Policy for Tehran                 12
IV.   THE PROJECT r .to..........................                14
-Bo  Main Features                                  ...     14
C.   Cost Estimates            ............                18
D.   Project Financing Plan ......................         20
E.   Organization and Management            .......        20
F.  Procurement   ..............-......... ........        22
G.   Disbursement .                                        22
R.  Training                               .....           23
I.   Ecology .........              ........               23
V.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF THE UNITED BUS COMPANY ..o .....      24
A.   Past Financial Performance .............c             24
B.   Present Financial Position ....................       25
C.   Financing Plan ......... ..................... .      26
D.   Future Operating Results ...... o............ .       28
E.   Future Financial Position ..................    29
F.   Monitoring - Financial and Operating Targets ..       29
The report is based on the findings and reconmendations made by the consult-
ants SOFRETU and on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited
Tehran from February 16 - March 3, 1973, and was composed of Messrs. R. A.
Sison, P. Ljung (Urban Projects) and Messrs. K. Hansen, G. Hughes, K. Strong
and Ms. M. 0. Smith (Consultants). Messrs. R. Venkateswaran (Urban Projects)
and M. G. S. Aiyer (EMEMA, Programs I) assisted in the mission during appraisal,
and Ms. I. Ozusta (Consultant) assisted in the preparation of the final report.



TABLE OF CO NEZTS - Continued
Page No.
Vi.   PROJECTJUSTIFICATION         .............   .....           32
A.  General.         ............                            32
B. Objectives                 .....                          33
C. Rate of Return .... ...                                   33
D. Other Benefits -.....34
VII.  AGREMEENTS REACHED AND. RECOMYENDATIONS ..36
ANNEXES
1  -  Factors'-Guiding Urban- Growth in Tebran (Present Trends and Basic Data)
2  -  The United Bus, Company of Tebran-
3  -  Notes and Assumptlons on Financial Statements .
4  -  United Bus Company - Income Statement
5  -  United Bus Company - Balance Sheet       
6  -  United F:;us Company.- Source and .Appolication of Funds-
7  -  Advisory Services to- the Tehran Development Council -
Suggested Terms- of Reference,
8  -  Long Term:Transport Studies - Suggested: Terms of Reference
9  -; The Economic and Technical Advisory Group - Suggesited Terms of Reference
10  -  Traffic Circulation and- Egineering Improvements8
11  -  Work Program for Traf-fic Circulation and-Engineerng -Improvements
12 - Estimated. Cost of Proposed Depot:
13  -  Tra<fic Plannin- Manager- - Suggested-Termsa of Reference
14  -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements,
15  -  Methodology for Estimating Economic; Rates of Return-
16  -  Demand Forecasts- for Public Transport                       q
CYARTS
7658 - City of Telran.
7667 - Organization of the United Bus Company
MAPS
10355 - Present Land Use
- 10389 - Major Street System
10361  -  Traffic Improvement Proposals
10362R -  Detailed Traffic Improvement Proposal                  -    ---  -
L~~~~~~~~......            ___   



IRAN
APPRAISAL OF THE TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        For the lower income segment of Tehran's population, the infra-
structure shortages that have arisen as a result of heavy concentrations of
people and economic activities within Tehran are approaching critical pro-
portions. Nowhere is this more evident than for transport. The transport
system is only adequate although increasingly overloaded for the 15% who ac-
tually own a car; the system is seriously inadequate for all others. They
must choose between a very poor bus service or a taxi service that is too
expensive for daily use. The net result of such a choice has been the diver-
sion of probably as many as 400,000 lower income passengers a day over the
last three years. Loss of mobility and access to the occupational, cultural,
recreational and educational aspects of Tehran's life are a disproportionate
hardship on the low income worker.
ii.       Tehran is a large city, not only measured by its population of 1.8
million, but in physical size. The urbanized area has sprawled to 350 kmh
and the center city, where modern and traditional zones of commerce, finance
and business, as well as goversment administration are clustered, is concen-
trated in an area 5 km east-west by 6 km north-south. Industrial zones have
developed along the access roads outside the center city.  The scale of the
city and its haphazardly developed physical layout mean that commuting is a
necessity for the bulk of the labor force. Inadequate public transportation
imposes not merely physical constraints and loss of time but also a financial
burden to the commuting urban poor on a day-to-day basis. In the long run
inadequate transport impairs labor market flexibility and reinforces occupa-
tional, income and residential stratification that already exists to a marked
extent.
iii.      Faltering public transit service is the most obvious transportation
defect resulting from rapid and unplanned urbanization. Another problem is
the road system which is basically relatively adequate in structure but de-
ficient for the present heavy flows of predominantly automobile traffic.
Poorly interconnected radial roads into Tehran and an incomplete orthogonal
road grid within Tehran cause almost constant congestion in the city. The
projected net addition of some 275,000 passenger cars within the next ten
years to the present level of 140,000 will, if unconstrained undoubtedly
produce chaotic traffic conditions. Structural changes are necessary in the
street network to decongest certain particularly poor areas. In the long run,
major transport policies are required to halt the cycle of increased conges-
tion, poorer public transit services and increased auto usage. The opportunity
for positive policy on private auto restraint, however, is dependent on in-
creased efficiency in and price competitiveness by public transport.



- ii -
iv.       Orderly and equitable growth of the transport system, in the long
run, involves determination about the social, economic and physical future
of Tehran.  Decisions to be taken on transport development, as on sewage,
storm water drainage, housing and water supply recuire an adequate urban
planning framework beyond that contained in the Master Plan of 1966. The
Plan was predicated on arbitrary and artificial limitations on population
growth, city size and new industrial investments -  limitations which were
difficult to enforce and which have been eroded by ad hoc decisions taken
to relieve critical conditions in the short run and a continuing population
growth well above that foreseen. Decisions taken in the absence of an ade-
que.te urban planning framework have had only temporary results in meeting
serious urban infrastructural deficiencies, and have prompted ever heavier
concentrations of people and economic activity in the centra-.area of Tehran.
The city has grown concentrically intensifying central area pressure, and
conflicting with the westward growth of the city by stages envisaged in the
1966 Master Plan. Such a fundamental conflict between actual and intended
growth points up the need to assess in depth alternative growth strategies
for the Tehran urban region, and to plan future urban investments on a sys-
tematic basis within t'ae framework of new urban guidelines.
v.        The Government of Iran's commitment to the positive development o'
Tehran and to the formulation of an urban strategy that can tie together and
rationalize development efforts is articulated in the Fifth Five Year Develop-
ment Plan's proposed Tehran Development Council.  The establishment of the
Council is of immediate and overriding importance to t1he Government as a
result of-the pressure of forthcoming critical infrastructural developments,
of which transport development is one. Accordingly, in June 1973, a bill
establishing the Tehran Development Council was presented to Parliament for
enactment. Because of the urgent need to establish a comprehensive planning
capability the Government has requested that assistance to the Council and
development of an urban strategy be a part of a short term program of urban
transport development.
vi.       The Government of Iran has requested the Bank's assistance in
remedying serious immediate deficiencies of the transport system in Tehran
while itself introducing complementary measures to control private automobile
use in the highly congested city center area.  This assistance would be closely
coordinated with longer term plans for development of transport services and
the establishment of long term urban and regional planning capability required
to guide and integrate basic infrastructural developments in the Tehran region.
The project would cost an estimated US$65.9 million of which $42.0 million
would be financed by a Bank loan. The project would consist of the following
elements:
(a) Improvements in public transport through the procure-
ment of an initial order of 250 single-decker buses and
115 double-decker buses and a second order which will be
based on further studies on bus fleet composition; repair
and rehabilitation of the existing fleet; and the construc-
tion and equipment of two bus depots;



- iii -
(b)  Implementation of traffic circulation improvements in the
central area where bus traffic is particularly impeded,
including the introduction of a system of one-way streets,
construction of five underpasses, surface construction
in two squares, and street improvements in the southern
half of Tehran;
(c)  Assistance to the United Bus Company in management and
training and in determining operational and financial
targets to be achieved through the provision of consult-
ency services to an Economic and Technical Advisory
Group;
(d)  Assistance to the City of Tebran for the introduction
of traffic improvements, design and supervision of works;
(e) Comprehensive long-tenm urban and regional planning
for the Tehran area through the provision of consultancy
services to the Tehran Development Council; and
(f)  Review of existing transport studies and supplementary
studies of the long-term transport system, and possible
detailed design of a first phase of construction.
vii.      The proposed loan of US$42.0 million would cover the foreign ex-
change costs or 64% of the total project costs. The local currency costs
would be provided by the Government of Iran to the City of Tehran and the
United Bus Company of Tehran as a grant. The proceeds of the Bank loan would
be onlent by the Government to the City of Tehran for traffic circulation
improvements and to the United Bus Company of Tehran, wholly owned by the
City, for bus Improvements.  Review of the long-term transport studies and
supplementary feasibility work would be conducted under the Tehran Devel-
opment Council. The Council's long-term urban and regional planning capability
would be established progressively through the provision of advisory services
and the deployment of a competent Iranian staff group.
viii.     A Traffic Planning Manager attached to the Mayor's Office and
assisted by qualified staff from the City and qualified consultants would
be responsible for implementation of traffic improvements. The General
Manager of the United Bus Company, assisted by an Economic and Technical Ad-
visory Group of senior Bus Company officers and foreign consultants, would be
responsible for Implementation of bus improvements.
ix.       Contract3 for construction and for supply of equipment including
buses, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. A preference of up
to 15% or the applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, would be applied
to bids from local manufacturers of equipment. Iran has no preferential
tariff agreements *vith other countries.



- iv -
x.        The Bank loan would be disbursed against the CIP costs of imported
equipment and the foreign exchange costs of equipment installation and consult-
ancy services, the ex-factor.y costs of any contracts awarded to local manufac-
turers on the basis of international competitive bidding, and 50% of the costs
of civil works contracts (representing the estimated foreign exchange component).
xi.       The short-term urban project is a necessary and logical stepp
towards ameliorating critical problems of public transportation.and mobility
within the center city.  Improved bus and traffic cir.culation will provide
critical time savings to existing and potential bus passengers and to auto-
mobile users (as a result of decongestion).  With the project it is estimated
that the average number of bus passenger trips will increase by 50% during
the next five years,, restoring the long-term growth trend in bus ridership
that preceded the recent three-year serious decline. The overall rate of
return on the quantifiable elements of the project (traffic circulation and
Bus Company improvements), based on time and operating cost savings is 28%.
xii.      The project will also provide much needed unquantifiable benefits
in the form of institutional support to planned short-term transport improve-
ments and to improvements in Iranis urban planning and policy-making cap-
ability required for long-term transport and related infrastructural develop-
ment.
xiii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$42.0 million to the
Government of Iran for a term of 15 years, including four years of grace.



IRAN
APPRAISAL OF THE TEHRANN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Iran has requested the Bank's assistance in fi-
nancing an urban project in Tehran designed to meet the urgent need of the
bulk of the population for improved public transport and related improve-
ments in traffic and circulation, and in providing advisory services for
long-term comprehensive urban and regional planning for the Tehran reqion.
The short-term objectives of the project are remedial and aimed at restoring
public bus service adequate for the mass of population and at arresting any
worsening of traffic congestion. The long-term objectives are directed
towards laying the institutional and planning groundwork for long-term urban
and related transport solutions. The project provides for review and supple-
mentary feasibility studies on long-term transport needs, and for the very
important institution of comprehensive studies by the Tehran Development
Council (TDC) legislation for which has been presented to Parliment in June
1973. The project is envisaged as a first step in long-term transport and
related infrastructural development.
1.02      In June 1970, a loan of S42.0 million (Loan 697-IRE:  Fifth Roads
Project) was made to the Government of Iran, which included funds for a
transport study for the metropolitan area of Tehran. In Mlarch 1971, the
transport study was initiated by contract between the French consulting firm,
SOFRETU, and the Government of Iran. The terms of reference for the study
specified that the consultants first focus on the immediate needs of the
Tehran transport system. In April 1972, SOFRETU submitted its short-term
transport recommendations and will be submitting preliminary proposals for
the long-term transport system shortly.
1.03      The three-year project proposed for Bank financing consists of
public transport improvements, including the procurement of buses and reor-
ganization of the operations of the United Bus Company (UBC); traffic circula-
tion and engineering improvements; assistance to the long-term planning and
policy-making body for urban and regional development in the Tehran area.
This would be the Bank's first urban transport project in Iran and should
lead to other urban development projects resulting from the long-term trans-
port studies of consultants and the much broader assistance for urban and
regional planning. The project cost is estimated at US$65.9 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$42.0 million. The proposed loan would cover
the foreign exchange costs, or 64% of the total projlect costs.
1.04      The report is based on the findings and short-term recommendations
made by the consultants SOFRETU and on the findings of a Bank appraisal mis-
sion which visited Tehran from February 16 - March 3, 1973, and was composed
of M!essrs. R.A. Sison, P. Ljung (Urban Projects) and Messrs. K. Xansen, C.
H}ughes, K. Strong and Ms. '1.O. Smith (Consultants).  uIessrs. R. Venkateswaran
(IJrban Projects) and M.G.S. Aiver (EMENA. Programs I) assis'ted the mission
duiring appraisal, and Ms. I. Ozusta (Consultant) assisted in the preparation
of the final report.



-2-
II.  BACKGROUND
A. The Economy
2.01      The last decade has been a period of exceptionally rapid growth in
!ran. Total population estimated at 31 million in 1972, has increased at an
average of 3% a year, while the urban population has increased at an average
of 5% a year. Forty percent of the population now lives in urban areas. Half
of the urban population is in just seven large cities (over 200,000 inhabitants)
and half in some 250 or more small towns.
2.02      Iran's economic growth has been strong throughout the 1950's and
60's, with GNP.rising at the rate of 11% annually during the period 1967-71.
In 1972, it is expected to increase by about 13%. Industry is one of the
fastest growing economic sectors, particularly production of chemicals,
basic metals, electrical machinery and motor vehicles. Production is con-
centrated in Tehran, Shiraz and Esfahan irn the south, Tabriz in the northwest
and Mashhad in the northeast.  The oil industry, providing a high proportion
(77% in 1971) of total current foreign exchnange earnings, is centered mainly
in the southwest. Agriculture is concentrated along the Caspian shores, and
while this sector continues to grow, its share of non-oil MP has declined
from 28% in 1962 to 16% in 1971.  Carpet manufacture, the second largest
export earner, is a widely dispersed cottage industry.
2.03      Average per capita rincome ir. Iran is estimated at $480 a year.
The figure conceals, however, unevenness in distribution of income and wealth
between urban and rural inhabitants as well as between urban inhabitants
themselves. Expenditures per capita for'urban households are on the average
twice as great as those for rural households; but, expenditures per capita for
one-fifth of urban households is *our times as great as the rest of the urban
households. Heavy immigration to the cities, and particularly to Tehran,
Esfahan and Mashhad, has accentuated inequalities in distribution in income
and expenditure.  Acute problems of housing shortages, underemployment,
transport inadequacies and water shortages are arising, and undermining the
gains of a strong and growing economy.
2.04      The Government is now adapting its policies to overcome these prob-
lems. In the Fifth Five-Year Plan the allocation for urban development is
$495 million, compared to a corresponding allocation in the Fourth Plan of
$130 million. Roughly half of the allocation for urban development during
the Fifth Plan is for the construction of water supply, sewage disposal and
storm drainage systems, one-third for the improvement of traffic and trans-
port system, and the remainder for the provision of public facilities and
limited urban renewal. The Government further supports a policy of regional
decentralization of industry and employment through tax incentives, a re-
striction of new indust-rial investment in the vicinity of Tehran, and limited
fi.nancial and technical assistance to provincial municipalities for infra-
structural facilities  kAnnex 1).



-3-
B. Urbanization in Iran and Tehran
,2.05      The growth of Tehran has been swift and unstructured.  The population
of the greater metropolitan area, which includes Rey to the south and Tairish
to the north (Map 10355), has more than doubled from 1.7 million in 1956 to
3.S million in 1972, and the urbanized area has sprawled to encompass about
_J          350 km7. Tehran's population constitutes 12% of Iran's total population (31
million) and 29% of Iran's urban population (13.2 million). It is now more
than five times the size of the next largest city and there are only six ot'ner
cities that have over 200,000 inhabitants. At the current 6% annual rate
of population increase, Tehran will gain about 230,000 people in 1973 alone,
and a conservative estimate places Tehran' s population at eight million by
1991 1/.
2.06      The Tehran region 2/, which includes both metropolitan Tehran and
adjacent towns, accounts for 55% of the total value added in Iran in trade
and commerce, 60% in construction and 64% in government services. Tehran
is the major banking center in the country, and leads in cultural and educa-
tional opportunities. Within the city itself are 69% of all higher education
students, 54% of all doctors and 28% of all civil servants in Iran. The
concentration of skills, the varied activity of the city and the expectation
of higher incomes draw an annual average of 110,000 migrants, most of whom
are low-income farm workers.
2.07      The physical 'character and social structure of the city have been
strongly affected by its rapid development; the center city is a cluster of
important distric.s and the patternless industrial suburbs follow the access
roads. Within the center.city (Map 10389), an area 5 km east-west by
6 km north-south, the demand for space is heavy.  Modern commercial and
financial districts have sprung up in close proximity to one another and to
the older parts of the city, creating intense varied activity in very limited
space (see Annex 1 for details). New industrial zones have grown up along the
major transport arteries - to the northwest and west along the new road to
Karaj, to the south along the road to Qum, and to the east along the road to
Mazandaran. Older industrial districts to the west and southwest of the city
developed along the old Karaj road between the railway line and the airport.
The transport arteries have never been planned as bases for urban development.
Residential growth has taken place to the north and south, bringing Rey and
Tajrish into a continuous system with Tehran which, together with industrial
and residential developments to the east and west, constitutes a deep ring of
urban sprawl.
1/   This estimate is based on an average natural increase in population of
2.8% (1971-81) and of 2.9% (1981-91) and a resultant annual volume of
immigration of 50,000 (Annex 1).
2/   The Tehran region as defined includes the small towns of Semnan and
Zanjan. Total population is six million.



-4-
2.08      The pressure of population and the uncontrolled physical development
in the cenzer city and the suburbs have given rise to critical shortages of
oasic urban infrastructure and essential services in the city.  These short-
ages fall very heavily upon the low-income groups, accentuating the tremendous
disparties in income and wealth within the city.  Average per capita income
in 1972 was $820 - much higher than the national average ($480); but average
per capita -ncome for 62% of the city population was $305 or less and fot 33%
of the city population was $185 or less.  According to the 1966 Census there                 V
is a marked degree of residential stratification: 72% of the professional
workers live in the northern half of the city and in the northern town of
Tajrish, 60% of all white collar office workers live in the middle part of
the city, and 77% of all blue collar workers live in the south and east
where a large proportion of factory employment is located.
2.09      Tn the south, where land is relatively inexpensive, population
densities are extremely high, and living conditions particularly poor.  In
some areas of the south the residential density is as high as 900 persons
per ha.  As one moves northwards, residential densities improve from 200
persons per ha to below 50 persons per ha in the far north area of Tajrish.
The brunt of a. current housing shortage is borne by low-income families in
the south.  In three southern districts over 50% of the population live in
one room dwellings (or one room of shared dwellings), with 4.5 - 5.2 persons
per room; and in the remaining two southern districts, over 33% live under
similar conditions.  In the least populous district of northern Tehran, only
7% of the pojulation occupy a one room dwelling and the average n=ber of
persons per room for the district is 1.27 (against the ovetall average of 2.07
for Tehran).  Despite government proposals for the construction of 221,000
public and private housing units over the next five year period, an.d limited
ongoing urban renewal efforts by the City, the distinct residential stratifica-
tion and inequities in housing that exist cannot be changed without an improved
urban land use policy.
2.10      A 'nazardous by-product of unplanned rapid urbanization is the
elementary sewage disposal network and drainage system. Although the system
once adequately served a smaller Tehran, sewage piped into cesspools and pits
excavated in the porous subsoils now overflows in the south, contaminates
subsoil water and creates health hazards in irrigation. Surface water drain-
age by the old systeni of dioubs is ecually defective. Flooding of the bazaar
area and of areas in the north is a commn phenomenon.  ?reinvestment surveys
financed by the UNDP are now being made of ooth storm water drainage needs
and sewerage needs for domestic and industrial waste water in Tehran for the
next 40 year period. While Tehran's water supply system is generally adequate,
17% of all house-ho-d dwellings lack water supply connection.  The increased
supply of water required by this population, and by the incremental population
to 1990, cannot be provided except at high economic cost.



-5-
C.  Urban Transport - Present Situation
1)   Roads and Traffic
2.11      The transport problems for the bulk of the population - the 75%
with no access to privately owned automobiles - are first revealed by the
composition of Tehran traffic. The once adequate street network is con-
tinously overtaxed and clogged by 175,000 vehicles (1971), 80% of which are
cars, 10.4% trucks, 6.8% taxis and 2.5% buses. There are, in addition, over
100,000 bicycles and some 40,000 two-wheeled motor vehicles. The "level of
motorization" estimated as .029 (one vehicle per 35 inhabitants) in 1966, is
now estimated to be .045 (one vehicle per 22 inhabitants) and is projected to
be .077 (one vehicle per 13 inhabitants) in 1981. Private car ownership will
increase to an estimated 415,000 in the decade between 1971 and 1981 - an
increase which appears directly related to rising per capita incomes and in-
directly to increasing annual automobile production which reached 33,000
vehicles in 1971. The number of vehicles is highest in the more affluent
northern metropolitan area; the greatest rate of increase, however, is ex-
pected in the west and to a lesser extent in the east which are predominantly
middle income areas.  The growth in level of motorization, coupled with the
expected growth in population to the west and east of the city, could lead to
a doubling of traffic in five or six years in these zones and a substantial
increase in commuting to the center city. The SOFRETU cordon traffic survey
indicated that traffic movements towards the center city already number
710,000 per day.
2.12      Although traffic distribution over the day is fairly even, the
relatively steady flow and markedly prolonged peak hours (7-9 a.m. and 2-8
p.m.) are indicative of the low travelling speeds and delays already being ex-
perienced. During the peak hours, traffic volumes on many streets reach
2,500-4,000 vehicles/hour in each direction and average speeds east to west
drop to 13-10 km/h.  From Sepah Square, the heart of Tehran's modern commer-
cial center, to the point that can be reached over a 15 minute period, the
average speed is 19 km/h. Around the square itself speeds do not exceed
15 km/h. The net addition of some 275,000 passenger cars over the next ten
years will be catastrophic, if not an impossibility given the city street
network.
2.13      Although Tehran's road system is in relatively good condition, it
was not designed for the present traffic. The system is made up of a radial
network emanating from the periphery of the city center towards and beyond
the suburbs to form part of the national highway, and an orthogonal grid of
seven major roads running north-south and nine major roads running east-west
within the center city.  It labors under discontinuities in the central grid
(particularly in the east-west direction), poor connections between radials
(which force inter-radial traffic through the center city) poor interface
between radials and primary grid networks, and an insufficient secondary and
(to a lesser extent) tertiary road network within the center city, and partic-
ularly, to the south. Indeed, virtual absence of a secondary network in the
south forces a direct connection between the tertiary and primary networks
causing congestion on the latter due to the high number of intersections
(Annex 1).



-6-
2)   Public Transport
2.14      Tnere is no coordinated public transport system in Tehran, although
certain elements function well.  Tne service of the United Bus Company is
gradually being supplanted by other availaole means of public transport -
principally the 2,300 service taxis which charge higher fares - because the
Com.pany has failed to achieve minimally convenient and regular operations.
Tnere is no planning designed to make city bus operations and taxi operations
complementary. Service taxis, which operate on routes parallel to certain
bus lines, airport taxis, "orange taxis," which follow no prearranged routes,
and radio taxis fill the gap in public service. The Bus Company also fails
to integrate with the inter-city bus companies that connect Tehran with ad-
joining towns. Restoring c-heap, efficient bus service is the natural key-
stone of any short term solution of Tehran's transport problems.
- Bus Operations
2.15      The United Bus Company (UBC) was chartered to have both private and
public ownership. The City of Tehran is the sole shareholder and the UJBC is
responsible to the City Council, although it possesses a certain degree of
financial autonomy.  UBC operates 2,351 buses (1,890 single-deckers and 461
double-deckers) over 152 bus lines with a combined length of 1,380 km (an
average 9 km per line).  Its operations and finances have been poorly managed.
(See Annex 2 for details of UBC operations.)
^:. l(;~  Tho nulmber of buses in ser.? ce has heen reduco6 bv the lacl of-
prev-nLive -mainter.ance, adecuate maintenance renair and qualified raintenance
s;t;:ff.  F>et cutIiA.zarion 'as fallen 2S3  (fron .39 to .Al) between 1966 and
1Q77. Oult of a tostil fleet of 2,351 buses in 1P72, an average of only 1,445
could be put inLo diaily oieration.  In additnon, such vehicles as can be mustereL
do not necessarily serve demand.  Data on oatterns of daily passenger usage
is sketchy:  the number of passengers are estimated by weighing the conductor's
ticlket bags at the end of a shift and as many as 20% of the riders are thought
to have evaded buying a ticket.  Bus movements along a given line are un-
scneduled, and the headway between buses and waiting time for passengers
varies considerably. 1/
2.17      The financial position of UBC is unsatisfactory as is shown in
detail in Chapter' V and Annexes 3-6.
l/  On the evidence collected by SOFRETU, 50% of bus passengers waited for
more than 10 minutes, 25% for more than 15 minutes and 10% for more
than 25 minutes.  Average bus loads during peak hours exceeded more
than 100% capacity on the main routes and 125% on those routes serving
the near suburbs and the city center.



-7-
-  Taxis
2.18      Undependable bus operations and general lack of bus capacity have
caused the number of daily passengers to decline by some 400,000 passengers
a day since 1969. Taxi service, used predominantly by higher income groups,
has maintained a long term upward trend in ridership. The business, particu-
larly of the city's 2,300 service taxis which follow fixed itineraries and
charge a set tariff of from Rls 5-10 has increased spectacularly. Over the
last three years, the number of service taxis has increased by 65% while the
bus fleet has decreased by 10%.
2.19      Other types of taxis in Tehran include the more numerous ordinary
or "orange" taxis which provide service on request at a minimum fare of Rls
10 for one or two persons and Rls 5 for each additional passenger, the airport
taxis which have three tariff zones at Rls 80, 120 and 180, and the radio taxis
which charge additional amounts for "on call" service with a minimum of Rls 50.
A taxi cooperative closely controls the operation of all taxis, but no effort
is made to integrate taxi service with bus transit. If properly operated and
coordinated, taxis and buses could provide complementary public transport
service. Taxis carried 21.3% of public transit passengers in 1966, 28.2% in
1970, and an estimated 29.5% during 1971.
- Suburban Buses
2.20      In addition to the taxis and the buses operated by UBC, there is an
association of 64 private bus operators who provide service between Tehran
and the outlying suburbs and other towns that are not served by UBC. The
private bus operators are regulated by the Ministry of the Interior, but are
otherwise totally independent of government administration. They have a
tacit agreement that effectively prevents any damaging competition amongst
themselves or UBC over any of its routes. But they coordinate only to a
limited extent with UBC, by agreeing to provide additional buses along certain
inter-urban lines where needed, to meet surplus demand. The private bus
operators are trying to establish a common center city terminus for the
various bus lines that now terminate at several different points and take up
valuable parking space. Between 1960 and 1970 the number of passengers using
inter-urban buses increased by 400%, due primarily to an absence of competing
modes of transport between outlying towns and Tehran. For the last two years,
the growth in traffic has slowed to about 6% a year.



III. -URBAN -GROWTH- A-ND TRANSPORT POLICY IN ThHR-HT -  kAI.N ISSUES
A. Past Approaches and Present Conflicts
3.01      The physical expansion trend of the last two decades in Tehran has
been a concentric one, accentuating development towards the north, east and
south.  The growth of road infrastructure has reinforced this trend.  The 1966
Master Plan for Tehran proposed a growth strategy that stressed a sequential
development pattern concentrating on specific areas in five year stages.
The Plan emphasized a staged westward exparsion. However, because of dif-
ficulties in providing the area west of Tehran with electricity and water,
the Govetnment decided on a "five year development limit" that was, in prin-
ciple, a continuation and reinforcement oJf the concentric trend. In 1973,
the existing limit was extended another five years.
3.02      The continued development of the present center presents conflicts
in action - both short and long term - on relieving a great many of the serious
infrastructural and social deficiencies.  Present shortages are being inten-
sified by pressures of increased concentrations of population and economic
activity.  1f present trends continue, employment in the heavily congested
city center would more than do-uble (from 256,000 in 1971 to 553,000 in 1991)
in twenty years; the volume of person-trips to and from the central area would
at the same time increase more than threefold.  Prelirinary studies of long-
term transport options indicate that under continuation of such trends, the
infrastructure requirements for personal and public transport. would far out-
weigh available resources, with severe repercussions on investment needs in
other priority sectors.
3.03      The elements of these conflicts in governmental action at the national
and municip,al level relate in the first instance, to the present status of the
1966 Master Plan; seccndly, to the ad hoc nature of policies aimed at stemming
the growth of Tehran; and third, to the potential conflict between actions
taken now to ameliorate the situation, and possible long range solutions and
options. The 1966 Master Plan is seriously outdated - in concepts of urban
growth - and in the growing divergence between assumptions in key growth
parameters upon which the Plan was originally formulated and realities of
present day growth.  Thus the "solutions" which the Plan proposed are addressed
to problems which have far exceeded in magnitude and complexity the design to
cope with them.
3.04      Notwithstanding, the Plan has the force of law upon which numerous
decisions are made and actions taken and constraints imposed. At the same
time, it is readily superseded by the necessary and expedient actions which
must De taken to cope with problems arising from, circumstances not envisaged
or anticipated in the original planning efforts.  The result is that the Plan
provides less and less coherent and relevant guidance to present efforts, and
the rapid erosion and inappropriateness of the strategic premises upon which
the Master Plan was constructed could lead to gross errors in decision-making.



-9
3.05      The overall result of these circumstances can be interpreted as
constituting a present strategy of urban growth of Tehran which has the
following general characteristics:
(a)  A policy of concentration and amelioration of the core city
and contiguous southern sector;
(b)  An ad ho.c approach to critical locational decisions regarding
central functions of the city, location and relocation of
industry, housing and urban transport systems;
(c)  A partial and uncoordinated approach to the provision of
major elements of the basic infrastructure (water, power,
road networks, rapid transit) and related administrative
and control functions (traffic control, building, permits,
construction standards, etc.); and
(d)  Continued reliance on planning, administrative and decision-
making structures which inadequately reconcile national re-
quirements and municipal needs.
B. Alternatives and. Growth Options
3.06      A deliberate and coordinated attempt to assess in-depth alternative
strategies of growth for the Tehran urban region in the face of unexpectedly
severe pressures of population growth, burgeoning use of the automobile, and
a steadily worsening environmental situation is conspiciously lacking at the
present time. There are several possible alternative strategies which can
be hypothecated:
1.   Continuation of present policy:  Further concentration of
new growth of population, government and commercial functions
within the arbitrary boundaries of Tehran which are scaled to
accommodating a population of 5.5 million; continuation of
the policy of exclusion of new industrial undertakings from
the greater Tehran area (with exceptions); intensive develop-
ment of infrastructure to inprove public transport, sanitation
and drainage, road traffic and parking in the central core
area, "filling in!' and more dense settlement patterns of
housing in north Tehran, and some expansion of community serv-
ices, particularly in south Tehran.
2.   Westward extension of metropolitan growth on an incremental
basis (implicit in the original 1966 Master Plan): lifting of
the moratorium consonant with the 5.5 million population limit
on westward extension of municipal development; some reloca-
tion and development of industry on the Tehran-Ghazvin axis;
development of new communities (growth centers) on the same
axis; significant improvement of Tehran's central functions
area, infrastructure, etc. along the line of present efforts.



- 10 -
3.   Deliberate development of a major urban center in west Tehran:
advance acquisition of land and a "supply leading" development
of community and industrial infrastructure for a major new
growth center west of. Tehran; deliberate relocation and new
development of goverrment offices, commercial and industrial
park areas; extensive develorment of government supported
housing; an accoVpanying (flexible) moratorium on new develop-
ment in the central and southern sector of Tehran;- and con-
tinued amelioration and improvement of this area by currently
conceived methods, i.e. public transport, water and drainage, etc.
4.   Other combinations of the above:  varicus combinations of all
of these strategies are possible, and consideration of more
extreme strategies might even be entertained, e.g. a new
capital city, drastic dispersal of government agencies to
regional urban centers, etc.
3.07      Clearly, these alternative growth strategies would be tempered and
adjusted by decentralization efforts called for in the Fifth Plan, the con-
straints of financial resources, political considerations, and the pressures
and problems arising from the individual behavior, motivations and incentives
of the existing urban population.  More importantly, however, there does not
now exist the data, evaluation, mechanism, nor urban planning capability to
adequately articulate the costs and benefits of either approach -- including
the probable future costs and bene'its of continuing the present strategy.
3.08      The implications of this need are profound when related to the
Tmmediate Action Program of Urban Transport, and actions to be taken following
completion of the preliminary studies of the long-term transport system, the
Sewage/Drainage Mastetr Plan Studies, and the Water Supply Master Plan Studies
currently underway.  The approach to urban development of Tehran will be
seriously incomplete and inadequate unless the capability for decision-making
on the broad urban development problems is enhanced, and an urgent effort at
longer range planning is undertaken concurrent with the major sectoral studies
cited above. At the outset, this calls for a substantial new planning and
coordination effort on a scale and at a level in the Government commensurate
with the difficulty and importance of this task. This can then be followed
by a comprehensive, controlled, and anticipatory effort to effect a structural
change in Tehran's pattern of human settlements, industry and commerce.
C.  The Tehran Development Council
3.09      The Tehran Dcvelopment Council (TDC) recommended initially in the
Fifth Five Year Plan has been incorporated in a legislative proposal introduced
in Parliament in June 1973.  The general purpose metropolitan planning, coor-
dinating and policv body - by supplementing the various functions and authori-
ties of the City with a new inter-goverinmental coordinatin? body, a comtprehen-
sive planningr capability, and an integrated structure of regional authorities
(water and power, transport, housing, cormaunity development, etc.) -- will
increase the prospects for a more orderly and balanced growth of the metro-
politan co=nunity.



- 11 -
3.10      The-legislation provides for:
(1)  a High Council under the direct supervision of the Prime
Minister, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister for
Economic Development, and consisting of the Minister of
State in charge of Plan and Budget Organization, the
Mayor of Tehran, and the Ministers of Housing and Devel-
opment, Water and Power, Economy, Labor and Social Affairs,
and Agriculture and Natural Resources;
(2)  a Secretariat with a Secretary General to be appointed by
the Prime.Minister, and adequate supporting staff.
The High Council and Secretariat will have the following three principal
functions:
-    establishment of government-wide policies regarding the
development of the greater Tehran area designed to control
and guide metropolitan growth;
- =. coordination and control of the actions of national, munici-
pal and private entities affecting Tehran's growth and devel-
opment through the exercise of directive, approval and super-
visory powers conferred by the Law; and
=    planning, studies and reviews of urban development activities
by the Secretariat with a view to making recommendations to
the Prime- Minister and supporting the policy-making, coordina-
tion and control functions of the Council.
3.11      The establishment of TDC is considered of such importance to long-
term development efforts that assistance towards its full operation and
particularly its policy development has been made a part of the project.
3.12      During appraisal, preliminary exchanges took place on the terms of
reference and suggested functions of TDC along the broad lines set forth
above.  A subsequent mission which visited Tehran in May held further discus-
sions on this matter. A bill drafted on this basis, and approved by the
High Economic Council of Ministers and the entire Council of Ministers was
presented to Parliament in June 1973.  The proposed legislation, which is
general in scope, is expected to be supplemented by decrees in particular
areas of TDC's responsibility, and the Government has requested Bank assist-
ance in the further definition of the tasks, scope of functions and organiza-
tion of TDC and in recruiting staff and preparing a pro-ran of studies to be
undertaken by the Secretariat.
3.13      It is envisaged that the Secretariat will be composed of a competent
multi-disciplinary staff group capable of professional work in functional
areas, in policy and planning studies and evaluations, and in financial plan-
ning and analysis. It is the opinion of both the Government and the Bank that



- 12 -
the high level of competence required can be achieved with the initial assist-
ance of a comprehensive advisory organization which has institutional support
abroad, and includes both urban planners and advisers who have had extensive
experience in decision-making in urban administration of comparable scale and
complexity as Tehran.
3.14      The izmediate mission of the Secretariat would be to coordinate
steps to be taken under the Urban Transport Immediate Action Program with
respect to traffic circulation and public transport improvements and knclud-
ing the review and supplemenrtary study of long-term transDort system proposals,
to provide staff services to the High Council for impending urban decisions
and required coordination activities, to help establish the full operational
and procedural functions of the Secretariat and the High Council, and to
define a comprehensi-ve and coordinated program of studies to be conducted
under the Secretariat.
D. Towards a Transport Policy for Tehran
3.15      The improvement of public transport quality is only one of several
aspects of public transport policy and would be accompanied by complementary
measures on pricing, incentives, and restraint of private car use.  In view
of the important role of public transport, the Government has accepted the
immediate Action Program proposed by the French consulting firm SOFRETU who
has been studying Tehran's transport system in detail since April 1971, and
is already taking steps in support of the consuitant's recommendations. Prior
to and during appraisal, the Action Program proposals were discussed with Bank
staff and consultants and the proposed project is a direct outcome of these
discussions. Besides the bus service and traffic improvements, the recommended
action includes the continuation and expansion of urban renewal efforts in the
south of Tehran involving the construction of housing, roads, sports centers
and other public facilities, and a commitment to the gradual and selective
acquisition and'control of land as required by transport and other infra-
structural needs.  In addition, the Government, and particularly the City
and Traffic Police are taking measures to reduce the use of the private auto-
mobile in favor of public transport in the highly congested city center.  The
City is restricting car parking, by installing 10,000 parking meters, by pro-
hibiting free parking on vacant murncipal lots, and by doubling parking fines
(and fines for other traffic violations).  The City is also planning to in-
crease parking charges and abolish free street parking altogether. Traffic
Police are cooperating in enforcing traffic and parking regulations more
strictly and in fining violators. The development of a positive policy on
reduced auto use, however, can only take place as bus services become more
efficient and competitive.
3.16      The focus on public transport for the long-term stems from the
initial results of the SOFRETU studies which show that the increased trans-
port needs that are likely to occur over the next two decades would call for
increasingly costly investment in road infrastructure to support existing
trends of motorization, and would so strain total government resources that



- 13 -
a major shift in government policy would be required. The studies point out
that nearly 40Z of trips that would otherwise be undertaken by private
automobiles could be transferred to public modes if improved public transport
is emphasized and if pricing policy is so regulated as to encourage public
transport usage.  In addition to the usage restrictions now being planned and
implemented by the City, a number of curbs on automobile ownership exist,
including duties and taxation on imported cars which range between 2007 and
500%, and on locally produced cars which average about 40%. At present, car
production in Iran is expected to increase from a level of about 33,000 in
1971 to about 150,000 by 1980. The main component of this increase is repre-
sented by a major expansion of the automobile industry for which the IFC is
providing financial support.. However, in a vast country such as Iran, con-
siderable amounts of inter-city transport take place by car and the demand
for automobiles in areas outside Tehran is increasing as road infrastructure
improvements (also financed by the Bank) are effected. Indeed, new car pur-
chases in the country as a whole now reflect this trend, and the degree of
concentraticn of new car sales in Tehran is decreasing rapidly. Even with-
in Tehran, cnly 15% of the household population possess a car, and this propor-
tion is likely to increase to about 30% within the next two decades. Thus,
even with growiing incomes, the cost of automobile ownership and usage would
still remain beyond the reach of a large proportion of the population.
3.17      A lon8-term transport policy for Tehran would focus on effective
measures to dampen this trend by (a) providing improved higher quality public
transport services, (b) by reducing, through adequate urban growth policies,
the demand for transport movements, and (c) by emphasizing pricing and invest-
ment policies to discourage pri vate automobile usage. The short-term trans-
port program is a necessary first phase to long-term transport improvements
which have been proposed by the consultants SOFRETU in three alternative
schemes. The first provides for a better use of cars by improving the urban
road network and improving urban public transport; the second favors mass
transport by focusing on surface and underground modes, and to a lesser
extent on road improvement; the third is a mixed solution of mass transit
(surface and underground transport) and road improvement. Preliminary pro-
posals for a long-term transport system are currently being elaborated by
the consultants and will be completed by June 1973. These proposals will
provide the framework for follow-up studies on long-term transport pricing
and investment policy for Tehran. The project provides for consultant serv-
ices to undertake these studies (Annex 8). The follow-up studies would focus
on detailed design and economic feasibility of the first stage of the long-
term transport system as well as on pricing policy that would complement
long-term transport investments.



_ 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The short-term transport project is based on SOFRETU's recommenda-
tions for immediate action; the specific items included for financing were.
selected with regard to their immediate and remedial impact on the weakest
aspects of the transport svstem. Thne project is designed to retain long-
term transport options while laying the institutional groundwork for large
scale transport and urban development.  It is a.first and necessary part of
a long-term program of transport development for Tehran.
4.02      The project consists of:
(a) improvements in public transport through the procurement
of an initial order of 250 single decker buses and 115
double decker buses and a second order which will be based
on further studies of bus fleet composition; repair and
rehabilitation of the existing fleet; construction and
equipment of two bus depots; assistance to the United Bus
Company in management and operations through the provision
of consultancy services for an Economic and Technical
Advisory Group;
(b)  implementation of traffic circulation improvements, including
the introduction o' a system of one-xway streets, construction
of five und-erpasses, surface construction in two squares and
street improvements in the southern part of the City, with
the assistance of consultants to be provided to the City of
Tehran; and
(c) (i) long-term urban and regional planning for the Tehran area;
(ii) review of existing transport studies and sunplementary
feasibility studies and detailed design of the long-term
public transport system for Tehran.
B. Main Features
4.03      The short-term urban transport project is a necessary and logical
step to ameliorate critical problems of public transportation and mobility
within the central city of Tehran. Its effectiveness depends on the coordi-
nated action in three interrelated activities; public transport, traffic
circulation and long-term planning.  The long-term planning is concerned with
policies and raeasures encompassed in a comprehensive urban development plan-
ning process, including policies for restraint of private automobile use,
coordination of ail modes of transport and appropriate land-use guidance re-
garding comnerce, industry and housing.



- 15 --
(i) Improvement in Bus Operation
4.04      UBC plans for rehabilitation and renewal of fleet covers a period
of five years (1973-78) for which immediate assistance from the Bank has been
requested for the purchase of bus requirements in the first two years and
financial assistance for other aspects of bus operation for a three-year
period. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the second order
of buses under the project will be based on the recommendations of the
Economic and Technical Advisory Group on bus fleet composition. Following
review and analysis of the present fleet and anticipated future needs it is
proposed to purchase single-decker buses with a seating capacity ranging
-from 35 to 40 and double-decker buses with a seating capacity of about 65.
In the next two years it is proposed to procure 250 single-deckers or an
equivalent number (in cost terms) of double-deckers or such mix as is deemed
to be most effective.  More buses will be required beyond those two purchases
but future requirements of the fleet would be.reviewed before June 30, 1975,
after studies by consultants.
4.05      Within the next three years it is proposed to rehabilitate 635
buses, and to put the remainder of the fleet into good order. A further 235
buses will be repaired in the two years following the project period. Spare
parts which would cover the requirement for three years are provided for in
the project.  The purchase of new buses and rehabilitation of 870 buses over
a five-year period, would enable UBC to increase its carrying capacity by
about 50%. It is anticipated that fleet utilization (actual number of buses
in operation on a given day) would increase from 61% in 1972 to about 85%
bv 1978. Likewise, the programming of maintenance and the adoption of systems
which involve replacement before failure, together with better operational
control of vehicles such as the reduction of overloading, should contribute
to lower cost of maintenance and increased availability for service. Flow-line
methods of work could be introduced with advantage.
4.06      The Economic and Technical Advisory Group, recuested by UBC
would have, as part of its terms of reference (Annex 9), improvement of
operational and management procedures including the training of workers
essential to an efficient maintenance program. The Group would specifically
be responsible for initiating actions such as systems analysis, method study,
revision of routing and oneration, recommendations on service frequency and
its financial implication, budgetary control systems, Job costing procedures,
and devolution of responsibility to the depots. It would also prepare for
management a working procedure for a reliable time interval system of opera-
tion in anticipation of future passenger demand and economic operation.
During negotiations, it was confirmed that UBC would.undertake promntly
formation of a suitably qualified staff grouo for this purpose as advisors.
Assurance was also obtained that the UBC will by a date not later than
December 31, 1974 prepare a plan acceptable to the Bank, consisting of a
revised schedule of tariffs which will provide for such increases in the
levels of tariffs as should result in an overall increase of not less than
25% in the annual orerating revenues of UBC and will implement the plan
not later than March 21, 1975. Assurance was obtained that the GrouD would



- 16 -
also assist in preparing a set of operating and financial performance targets
for monitoring and control purposes along the lines included in paras 5.17 -
5.18. The proposal on performance targets would be prepared not later than
June 30, 1974, and UBC would review the proposals with the Bank by not later
than August 31, 1974. Based on the results of the review, UBC would adopt
by not later than December 31, 1974, a plan of measures to be taken to
improve the operations and financial position of UBC according to a timetable
accentable to the Bank, and thereafter adhere to the timetable in implementing
the measures.
4.07      Under the project, two new depots would be established each serving
about 250 vehicles. The depots would provide routine maintenance workshops
and would be suitable as pilot areas for the introduction of management de-
centralization schemes.
(ii) Traffic Circulation Lmprovement
4.08      Improvements in traffic circulation in the central city area would
be phased over.a three-year period (Map 10361). In viewT of street patterns
in Tehran, specifically the inadequacy of secondary and tertiary streets, it
is proposed to undertake improvements designed to facilitate traffic flow
and pedestrian mobility in stages (details are provided in Map 10362R). For
the area north of Sepah Square, proposed recommendations include:
(a)  adoption of a one-way street system in the city center
north of Sepah and involving the main streets bounded to
the east and west roughly by Saadi-Roosevelt and Pahlavi;
(b)  redesign of intersections with the introduction of
surface rearrangements and underpasses;
(c) resignaling and signposting of the area with some addi-
tional public lighting in underpasses, at intersections
and on traffic signs.
4.09      South of Sepah there exists no similar street network which lends
itself as a basis for a circulatory pattern. The problem of the southern
part of Tehran is to develop a secondary street system to permit vehicular
movement into and out of the area and to relieve the conditions on the main
roads. As part of the project, the City would carry out street improvements
on about 43-60 km in the next three years in conjunction with its normal
capital improvements program. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that prior to March 21, 1974, the City would review with the Bank an overall
plan for street improvements to be implemented in the area south of Sepah.
4.10      A one-way street system and redesign of two squares would be under-
taken as set out below:



- 17 -
(a)  on Saadi-Roosevelt (northbound) and Ferdowsi (south-
bound) with return flows on secondary streets. This
includes construction of Ferdowsi and Saadi underpasses
at intersections with Shahreza together with the Karim
Khan Zand underpass between Ferdowsi and Saadi-Roosevelt;
(b)  On Shah-Naderi-Istanbul (westbound) aud Sepah (eastbound)
with return flows on secondary streets;
(c) on Pahlavi (southbound) and Hafez (northbound) with
return flows on secondary streets.  This includes Pahlavi
and Eafez underpasses at intersections with Shahreza;
(d) surface improvements.in.the squares at Sepah and 25
Shahrivar.
4.11      The proposed ph ashb                works is shown in Annex 11. For
the traffic lights, the proposal is to introduce a "green wa _nig stem_on
each main route.  Coordination of lights along Perdowsi and_Saadi-Rooseveit.
would initially be established.  As the road improvements are completed the
cables and control equipment for zonal coordination will be installed.  As
the second and third phases of the one-way system are introduced, the lights
on the multiple road intersections will be coordinated.
4.12      Concurrently, the City is considering the introduction of priority
bus lanes on one-way streets and expects to implement these measures when
experience gained from the introduction of the first pair of one-way streets
has been adequately assessed.  To this end, the. terms of reference of the
consultants to the City.will call for detailed studies on traffic engineering,
parking regulation, apecial bus lanes, and traffic signal control, and the
project provides for consultant services to assist in the implementation of
these additional measures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the City will employ traffic engineering consultants on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank for execution of traffic circulation
improvements, and that the City will consult with the Bank on the implementa-
tion of the recommendations of the consultant studies to be carried out under
direction of the Traffic Planning Manager (see para 4.21).
(iii) Long-Term Policy and Planning Studies
a)   Transport
4.13      Follow-up studies arising out of the SOFRETU preliminary long-term
transport proposals (presented to the Government in July 1973) will include  a
detailed review of the transport proposals and supplementary feasibility work
as necessary.  Supplementary studies would include evaluation of the proposals
in light of the potential land use conflicts and alternatives, a comparison
of different modes of transport, the impact of private cars and taxis of



- 18 -
various kinds, and consideration of an appropriate long-term pricing strategy
for transport. If a rapid transit system is found economically feasible,
funds are provided in the project for detailed design of a first stage of
construction (see Annex 8 for details). During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the Government or TDC shall by a date not later than
December 31, 1973, employ qualified and experienced consultants on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to carry out the review and supplemen-
tary studies of the long-term transport system, and assurances were also
obcained that the Government will adopt, in consultation with the Bank, and
by a date not later than December 31, 1974, a long-term transport system
plan on the basis of the consultants' recommendations; that the Government
or TDC shall then employ qualified and experienced engineering consultants
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to
prepare-a detailed design of the long-term transport system; and that upon
their completion these designs will be reviewed with the Bank.
b)   Urban Development
4.14      Under the project, TDC will provide inter-ministerial coordination,
conduct a long-term planning effort and propose a medium-term action program
for guiding urban growth in Tehran. The consultants would help set up invest-
ment policy guidelines within which all decisions affecting the city includ-
ing major infrastructure investments in the Tehran region would be undertaken.
They would help define TDC s scope of concern and plan of action through
preliminary outline of a coordinated program of studies, and review and
analysis of Tehran's urban planning needs. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that consultants to TDC would be employed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank by not later than December 31, 1973; that the
consultants' recommendations will be reviewed with the Bank; and, that the
Government or TDC will consult with the Bank on the implementation of the
recommendations resulting from these studies.
C. Cost Estimates
4.15      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$65.9 million equiv-
alent, of which US$42.0 million represents the foreign exchange component to
be financed under the proposed loan. A summary of the project cost follows:



_ 19 -
-- -X1S llLuon ---                  --- US$ "4____Ot----
Local   Foreign   Total           Local      o"reig    Total
I. Public Tranporthm
Short-tem needs (ite  Bus C        )
1. Repair and rehabilitation of thei
existing fleet                       102.3      341,.o    4i3.3         1.5       5.0         6-5
2. Constructicn and equipent of
two depots /                          81.9    122.8    20X47            1.2       1.8        3.0
3. Procurement of buses  2               272.8  13,677.6  1,650o.4          4.0      20.2       24.2
4. Cosultant Services -
Economic and technical
Advisory seep                        75;O       3411    1.09.1          1.1      0.5        1.6
5. Contingencies a                        68.2    245.5    313e7            1.0       3.6        4.6
Total        600.2  2,121.0  2,721.2            8.8     31.1        39.9
II. TrafMc bgineering   wovremsat
(City of Tebran)
1. Immediate construction, &uM
Traffic control equipmnt              361.5    395.5    757.0            5-3       5.8      11.1
2. Technical Assistance                   88.7      34.1    1?228           1.3       0-5        1.8
3. Street inprovements in Sotth &        300.1               300.1           4.4                 4.4
/   Contingencies /7                       95.5     61.4    156.9           1.4       0.9        2.3
Total       845.8    49L.o  1,336.8            12.4      7.2       19.6
7  erDelopneat CounciLl)
1. Transport A                           102.3    136.14    238.7           1.5       2.0        3.5
2. Urban Developnent /9                   61.4      88.6    150.0           0.9       1.3        2.2
3. Contingencies  AO                      20.5      27,3      47.8          0,3       0.4        0.7
Maui        t184.2    252.3    436.5            2.7       3.7       6.4
Grand Total     1636.2   2864.3   4.435 3.9                   142.0      65-9
4  Not including land acquisition for one of the two depots
/2 This provides for an imediate order of 250 singlde  and 135 double-decker buses (and attendant initial stock
of spare parts) to be folloved by another order of up to 250 single- and 115 double-decker buses to be
determined after further study by the ecoDnic and technical advisory group.
c1  I  etablaskeAt of econiom  and technical group to inplemnmt fleet optinisation, specific route
casting, depot oentrol and ascamsotabil1ty, cost accmting, asset evaluation, preparation of depot
censtructian specCicatiSms. operational timetables and working mthodas.
k  Ph71eiel contingencies 5%. Price contingiuciag-5% a. year.
L Includes construction of five underpasses, surface improvemrents in two squares, institution of two one-way
street systems north/south and one one-way system east/west, and traffic control equipment.
/6  Reconstructton/rebabilitation of scme 45/60 Ia of streets in area south of Sepah Square.
12  Ptysical contingencies 5%. Price contingencies 5% a year.
A   Review of  hase I Transport Study being cqmpleted by SOFRETU, supplementary feasibility work required, and
including detailed design of first stagse ci a mass rapid transit system if found economically justified.
ZI  Consultant services to the Tehran Development Council.
/10 Physical contingency 5%. Price escalation 5% a year.
June 15, 1973



- 20 -
4.16      Costs of procurement and rehabilitation of buses are based on fig-
ures provided by the consultants' detailed studies adjusted for a two-year
and three-year program and are based on post-1973 dollar devaluation costs.
A provision of 10% is made for new spare parts to be provided with the buses
purchased. Construction and equipment of depots are based on SOFRETU esti-
mates (Annex 12) with allowances to reflect increases in costs since the
estimates were made in 1972.
4.17      The costs of construction of the underpasses, the surface works,
civil works for road improvements and lights involved in the traffic engineer-
ing are based on the consultants' preliminary estimates of unit costs at cur-
rent prices. Contingencies - price, 5% a year and physical, 5% a year - have
been included.
D.  Project Financing Plan
4.18      The proposed Bank loan of US$42.0 million would cover the foreign
currency costs which are 64% of the total project costs of US$65.9 million.
The local currency costs of US$23.9 million would be provided by the Govern-
ment. A summary of the financing required is as follows:
Rls             US$
Millions        Millions        %
Requirements of Funds
Proposed project expenditures         4,494.4           65.9         100
nurces of Funds
Proposed IBRD loan                     2,864.4          42.0          64
Government contributions               1,630.0          23.9          36
4,494.4          65.9         100
E.  Organization and Management
4.19      The Borrower:  The loan would be to the Government of Iran.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will
promptly provide local currency funds as a grant to the City and UBC to cover
capital expenditures under the project through a fund to be replenished each
quarter.



- 21 -
4.20      Project Execution and Finance:  Funds for traffic circulation im-
provements would be onlent by the Government to the City. It was agreed
during negotiations that the project funds required for the purchase and
installation of traffic control equipment would be handled as a separate
item and would be provided to the City under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the City of Tehran contingent upon the transfer
of responsibility for installation of traffic control equipment from the
Traffic Police to the City. Such a transfer of responsibility requires
legislative action. If the transfer does not take place by June 30, 1974,
the Government will promptly request that the Schedules to the Loan Agreement
be amended so as to ensure that this element of the project becomes the
responsibility of the Government. The portion of the Bank loan for Bus
Company improvements would be onlent by the Government to UBC which is
wholly-owned by the City.
4.21      A Traffic Planning Manager, to be appointed by the Mayor and
attached to the Mayor's Office, will have sole responsibility for implement-
ing the traffic circulation portion of the project (see Annex 13 for sug-
gested terms of reference).  During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the City will, prior to effectiveness, appoint a suitably qualified and
experienced Traffic Planning Manager the scope of whose functions would be
satisfactory to the Bank. He will be assisted by competent and qualified
staff drawn from various technical and planning departments of the City.
Assurances were also obtained that suitably qualified consultants to assist
the Traffic Planning Manager would be hired on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank.                   1
4.22      The execution of elements concerned with the rehabilitation of UBC
will be the responsibility of the General Manager assisted by the Economic
and Techncial Advisory Group (para 4.06).
4.23      Policy and planning studies relating to urban and transport develop-
ment will be carried out by the Secretariat of the TDC.
4.24      Organization of the City:  The City is an independent government
agency governed by the Laws of Municipalities. The Mayor, its chief executive,
is appointed by a City Council for a term of two years. The City Council
itself is elected. Chart 7658 shows the functional organization of the City.
Three of the four major departments are directly involved in urban development
projects: the Technical Department, the City Planning Department, and the
Finance and Administration Department. Of the three departments, the Tech-
nical Department with about 300 employees is primarily responsible for the
design and implementation of municipal projects. Proposals for traffic
circulation improvements would normally have to be reviewed and evaluated in
this department. A section in the department is responsible for traffic
planning, the design of intersections, bus stops, location of traffic lights
and installation of parking meters. The section is also responsible for
coordinating its traffic engineering activities with that of the Traffic
Police who are responsible for the enforcement of traffic regulations. How-
ever, little or no coordination takes place either because the traffic section



- 22 -
in the City is under-staffed or because the Traffic Police already perform
similar functions. During negotiations, the Government indicated that it
would take action to transfer the responsibility for traffic control equip-
ment installation from the Traffic Police to the City (see para 4.20), and
ensure proper coordination between the City and Traffic Police in the im-
plementation of the traffic improvement program.
4.25      Bus Company:  UBC is controlled by a General Assembly, most members
of which are members of. the City Council (Chart 7667). The Assembly meets
annually but may hold extraordinary meetings which in the past have dealt
with matters of change of UBC status or capital.  The power to approve tariff
changes is vested in the City Council. UBC is managed by its own Council
and a General Manager. The UBC Council consists of the General Manager as
chairman, a member responsible for personnel matters and administration and
another member responsible for financial affairs, all appointed by the General
Assembly. There is an Inspector appointed by the General Assembly from the
staff of the Ministry of Finance with responsibility for the satisfactory
financial conduct of UBC.
F. Procurement
4.26      Contracts for construction and for supply of equipment including
buses, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.  A preference of
up to 15% or the applicable customs duties, whichever is lower. would be
applied to bids from local manufacturers of equipment. Iran has no agree-
ments giving preferential tariffs to other countries.  There are two bus
assembly plants in Iran, one manufactures double-decker buses and the other,
single-decker buses. The local value added of buses manufactured in Iran is
over 40%.
G. Disbursements
4.27      Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made as follows:
(a)  50% of total expenditures under civil works contracts;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported buses,
and spare parts; or 100% of the ex-factory cost, if
awarded to local manufacturers under the international
bidding;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures under equipment installation
contracts awarded to foreign suppliers;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for consultant services; and,
(e)  100% of imported equipment for depots.



23 -
4.28      A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 14. As
the project forms part of a five-year program, any unused balance of the
loan could, after consultation with the Bank, be used for the purchase of
additional equipment.
H. Training
4.29      Provision for training is included in the project elements con-
cerned with improvements of UBC, traffic engineering and circulation, and
.Long-term policy and planning studies. Consultants' terms of reference will
be so designed to afford Iranian counterparts the benefits of on-the-job
training and experience of professional consultants.
I. Ecology
4.30      The Government and particularly the City are beginning to take
measures in reducing the amount of pollution caused by vehicles. Because
of atmospheric inversion and lack of vertical circulation, Tehran acts as
a basin for air pollution generated by motor vehicles, industry and natural
causes, i.e. dust. In the course of project implementation, the Government
plans to monitor emission levels from buses and taxis and intends to propose
more comprehensive pollution control regulations.



- 24 -
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF THE UNITED BUS COMPANY
5.01      UBC's financial position has been precarious up to this date.
However, with improved management and operational procedures to be instituted
under the reorganization to be carried out through the project it could be
turned into a financially viable institution to provide adequate transport
services to the general public. An analysis of UBC's past performance and
future prospects is given below.
A. Past Financial Performance
5.02      Over the last three years both the service offered by UBC and its
financial position have rapidly deteriorated.  UBC has been suffering from
a lack of working capital which has resulted in its buses not being properly
maintained and an inadequate supply of spare parts. Because of this, the
number of buses in operation each day has declined from 1,820 or 72% of the
total fleet in 1970 to 1,445 or 61% of the total fleet in 1972.
5.03      The declining number of buses in service has resulted in declining
ridership and declining revenue for UBC.  Adding to problems is the fact
that fares have not been increased since 1965 although operating costs have
been increasing every year.  A summary of the operation over the last three years
(ending Mar-ch 20, 1972) is given below:
1970          1971           1972
Average number of buses in
operation each day                       1,820         1,665          1,445
Total number of passengers
(millions)                                747            692            632
- ---- -in millions of rls--
Revenue                                    1,727         1,591          1,454
Operating Expenses         S               2,274         2,443          2,525
Net Operating Loss                          (547)         (852)        Q_,071)
5.04      The Government and City have made contributions to UBC in the past
in the form of operating grants and purchase of shares. These contributions
have not been made on a regular basis or in regular amounts, however, and
thus have been of limited help in ameliorating the situation in UBC's opera-
tions.  The contributions in the last three years were:



- 25 -
1970      1971      1972
-in millions of rl-
Operating grants.           713        187      -
Purchase of shares          472        158      1,023
t  1, 1 85  345     1,023
.3  Present Financial Position
5.05      The March 20, 1972 balance sheet of UBC (Annex 5) shows a large
accumulated deficit and Gaverment advances which UBC has no prospects of
repaying. Although the balance sheet shows UBC with Rls 577_million in
working capital, accordig- to the mmagament of UBC the Inventory contains
approximately Rls 200 million in obsolete part's and prepaid expenses include
a claim against a supplier for RIs 214 million which is not collectible.
The working capital of UBC, therefore, is actually Rls 163 milliou.
5.06      The Government advances to the Bus Company as of March 20, 1972,
were:
RIs
Millions
National Iranian Oil Company              109
Customs                  -                 13
Ministry of Finance  -                     77
Social Security (A.O.S.)                1,159
City of Tebrai                            166
Housing Organization                        8
Construction Bank                           1
2.033
5.07      In order not to unduly burden UBC at this initial stage of its
reorganization and to assure UBC's future financial viability, following
appraisal of this project the Government has cancelled its long-term loans
and advances to UBC.. It hts also taken over payment of UBC's two outstand-
ing suppliers notes as of the year beginning March 21, 1973 under which UBC
is acquiring 400 new buses in the context of the five year rehabilitation
prngram. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
5.08      In order that UBC has proper cost informatiou with which to introduce
proper cost accounting systems it was agreed during negotiations that by not
later than tarch 20, 1974, the Econo0mic and Technical Advisory Group will
revalue UBC assets so that the balance sheet for the year beginning March 21,
1974, gives a true reflection of the value of the assets. It was also agreed



- 26 -
that by not later than March 20, 1975, the Economic and Technical Advisory
Group would introduce a system of cost accounting acceptable to the Bank to
determine the true costs of the various services and facilities provided by
UBC.
5.09      Furthermore, it was agreed during negotiations that accounts and
fInancial statements will be audited in accordance with sound auditing prac-
tices by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and that the statements
will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal
year.
5.10      The effect of the cancellation of long term debt and a partial reval-
uation of assets (using the assumptions set out in Annex 3 and from discussion
with management) have been applied retroactively to the March 20, 1972 balance
sheet.  A summary of the effect is given below:
1972 Actual ----  --=1972 Revalued---
Rls        US$              Rls       US$
Millions  Millions    %   Millions  Millions   %
Current assets                    852        13       29      438        6       16
Net fixed assets                2,128        31       71    2,266       33       84
Total Assets               2,980        44     100    2,704        39     100
Current liabilities               275         4        9      275        4       10
Long-term debt                  2,033        30       68       -         -       -
Equity                            672        10       23    2,429       35       90
Total Liabilities          2,980        44     100    2 704        39     100
C. Financing Plan
5.11      The financing plan is based on UBC's forecast of source and applica-
tion of funds during 1973/74-1977/78. Details of these forecasts are given
in Annex 6 and summarized below:



27 
Rls         US$
Millions    Millions       X
Requirements of Funds
Proposed capital expenditures            4,796          70.3      85
Operating cash requirements                815          12.0      1S
Total Requirements                                 82.3     100
Sources of Funds
Borrowings:
Proposed IBRD loan                     2,121          31.1      38
Other loans (required for
these purchases in 1976/77
and 1977/78)                          1,050          15.5      19
Total Borrowings                    3,171          46.6      57
Govermnent contributions                 3,120          45.7       55
Less:  debt service                      680          10.0      12
Net Government Contributions        2,440          35.7     43
5.611         82.3      100
,:0.1X    The net Goverment contributions would cover the operating cash
re,t4*eents of UBC over this period as well as local currency costs of fleet
rehabilitation and land purchases for depots. The operating cash require-
ents are projected to decline as fares are increased in 1975/76 (see explana-
tion and assumptions in para 5.14). Details of the borrowings required are
as follows:
(a)  The proposed Bank loan of US$31 million is assumed to be made
for a term of 15 years including a grace period of four years
with interest at 7.25% p.a.
(b)  The other loans of US$15.5 million are the amounts necessary
to cover the remaining capital expenditures for the five-year
program to fully rehabilitate TJBC. They are assumed to be
made for a term of eight years with interest at 9Z p.a.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that until March 20, 1979 UBC
will not incur any new debts other than those under the proposed project
without prior approval of the Bank, and that commencing with the fiscal year
beginning March 21, 1979 no debt may be incurred by UBC unless internal cash
generation of the preceding 12 months or most recent completed fiscal jear
was more than 1.25 times the maximum debt service for any succeeding fiscal
year.



- 28 -
D. Future Operating Results
5.13      Forecast operating results during the period 1972/73-1978/79 are
shown in Annex 4, using assumptions listed in Annex 3. A summary of the
results is given below:
1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79
-----in millions of rls---------   ----- - -
Revenues             1,624   1,867   2,293   2,849   3,212    3,338   4,020
Expenses             2,937   2,813   3,057   3,209   3,422    3,558   3,746
Operating
Income (Loss)       (1,313)  ( 946)   (770)   (360)   (210)    (220)    274
Interest                 16      11       60     112      162       206     225
Government
Operating
Grants               1,000   1,000       600     300      200       100
Net income
(Loss) after
interest and
Government grants    (329)    (43)   (230)   (172)   (172)    (326)    .49
5.14      The forecast results show declining operating losses and declining
Government operating grants, so that in 1978/79 a Government subsidy is not
required.  The improving results occur largely because of assumed fare
increases in 1975/76 and 1978/79 which would raise average fare levels from
Rls 2 to Rls 3 to Ris 4 bj the end of the decade.  The proposed fare increases
are within acceptable limits in Tehran and will not discourage public tran-
soort ridership (see Annex 16). The present average fares of Rls 2.0 have
prevailed since 1965.  The proposed Economic and Technical Advisory Group
will review the fare policy of UBC, and will make recommendations on fare
increases and on changes in fare structure based on the revalued assets and
the cost accounting information. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that a revised schedule of tariffs will be proposed by UBC not later than
December 31, 1974 and implemented not later than March 21, 1975 which will
provide for such increases in the level of tariffs as should result in an
overall increase of not less than 25% in the annual operaiting revenues of
UBC beginning with the year commencing March 21, 1975. Agreement was also
obtained that UBC will use the new buses to be financed under the project to
provide improved or new services according to a plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, adopted and implemented by not later than June 30, 1974, and that in
accordance with this plan the fares on the new buses will be introduced at
the highest prevailing fare, presently Rls 5.



- 29 -
5.15      During negotiations, assurances were also obtained that until March 21,
1977 the Government will provide to UBC on a quarterly basis any additional
subsidy payment required to ensure that net operating revenue will cover cash
operating expenses, including adequate maintenance and estimated future debt
service. The subsidy payments will be related to performance targets as
discussed in paras 5.17 and 5.18.  As of March 21, 1973 the Government has
begun to make regular transfers of up to Rls 100 million per month reqiAred
to cover UBC's deficit on a monthly basis so that UBC management is not
preoccupied with cash shortages, considered to be one of the basic problems
affecting all UBC's operations.
E. Future Financial Position
5.16      Forecast balance sheets for the years ending in 1972 through 1979
(Annex 5) indicate that the UCw's financial position, on a revalued basis,
is expected to remain satisfactory. With the Government providing the
necessary contributions, the current ratio is never below 1, which is
adequate.  buring the period of reform of UBC the debt/equity ratio in-
creases to a maximum of 56:44 in 1978 and then begins to decline.
F. Monitoring - Financial and Operating Targets
5.17      During the five-year period of rehabilitation, UBC financial
dependence on the Government and the extraordinary circumstances of its
current position make it difficult to rely on conventional financial ratios
as indicators of improved operating performance and as control targets for
monitoring and feedback purposes. The consultants in the Immediate Action
Program have recommended that a more realistic set of operating targets,
based on the detailed study of UBC's operations and implicit in the projected
improvements be used for monitoring and control purposes. These targets
would measure the effectiveness of capital injection and rehabilitation,
serve as incentives to better management and provide guidelines for determ-
ining any additional operating subsidies needed during the five-year period
of rehabilitation. The type and general range of improvements in operations
and maintenance that will be established as performance targets by the
Economic and Technical Advisory Group are set forth below. These targets
cannot presently be more than indicative, in view of the current uncertainties-
regarding the linkages between operating targets and financial performance
indicators, and the lack of reliable estimates regarding future ridership.



-30-
1973    Target Improve-
Figure       ment by 1978
Operations
- Passenger trips (million)                     700             950
- Percentage of overload                         20              -
- Average waiting time (minutes)
(during peak hour)                            15               5
- Maximum waiting time (minutes)
(95% percentile)                              30+             10+
Maintenance
- Fleet availability (%)                         72              85
- Fleet utilization (%)                          64              85
- Diesel consumption
liters/100 vehicles/km                        62              35
= No. of breakdowns/10,000 vehicles/km           20                1
5.18      All the indicated targets have a direct impact on UBC revenues and
operating and maintenance ^osts.  Although the consultants' studies indicate
the nature of the cost functions, the limited data on which the estimates
of cost functions are based, and the worsening of financial condition that
has occurred since the completion of the consultants' work nearly a year ago,
point out the need for additional study before the operating targets can be
reliably linked to financial performance indicators. The Economic and
Technical Advisory Group to UBC will perform this detailed study which is
expected to take some six months to complete. A set of monitoring guidelines
will then be proposed by UBC and will encompass the principal targets set
out above and will include, in addition, manpower targets, indices of labor
productivity, targets for budget control and any other meaningful indicators
that emerge as a result of the consultants' studies.
5.19      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
will consult with the Bank, the UBC, the City and TDC and take necessary
action to implement, in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank,
the recommendations of the Economic and Technical Advisory Group on the
management and operations of the bus fleet and on the operational and financial
targets to be achieved by the Bus Company (see para 4.06). The UBC will
after consultation with the Bank, implement the recommended follow-up action
which should provide for semi-annual reporting by UBC on the progress in
implementing the agreed targets and for annual review by the Government.
During the project period, the advisers to UBC would assist in this task.
Any operat'ng subsidies that may be required during the period of rehabilita-
tion would be linked through a management incentive scheme to the performance
targets. The annual reviews would also attempt to relate UBC's performance
to success of the Government's complementary efforts at easing traffic problems
in the city and would include a review of such restraint measures as parking
regulations, and provision of bus priority schemes. Some form of indemnity



31 
scheme could then be included as part of the subsidy system to reflect more
accurately loss of performance on bus operations as a result of the Government's
(or the city's) inability to effect the agreed improvements in traffic control
and management.



- 32 -
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.  General
6.01      The lack of cheap, convenient and dependable transit servAces is
a burden on the mass of people in Tehran. Public bus transport is so poor
that it has lost 10% of its passengers each year for the past several years.
The result is that the public transport system fails to provide services that
travelers want and are prepared to pay for; it restricts access by lower income
group to community amenities, recreational areas, educational and cultural
facilities and those government services (health clinics, day care centers)
that affect individual welfare; in addition, it restricts mobility of the
labor force and diminishes flexibility in the labor market. In the absence
of an adequate public transport service, the enforcement of even a limited
policy of restraining automobile use is difficult. Likewise the long-term
institutional measures designed to engender rational urban strategy would be
jeopardizad.
6.02      In the short-run, the project remedies the most extreme of transport
disadvantages to the population, and provides an acceptable alternative to
auto travel for potential automobile users. The restoration of good bus
service prevents the continued diversion of bus passengers and allows the
long term trend in bus ridership to be reestablished. Such action permits
long-term transport options to be retained, while long-term transport-studies
are considered in depth and in relation to other urban developments. The
necessity of such considerations, and the absence of organizational or planning
arrangements to act as a guide, has prompted the Government to introduce the
concept of the Tehran Development Council and to look to the immediate tran-
sport program for assistance in establishing the TDC and in advising on a
comprehensive long-term urban development strategy.
6.03      The institutional element of the project fulfills the primary need
cited by SOFRETU and others regarding improved coordination and direction
among the different institutions concerned with transport and urban development
in Tehran. Without a coordinated urban program developed within explicit
urban guidelines, the impact of individual project activity can often be
diffused and counterproductive. In the long-term the institutional assistance
envisaged in this project will provide a base for rational and concerted
urban decision-making.



- 33 -
B. Objectives
6.04      The objectives of the project are both short- and long-term, since
the project is a vital first phase of a longer term transport program. The
short-term objectives are remedial and aimed at:
(a)  immediate restoration of a public bus service
adequate for the mass of population;
(b) improvement in traffic circulation in the heavily
pressed center city primarily to facilitate public
transport and improvement to the inadequate street
network within the southern part of the city.
6.05      The long-term objectives are key to large scale urban infrastructural
development, and provide for:
(a) institution of a needed policy-making and planning
governmental body that can formulate and integrate
development efforts, including long-term transport
plans, in the Tehran region, on the basis of a
long-term urban development strategy;
(b) further review and feasibility study of longer term
needs and engineering response to such needs for
development of an efficient transport svstem.
C. Rate of Return
6.06      The long-range elements of the project do not lend themselves to
quantification despite their major benefits. The establishment of an urban
and regional planning body is of ultimate importance to effectuating the
changes in the existing pattern of urban growth through rational and conscious
decision-making. The potential costs of inadequate and wrong decisions on
transport and other urban sector designs, and the corresponding benefits of
timely and correct ones, are inestimable.
6.07      Since this institutional and other non-quantifiable but important
elements of the project are excluded from benefit-cost evaluation, the internal
rate of return reflects only partial project benefits arising from short-term
transport objectives, yet indicated quantitative benefits are impressive.
The overall rate of return for these quantifiable parts of the project is
about 28% (Annex 15).



- 34 -
6.08      An important quantifiable benefit is the savings in operating costs
and the increased net revenues to UBC as a result of operational and main-
tenance improvements, partial fleet rehabilitation and new bus purchases.
With the project, there will be a greater availability of buses, operating
at greater frequency and at improved travel speeds. Under conditions of
improved bus service, the average number of passenger trips is projected to
increase about 50% during the next five years. (see Annex 16 for details of
tne demand forecast). UBC would be recovering about half of its diverted
ridership, and incrementally adding about 75,000 new riders annually.  By
1977, there would be a net gain of 330 million trips or approximately 1,700
million passengers/km. The rate of return on this element of the project
is 10%. If time savings based on improved levels of service to existing
passengers and to new bus passengers are taken into account, the rate of
return on this element of the project increases to 36%.
6.09      The major quantifiable benefits from improvements in street and
traffic management reinforce those arising directly from improved bus service.
The improvement in traffic circulation will improve travel speeds for cars
and buses and facilitate bus scheduled operations. It will also provide for
an increased road capacity, thus preventing a worsening of the congestion
level. The benefits accruing from traffic circulation improvements can be
measured in user time savings and lower operating costs for all vehicles.
T.e rate of return attributabUe to th's element iS about 14%.
6.10      The economic benefits of bus improvements can also be shown in terms
of the level of subsidy per bus passenger km. Without the project, the sub-
sidy can be expected to remain at its present level of about Rls 0.3 passenger
km. With the improvements, the level of subsidization would fall to zero.
D. Other Benefits
6.11      As noted earlier, the quantifiable benefits are a small part of the
overall project benefits. Strengthened urban decision-making will give rise
to real social benefit, particularly, the positive effect of improved mobility
for the population at large. The project's impact on directing new patterns
of urban settlement and on infrastructural development through the establishment
of the TDC is of major consequence to Tehran's future and to future urban
investments in the Tehran region. Establishment of a comprehensive decision-
making process and resolution of an urban strategy is of immediate importance,
for almost all current decisions regarding Tehran's development are resulting
in further concentrations of people and urban functions in the central core
of the city.  The project will alleviate the immediate transport problems
in the central core area, whi'Le laying the institutional groundwork for
long-term urban and related transport solutions. Finally, non-quantifiable
but essential to future transport plans is the basis this project provides
for positive policy on restraint of private automobile use through increased
efficiency and price competition of public transportation.



- 35 
6.12      Account is not taken in this 4nalysis of benefits from other direct
measures to restrain the growth of private vehicle use since this could,
theoretically, be introduced without the project. It is nonetheless relevant
that such measures as the reinforcement of pking restrictions are being
introduced to accompany the project and that further measures are in prepara-
tion. Without the improvement of public transport these would, politically,
be significantly harder to gain acceptance.



- 36 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances and agreements were obtained which
can be regarded in three categories:
A.  General Agreements
1)   The Government or Tehran Development Council will employ,
by a date not later than December 31, 1973, qualified and
experienced consultants acceptable to the Bank upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to advise TDC
(para 4.14).
2)   The Government or TDC will review with the Bank the consultants'
recommendations arising from the urban planning studies carried
out under TDC and will consult with the Bank on implementation
of the recommendations (para 4.14).
3)   The Government or TDC will consult with the Bank on the terms
of reference of the supplementary feasibility studies of the
long-term transport system (para 4.13).
4)   The Government or TDC will employ consultants for the follow-up
long-term transport studies by a date not later than December 31,
1973 on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.13).
5)   The Government will adopt after consultation with the Bank, a
long-term transport system plan based on the recommendations
arising from the transport studies by a date not later than
December 31, 1974 (para 4.13).
6)   The Government or TDC shall employ qualified and experienced
engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to prepare a detailed
design of the long-term transport system, and upon completion
of the final designs, review the designs with the Bank (4.13).
7)   The Government will provide local currency funds by way of a
grant to the Citty and UBC to cover capital expenditures under
the project through a fund to be replenished quarterly
(para 4.19).
8)   The Government, until March 21, 1977, w.ll provide, by way of
a grant on a quarterlv basis, any additional subsidy payment
to UBC td ensure that new operating revenue would cover cash
expenses 'including maintenance and estimated future debt service
(para 5.15).



- 37 -
9) The Government will consult with the Bank, the UBC, the
City and TDC, and take necessary action to implement, in
accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank, the
recommendations of the Economic and Technical Advisory
Group on the management and operations of the bus fleet
and on the operational and financial targets to be achieved
by UBC (para 5.19).
10)   The Government will on-lend to the City project funds
required for the purchase and installation of traffic
control equipment uader the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the City of Tehran contingent
upon the transfer of responsibility for installation of
traffic control equipment from the Traffic Police to the
City; and, in the event such a transfer does not occur by
June 30, 1974, the Government will promptly request that
the Schedules to the Loan Agreement be amended so as to
ensure that this element of the project becomes the
responsibility of the Government (para 4.20).
B.  Agreements related to the City
1)   The City will employ traffic engineering consultants on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for execution
of traffic circulation isprovements (para 4.12).
2)   The City will consult with the Bank on the implementation
of traffic engineering consultant recomuuedations on traffic
engineering, car use regulation, bus priority schemes and
traffic signalling (para 4.12).
3)   The City will employ a full-time, qualified and experienced
Traffic Planning Manager with such powers and responsibilities
as shall be mutually satisfactory to the Bank and to the
City, and shall provide him with the assistance of qualified
consultants and supporting staff and facilities as are
necessary for the supervision of the implementation of
traffic circulation Improvements (para 4.21).
4)   The City will prepare and review with the Bank, by not later
than March 21, 1974, an overall plan for street improvements
to be implemented in the southern half of Tehran.(para 4.09).
C. Agreement related to the United Bus Company
1)   UBC will establish an Economic and Technical Advisory Group
under terms acceptable to the Bank, and will employ manage-
ment and accounting consultants acceptable to the Bank upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.06).



- 38 -
2)   UBC will, by a date not later than March 20, 1974, complete
a revaluation of its assets and bring its fixed assets
record_ fully up-to-date (para 5.08).
3)   UBC will, by a date not later than March 20, 1975, develop
and, after review with the Bank introduce a cost accounting
system acceptable to the Bank to determine the true cost of
the various services and facilities provided by USC (para
5.08).
4)   UBC will not incur any debt until March 20, 1979 other than
that under the proposed project without the prior approval
of the Bank (para 5.12).
5)   UBC will not incur any debt after March 20, 1979 without
prior approval of the Bank unless UBC's net operating
revenue in the most recent completed fiscal year or pre-
ceding 12 mounth period is at least 1.25 times the maximum
debt service for any succeeding fiscal year (para 5.12).
6)   UBC's financial statements will be audited by independent
auditors sat4sfactory to the Bank and will furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year (para 5.09).
7)   The Economic and Technical Advisory Group will be required
by a date not later than June 30, 1974 to make recommendations
on operational and financial targets to be achieved by UBC
and that UBC will review the recommendations with the Govern-
ment, the City, and with the Bank by not later than August 31,
1974 and adopt a plan of follow-up action in accordance with
a timetable acceptable to the Bank by not later than
December 31, 1974 and thereafter adhere to the timetable in
implementing the plan (paras 4.06 and 5.14).
8)   UBC will adopt and implement a plan satisfactory to the Bank
by not later than June 30, 1974, ensuring that new buses
financed out of the proceeds of the loan are used to provide
improved or new services,and that UBC will ievy the highest
of the prevailing tariffs in the case of these services
(para 5.14).
9)   UBC will by a date not later than December 31, 1974, prepare
a plan acceptable to the Bank, consisting of a revised schedule
of tariffs which will provide for such increases in the levels
of tariffs as should result in an overall increase of not less
than 25Z in the nnual operating revenues o'f UBC and shall
thereafter implement the said plan by a date not-later than the
fiscal year commencing March 21, 1975 (paras 4.06 and 5.14).



39 
10)   UBC will procure out of tbe proeseds of the loan an initial
order of 250 single-ecker buses and 115 double-decker buses
and a second order which willi be based on the reconmendations
of the Economic and Technical Advisory Group an bus fleet
composition (pars 4.04),
7.02      The follwing In a condition of effectiveness:  The City shall
have designated a Traffic Planning Nanager (para 4.21).
7eO3      On the basis of the above assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of U0$42.0 million equivalent at the Government
of Iran for a term of 15 years, including a grace period of four years.






A N N E I E S






ANNEX 1
Page 1
_ ~
TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT-PROJECT
FACTORS GUIDING URBAN GROWT IN i TEHR
(PR3=NT         a 7A) BAj a
National Policies and Programs
Because of Tehran's position as both the capital city and
as a city which contains about 60% of the nation's industrial,
cormnercial and higher-level educational activities, its growth must
be viewed within the natfona.l context.
Urban Deve:lopment
Iran's present 13.2 million urban population is projected
to grow by an additional 4 million during the Fifth Plan period of
1973-1978 to total 17.2 million by 1978. Daring the same period,
Tehran metropolitan area is projected to grow from its present level
of 3.8 d.llion in 1972 to aboutU48 mjllion-in-1978. --In other wiads,
Tebran will maintain its share of the national urban population at the
end of the Fifth Plan.
URBAN POPULATICN - Millions
Date            Iran          Tehran
1972            13.2            3.8
1978            17.2           4.8
A decentralization policy as envisioned in the Fifth Plan is consequently
not expected to give a substantially different regional growth pattern
within the next five years. It will start bearing fruit only during the
Sixth Plan.
Nevertheless, with an eye to the future a general theme of
the Fifth Plan (1973-1978) is "decentralization" of such national
activities as administrative services, industry and higher-education
from Tehran. Proposed are creation of regional development pbles which
will absorb the transferred or newly created functions and a communications
network which will facilitate the undertaking of such a program.
Industrial location policies and the highway development programs
of the next five years are important tools in the realization of the
Plan. Provisions of these two sectors regarding the development of Tehran
metropolitan area are as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(a)  Industrial Location Policy:  The Fifth Plan as a
continuation of the Fourth Plan policies places
certain restrictions on industrial growth within
the Tehran metropolitan area. These are:
(i)  all new industries are to locate 120 km
away from the Tehran city center;
(ii)  any industrial growth within the metropolitan
area will be in the form of either expansion
of existing establishments such as the auto-
motive industry or new establishments that
have close inter-industrial relations with
existing firms;
(iii)  no industries within the 120 km limit will
be extended any of the economic and social
concessions, i.e. tax reductions, that are
granted industries locating elsewhere in
the country.
(b)  Highway Development Program:  Presently, one-third of
the total highway development program investments of
the Fifth Plan are allocated to ,Tehran region.,
One hundred kilometers of access roads to
Tehran are programmed to be completed by 1978.
Regional relations are to be strengthened within an
immediate range of 100-150 km with Qum in the south,
Ab-Ali and Damavand in the east and Karaj in the
west. All three directions are almost equally
programmed for investment with Karaj being tied to
Qazvin further in the west and Ch'allus near the
Caspian Sea. Qazvin and Saveh are also to be
united via Boin in the southwest.
Physical and Climatological Limitatiors to Urban Growth
The Albcrz mountain chain will set strict limitations for
northward and, to a lesser degree, for eastward ezpansion of the urban
area. The hot and unpleasant microclimate in the south makes expansion
in this direction not unfeasible but uncomfortable and difficult. The
area west of Tehrar is therefore regarded as having the best possibilities
for future urban growthn.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Present Land Use Characteristics
Rapid concentrical expansion with a light bias towards
the north and northeast has resulted in reduced communication between
the distinct and already spatially separated socioeconomic groups of the
urban area. For the present, land-use pattern and the distribution of
employment and residential zones of the urban area favor the promotion
of this situation. So in 1972, we find the Tehran metropolitan area
settlement pattern quite rigidly structured with respect to distribution
of its various socioeconomic groups and extension of its urban services.
The main center of Tehran City, a zone of 30 km2 extending 5 kmn
east-west and 6 km north-south, is delimited by avenues of Shoosh in the
south, Si M8tri in the west, Shahnaz and Shahbaz in the east, and Elizabeth I:
and Karim Khan Zand in the north. This area contains the administrative, com-
mercial and business activitie sof the urban complex and harbors a residential
population of about 0.5 million.
The commercial activities are mainly located in the southern sec-
tions of the center. The urban quality gets better as one approaches the
northern sections. Specialized areas in the south are as follows:
(a)  Bazaar Area:  the traditional center of wholesale and
retail trade and services, it is located south of Bouzar-
jomehri;
(b) Ministerial Section: this is the administrative center
located just north of the Bazaar area;
(c)  Commercial District:  modern commercial establishments
have located Ualong the imain avenues north of Sepah;
(d) Business District: the new business district is located
mainly in the northwestern part of the center.
Major industrial districts have developed in response to trans-
port developments in west and southwest of Tehran City and the relatively
new ones have also located all along the major access roads to the city.
These areas extend along the Old Karaj Road, between Mehrabad Airport
and the railroad, along old settlements on Qazvin Road, around the new
Karaj Road to the west and northwest, and along the roads to Qum to the
south and to Mazanderan to the east. There is also a zone along the road
to Khorasson comprising cement factories, brickworks and construction
materials industry. The automotive industry presently located on the



ANNEX 1
Page g e
Karaj Expressway and the new Karaj Road, about 20 km west of Tehran
is locating new production facilities further south between the new
and old Karaj roads.  As noted, there are no industrial settlements
in the north which remains totally residential.
The Transport Network
The Tehran urban agglomeration is served by a primary network
with du&l characteristics:
(a)  The orthogonal grid in the center with wide street
network but also having discontinuities; and
(b) The radial network in the periphery with bad
linkages both with the central orthogonal gridA and
between its own lines.
The radial network in the periphery hap the primary function
of providing access between the urban complex and the outlying areas.
It extends beyond the periphery of the arban complex to eventually form
part of the national highway system. Residential and industrial districts
have developed along and around the principal access roads into Tehran
City.
The radial peripheral network has inadequate direct
linkages between its own lines. The situation is especially acute
in the south. There is no direct linkage connecting the areas
between northeast and east to the south.  The east-west conrection
are also lacking with respect to linkages between Farahabad - Khorassan
roads in the east, Tarasht - Old Karaj Road, and the dense settlements
in the west. Connecting Karaj Freeway and Darius in the north is also
important. In these areas movements of commercial vehicles are reported
to be quite difficult.
The orthogonal.grid of the city center is composed of seven
primary roads running in the north-south direction and nine running in
the east-west direction. The roads in the north-south direction are over
5 km in length and run about 800 m apart from each other, and the roads
in the east-west direction are about 7.5 km in length and run about
900 m apart from each other.
There are discontinuities in the orthogonal grid itself
and in linkages with the radial net of the periphery. The dis-
continuities in the grid are most acute in the east-west direction where
there are only two roads which- traverse the central -zone without--interruption -
Shah Reza and Shoosh. The absence of radial connections between the radial
net of the periphery and the incomplete grid of the center makes zonal tran-
sitions difficult.  The inadequacy of both key intersections in the transition
zones and the distributors in the grid further this situation.



ANNEX 1
Page e
Furthermore, the southern and northern sections of the city
center delimited by Sepah differ with respect to their transport land-
use patterns:
(a) The transport space occupies about 14% of total
urban land in the south cominig down to 10% in
certain sections; in the north the transport
space is about 28% of the urban area and in
some sections runs up to 33%. The situation
in the northern section compares very well with
the conditions in the western cities, whereas
the situation in the south is typical of most
eastern cities.
(b) The linear density of the network is below
0.07 km/ha in the south, whereas it averages
0.17 km/ha in the north between a range of
0.10 - 0.30 km/ha. This situation is quite
inadequate when compared with the western
European cities where the road density values
average about 0.21 - 0.22 km/ha.
(c) The secondary roads lack in general both in
the south and the north, but the south further
suffers from an inadequate tertiary road system.
This brings us to the major characteristics of the hierarchy of
the street network in Tehran. Again, the northern part of the city has
quite wide primary and secondary street systems in the width of 20-24 m
and 12-20 m respectitiey.  Howvert, the inadequacy of the secondary
system in the north, and the virtual absence of the secondary -ste 
in the south force a direct connection between the primary and tertiary
system8 and thus forces the primary network, especially in the south,
to assuma functions other than its oWn. This situation, increasing the
number of intersections involved, causes congestion.
Prospects for the Future
As indicated earlier, there is no prospect of a substantially
reduced population growth within the next decade. roasting land use
policies lead  to a concentric growth of the urban area.  Tehran will,
therefore, continue to be a compact city with high population densities
and a concentration of employment opportunities in the center. The
street system is inadequate for a substantially increased use of private
cars, but on the other hand, the present and the future land use pattern
is very suitable for an efficient bus system. Consequently, the
Government's and the Municipality's intention to reduce the use of private
cars in the center has a high probability of success. But this requires
a concentrated investment effort in the public transport system. -






ANNEX 1
Appendix
BASIC DATA AND FORECASTS FOR
THE MM  MET1POLITAI AREA
1.   Population
Source\Year       956    1966    1971 1972    1976  1977    1981   .1990 1991
Census          1.512   2.719
Master Plan                       3.6          i.3             4.8           5.5
SOFRETU 1                         3.6  3.75    4.27                      . _5.5
SOFRETU 2                         3.6   -                 .    -     -       8.0
Doxiadis                               3.80           4.74            6.96
6% growth                              3.80    4.7             6.4    11 .5
Bank estimate                          3.80    4.5             5.4           8.0
2.   Employment by Sector
1966/1              1990/2
Agriculture                         7.9                  4.1
Mining                              0.4                  1.6
Manufacturing                     199.0                745.7
Construction                       67.3                201.1
Electrical                         16.8                 54.7
Commerce                          137.4                432.0
Transport                          59.3                197.4
Services                          267.1               7?2.3
Total                    755.2              2,388.9
Ll  Source:  Census
/2 Forecast: Dloxdadis






Page 7
Appendix
3.   Occupational Status 19661
Professionals                       11%
White collar                        12
Commercial & service employees      33%
Blue collar                         44%
8.  Monthly Family Income 1971 2
us$    0 -  44             4.9%
uSs  41 - *88            27.8%
US$  88 - 1J7             29.0%
US$ 147 - 220            11.7%
US$  220 - 293            5.5%
US$  293 - 367            5.2%
US$  513 -                5.1%
Note: Average family size is 5.2 persons.
5.   Car Ownership in Tehran
Assumed
Growth
Rate
Source\Year              1962      1966     1971     1981        1971-81
Master Plan            43        78L3   176   - 456               10.0%
per capita            0.020    0.0285   0.049    0.098           7.2%
SOFRETU                                  119      381             12.3%
per capita                               0.033    0.071          8.0%
Bank Estimate                            140      415             11.5%
per capita                               0.039    0.077          7.0%
LI  Source:  Census
/2  Source: SOFRETU
/3   Source: Census






ANNEX 2
Page I
IRAN......
TEHRAN -U1N-TRAIPCRT PROJECT
TH MUNITE) BUS COMPANY OF T HN
Preasent Situation:  The United Bus CompanrUC  provides the regular bus
services in Tebran and most of the bus contract services.
The bus network may be divided into four categories of
routes:
(a)  the lines running within the center city and
which are limited to the zone bounded by the
Avenues Shahas, Shoosh, Simetri and  Chehel-
Metri/Xarim Khan;
(b) radial lines coming from the nearer suburbs
and Which terminate in the center;
(c) radial lines serving the suburbs further away
and which terminate at the periphery of the
central area;
(d) a small number of lines which provide local
comnections between certain outlying suburbs.
There are 152 bus routes and the route distance totals 1,380 km., an
average distance of 9 km/route.
The bus fleet consists of 2 ,3.51 vehicles of which there are:
(a) 1,690 single-deckers,
(b) 200 newly purchased single-deckers (Mercedes Benz
type 302 in green livery),
(c) 461 double-deckers (including 10 new Shahsavar).
At the end of the current financial year (March 20, 1973) it is expected
that the greater part of the minibuses will have been scrapped. Five
hundred minibuses were introduced in 1966 to compete with taxis on routes
thought to be without sufficient traffic for larger vehicles and to link
services over roads unsatisfactory for bigger buses. They soon were



ANNEX 2
Page 2
used on main routes where they were overloaded and therefore wore out
quickly.  With a seating capacity of only 13, they are uneconomical
to run in such circumstances. The first ten of a new series of 200
Leyland Iran double-decker buses specially designed for use in Tehran
and known as the 'Shahsavar' were delivered on March 19. It is
promised that the delivery rate will continue at 25 buses per month.
The buses are usually crewed by a driver and a conductor.
Tickets are sold at some 900 booths and terminals along the routes.
This is, of course, wasteful in manpower. The consultants estimated
that of a total of about 13,000 employees of UBC, nearly 10,000 were
drivers and conductors, ticket sellers, cdntrolleers-tc., directly 
concerned in the running of the services and issue of tickets.  Efforts
are already being made by UBC to reduce staff.   About 1,150 employees
have already been dismissed.  These were mainly ticket sellers an
conductors, many of whom were involved in the fraudelent practice L
which in aggregate led to a loss of revenue to UBC of more than 20% per
annum.
A review of UBC's operations is shown in the following
table.
No. of      .               _         _
Population   asea at   Average No. of
of Tehran   3eginning  Buses in opera-   Coefficient of  No. of paying
(millions)  of Year    tion Each Day     Utilization      passengers ('000)
1965/66   2.82       1507          1340              0.89          549,299
1966/67   2.98       1632           1h30             0.87          584,445
1967/68   3.10       2136          182C              0.85          655,975
1968/69   3.23       2443          1830              0.75          728,059
1969/70   3.36       2530          1820              0.72          747,054
1970/71   3.50       2522          1665              0.66          692,386
1971/72   3.63       2351          1445              0.61          631,989
1972/73    -         2351          1500              0.64          622,80oa
La Twelve months estimated on the basis of ten months.
1/ These practices are made easy because the tickets have no serial number
and are available for the day of purchase or for any subsequent day.



ANNE  2
Page 3
As can be seen from this table, there has been a serious
decline in the availability of buses for operation which is only now
leveling off. This has been due to the lack of a system of pre-
ventive maintenance and the unavailability of spare parts. The only
regular maintenance carried out appeared to be oil checks, the
topping off of batteries, an occasional mechanical inspection in
inadequate maintenance facilities, and correction of minor defects
as the result of driver complaint. Al-most all other work appeared to
resuilt from failure or accident. Ordering of new spare parts was
inadequately geared to the inventory and to stock movements. Attempts
to repair failed items in order to expedite the return of buses to
operations do not appear to have been successful. Welding of worn
shafts, rear axle shafts and pistons (which also need to be oval
ground) destroys the advantages of initial use of special steels and
heat treatment.
Traffic:  It is clear that from 19?0 to 1972 here was a fall im Thae
number of passengers carried   Passengers forced to wait at bus stops
for a long time have tur.ed to taxis.  On the evidence collected by the
consultants, 50% of bus passengers waited for more than ten minutes for
a bu. 25% waited more than 15 minutes and 10% waited more than
25 minutes. Average bus loads during the peak hours exceeded more than
100% capacity on the main routes and 125% on those routes serving the
near suburbs and the city center.
There are no published timetables for the bus system. Operations
are timed according to arrivals at the termini by the 00 so-called
"controllers" whose primary activity seems to consist of stamping the
trip sheets of each driver in order to attest to his.presence at work.
An important consequence of this lack of timetables and
systematic operating procedures means that on almost all the important
bus routes there are large variations in the headway bet-ween buses, no
matter what period of day is considered, and thus large variations in
waiting times, particularly at intermediate points on the route.
Tariff: A single system of tariffs is applied on 145 of the 152 bus
routes. On 104 routes the tariff is Rls 2 and on another 22 bus routes
the tariffs range from als 3 to 5.   On former minibus routes Whe uniform
tariff is Rls 5. On the other seven lines, which run over distances of
between 38 and 63 km, tariffs range from Rls 6 to 30. As mentioned
earlier, the tickets are sold at special booths which are set up at some
900 points along the route system. As each passenger boards the bus,
the conductor takes the ticket away and, after tearing it in two, places
the pieces in a plastic bag which is by his side. Each morning the
conductor receives such a bag with a tag specifying the number of the
line, the date, the name of the conductor and the number of the vehicle.
At the end of the day, the bags filled with torn tickets are handed over
to UBC where, by a single process of weighing, the number-of paying
passengers is determined.   This system of ticket handling makes it
impossible at the end of the day to obtain proper statistics of



AN3NEX  2
Page h
passengers transported on each route or the direction of movements.
It also makes it practically impossible to control the rather
extuensive cheating that takes place. According to UBC, as many
as 20% of the passengers do not pay a fare.  Among these are passengers
who know the conductor, those who 'alsify tickets, those entitled to
free rides (such as policemen) who add their families as well to the
privilege, and others who escape the attention of the conductor.
Organization and Manageient:  UBC is controlled by a General Assembly,
most members of whic,a are members of the City Council.  The
Assembly meets arnually but may hold extraor inaryjmetings which in
the past have dealt -with matters of change of UBO status or capital.
The management of UBC is by a Council and a General
Manager. Members ara appointed by the General Assembly. At the
moment there is Mr. Ebrahim Zohdl who is chairman and general manager,
Mr. Rasoul Dadgari responsible for persornel matters and administration
and Mr. Hadi Hashemi responsible for financial affairs.  This council
has been meeting three and four times alweek recently.
There is an Inspector appointed by the General Assembly from
the staff of the Ministry of Finance. The Inspector's responsibilit
is to ensure the satisfactory financial conduct of UBC.   (As
discussed elsewhere the right to a subsidy is not eplicit and the
financial assistance produced by the City and on occasion
directly by Goverrnment is not orderly and makes proper budgeting and
financial direction and planning more difficult than it would otherwise
be.)
Under the General Manager are two staff groups:
a)   the Office of the Council
b)   the InspDectorate
and ten departments for:
a)   operating
b)   workshops and repairs
c)   administration
d)   finance
e)   legal matters
f)   public relations
g)   research and projects
h)   discipline
i)  security and
j)  admirdistration of the Inspectors.
This is set out in Chart 2.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Two principal criticisms are made of the organization of
IJBC. They are firstly that the existence of the Inspectorate
tends to remove the feeling of responsibility among department chiefs
by providing a higher level of operation surveillance. The second
adverse criticism is that the total separation of control of bus opera-
tions from the repair and maintenance of buses tends to give both
departments excuses for their own failures. Because UBC is_big,_
decentralization of management is desirable. This is especially
so in an enterprise geared towards providing low-cost t ranport
services to satisfy apub)litieed.  Management units (of about
250 vehicles each) are therefore recoimmiended and the responsibility
of the "divisional and depot" manager should encompass both operations
and routine maintenance and repairs. In this way, by reducing fleet
and staff and by operating in one sector of the city only, success or
failure of the services can be judged and a manager held responsible.
The management is excessively centralized. Decentralization
of fleet operation and bus maintenance appears desirable and
"divisional" control in operations and routine tlight' maintenance of
a fleet of about 250 buses, based in a depot, is favored by the
consultants. The need for management costing, statistical measures of
efficiency and operational controls are evident. The need for
effective management is recognized and it is clear that method study
and job specification will lead to the identification of areas where
there is excessive manning. There is an existing ratio of nearly
eight employees per vehicle in service (in Paris the ratio is about
half this).
Finance: The financial position of UBC is unsatisfactoxy as is shown
in Anex 5.  UBC's losses have been met in part by payments from the
Government and the YMunicipality which gave Rls 713 million in 1970
and Rls 187 million in 1971 and in part bY borrowing.  Payments are
made when a cash crisis develops.
To sum gp a number of interrelated ailments affect the
operations of UBC.  They are:
(a) poor organization of vehicle maintenance, i.e. no
preventive maintenance, inadequate maintenance
facilities and, with some exceptions, incompetent
maintenance staff,



ANNEX. 2
Page 6
(b) 'the age and general condition of the vehicle
fleet,
(c)  expensive operations such as excess of
operating personnel, absence of proper
operating procedures, wasteful use of the
bus fleet during slack hours, etc.
On the other hand, the authorities oblige UBC to operate routes
which are not economically justified.   The taitff is too' low '
in relation to both the income level of the passengers traveling and
to the level of service that should be provided. UBC 0is aIso'1aed
witfh~-ihcreasing p'ioblems in the  Sity due td the-]i o-r'regul&tion
and control of traffic and to major bottlenecks in the street network.
Resultant low speeds of operation increase the number of bus" that
must be put in service during the peak hours in order to satisfy the
demand.
These poor service conditions have created a growing
disenchantment with the service among the traveling public. Passengers
who aze faced with interminable delays at bus stops and with heavily
overladen buses take taxis, which pick up and discharge passengers
indiscriminately. Increased numbers of taxis only adds to the
general traffic congestic. in the city.  This congestion particularly
during the peak hours and near bus stops, produces lower operating
speeds for the buses and reinforces the cycle of increased congestion
and poorer public service.
Proposed Program:   UBO's plans for rehabilitation and renewal
of fleet covers a period of five years (1973-1978) for i4hich eimmed-iate
assistance from the Bank has been requested for the purchase of bus;es
in the first two years and financial assistance for other
aspects of bus operation for a three year period.
The proposed program consists of:
(a)  repair and rehabilitation of the existing fleet;
(b)  construction and equipment of depots;
(c) procurement of new buses;
(d) formation of an Economic and Technical Advisory Group;
(e)  provision of working capital.
The present carrying capacltfb -MUBC is inadequat-e
to meet peak-hour demands. The consultants calculated that by 1976 -
based on an acceptable level of service expressed in terms of waiting time
varying from 1 to 4 minutes with waits of over 10 minutes being excep-
tional - a vehicle fleet of 2,379 would be required.  Currently, the
daily 'average number of buses on the road is only 1,500, out of a total
fleet of 2,351,  The policy6of UBC, therefore, is to have an
Opera+tng fleet of at least 2,400 vehicles within the next five



ANNEX 2
Page 7
years.  The low fleet utilization rate (64%) shows the need for rehabili-
tation of those buses which can be repaired and for the purchase of new
vehicles.   After a review of the present fleet and anticipated future
needs, the consultants recom=ended the purchase of two types of buses:
(a)  double-deckers with 64 seats and 46 standing
places,
(b) single-deckers with 28 seats and 32 standing
places.
Leyland !ran assembles double-deckers in Iran, while Iran National
assembles single-decker buses.
Under the project, two depots would be established each serving
about 250 vehicles.   These depots would provide routine maintenance
workshops and would be suitable as pilot areas for the introduction of
management decentralization schemes.
The proposed Economic and Technical Advisory Group would have,
as part of its terms of reference, improvement of operational and manage-
ment procedures including the training of workers essential to the further
maintenance program. The Group would specifically be responsible
for initiating systems analysis, method study, revision of routing and
operation, recommendations on service frequency and its financial implica-
tions, budgetary control systems, job costing procedures, devolution
responsibility within the depot and so on.
For successful management there must be an adequate cash flow,
and the Government during negotiations agreed to provide UBC until
March 20, 1977 with local currency grants on a quarterly basis to cover the
difference between UBC's operating income and operating expendit>ures,
including adequate maintenance and estimated future debt service. For the
year just ended and the next two years, the estimated operating grant needed
is Rls 1,200 million (US$17.6 million) per year. In accordance with the
consultants' recommendations, the Government has begun as of March 21, 1973
to make regular transfers of up to Rls 100 million required to cover UBC's
deficit on a monthly basis so that !JBC management is not preoccupied with
cash shortages, considered to be one of the basic problems affecting all
1JBC's operations. Forecast operating results indicating that a government
subsidy is not required in 1978/79 occur largely because of assumed fare
increases - in 1975/76 and in 1978/79 - raising average fare levels from
Rls 2 to Rls 3 to Rls 4 by the end of the decade. Without such average
fare increases, the Government should provide an amount equivalent to the
loss to UBC to increase passenger-carrying at an economic cost. This
subsidy for non-raising of fares might be calculated per passenger carried.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to selective tariff increases
which will provide for at least a 25% net increase in UBC revenues by
mid-1975.
A determined effort to reduce avoidance of payment of fares should
increase revenues by some 15% per annum.  This is not possible before
1975/76 oecause this would need support of the police, the dating of tickets
and a proper inspection system, together with considerable publicity to
gain public support.  As the fleet becomes appreciably newer and the service
improves, it would be possible to institute new procedures, and this should
occur no later than 1975/76.






ANNEX 3
Page .
IRAN
TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.   Income Statements
(a) Revenue - Ticket Sales
Forecast revenue increases are based largely on the five year
bus reform program recommended by the consultants.  It has been assumed
that the bus fleet at the end of each year will be as follows:
1976/77 to
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76       1978/79
New buses                200        400         765      1,130        1,515
Rehabilitated buses       -         120         399        634          864
Old buses              2,151      1,611         967        480           -
2,351      2,131       2,131      2,244        2,379
The average number of vehicles during the year in each category
was then used to calculate the revenue. The following factors were applied
to this base:
(i)  The average number of buses available for service at any time
has been calculated by using the following utilization factors
that the consultants say are possible or are now being achieved
(in case of old buses):
- New buses - 90% in the first two years and then 85%
- Rehabilitated buses - 85%
- Old buses - 64%
(ii)  It has been assumed that roughly half of the new buses will be
introduced at a fixed tariff of Rls 5 on new and existing routes.
It has also been assumed that average fares on the total system
will rise from Rls 2.2 in 1972/73 to at least Rls 3.0 in 1975/76
and to Rls 4.0 at the beginning of 1978/79.
(iii)  It is assumed that the number of passengers riding the buses
without paying will be sharply reduced in 1974/75. This has
been projected to increase revenue by about 12.5% in 1974/75
and subsequent years.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(b) Other Revenue
This category includes contract busing, advertising, sale of parts,
and other miscellaneous revenue. It has been projected to increase by S0%
over five years.
(c) Salaries and Benefits
The projections for this category have been based upon a decrease of
1,100 operating personnel in 1972/73 and a labor contract that was entered
into during 1972/73. The contract calls for immediate salary increases of
20% and further increases of 6% every two years thereafter. It has been
assumed that social benefits will increase at one-half the rate of salary
increases. As a result of additional buses being utilized and new depots
being added, the operating staff has been projected to increase by 15% by
1975/76 and by an additional 2% over the next two years. No increase in
administrative personnel has been provided.
(d) Fuel and Oil
Projected as a percentage of yearly passengers carried, based
upon the average of the previous three years, and allowing for a yearly price
level increase of 5%.
(e) Repair and Maintenance Parts
It is assumed that expenditures for parts would increase as a
regular maintenance program is introduced, but that this increase should be
offset by a reduction of major repair work as new and rehabilitated buses
are added to the fleet.  An inflation factor of 5% on the price of parts
has also been assumed.
(f) Depreciation
Calculated using the same rates as the Bus Company has used in the
past.
(g) Contributions
Government operating contributions represent the required amounts
necessary to meet the projected net operating cash requirements, the debt
service payments and the local currency costs for fleet rehabilitation.
2.   1972 Revalued Balance Sheet
In order to provide a better basis for financial forecasts for the
Bus Company, the 1972 balance sheet has been partially revalued and the
recommended cancelling of Government advances has been shown. Specifically,
this balance sheet reflects the following adjustments:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(a) the write-off of Rls 200 million in obsolete parts inventory,
(b)  the write-off of Rls 214 million claim against a supplier
that is probably not collectible,
(c) a revaluation to market value of Rls 138 million for the
land owned by the Bus Company,
(d) the write-off of Rls 2,033 million in past advances from the
Government and the City.
3. Forecast Balarce Sheets
(a) Fixed Assets
(i)  As buses are scrapped under the bus reform program, they
have been removed from fixed assets. All of these buses
were fully depreciated.
(ii) The costs of rehabilitating buses and technical assist-
ance to be provided to the Bus Company have been inclu-
ded in the 'other category' and have been depreciated
over 12 years.
(b) Accounts Receivable
Represents miscellaneous receivables and are expected to remain
fairly static.
(c) Inventory
In order to provide adequate parts for proper maintenance of new
and rehabilitated buses as they are added to the fleet, inventory has been
projected to double in the first two years, and then to double again the
next four years.
(d) Deposits and Prepaid Expenses
The 1972 figure, which represents prepayments to suppliers, is
expected to drop by Rls 65 million in '973 and then to gradually decrease
as maintenance work is rationalized.
(e) Accounts Payable and Notes Payable
Expected to gradually increase as operating expenses increase
and inventory is built up. In 1978 and 1979 these payables drop as an
excess of cash is generated.



ANNDEX 3
Page 4
(f) Outstanding Supplier's Notes
For the purchase of buses which have been ordered and which will
be delivered in 1973 and 1974. The repayments and interest have been
calculated using the terms given by the suppliers.
(g) Other Loans
It has been assumed that the capital expenditures not included
in the proposed IBRD loan, but included in the five year program to reform
the Bus Company, are financed with eight year loans bearing interest at 9%.



nIAN
TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT POJECT
United Bus Company - Income Statements
(In millions of Rials)
Year Ending March 20                                            Actual                                                  Forecast
1970      1971       1972          1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979
Revenue
Sale of tickets                                                 1,654      1.547      1,410        1,572      1,813      2,236      2,790       3,152      3,272      3,950
Other                                                               73        44         44            52         54         57         59         60         66         70
Total Revenue                                              1,727      1,591      1,454        1,624      1,867      2,293      2,849      3,212      3,338      4,020
Operating Expenses
Salaries and benefits                                           1,375      1,535      1,654        1,820      1,886      2,055       2,122      2,237      2,251      2,370
Fuel and oil                                                      174        176        164           162        189        223        255        283        305        320
Repair and maintenance parts                                       349       370        315           570        341        358        378        395        415        436
Bank charges and other costs                                       106        91        122           100        102        103        104        106        108        110
Depreciation                                                       270       271        270           285        295        318        350        401        479        510
Total Operating Expenses                                   2,274      2,443      2,525        2,937      2,813      3,057      3,209      3,422       3,558      3,746
Operating Income (Loss)                                             (547)      (852)   (1,071)       (1,313)      (946)      (770)      (360)      (210)       (220)       274
Interest                                                            -          -          -            16         11         60        112        162        206         225
Government Grants                                                 (547)      (852)   (1,071)       (1,329)      (957)      (830)      (472)      (372)      (426)         49
Government grants                                                  713        187         -         1,000      1,000        600        300        200        100          -
Net Income (Loss)                                                    166       (665)   (1,071)         (329)        43       (230)       (172)      (172)      (326)        49
=  .=   -                                        -_                      _, -                -
June 28, 1973



I



IRAN
TEHRAN URBu  TRANSPORT PROJECT
United 8ue Co-many - Balance Sheets
(In millions of Rials)
Year Ended Harch 20                              Actual                Revalued                                     forecast
1970      1971       1972        1972          1973      1974       1975       1976      1977       1978      1979
Current Assets
Cash nod bank                                      32         25        57           57           60        338       155        122        166       163        472
Accounts receivable                                 3          6        11           11           11         11         11        11         11        11         11
Inventory                                         287       246        259           59           90        120       150        180        210       240        240
Deposits and prepaid expanses                      46       329        525          311          247        241       235        231        226       191        137
Total Current Assets                         368       606        852         438           408        710       551        544       613        605        860
_ixed Assets
lused                                           3,636     3,635      3,535       3.535         3,772      4,567     4,970      5,203      5,456     6,1"6      6.186
Buildinga                                         412       414        418          418          418        418       523        633        733       758        758
Land                                               39        332       332          470          470        470        470       620        620       620        620
Other                                             124        116       124          124          124        180        425       645        750       750        750
4,211     4,497      4,409       4,547         4,784      5,635     6,388      7,101      7,559     8,314      8.314
Accumulated depreciation                        1,836      2,101     2,281        2,281        2,454      2,574      2,455     2,478.    2,552      3,031      3,541
Total Fixed Assets                         2,375     2,396      2,128       2,266         2,330      3,061     3,933      4,623      5,007     5,283      4,773
Total Assets                                      2,743      3,002     2,980        2,704         2,738     3,771      4,484     5,167      5,620      5,888     5,633
_a      _    __       -                                 _                                _  ___ 
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                                  173        237       175          175           184       193        202       213        223        200       170
Notes payable                                      89        113       100          100           105       110        116       122        128        134       100
Total Current Liabilities                    262        350       275          275          289        303        318       335        351       334        270
Lox-tr b-t
Goverimiant advaacea                            1,756      1,933     2,033
Proposed IBID loan                                                                                          206      1,134     1,822      2,121     2,056      1,916
Other loans                                                                                                                                 310        986       886
Total Loug-Tern Debt                       1,756     1,933      2,033                                  206      1,134     1,822      2,431     3,042      2,802
Equity
Shara capital                                   1,070      1,521     2,544        2,544         2,693     3,663      3,663     3,813      3,813      3,813     3,813
Capital and other reserves                         31         25        26           26            26        26         26         26        26         26        26
Deficit                                          (376)      (827)   (1,898)        (141)         (470)     (427)      (657)      (829)   (1,001)   (1,327)   (1,278)
Total Equity                                 725        719       672        2,429        2,449      3,262      3,032     3,010      2,838     2,512      2,561
Total Liabilities                                 2,743      3,002     2,980        2,704         2,738     3,771      4,464      5,167     5,620      5,888      5,633
r            - _, 19 7* a                                                      --
Jur~ 28, 1973



IRAN
TEIu.AN URBAN TRANSPORT PRWBt:f
Uaited Bus Company - Source and Application of Funds
(In millions of Rtals)
Year Ending M4arch 20                                 1970       1971      1972         1973       1974       1975      1976       1977       1978      1979
Source of Funds
Froa 2par~ations
Net operating income (loss) - before interest                   t547)     (852)   (1,062)       (1,313)      (946)     (770)      (360)      (210)      (220)      274
Add depreciation                                                 270       271        270          285        295       318        350        401       479        510
(277)     (581)      (792)      (1,028)      (651)     (452)       (10)       191       259        784
Govet,et,nt Coanribut ions
OperUtiug gSants                                                 713       187                   1,000     1,000        600        300        200       100
Purchlase of shares                                             472        158      1,023          349       770         -         150         -          -
1,185       345      1,023        1,349     1,770        600        450        200        100        -
Increase in goverrnant advances                                  149       177        100           -          -         -          -
Increnee in reserves                                               8        (6)         1           -          -         -          -          -          -         -
BorroViU3S
Proposed IBRD loan                                             -          -          -            -        206        928        688        299        -
Other borrowings                                                -         -          -                       -         -          -         320       730
157        171        103           -        206        928        688        619       730         -
Total Source of Funds                                            1,065         65       332          321      1,325     1,076      1,128      1,010      1,089       784
Application of Funds
Cnpital Expenlditures
Proposed 1BRD project                                             -         -          -            -         256     1,190      1,040        385         -
Other                                                            165         (1)       11          349        770         -         -         400        755
165        (1)        11          349     1,026      1,190      1,040        785       755         -
Repayneut of Loans
Froposed IDRD loa-    -                                                           -                 -          -          -         -          -          65       140
Other loans                                                    1,225         -         -            -          -          _         -          10         54        100
1,225         -         -            -          -         -          -          10        119       240
Interest Pa         t                                                       -                       16         11        60        112        162        206       225
Variation in non-cash working capital                           (310)       (57)      289          (47)        10         9          9          9         12         10
Total Application of Funds                                       1,080        (58)      300          318      1,041     1,259      1,161        966      1,092        475
Increase (Decrease) in cash                                        (15)        (7)       32            3        278       (183)      (33)        44         (3)      .309
Cash balance (begituning of year)                                   47         32        25           57         60        338       155        122        166        163
Cash balance (end of year)                                          32         25        57           60        338        155       122        166        163        472
June 28, 1973



ANNEX 7
Page 1
IRA.N
THEA  UA        I      PROJECT
ADVISORY SEZVIgCS TO THE TEKRAN DEVEBLPMENT COUNCIL
SUGGESTED TE   OF R,EFERENCE
A.  Background
The physical expansion trend of the last two decades in Tehran
has been a concentric one, accentuating development towards the north, east
and south. The Master Plan proposed a sequential growth westwards. Because
of difficulties in providing the area west of Tehran with public utilities,
the Government decided to impose a "five year development limit" that was,
in principles a continuation and reinforceement of the concentric trend. In
1973, the existing limit.was extended for another five years. The powers of
investment planning and project execution in Tehran are presently spread
anmng individual ministries, public corporations and the City.
Coordination of decision-making is often incidental. On the whole, projects
tend to be prepared and executed on a sectoral basis without the benefit of
sound investment programmi .  This has led to inherent inconsistencies at
both local and national levels. The Government has reacted to these problems
and taken strong measures in the Fifth Five-Year Plan. one of the main con-
cepts in the plan is a conscious effort to decentralize the economic activities
and to slow down the growth of Tehran.
On the same line, the Fifth Plan calls for creation of a Tehran
Development Council, and in July 1973 Parliament passed a law establishing
the Council. the legislation provides for:
(a) a High Council under the direct supervision of the
Prime Minister, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister
for Economic Development, and consisting of the minister
of State in charge of Plan and Budget Organization, the
Mayor of Tehran, and the Mlnisters of Housing and
*                          Development, Water and Power, NoonoxzW, Labor and Social
Affairs, and Agriculture and Natural Resources; and
(b)  a Secretariat with a Secretary General to be appointed
by the Prime Minister, and adequate supporting staff.
Essentially, the Tehran Development Council has three principal functions:
policy determination, coordination of government-wide activities affecting
Tehran's development, and the development of strategies, plans and programs
to guide and promote the urban development of the Tehran urban region. It is
envisaged that the Council will be principally engaged in formulating a long-
term strategy of development of the greater Tebran region and that it will
translate this strategy into plans and program of land use, infrastructure



ANNE  7
Page. 2
development and social services.  It will be concerned with developing
mechanisas and policies of control and restraint, as well as incentives
to attack short-term and long-term threats to the efficient and equitable
functioning of Tehran with regard to environmental pollution, congestion
and inefficient transportation, land speculation, inordinate segregation
of population groups and other related problems. FinaUy , it will provide
policy guidance and coordination to effect other national objectives per-
taining to Tehran.  Specifically this includes decentralization policies;
income distribution and employment and productivity measures inherent in
government programs; and enhancement of the physical, aesthetic and socialv
characteristics of Tehran.
To perform these functions, the Tehran Development Council should
have a xmulti-disciplinary and high-level staff capable of assisting in day-
to-day policy decisions and coordination as well as engaging in concrete
long-term planning.
To this end, the Secretariat will be assisted by a foreign advisory
group with institutional support from abroad. This advisory group will
include senior economists, urban planners, transport specialists, social
scientists and others who have had extensive experience in decision-making
in urban administration of comparable scale and complexity as Tehran.
The Secretariat, as envisaged presently and subject tio review, will
have the following components:
(a)  office of the Secretary General
A small staff of aides including the senior advisor
who will directly assist the Secretary General in
coordinating the work of the Secretariat, provide staff
services to the High Council (preparation of agendas
and schedules, assembling materials for presentation to
the High Council, preparing minutes, communicating High
Council decisions and directives to relevant agencies,
coordinating with the staff of all Council members in
bringing matters before the High Council, and effecting
follow-up of High Council directives as requested by the
High Council). The Senior Advisor would additionally
advise and assist the Secretary C-eneral
(i) in the deployment of advisory staff efforts
(ii)  in the traLning of staff members
(iii)  in the planning of the Secretariat work program, and
(iv)  ir advising in his own right on substantive matters
of policy and urban planning arising from the work
program of the Secretariat.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(b) Functional (Program) Areas Staff
Six staff units comprised of staff mnebers selected for
their professional competence in the areas of:
(i) Transortation
(ii) Land use planning
(iii) Infrastructure Development
(iv)  Social Services and Commnity Development
(v) Industry. Commerce and Government
(vi)   avironment, and Aesthetics
As appropriate., key subject area groups would be assisted
by advisors and outside consultants. (Iranian and foreign)
as well as by personnel seconded by other idnistries for
special assignments.
(c) Plans and Research Sf
The three more staff units in this group would undertakce
the preparation of major policy studies and evaluations
encompassing:
(i) Long-term Urban Development Strategies
(ii) Demegraphic Research
(iii) Other comprehensive Eonomic and Urban Development
Studies
Working in conjunction-with the functional area stafs,
this unit would be substantially concerned with the urban
development aspects of the Fifth Five-Year Plan, the overall
Master Plan of Greater Tehran, growth policies, decentralization
measures and various across-the-board programs analysing the
scope, nature and possible approaches to key problems of
coordination and implementation of Council policies.
(d) Finance and Budget
TNo staff units would be engaged Di financial planning and
analysis in support of functional areas and general studies,
fiscal policies, and evaluation of the budgetary implications
of ongoing governmental activities and proposed w   programs
of public and private investment -- working with the budget
offices of the Plan and Budget Organization and the Mi=cipality.



ALNX 7
Page 4,
B.  Advisory Services
Immediate Advisory Services
These will consist of ad hoc  assistance to the Deputy Prime
Minister in the organization and ceted planning of the functions and
staff requirements of thr-e Tehran Development Counci]l over a six-week period.
Dirng this time the main ef0fort should be to find and prepare a seven-men
team of consultants with institutional bac'cing which could provide the
experienced training capabil;ity in urban development planning and decision-
malcLng that is needed to assist a core Iranian staff. To the extent that
time and staff perrLtt, the ad hoc staff should conduct a preliminary review
of major issues aad prepare a draft prospectus of a coordinated programX of
studies wo be carried out by the Secretariat staff.  The imediate advisory
services shal include preparation of the detailed terms of reference for
the consultants for the Secretariat.
Advisory Services to the Secretariat
Advisory assistance to the Secretariat will be composed of a
conpetent multi-disciplinary staff' capable of professional work and of
decision-influencing stature.
Within the functional and organizational framework of the
Secretariat the consultants i,All specifically:
(a) Analyze the C-overmnent's present economic and urban
policies and from these derive a consistent set of
objectives for the development of the Tebran Metropolitan
Area;
(b) Review present planning efforts with relation to land use,
water and sewerage, transportation, power, housing and
indueirial location and analyze potential conflicts between
these plans;
(c) AnaJlyze -the present physical growth trends in Tehran and
relate them to existing plans;
(d) Based on these analyses, by June 30, 1974 suggest an
imwdiate action program for the Tehran Development Council;



ANNEX 7
page5
(e) Analyze future options for the growth of Tehran region
and possible means for directing this growth, especially
with reference to:
*  fiscal policy
- organizational changes
- land use regulations
- public investments
(f) Review the existing data base and develop a set of
urban indicators that can be used for a continuous
mnitoring of social and econowic changes in different
parts of the region;
(g) Advise the Secretariat on the use of benefit cost and
other project evaluation methodologLes and assist in
the development of a mdel for investant programndng,
(h) TrainJig of the Iranian staff through daily cooperation
on specific tasks.
C.  CoMposition of the Consultants' Team
The consultants' team is proposed to consist of up to seven
menbers. Their specific tasks are (with the numbers referring to the
services under paragraph B above):
Task
Position            'Mnths 1  2 3 4  5 6  7 8
Senior Planner                36   x  x x x x x  x x
Development E:ononist         18   x         x x    x x
RegLonal Economist            36   x  x    x x x    x
Financial Analyst             18                 x       x
Physical Planner              36   x  x  x x x x    x
Sociologist                   18   x         x    x    x
Transport Systems Planner     36       x    x    x    x



ANNe 7
D.   Cost Estimates
Nan                 Cost in- 11$
Months    Local        FOreiga         TQtal.
The Consultants' team 2/             200 1/     -         1,Q00,000      1,000,000
Special Studies (Foreign
Consultaats) 2/60                                         300X0          3002000
Special Studies (Local
Consultants) 2/                    120     360,000           _          360,000
Local staff (Secretarial,
semi-professional) 3/             360      215,000           -           215,000
Local support of consultants 4/              325,000         .             325,000
900,000      1,300,000     2,200,000
Basis for Calculation
1/  Includes 2 man-months for the im$diate advisory servicesi.
2/  us$5,000/man-month for Foreign consultants.
US$3,000/man-month for Local Consultants.
3/ US$600/man-month including social overheads.
4/  Local support cost of consultants, local transports supplies,
office overheads.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
IRN
TRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
STUDY OF THE LONG TERM TRANSPORT SYSTEM
SUGGEST) TERMS OF RERCE
A. Objective
The puzpose of the long term transport study is to assist the
Government in the formulation of a transportation program and policies
which will efficientl;y serve present and future needs and wil complement
overall plans for long range development in Tehran.
Preliminary proposals for a long term transport system are
currently being elaborated by SOFRETU and will be completed by July 1973.
Preliminary studies indicate that in some parts of the central city future
traffic densities would require a rapid transit system. These studies
and proposals are based on the present Master Plan.  The purpose of the
creation of the Tehran Development Council  is to change the present
policies guiding the growth of Tehran. Consequently, it is necessary to
review these recommendations in light of the changed policies. In
addition to this, more detailed considerations need to be given to com-
parison of different modes of public mass transit and the impact of
different pricing policies on the use of private cars and taxis.
The consultants' work consists of three parts, which are to be
carried out in two phases.
In Phase I, the forthcoming recommendations for a long term
transport system should be reviewed in light of the changing policies and
necessary adjustments be made. Subsequent studies of transport pricing and
investment policy should result in a recommendation of a first stage of
construction of the long term system.
Phase II consists of detailed design work for the first stage of
construction.
B. Edisting Data and Studies
SOFRETU has made an analysis of the existing situation in relation
to the canposition and spatial distribution of population, employment and
land use. In relation to transportation, it consists mainly of amounts and
patterns of peak period and daily traffic flows, modal composition, quality
of service, public transport organization and services, pricing and regulations,
automobile ownership, parking provisions and policies, transport deficiencies
and present problems.
Their work also includes projecticns of population income, employment
and traffic flows between major zones, based on the present Master Plan.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
For the long term transport system, SOFRETU has so far studied
three alternative schemes. The first provides for a better use of cars by
improving the urban road network and improving urban public transport; the
second favors mass transport by focusing on surface and underground modes,
and, to a lesser extent, on road improvement; the third is a mixed solution
of mass transit (surface and underground transport) and road improvement.
C. Phase I
Daring this first phase the consultants shall:
(1) Review the present proposals for the long term transport
system in light of the changing policies for the Tehran
nstropolitan region. This shall be carried out under
the Secretariat of the Tehran Development Council.
(2) Make necessary adjustments in the basic assumptions and
projections.
(3) Based on these adjustments, formulate at least four
alternative transport system proposals, if appropriate
based on the three alternatives analyzed by SOFRETU.
(h) Analyze the sensitivity of travel demand forecasts to
pricing policies witlh respect to transit fares, parking
changes, gasoline and license taxes, vehicle import
duties and other charges. The consultants shall also
consider the effects of pricing policies on efficiency
in economic resource allocation, vehicle ownership and
use of different transport modes.
(5) Develop a methodology for a social and economic evaluation
of the systems alternatives in order to provide a basis
for their recommendations and for the Government's
selection of one system. The evaluation shall include
estimates of the investments and operating costs for each
alternative and estimates of economic and social benefits.
(6) Based on alternative future options by the end of 1974,
suggest a first stage of construction.
D. Phase II
Should mass transit facilities on their own rights-of-way be found
to be desirable, Phase II will consist of detailed design work for the first
stage of construction. Terms of reference for Phase II of the long term
transport study can, however, not be drafted untll a definite choice of the long
term system has been made.
E. Cost Estimates
About 400 man-months of foreign consultants' time are budgeted for
the above studies. About 170 man-months are allocated for Phase I which



ANNEX 8
Page 3
includes a review of the preliminary proposals on alternative transport
systems and studies on pricing policy and detailed economic and financial
analysis of the preliinary long term system. Another 230 man-months of
engineering services are required for detailed design of the first stage
of a rapid transit system, if this is found to be economically justified
in the Phase I work. Local costS include locally procured engineering
services, includng field surveys and investigations, staff of the
Secretariat,  and local subsistence costs of foreign consultants.



I



ANNE 9.
Page 1
MIRAN URBAN TRAN?gORT PROJECT
TH  ECONOMIC AS TECHNICAL ADVISORY GROUP
FOR       BuS COMPANY
SUGGESTED TqM OF R3NEMCE
A.  Objective
Do provide econoric and technical advice to the United Bus
Comparn (tlBC), a group is required to work directly with the General
Mnager and his chief officers.  The group should be formed as quickly
as possible to ensure that decisions of UBC are based on adequate econonic
and technical information.  It is preferable that the consultanta in the
group be associated with those irplewiting the traffic engineering.
O1ce establiabed it is proposed that the group will continue
and will provide an opportuaity for younger talented officers in TUBC to
work in it for two or three years in order to receive such training and
experience as will fit them for responsible senior posts. Initially an
appropriate number would be four. There should be an accountant, transport-
system anal;*st, an enginer and a bus "operator" already fad.liar with
tiitabling and local practices.
To support the group it is necessary to provide the services
of a firm of consultants experienced in public transport matters and
commercial bus operations and if possible, with experience in the
formation and operation of such a group. It is essential that direction
be given by a senior experienced consultant who must make regular
extensive visits to Tebran and that the principles and practices
established are effectively implemented by two resident consultants who
should be capable of working both with the management and with
UBC     staff and workers at junior levels   There must also be a
back up of technical expertise including civil and mechanical engineers
to advise on the construction of new depots and on the purchase of equip-
ment. The engineers involved should stay in Tehran for at least two to
three months at a time in order to ensure familiarity with the projects
and people involved.
B.  Scope
Advice will be required initially on the following subjects:



ANNEX 9
Page 2
evaluation of alternative types of buses which could
be supplied based on tender terms, operating costs,
serviceability, availability of spares (based on
analysis of failures), configuration, load limits
and operational characteristics for the routes on
which they are likely to be employed and bearing in
mind both the financial return to operation and the
social benefits in the city's transport policy;
preparation of specifications and letting bids for
the construction of depots, evaluation of bids,
preparation of contracts and advice on appointment
of supervising engineers and contractors with
general supervision of the projects;
establishment of systems analysis and revision
of routing and operating procedures, bearing in mind
the financial implications on routine maintenance
and repair on buses allocated to the proposed new
depots;
compilation of a preventive maintenance schedule of
buses;
introduction of management accounting systems based
on budgets, route and unit costing and job costing;
study and evaluation of the impact of the new depots
on the management structure of the Bus Company as a
whole and making such recommendations as seem
appropriate;
preparation of a working bus schedule eliminating
excessive delays between buses in anticipation of
future passenger demand and economic operation;
study and recommendations on the Company's route
structure and fare policy bearing in mind the growing
competition from the taxi services;
study and recommendations on the means to reduce fare-avoidance;
revig.tion of the assets of the Company to form the
basis of the revised balance sheet;
provision of illustrated lectures to senior officers
and staff of tha Company indicating objectives,
problems, possible solutions and techniques employed; and
development of specific operation=l efficiency measures (e.g.
vehicle utilization, employees per million passenger miles,
revenue per million passenger mile).



Page 3
guidance on traini.ng courses for artisans and
technicians and on pr.oviding scholarships for
the training and education of qualified
candidates.
Considering its objectives and scope, the study is expected to take
about 36 months and to require about nine man-years of consultant
time.






ANNEX 10
Page 1
IRAN
TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TRAFFIC CIRCULATION AND ENGINEERING IMPROVEMEXTS
1.        Efficiency of the Bus Company depends in part on the improvement
of traffic movement. The consultants were required to make proposals for
the improvement of circulation without resorting to major construction and
without adopting solutions which might foreclose transport options in the
longer run. The proposals were to be realizable within the next few years.
2.        Briefly, the recommendations made for the area north of Sepah
-fall into three categories:
(a)  adoption of a system of one-way streets in the city center
north of Sepah and involving the main streets bounded on the east
and west roughly by Saadi-Roosevelt and Pahlavi;
(b)  redesign of intersections with the introduction of an overpass,
surface rearrangements and underpasses;
(c)  re-signaling   and signposting of the area with some additional
public lighting in tunnels, at intersections and on traffic signs.
3.        South of Sepah there exists no similar street network which lends
itself as a basis for a circulatory pattern. The problem of the south of
the center part of the city is to develop a secondary street system to per-
mit vehicular movement into and out of the area and to relieve the main roads
which exist there.
4.        The acquisition of land at key points is recommended by the con-
sultants as early as possible. Eighteen separate points are identified where
land may either have to be acquired or where construction may have to be
controlled to avoid confliction with proposed improvements.
5.        North of the whole area a bypass is recommended linking the Karaj
limited access road with Darius and a southern bypass is recommended along
the existing road of Shoosh.
6.        Throughout the whole of the city center there is a need for improve-
ment of the road surfaces, djoubs and sidewalks. In some parts, and especi-
ally so in the south, there is grossly inadequate drainage which leads to
flooding during and after heavy rain. The break up of road pavements has led
to increasing deterioration of the bases. Obstructions which are left in the
way of movement by workmen and the local population add to the impedances
already resulting from poor road design and stationary vehicles. The need is
for a standard of construction which will enable segregation of passengers
from vehicles. At present as a result of the state of the sidewalks and



ANNEX 10
Page 2
and the tendency to park vehicles well out from the djoubs to avoid vehicles
falling into them, pedestrians stand in the traffic lanes to-board buses
and taxis. With the introduction of the one-way system of vehicle movement
pedestrian barriers are recommended but these will not be effective if there
are poor surfaces for pedestrians or obstructions to their separate movement.
Effective road space will be increased if the djoubs are covered. Because
of the hot desert climate in summer the trees which line the streets of the
city are an essential feature of the environment.
7.        The one-way street system proposed for implementation under the
three year project is the following:
(a) on Saadi-Roosevelt (northbound) and Ferdowsi (southbound) with
associated return flow operations in Iranshahr, Bahar and
Lalehzar. This includes construction of underpasses at the
intersections of Ferdowsi and Saadi with Shahreza, the construc-
tion of an underpass on Karim Khan Zand between Ferdowsi and
Saadi, and surface improvements in the squares of Sepah and
25 Sharivar;
(b) on Shah - Naderi - Istanbul (westbound) and Sepah (eastbound)
with return flows on secondary streets;
(c) on Pahlavi (southbound) and Hafez (northbound) with return
flows on secondary streets. This includes construction of
underpasses at the intersections of Pahlavi and Hafez with
Shahreza.
8.        Already the principles of traffic movement to be adopted have
been agreed upon in principle with the Mayor and in some detail with traffic
police. Nevertheless, to achieve satisfactory movement it is felt that the
police, who are to ensure the cooperation of drivers and pedestrians, must
participate fully. Apart from police support there needs to be publicity,
demonstrations and practical evidence of the improvements as each phase is
planned, worked on and put into operation. This educational and training
program is considered to be important. The proposed timing of construction
may therefore need to be reconsidered after completion of the first works
and the introduction of the one-way system on Ferdowsi and Saadi Avenues.
9.        The work south of Sepah will be less spectacular,initially, than
that proposed for the north of the city center but is considered to have an
important impact on the standards of the growing population of the area.
Road improvements are interrelated with re-housing schemes already under con-
sideration by the City and with drainage schemes already being planned
by other consultants. Unless surplus water can be drained off from the Bazaar
areas and surrounding streets the risk of flooding of houses and streets is
great.



ANNE 10
Page 3
10.       The underpasses at intersections with Shahreza are proposed with
narrower lane widths (2.7 m) and steeper slopes to reduce excavation and
underground sections. The underground portion will be two lanes and about
100 meters long. These will only be available for use by cars and light
vehicles because of the limited overhead clearance. In all cases they have
been designed so that the direction of travel may be reversed if necessary.
The Karim Khan Zand tunnel and the later building of a tunnel where Pahlavi
cuts Iran Novine and Takht-e-Tavoos w411 be to normal standards.
11.       For the traffic lights the proposal is to introduce a 'green wave'
system on each main route. Initially, the coordination of lights along Ferdowsi
and Saadi/Roosevel2t separately is proposed under independent traffic light
control. As soon as the new traffic lights which are considered necessary are
re-sited and installed and road improvements on acceptable geometrics are in
hand, the cables and control equipment for zonal coordination will be installed.
Existing traffic counts at intersections and such additional counts as are
thought necessary will be used to establish the operational cycles. (These
will later be computed to give basic cycles for various traffic conditions
and the phasing will be worked out.) Lights along each route will then be co-
ordinated with each other and independent control will be abandoned.
12.       As the second and third phases of the introduction of the one-way
street system are introduced,lights on the multiple road intersections will
be coordinated. Finally all the lights will be coordinated on a zonal basis
and controlled by a central control computer. The gradual linking of the
lights will allow verification of the cycles under changing traffic and weather
conditions, and demonstrations of the appropriateness of the cycles and system
to the conditions of Tehran.  Gradual introduction of a coordi-nted light
system will facilitate police efforts to enforce compliance with the traffic
light and one-way street system.
13.       Parking controls are already being introduced by the City.
Meters have been installed. Restricted parking in the main avenues is proposed
and enforcement of existing regulations is being emphasized. Such activities
are complementary to the traffic engineering proposals. No definitive proposals
are made for off-street parking places during the work of the first three years.
It is considered that the provision of bus lanes will facilitate the public
transport services and that present parking policies proposed by the City
are adequate to meet short term needs. A plan for off-street parking will be
considered as part of the long term plAnning.
14.       The counter directional bus lanes designed to allow buses to move
north and south without being too far from the passenger catchment areas are
considered undesirable by the police. The consultants point out the advantages
of the system, that there is multi-directional movement on roads at present and
that the counterflow would be for one easily identifiable class of vehicle.
Abandonment of this proposal would be a minor concession, particularly in light
of the importance of police support.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
15.       Improved lighting and relocation of traffic lights away from trees
is necessary. Intersections need to be signposted clearly and adequately
lighted. This is provided for in the project. All signs both horizontal
and vertical should be to internationally acceptable standards.
16.       While the Karim Khan Zand underpass is not justifiable at this
stage of traffic development, because work has already started on the
Imperial road from the north and proposed development of Abassad would
feed traffic southward and because a feed-in of traffic from Darius is also
likely with proposed development, it is appropriate to do this work con-
currently with the three year program outlined.



IRAN
TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
WORK PROGRAM FOR TRAFFIC CIRCULATION & ENGINEERING IMPROVEMENT
1973                 1974                1976                  1976
DETAILS OF PROGRAM               .           1361 -         1352      36-                             4                  13-3 6 i
dNE WAY FERDOWSI/SAADI
1-0. DECISION OF STARTING OF OPERATION                                       I .
1-1 -PRELIMINARY AND EXECUTION PLANS                                                                        a o
1-2 -PROPOSALS AND SELECTION OF COMPANY                                   _                      a          I                 . 
1-3- ACIi1EVEMENT OF FEADOWSI UNDERPASS
1-4 . ACHIEVEMENT OF KARIM KHAN UNDERPASS
1-6 - ACHIEVEMENT OF SAADI UNDERPASS                                 .
1-6 - MAIDAN & SEPAH - I PEDESTRIAN UNDERGROUND PASSAGE bi ROADS          a_         b)Ue
1-  - MAIDAN & 25 SHARIVAR - ROADS - IPARKING OUT OF BOUNDARIES)
1-8- OVERHAULING OF DJOUBS
1-9 -ROADS: a) HEAVY WORKS ibl OTHER WORKS                         I                 b1m1                   I .             .                      .
1-10- TRAFFIC LIGHTS                                               I         __
1-l i    OTHER  SIGNS                             *                        _                    _        .
ONE WAY SHAH/SEPAH                                                                                               I |
2-1- PRELIMINARY AND EXECUTION PLANS                               |       _                                 P                    |
2 -2 * PROPOSALS AND SELECTION OF COMPANY                          I
2 -3 - WORKS                                                       |  .
ONE WAY PAHLAVI/HAFEZ ISOUTHERN SECTION)                            -o
3-1 - PRELIMINARY AND EXECUTION PLANS                              |                                                              I
3-2 - PROPOSALS AND SELECTION OF COMPANY
3-3 - PAHLAVI UNDERPASS
3-4 - HAFEZ UNDERPASS
3-6 - ROADS AND OTHER WORKS                                        l
ONE WAY PAHLAVI/HAFEZ INORTHERN SECTION)                               I                    I
4-1 -STUDIES                             *I.4
4-2 -WORKS                                                         I                                                             D P _____ __   I
World Bonk -766



IRAN                                 ANNEX 12
TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT             .
EST IATED COST OF THE PROPOSED DEPOTS
('COO rials)
Workshops                     5,700 m2               34h,46
Vehicle entrance lobby        2,700 "                 9,821
Admin. aQd social block       1,900 it                9,570
Tard                         14,700 If                5,8&7
Garage area,                 13,600 "8135
Fuel tanks (2)                                         400
Fencing                                                 855
loes discotmts                               10322
5bP492
Water and electricity                                 60ooo
Options and lining of tanks, ventilatia
and central heating etc.                            2,335
*                     ~~~~~~~66,627  .
contingencies 10%                             6 68
i                         s~~~~~~~~3, 10
saw fle 7h million + 10%
to present prices Fas 81.s millicn
Furniture
industrial -. cupboards, desks, racking
counters etc.                          2,961
office furniture                                    2,368
tools
general - air compressors, jacks, hydraulic
equipment, air puspa, lifts, presses,
grinders, cutters, drills, riveters,
velding equipment, forge, electrical
test apparatus, trucks, racks, fire-
fighting equipment, test benders      *   4,68
lubricating equipment                                 892
washer for vehicles                                 1,232
hoist/lift                                            613
de-greaser                                            100
oil tanks (5)                                         300
fuel supply system and installation.                2,154
Installation cost of special equipment        1,500
contingencies 10%                             1.
la,245
say Ris 19 million + 10%
to present prices R1J 21 mllion
GRAND TOTAL Rls 102.5mill4on
APril 9, 1973



ANNEX 13
IRAN
TEHERAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TRAFFIC PLANNING MANAGER
SUGGESTED TERMS OF REFERENCE
A.   Objective
In order to guarantee an efficient implementation of the traffic
circulation portion of the project (see Annex 10) a Traffic Planning Manager
will be appointed by the Mayor. The Traffic Planning Manager will have sole
responsibility for the implementation of this part of the project and he will
serve on a full time basis to undertake these and other tasks related to
traffic circulation. He will have no other responsibilities that might detract
from or conflict with his responsibilities as Traffic Planning Manager. He
will be assisted by competent and qualified staff drawn from various technical
and planning departments of the City and qualified consultants.
B.   Scope
The Traffic Planning Manager will be responsible for supervision
of consultants hired by the City and supervision of the implementation of
consultants' studies on traffic circulation.
In particular his responsibilities are to include, inter al,ia the
following:
- Review of traffic patterns, flows, regulations and other computer
information based on consultants' studies.
- Analysis of present road conditions and proposed traffic route
diversions.
- Detailed analysis of sites for proposed location of underpasses
and squares with special reference to public utility lines,
preservation of existing vegetation, soil conditions, drainage,
traffic diversion and pedestrian access.
- Choice of design standards.
- Choice of materials, technology and estimation of costs.
- Time scheduling and phasing of construction.
- Preparation of bid documents, including computations, design
drawings, description of materials, quantities, construction
methods for works, general bidding conditions, and standard
specifications.
- Bid evaluation and recommendations for award of contracts.
- Timing of land acquisition.



ANNEX 14
MAN
TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDUIE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year         Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter             at end of Quarter
(in US} thousand)
1973/74
December 31, 1973                1,250
March 31, 1974                   6,500
June 30, 1974                   10,500
1974/75
September 30, 1974              16,100
December 31, 1974               21,800
March 31, 1975                  28,400
June 30, 1975                   34,100
1975/76
September 30, 1975              35,300
December 31, 1975               39,100
March 31, 1976                  41.,600
June 30, 1976                   42,000
Source: Mission Estimates



ANXEX1'
Page 1
I_&
TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
METHODLOG  FOR ESTIMATING ECNO1wC  RATE OF RETURN
Introduction
-   Included_i  its several objectives, the transport project
intends to guide the future development of the Tehran region and to-
provLde an efficient public 388 transport systi in order to make
urban activities more accessible to the population. Since the project
consists of many diverse elments that often are non-quantifiable, it
is not possible to get one  ingle  easure of the project's benefits.
However, in order to get a measure of the project's worth, the benefits
and costs associated with the bus and street improvments have been
defined in eco.m ic tome as followa:
(a) Time savings to existing bus passengers;
(b) Time savings to uev bus passengersV;
(c) Savings in bus operating costs due to better
maintenance and more efficient utilization of
the bus fleet;
(d) Savings to buses and other vehicles due to
increased street capacities and traffic speeds.
Present Traffic Situation
The general traffic situation in Tehran has been analyzed by
SOFRETU. Some indicative figures are:
Average speed
Bus                          9   km/h
Private car                 19   km/h
Taxi                        17   km/h
Blue taxi                   15   km/h
Walking                      5.5 km/h
Average waiting time
Bus                         13 mnm.
]/  "Exsting bus passengers" are those who would go by bus even it the
project vere not implemented. They do not necessarily imply those
presently riding the bus.  "Now bus passegersZ are those additional
passengers attracted by the project.



AN=B lS
Page 2
Average number of passengers
Bus                          55   persons
Cars and taxis                2.35 persons
Median trip length
Both public and private
modes of transport            5.2 km
Basic Assumptions
In these calculations no major changes in land use are assumed.
Likewise, questions on subsidies and monopolistic conditions existing in
bus operations are not dealt with.  All prices are assumed to be constant
during the project period.
Major Benefits and Costs
The quantified benefits of the bus improvements consist mainly
of consumerst surpluses calculated on the basis of time savings and
producers' surpluses calculated on the basis of cost savings:
(a) The consumerst surpluses for existing bus
passengers ae measured by their total time
savings.  Tnese are mainly due to decreased
average waiting time.
(b) The consumers' surplus for new bus passengers
is estimated as half of the time savings for
existing passengers.
(c) Producers' surplus to the Bus Company is measured
by savings in operating costs and increases in
net revenue.
The bus improvements will also result in other costs and benefits
that have not been quantified because of a lack of data:
The costs of increased congestion because of more
buses in the streets and the benefits of de-
creased congestion because some potential car
and taxi users go by bus. If more than about
15% of the induced bus passengers otherwise would
have gone by car or taxi the total level of
congestion would decrease and the total benefits
of the project would increase.
The quantified benefits and costs of the street improvements are:
(a) Consumerst surplus to new and existing bus
passengers because of higher speed.



AMEX )A
Page 3
(b) Consumerst surplus to existing car and taxi
passengers because of time savings and lower
operating costs.
(c) The consumers' surplus for new car passengers
is estimated as half of that for existing car
users.
(d) Prodmcerst surplus to the Bus Company because
of lower operating costs due to higher speed.
Certain costs and benefits of the traffic circulation improvements
have not been quantified because of lack of data, for example, the benefits
and costs associated with a re-distribution of traffic between different
streets. The marginal social cost of a car in a cogested street is bigher
than the marginal cost in a baa congested street. A re-distribution of
traffic would presumably be from more to less congested streets, which would
increase the benefits of the project.
Travel Time Values
The valuation of travel time is critical to the analysis.
Unfortunately there is no study based on revealed preferences that shows
the Tehran citizens'time value. Since it is assumed that the value of
travel time varies from one socioeconomic group to another, different time
values have been calculatet for different categories of passengers. The
hhourly wages for bus riders who are generally from the lower 85% of the
population and for car and taxi passengers who are generally from the upper
40% of the population, are:
Car and taxi passengers      120 Rls/h
Bus passengers                4o Rlslh
The value of travel time is conservatively estimated to be
25% of the hourly wage.
Benefit Cost Analysis
A. Bas Improvements
SOFRETU has calculated that the increased number of buses would
reduce the average waiting time to less than four minutes. This would
mean that the average waiting time would be reduced by more than nine
minutes from the present 13. We chose a more conservative estimate that
the waiting time would be reduced by two-thirds of what SQFRETU has cal-
culated. Since some improvements in the scheduling are likely even without
the project, it is assumed that the project would reduce the waiting time
by four minmteg.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
The producers' surplus that accrua to the Bus Company is based
on an average fare of Rls 2.24 and an operating cost for additional traffic
of Ris 1.50 per passenger trip.
The improved maintenance and the higher utilization of the bus
fleet is calculated to decrease the operating cost by about 8.7% by 1978.
With these assumptions the benefit and cost flows (in US$ million)
for the period 1973-1978 are calculated in the table below:
Type of Benefit                  1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
Consumerst surplus                                            .
Time savings to existing
bus passengers                    0    1.76   3.33   4.52   5.78   5.39
Time savings to new bus
passengers                       0    O.09   0.44   1.03   1.62   1.91
Producers' surplus
Savings to the Bus Company         0    0.75   1.36   1.63   2.05   2.32
Increased net revenues
for additional traffic            0   0.76   1.95   3.03   3.69   4.24
The benefits are discounted over a 12-year period because the average life-
time of a bus is 12 years. This gives an internal rate of return for the
bus improvements of 36%. However, if the time savings are excluded, the
internal rate of return is 10%.
B. Street Improvements
SOFRETU has calculated that one-way streets and coordinated traffic
control would reduce the travel time on certain streets by 40-60% if the
traffic volume was kept constant. This estimate is based on vehicle travel
over long distances, excluding accelerations, retardations, or any major
disturbances which are likely to occur in Tehran traffic. Taking these
factors into account we have estimated a more conservative 20% time savings
on the improved streets if no new traffic was induced.
It is also assumed that when the traffic volume increases 1% the
speed of traffic decreases 1.5% 1/ (in the speed range 15-25 km/h). The
j/  ~SCFRETU has made some calculations of the relationship between volume
and speed, for a couple of streets in Tehran and their results indicate
an elasticity of about 2.5. Studies from Paris, London, Bapgkok and
a group of English towns all give elasticities in the range 1-1.5,
which is why 1.5 seems to be a more realistic figure than 2.5.



Pa     -
changes in operating Coot8 for cars are based on the assuption that when
the speed increases 1% the operating cost falls 0.25%. The operating cost
for a car at 20 bm/h is asomed to be REs 3 p.r hour.
When the overall transport cost decreases 1% the traffic volume
normally increases 1-1.5%.  If the elasticity is assumed to be -1.2, the
effects of the street improvement would be a 12% increase in speed and a
14% increase in traffic volume. Since just a saall part of the street
system is improved the elasticity for these streets would be lower and the
time savings larger than 12%.  Consequently, the assumed elasticity
(-1.2) underestimates the benefits of the street improvements.  /
With these assumptions the benefit and cost flows (in US$ million)
for the period 1973-1978 are calculated in the table below:
e of Benefits                   13  1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
Consumers' surplus
Time savings to bus
passengers                        o    0.08   0.16   0.23   0.31   0.31
Time and cost savings
to the car passengers             0    0.35   0.70   1.05   1.40   1.40
Producerst strplus
Cost savings to the Bas
Company and track
owners, etc.                      0    0.02  0o04   o.o6   0.o8   o.08
If the benefits and costs are calculated over a 20-year period
the internal rate of return is 14%. This is a lower limit since the yearly
benefits as a remslt of atreet ixprov=entM dl sloWly grow une  the dmand
for transportation and the congestion increases over time.
C. Both Traffic and Bas Improvements
If the effects of these two parts of the project are assumed to
be additive, the overall rate of return will be about 28%.
Distribution of the Project's Benefits
Based on the calculations described in the section above, it is
estimated that about 90% of all the benefits will go to the bus
riders and about 10% will go to car and taxi passengers.
j/  The traffic improvements might also lead- to a redistribution of traffic
from other streets, why the traffic volume might increase more than indicated
above. As mentioned earlier, this would however increase the benefits
of the project.



ANNEX 15
Pqe 6
Sensitivity AnaZlsis
Two basic assumptions in the benefit cost analysis are that: (i)
the value of travel time is 25% of the average wage for bus and car passengers
and (ii) 15% of the new bus riders otherwise would have gone by car or taxi.
If these assumptions are changed the internal rate of return
will change as shown in the table below:
Percentage of the new bus riders that
without the project would have gone by
car or taxi.
I _  .10              15             20
Time value as           20         15%             22%            29%
a percentage            25         21%             28%            35%
of the hourly           33         27%             33%            40%
wage



ANNEX 16
Page 1
IRAN
TEMAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
DIEAND FORECAST FOR PUBLIC TRANSPORT
A.   Basic Assumptions
When per capita income rises the demand for public transport is
affected in two ways.   The total mobility of the population increases
and a larger proportion of the trips is undertaken by private cars.   A
cross sectional analysis of the total number of trips per capita in large
cities in deeloping countries indicates an income elasticity of about 0.6.
The same type of analysis indicates that income elasticity for the public
transport system's proportion of the total number of trips is -0.4.  The
same elasticity for bus transport is -0.5.
With the present modal split in Tehran this would give the
following income elasticities for per capita demand:
Private car triDs             C    1.0
T-axi trips                   ct  = -5
Bus trips                     Cb  = 0.1
These elasticities based on international cross sectional data can be
checked against the present development in Tehran.
From 1966 to 1971 the number of cars per capita increased by 6.5%
a year.   During the same period the per capita income rose about 7% a year,
which gives an income elasticity for car ownership of 0.9O-0.95.  The
mileage per car shows an income elasticity of 0.10-0.15.   If the trip
length is assumed to be independent of the incame this gives an income
elasticity for car trips of 1.0-1.1 which is well in accordance with the
cross sectional results.
The per capita number of bus trips has for the last fifteen
years had an average annual increase of 0.4%.  The per capita income in
Tehran has during the same time increased 4-5% per annum.   This gives an
income elasticity for bus trips of 0.08_0.10.  This value is well in
accordance with the results that were obtained from the cross sectional
analysis above.  Consequently, it seems reasonable to assume that this
trend, ceteris paribus, would continue in the future.
During the last couple of years bus ridership in Tehran has
fallen drastically.   It is argued below that this is a result of the very
rapidly deteriorating bus service.   If the service, however, had been
maintained at its former level it is probable that the actual demand would
have followed the long term trend described above.   Potential demand, then,
is defined by the long term trend.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
B.  Potential Imand
90FRETU has made a projection of the fuitare demand for bus transport
in Tehran. This has the form:
N = 836.5 + 32.6 (n - 1972)
where N = the total number of trips by bus (in millions/years)
n = the year
Their projection .is., however, independent of both the population
increase and the per capita incoame. If these factors are takenizi7to account
the projected potential demand would have the form:
N  = \ x Pn x (1 + Cb   1)(n - 1968)
where  N  =  the total number of trips by bus
Pn -  the population in year  n
n  =  the year
Gb = income elasticity for bus trips
X  =  the rate of growth in per capita income
X = the number of trips by bus per capita in 1968.
The reason why 1968 is chosen as base year is that the demand for
bus transport reached its peak in that year.
The per capita income in Tehran is projected to increase about 8%/year
during the next five years.  The income elasticity for bus transp.rt is
approximately 0.1 and in 1968 the number of trips per capita was 225. This
gives:
(n-1968)
N     Pnx  1,008           x 225
This indicates that the potential demand for bus transport will
have risen to 242 trips per capita and year by 1977.
The results of the different projections are showrn in Figure 1.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
C.  Cmetition Between Different Modes of Traffic
In Just three years, between 1969 and 1972, the number of trips
per capita fell by 30% from 222 to 163.  There are several reasons for
this development. The maintenance of the buses was very poor and, thus,
the fleet utilization rate was extremely low, breakdowns were, frequent and
delays were often great.  Rapidly increasing congestion made the buses very
slow and it often became faster to walk than wait for a bus.   Under these
circumstances, buses became vez' much less competitive with other modes of
travel.  The sharp decrease in number of operating buses and i lievel of
bus services resulted in the follosing annula decrease in the number of bus
trips per capita:
196S  1966  L967  1968        1 1970  1971  1972
Number of bus trips         171   196   212   225   222   198   174   163
per capita and year
Number of passengers        *      *     360   398  l411  416   436   455
per bus and year
Number of taxi trips                53    58    65    68    74    80   -
per capita and year
*   Not comparable since the composition of the bus fleet changed
drastically ii 1967 when minibuses were introduced.
- Not available.
The number of trips by taxi has been cnstantly growing but has
not, to a substantial ectent, included the passengers diverted from bus
travel.   In fact, in the last years before the decline in bus ridership
started, the number of taxi trips per capita grew 10.7% a year compared to
9.2% in the two years after the decline started.
Unfortunately, there is no data on how the use of private cars
has developed during the same time.   It is, however, evident that the
number of cars per capita grew much faster up to 1966 rather than after that
year in spite of a much faster growth of per capita income in later years.
There is, consequently, no evidence that the diverted bus passengers are
travelling by cars or taxis.   It appears that most of the diverted passengers
are walking or not traveling at all.
D.  Bus Passenger Forecast
The gap between potential and actual demand that has developed
during the last few years is due to the deterioration of bus services in
Tehran. If the level of services can be raised, much of the diverted demand
can be recovered, and the earlier long-term trend that is based on socio-
economic relationships can be re-establilhed. The Bank's forecast (see the
following diagram) is that under conditions of improved service the number
of bus passengers will increase by about 50% during the next five years.
The forecast is coanervative since it assumes that less than half of the



ANNEX 16
Page 4
potential demand that has been lost during the last three years, will be
recovered. The shape of the demand curve is based on the rate,that the bus
service can be improved.
E.  Effects of Fare Increases
The forecast is based on the assumption that fares will not
increase faster than per capita income. Because the fares are very low
at the present time (about US$0.03 per trip) and the buses are very slow
and infrequent, the fares constitute only a minor part of the costs for a
trip. This means that the price elasticity probably is low and that minor
price increases hardly affect the overall demand.
F.  Conclusions
Because of the deterioration of service, UBC has during the last
three years lost to bus ridership about one-fourth of its potential
passengers. A large part of these diverted passengers are walking or not
traveling at all. Only a minor number of the diverted bus passengers are
traveling by private cars or taxis.
The rehabilitation of the bus fleet, the improvements in bus
operations and the improvements in traffic circulation patterns will increase
UBCts possibilities to compete with other modes of travel and to attract new
riders; and the buses ar- expected to recover about half of the potential
demand that they have lost during the last three years. The number of trips
per capita is expected to grow to 200-210. This is, however, substantially
lower than the peak value, 225 trips per capita, that was reached in 1968.
Consequently there are great possibilities to increase the number of bus
passengers even more.



T-HE UNlITED 6 3 B;jS CCOVIPANY
ACTUAL AlJD FORECASTED NUMBER OF PASSENGERS
MILLION PASS[I'IGERS
1.20 r-
1,000K
900
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~\ .o, 
BooL
800~~~~~~~~~0 
700
600                                                                                        c,q
5C*j    . l                         Jt  l~LL. l  l  _]   .!      l      l      l      1  
1065    66.   67    68    69        70    71    72    73       74    75    76    77    78
YEAR
World Bank -7666






IRAN
TEHRAN UERBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CIY OF TEHR13
MAYO=.
Doe jfwmm Gfm -m m4vt' 01j.
Deu-1I    mum    11111111                Atitnclitciinil_ C_t Wyf ou".
[Aw.ss                    mum  mm
tpatmenm otf|   The Ted 4ircn                                                                                      DaOegiol of Fhwa                                                                OTh CimW tn.n
Social AIbin|    Dep; m#mt                                                                                           and Atontioldion                                                                t.uon.
*1Wall.       pa.bI.n Atleaton  Con.isuclion      Atvhll"          *ahtItF                                               eanue                                          Adw9 | |  t uW  &  Adnionlaailov I    Pbonini  TnltaI  Ditisiot of
DWU.C ion*OO                                    Rpo DivisiOI                         awsiio           O.V.wi                           51.1hz (DOn.        talon Diooivio                    llh       I oniGons.i,on 
^-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w "                            r?
i oonomnl e9                                        Aw.w  io             T|@*wa                          Feas Og and       |.po           | lma@   an       ,1 | Lotai     f ||t
|_si
ODi
~al U. 1-N






IRAN
TEHRAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED BUS COMPANY
tiE GENERAL MANAGER                      THE COUNCIL
IN:;PECTORS AND                                                       OFFICE OF
ADVISORS                                                         THE COUNCIL
n [ ADMINIStRATION . LEGAL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTS AND RESEARCHES
11                        ~~~~~~ADMINIStRiATIONLEA
|-  D!SC1I E    |SEClRITY                       of INSPECTORS                         PU RLIC RELATIONS          AFfAIRS            statistics      planning
.administration   tcchit.cal matters                                                         studies         research
financae       study & research
routes          archives & secretaries 
_   _    _                                   ~~~~~~~~~~FINANCE-                ADMINISTRATIO
TECHNIA L ANDR lC         OPERAT iONS               accounts       budgeti.                secretarial   personnel
REPAIR SERVICE
__I___1   puelchbaies  elait        , social services     .6,
sales          comptroller
WO    HOP              ZONES      |
_   .  _                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WSorld B.ank- 767  c






IBRD 10355
MAY 1973
t RArN
Teheran Urban Project
LAND USE                                                   TAJRISH
Main residential areas
K    City center
Main industrial areas
Airports
Main roads
i -b---+Railways
ABBASABAD
TEN'ER~AN VILL
-~~~~
*> Z \   -14          AFARAH  ABAD
,-JiEHRABAD )
p                                     -- I                               \ I
/ /                       \  \         t                        rhe   Poun~~~~~|es   whown   on   thu   mer dol    bou darie
t             T                          \t 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REY                 1
\ \           -            ~~~~~Teheran_
0           2          4          6                             1                   R     A_
KILOMETERS                         \                   
MIllES \^,
\        _ n o~~~~~~~nl  boundaries,- 






IBRD -10389
|3 .4o:;Son W '  4} s ....................... ,,I I  ....................................... , MAY 19731
MAO            I R A N       .
AIT~~~
IRAN
Teheran Urban Project 
MAJOR STREET SYSTEMI
lnner city
~~~~AIJDI~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                             o,~I      !        2S'3S4                     5
opunoor,OI    A y  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M    
~~~~                                                 N~~~~ 
MILOETES






IBRD-10361
a                    &
.                                                               Tehers  Urban ProTeheran
IRAN    AFGMAN
SAt3W IAhA       -
Teheran Urban Project
TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT PROPOSALS
Intersections to be grade separated         :_          Ma_ .jor one-wy streets
Redesign of sq._____res__0                                                                         1                 23
Redesign of squores                  ._  Secondory one-way streets'                       '                 ,        23
:                                     n                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
Lzd-use control measures                                                                   o                      IL2
MILES






IBRD 10362R
a-2                         r                                             JUNE  19 73
I  MILE
-~~                        -~~0  ~~~~"""orirn0 
9       1/2     !KILOMETER                                    Teheran  Ur               Pr
- 2      MILE
d                                             / '4   1/2   3/    KMTER         ij                  '2   1,KILOMETER        j
S~~~~~~~                     ~~~  1;Te-ME                                   0 8           2
0
SE~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~S
SAUDI~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                KILOMEAKISTA
---n crnotoo  d   s Sw
0            :TER~ ~~~~~                                                          0I~                         M
0 l      '/2    1 IOEEMILE                                  Teheran  Urban  Project
DETAI LED TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT PROPOSALS
TURKEY,"U.& \R
The onda Teshoeraon t/S    o t
IRAT                n                                                      Principal one-eway Streets
I R' A N    AFi_I_NI__TAN
XCI        II..                                       .~~~~~~~~mo=  Bus routes
SAUDI ARABI1                P4-.ST.



