K4z~g-,q,- ' NI
RESTRICTED
FILE     CO     Y                Report No. P-798
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 22, 1970



INITERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
GUJARAT AGRICULTUJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$35 million to
India.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Since 1949 the Bank and the Association have made eleven lcans
and credits totalling some US$145 million to finance agricultural pro-
jects in India, the last of which was the Kadana Irrigation credit, signed
on February 9, 1970.
3.        The credit I am now proposing would help to finance a farmers'
investment program in minor irrigation works and farm mechanization in
the State of Gujarat in west-central India.
4.        In November and December of 1968, a reconnaissance mission
under the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program reviewed the prospects for
Bank/IDA participation in agricultural credit projects in several
states in India. This mission recommended that projects in Gujarat
and in Punjab could be suitable for Association financing with some
further preparation, and that projects in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu
and other states could be developed in the course of time. The
Gujarat project is the first of this proposed series of credit schemes
to be presented to Executive Directors; the Punjab project is about to
be negotiated and should be ready for your consideration in a few weeks.
5.        The project was appraised in June and July 1969, and nego-
tiations for the proposed credit were completed on April 17. The BorroTer
was represented by Mr. G.F. Ramakrishna, Director, Ministry of Finance,
Department of Economic Affairs, and MIr. V.K. Malik, Deputy Secretary,
Ministry of Food and Agriculture. The Agricultural Refinance Corpora-
tion (ARC) was represented by its Chairman, the Deputy Governor of the
Reserve Bank of India, Mr. P.N. Damry.  Kr. K.G. Badlani, Secretary of
Agriculture, represented the Government of Gujarat. The Gujarat State
Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) was represented by Mr. H.H.
Trivedi, its Chairman.



6.        Details of undisbursed loans and credits and comments on delays
in project execution 7Tere given in paragraphs 5 and 6 of my Report on the
Sixth Industrial Imports Credit (P-79h, April 8, 1970).   The folloi-ing
is a statement of the totals as of Mlarch 31, 1970: 1/
BANK       IDA     UNDISBURSED
Loans/Credits Active                   237.0     174.2
Loans/Credits fully disbursed          810.7     953.2
Total (less cancellations)          1,047.7   1,127.4       253.3
of which has been repaid to
Bank and others                       b18.6
Total now outstanding                 629.1
Amount sold               110.0
of w-hich has been repaid 106.0         4.0
Total no-, held by Bank & IDA         625.1   1,127.4
Total undisbursed                     131.5     121.8       253.3
7.        Since 1957, IFC has made thirteen commitments in India totalling
US$h2.3 million, of wihich US$34.2 million represent loans and US$8.1 million
equity. As of March 31, 1970, US$15.4 million of this total had been
disbursed and US$6.1 million cancelled. The largest commitment is a total
of US$18.9 million to Zuari Agro-Chemicals for a fertilizer plant in Goa.
A number of other industrial schemes are currently under consideration.
8.        In addition to the Punjab Agricultural Credit Project an
agricultural credit project in Andhra Pradesh is being appraised. Appraisal
reports also are being prepared for an agricultural aviation project, a
grain storage project, the Cauvery Delta and Pochampad irrigationprojects,
an eighth loan to ICICI, and a second power transmission project. Several
other projects are at various stages of consideration, including further
irrigation and agricultural credit projects.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Borrower:                    Government of India.
Beneficiaries:               ARC and LDB for relending to farmers in
Gujarat.
1/  Including Credit No. 176 IN (Kadana Irrigation) which is not yet
effective.



Amount:                   US$35 million.
Purpose:                  Financing of part of a program of on-farm
investments for: installation of pump sets
on existing wells; the construction of lift
irrigation systems and new wells of various
types; and tractors and farm implements.
Amortization:             In 50 years including a ten year period of
grace, through semi-annual investments of
one-half of 1 percent from May 15, 1980 through
November 15, 1989, and of 1-1/2 percent from
May 15, 1990 through November 15, 2019.
Service Charge:           3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:           17 percent.
On-lending terms:         From India to ARC:  at 5 percent per annum with
1/4 percent rebate for prompt repayment of
interest and principal, with lump sum repayment
9 years from drawal by ARC. India will bear
the exchange risk.
From ARC to LDB: at 6-1/2 percent with repay-
ments set to correspond approximately with
expected collections of loans granted by LDB
under this project.
From LDB to participating farmers: at 9 percent
with maximum maturities of 7 years for farm
mechanization loans and 9 years for minor irri-
gation facilities.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        An appraisal report entitled "India - Gujarat Agricultural Credit
Project" (PA-34a) is attached.
10.       Agriculture occupies the same dominant position in Gujaratts
economy as it does in India's. Recent programs to accelerate foodgrain
production have centered around provision of modern inputs. An essential
part of this strategy is an effort to make credit available to farmers to
enable them to take advantage of the new technological advances. Credit
for minor irrigation and mechanization is central to that effort.



-4 -
11.        This project includes:
(a) Provision of long-term finance
(i) to farmers in the project area for investments in
minor irrigation equipment and facilities, speci-
fically: the installation of pump sets for existing
wells; construction of new open wells complete with
pump sets; installation of shallow and dug tubewells;
construction of lift irrigation schemes; laying of
pipelines; and lining of distributaries and field
channels and electrification for installations
financed as above;
(ii)  to farmers for the purchase of tractors, tractor
implements and harvesters; and
(iii)  to contractors for the purchase of drilling rigs,
including necessary ancillary equipment and spare
parts;
(b) A study of the general water resources and potential
for development in the project area.
12.        The proposed credit would finance about 52 percent of the
estimated total cost of the project of US$67.0 million. The remainder
would be financed by participating farmers and contractors, LDB, ARC
(whose ordinary sources of funds include the Borrower) and the State
of Gujarat.
13.        Benefits from the project would arise from increased agri-
cultural production. The gross cropped area would be expanded by some
93,000 hectares through increased double cropping and better farm
practices. Assured water supplies through minor irrigation develop-
ment also would permit dependable higher yields. It is estimated that
foodgrain production would increase by over 60 percent on average on
the lands of participating farmers. Farmers with holdings down to a
minimum size of 5 hectares would be able to participate in the project,
and project benefits would accrue to small and medium-sized farmers as
well as to those with large holdings. The economic rate of return is
estimated to be between 17 and 29 percent. In addition, the increased
agricultural production should result in foreign exchange savings.



14.       The lending program will be carried out by the LDB, with
technical feasibility of minor irrigation developments approved by the
Gujarat State Groundwater Directorate and Irrigation Department. The
ARC would refinance LDB investments and prescribe appropriate evaluation
methods to be used in LDB appraisals. Both ARC and LDB are strengthening
their staffs with technical officers in order to carry out their obli-
gations under the projects.
15.       Imported tractors will account for the greater part of the
estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. It was agreed during
negotiations that procurement would follow a procedure based on farmers'
choice, with an element of price competition introduced through bulk
purchases at unit prices for various quantities indicated in advance by
suppliers. Quotations would be sought by public invitation from suppliers
in Bank member countries which have manufacturing facilities in India
or which have received the Government's approval to establish such
facilities.  The current number of eligible foreign suppliers is five,
and this number may grow to as many as nine during the disbursement period
of the proposed credit-if manufacturing proposals currently being
considered by the Government of India are all approved. This number would
provide adequate competition, and help to ensure reasonably efficient
provision of spare parts and after-sales service. The total cost of
imported tractors and spare parts is estimated at US$7.7 million, of which
US$6.8 million is the estimated foreign exchange cost.
16.       Most tractor implements are produced locally in reasonable
quantity and quality and would be purchased by farmers through existing
commercial channels. However, discs and plough bottoms would be imported
under the project by manufacturers of disc and mould ploughs and financed
by IDA because of a shortage in India of high quality steel for these
components. Self-propelled combine harvesters are not manufactured in
India, and the small number of these required for the project will also
be imported by suppliers selected by farmers. The total cost of farm
implements and harvesters is estimated at US$3.3 million, including
US$0.6 million in foreign exchange for imported items.
17.       Drilling rigs, with an estimated cost of US$1.0 million will
be purchased and financed locally. An amount of $300,000 for consultant
services for the groundwater study has been provided, to cover the cost
of any foreign experts who may be engaged.
18.       The total estimated direct foreign exchange cost of the
project is thus US$7.7 million. In addition, the Association will
finance US$27.3 million (or about 46 percent) of the total local
currency costs.



- 6 -
19.       The reasons for financing substantial amounts of expenditures
in local currency, in agricultural projects in India, was presented in
paragraph 19 of my Report on the Kadana Irrigation Project (P-774..,
January 21, 1970). I remain convinced that agriculture should receive
the highest priority in our lending to India despite the relatively
high percentage of finance of local currency expenditures in many agri-
cultural projects.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Gujarat Agreement between the State of .Gujarat and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
ARC and LDB, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft
Resolution approving the Credit, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
21.       The draft Agreements set forth the obligations of the respective
parties to this transaction incorporating the relending terms and procure-
ment provisions explained in Part II and paragraphs 15 - 17 above.
Specific obligations of India regarding the import of equipment required
for the Project and its maintenance are included in Section 4.01(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement.
PART V - THE ECONOiMY
22.       A brief updating of the economic situation in India was included
in my report recommending a development credit for the Sixth Industrial
Imports Project (P-794, April 8, 1970); I expect to distribute a new
economic report later this month.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECO1MiENDATION
24.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 22, 1970



