2 -TURN TO
:7ZL-PCR- S   DESK                                             RESTR ICT ED
WITHIN                  FILE COPY                         Report No. PA-34a
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INDIA
April 22, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                 Rs 7.50
R 1           =     US$0.13
Rs 1,000      2     US$133.33
Rs 1,000,000         US$133,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIAT IONS
ARC - Agricultural Refinance Corporation
(OI - Government of India
LDB - Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank
RBI - Reserve Bank of India



I N D I A
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUHOARY ANDCONCLUSIONS .... ..............   i-i.
I.  INTRODUCTION . ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
II.   BACKGROUND OF AGRICULTRE . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  ..         1
A. India . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  The State of Gujarat  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Area and Population . .  . . .  . . . .... . .           2
Ecology . . . .  . . . . . . ... .    3
Agricultural Production and Irrigation  . . . . . .    3
Farm Mechanization  ........            ....             4
Agricultural Inputs and Services  . . . . . . . . .      5
Land Tenure and Ownership . . .  .   .  .  . . . .. .    5
Credit Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6
1II.  AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT.       7
A.  Agricultural Refinance Corporation  . . . . . . . . .       7
Introduction  . . . . . . . . .. . .                     7
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Lending Policies and Procedures . . .  . .  . . . .      7
Lending Operations            .        .8
Sources of Funds.                                        9
Results of Operations and Financial Condition .  .       9
B.  Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank . . .   10
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . .       10
Lending Policies and Procedures . . . . .   . . . .   10
Lending Operations                                      11
Sources of Funds  . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .   12
Results of Operations and Financial Condition . . .   12
IV.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
A.  Brief Description                                          12
B.  Detailed Features.                         .  . . .       13
Minor Irrigation Investments   . ..                     13
Farm Mechanization            .... 15
Groundwater Study...                                    15
C.  Cost Estimates and Financing  . . . . . . .   . .   .    15
D.  Procurement.. . .  .  .  . .  .    18
E. Disbursements             ...21
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
India in June/July 1969 and was composed of Messrs. C. Eugenio, K. Berg,
G. von Gontard (IDA) and Mr. R. Stoner (Consultant) who all contributed
to the report.



-2-
Page No.
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Agricultural Refinance Corporation  . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank . . . . .   22
Leading Policies and Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARPMRS' BENEFITS . . . .   25
Production  .     ... ........  . . . . .        .. ... .    25
Markets   . . . .  . . . ..   .  .  . . . . .  . . . a . .    26
Prices  . . . . . . .  . . . .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Farmers' Benefits  . . . . .          . . . . . . . . .  . .  . . .   26
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
VIII. RECONMM8fDATIONS . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .   29



-3-
ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Refinance Corporation
-- Appendix 1-1 - Comparative Statement of Net Income
-- Appendix 1-2 - Projected Statement of Net Income
-- Appendix 1-3 - Condensed Balance Sheets
-- Appendix 1-4 - Projected Balance Sheets
2.   The Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank
-- Appendix 2-1 - Classification of Loans Granted According to
Loan Purpose
-- Appendix 2-2 - Classification of Loans Granted According to
Loan Size
-- Appendix 2-3 - Paid-Up Share Capital on May 31, 1969
A- Appendix 2-4 - Condensed Statements of Net Income
-- Appendix 2-5 - Projected Statement of Net Income
-= Appendix 2-6 - Condensed Balance Sheets
-- Appendix 2-7 - Projected Balance Sheets
3.  lMinor Irrigation
-- Appendix 3-1 - Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
to the Gujarat State Groundwater Directorate
4.   Farm Mechanization in Gujarat State
-- Appendix 4-1 - Tractor Numbers and Dealer Outlets According to
Makes in Eight Selected Districts,
Gujarat State, June 1969
-- Appendix 4-2 - Impact of Tractor Use on Farm Operations and
Results in Central Gujarat
-- Appendix 4-3 - Impact of Tractor Use on Farm Operations and
Results in Northern Gujarat
5.   Details of Estimated Project Cost



- 4 -
6.   Tractor Procurement
7.   Farm Incomes and Financial Rates of Returns on Investments
-- Appendix 7-1 - Agro-Climatic Zones and Farm Model Distribution
-- Appendix 7-2 - Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
-- Appendix 7-3 - Farm Models (Under Present Price Assumption)
- Appendix 7-4 - Financial Rates of Return to the Enterprise
8.   Economic Rate of Return
MAP



I N D I A
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to help finance an agricultural
credit program for investments in minor irrigation and farm mechanization
in the State of Gujarat for which an IDA credit of US$35 million is pro-
posed.
ii.       Agriculture is the most important sector in the State's economy.
It provides employment to two-thirds of the working population. Yet, be-
cause of low and unreliable rainfall and limited cropped land under irri-
gation (only about 12.5%), crop production has been low and uncertain and
has barely kept pace with population growth. Likewise, in many of the
larger farms with irrigation, Insufficiency of bullock power has prevented
expansion of cropped land, intensification of cultivation, and the full ex-
ploitation of new seed varieties. In these cases, farm mechanization be-
comes an increasingly important, if not essential, ingredient of improved
technology.
iii.      The State of Gujarat is aware of these problems.  Some 60 State
irrigation schemes (involving dams and weirs) have been either completed,
are under construction, or are in the planning stage. The private sector
too, during this decade, has heavily invested in irrigation, mostly wells.
Today, about 80% of all irrigation is from wells. Efforts towards farm
mechanization, however, have been limited by the inadequacy of tractor
supply.
iv.       The Project consists of a 3-year program to finance mainly on-farm
investments and consultant services estimated to cost US$67.0 million equiv-
alent: US$55.7 million for minor irrigation (including drilling rigs,
spares and equipment), US$11.0 milllon for farm mechanization (tractors,
tractor implements and spares) and US$0.3 million for consultant services.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$7.7 million equivalent,
or about 11% of total Project cost. IDA would finance US$35 million,
equivalent to the foreign exchange component and about one-half of the lo-
cal currency cost. Farmers' contributions would be substantial, at least
20% of the finance for individual investments. The remaining finance
would be provided by both the Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development
Bank (LDB) and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC), a corpora-
tion in which the Reserve Bank of India is the majority shareholder.
v.        The IDA Credit to the Government of India (GOI) would be made
available to the ARC repayable after 9 years and at 4-3/4% interest pat
annum, the present rate of GOI loans to ARC. The Government would carry
the exchange risk. The Corporation would supervise and refinance, at
6-1/2% per annum, the lending operations of the Gujarat State Cooperative
Land Development Bank under the Project. The Land Development Bank would
lend to individual borrowers at 9% per annum.



- ii -
vi.       Tractors to be procured under the Project would be imported and
supplied through existing commercial channels. All orders for imported
tractors would be bulked on the basis of farmers' preferences to obtain
quantity discounts. In addition, licenses would be granted for necessary
imports of harvesters, tractor implement components and spare parts re-
quired under the Project. The installation of dug wells, tubewells and
lift irrigation would be by local contractors using local materials.
vii.      The ARC and the LDB have competent management and are in sound
financial condition. Financial returns to farmers on investment in minor
irrigation would range from 17 to 41%, while those on farm mechanization
would be from 23 to 32%. The rate of return to the economy is estimated
to be at about 17%. Appropriate Project assurances have been obtained,
and, accordingly, the Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$35 mil-
lion.



I N D I A
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In November/December 1968, an IDA mission with the assistance of
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program reviewed agricultural credit institutions
and on-farm investment requirements in selected parts of India in order to
identify high priority agricultural credit projects. Because of its agri-
cultural potential, existing well-developed infrastructure, and a well-
functioning state-wide institutional credit system, the State of Gujarat
was given priority for an agricultural credit project.
1.02      The Bank Group is giving priority in its lending program to as-
sist India's agricultural development strategy. The first project to be
financed under this new emphasis was the Tarai Seeds Loan, signed in June
1969. Previously, Bank group activity in the sector had totalled US$97
million of financing, mostly for water development projects in the early
1960's. Currently, in addition to the Kadana Irrigation Credit just
signed, two irrigation schemes have been appraised and another is in the
course of appraisal. Likewise, five agricultural credit projects (ex-
cluding this one) are in the pipeline: one for Punjab is already ap-
praised and is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors later
in this fiscal year, a second is under appraisal, and three others are
planned for appraisal. Also, an agro-aviation project and a storage pro-
ject have been appraised. Furthermore, the Bank Group has begun a series
of discussions with the GOI with a view to selecting a "second generation"
of projects to be financed in the five-year lending program.
1.03      In May 1969, the GOI submitted a proposal for IDA financing of an
agricultural credit project in Gujarat involving investments in sinor irri-
gation facilities and farm mechanization in Gujarat. This Project was ap-
praised in June/July 1969 by Messrs. C. E. Eugenio, K. Berg, G. von Gontard
(IDA), and R. Stoner (Consultant). This report is based on the findings of
this mission and material supplied by relevant institutions in India and the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
II. BACKGROUND OF AGRICULTURE
A. India 1/
2.01      With 70% of the labor force engaged in agriculture and almost half
of GNP originating in the sector, Indian planners have stressed the impor-
tance of agricultural development since Independence. However, until recent-
ly, performance has been disappointing with farm output barely keeping pace
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agricul-
ture in India is given in "Economic Situation and Prospects of India".
Report No. SA-3, April 18, 1969.



-2-
with population growth and severe food shortages occurring in years of poor
weather. Policies favored industrial development over agriculture. Cheap
food for urban workers received priority over incentives to farmers. Im-
ports of industrial machinery and raw materials received priority over fer-
tilizers.
2.02      Beginning in 1965, the Government recognized this shortcoming
and gave the highest priority to agricultural development. A major ef-
fort was made to accelerate the introduction of new agricultural tech-
nology, to increase the availability of needed inputs, and to provide
economic incentives to farmers. The results of the new agricultural
strategy have been very encouraging. The rapid spread of new high-yield-
ing varieties and the sharp increase in the use of fertilizers and other
inputs indicate real progress in raising farm production.
2.03      The impact of technological advances in Indian agriculture has,
however, involved only a small number of farmers -- perhaps as little as
10% of the rural population. These have been mainly the larger, better-off
farmers with the knowledge and the capital to adopt new farming technology.
There are, however, many more farmers who could also take advantage of the
new technology if helped with credit. To maintain the forward momentum of
Indian agricultural production, it is important to help this group.
2.04      The net over-all credit requirements of the agricultural sector
in the next few years will be great. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) esti-
mates that total net medium-and long-term credit requirements (gross funds
needed less funds from collections) during the six-year period ending 1973/74
would be of the order of Re 3,000 million (US$400 million) annually. It has
also estimatpd that short-term agricultural credit requirement would rise to
Rs 20,000 million (US$2,667 million) by 1973/74, or a yearly increase of 14X
as against only 8% annually during 1962/63 to 1966/67. For all types of
credit for agriculture, incremental net needs would grow five-fold: from
an average increase of Rs 1,000 million (US$133 million) per annum in the
first half of the '60's to Rs 5,000 million (US$666 million) per annum by
1973/74. Steps have been taken to involve commercial banks in agricultural
lending, but the bulk of medium- and long-term credit requirements must come
from public and private savings and/or borrowings from outside India.
B. The State of Gujarat
Area and Population
2.05      The State of Gujarat lies in the west of India (see Map) and has
an area of about 185,000 km2 (18.5 million ha) or 5% of India. The popu-
lation is estimated at 26 million or about 4.7% of the entire Indian popu-
lation. Agriculture provides employment to two-thirds of the working
population.



-3-
Ecology
2.06      Gujarat represents 2 distinct regions:  the Gujarat mainland and
the Gujarat peninsula. The mainland is mostly an alluvial plain drained
by 4 river systems (the Sabarmati, Mahi, Narmada, and Tapi) while pen-
insular Gujarat or Saurashtra is characterized by low hills alternating
with tiny alluvial basins. Soils, rainfall, and temperature vary consider-
ably. From an annual average of 2,000 mm in the south, rainfall declines
rapidly towards the north and west, with virtually no precipitation in
northwest Gujarat. In all areas, most rainfall occurs in the monsoon
months of June to September. Temperatures vary from 550F to 800! (January)
and from 80°F to 105OF (May).
Agricultural Production and Irrigation
2.07      There are three cropping seasons in Gujarat: "kharif" (June
through October), "rabi" (November through February), and hot weather
(March through May). Most of the cropping is done during "kharif" (using
monsoon rainfall) and during "rabi" (using residual moisture after the end
of the monsoon). Very little cropping occurs during the hot weather season
except where irrigation water is available.
2.08      Principal crops grown are foodgrains, cotton and groundnuts.
Yields per ha for all crops except cotton are below the all-India average.
This is largely due to insufficient and uncertain rainfall in most parts of
the State and the limited area under irrigation: the latter is presently
estimated at 12.5Z of cropped area, so that nearly 87.5% of crops depend on
rainfall.
2.09      Rainfall in many of the northern districts of Gujarat is inade-
quate for cropping even during the monsoon season, and in the south, rain-
fall, though plentiful, is often untimely, causing low yields. Crops which
grow on residual soil moisture during the "rabi" season (wheat is the major
crop grown at this time) are often chronically short of water and yields
are very low.
2.10      Irrigation is required in varying degrees during all seasons if
high yields are to be obtained. Furthermore, new high yielding varieties
require more water and at the right time. Irrigation can be particularly
beneficial even during the monsoon season because the start of the monsoon
is at times delayed, or water deficiencies occur at its end. One or two
applications of irrigation water to supplement a deficient monsoon may in-
crease yields considerably.
2.11      Some 60 State irrigation schemes have either been completed, are
under construction, or are in the planning stage. They all involve dms
or weirs across small rivers and streams, together with canal systems to
deliver water by gravity. On the other hand, the pace of private sector
investments in minor irrigation facilities has been encouraging, especially
of late. While there is no up-to-date inventory of existing wells, loans



-4-
granted by the Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) in-
dicate the magnitude of private investments. Since 1951, LDB has lent
more than Rs 315 million (US$42 million) for wells alone to more than
168,000 borrowers, while another Ro 426 million (US$57 million) was granted
to about 123,000 borrowers for engines and pump sets for wells. About 80%
of all irrigation water comes from wells.
Farm Mechanization
2.12      The State's agricultural program aims to increase foodgrain pro-
duction by 50% during the next five years. Expected production gains would.
in part be brought about by higher cropping intensity through improved water
supply and farm mechanization which, together, could increase cropping inten-
sity by 30%.
2.13      Although there appears to be rural under-employment in general,
farms located close to urban or industrial areas have been hampered by
seasonal labor shortages or increasing labor costs due to the availability
of alternative employment opportunities. Such conditions prevail in south-
ern and central Gujarat and, to some extent, in northern Gujarat. Medium-
and large-size farms are particularly affected. There are 2 distinct
periods in an agricultural year when the need for motive power on Gujarati
farms is at its peak: the "kharif" planting period and the time between
"kharif" harvest and "rabi" planting.  In both periods, farmers find it
difficult to complete field operations on time, even when bullock power
is abundant. As a result, considerable areas remain fallow. For instance,
the work of paddy puddling (during "kharif"), which is both heavy and time
consuming, discourages farmers from expanding their rice cultivation with
bullock power alone. Reliable and constantly available motive power is
needed at higher cropping intensities especially after the "kharif" harvest
to prepare the fields, during the very limited time available, for "rabi"
planting. This applies particularly to the important wheat crop. Farm
mechanization is thus becoming increasingly important for the expansion
of cropped area through increased cropping intensities.
2.14      There are now an estimated 5,200 tractors in Gujarat.  They are
used for field preparation; threshing grains; driving pumps, crushers,
choppers, and other farm machinery; and transportation. Farmers use their
tractors on their own farm or rent them out for custom work. The value of
tractors to farmers is reflected in the custom tractor work rate of Rs 15
per hour which is about 3 times the cost of equivalent bullock work. Most
irrigated farms have a highly diversified cropping pattern which provides
opportunity for year-round cropping. The demand for tractors is great (a
new tractor can be sold for as high as Rs 28,000, or 1/3 above average
official purchase price) and supply from Indian plants is inadequate.
Because of lack of foreign exchange, India has practically stopped import-
ation of tractors except through bilateral arrangements with non-IDA mem-
ber countries. Farmers have to wait from 2 to 3 years for a tractor.
The situation for tractor implements, on the other hand, is fairly satis-
factory. Tractor implements of local manufacture for land preparation



are in good supply. Their quality is fair and major producers are con-
stantly improving their designs. However, the quality of ploughs and
harrows suffer from a lack of high quality discs and bottoms not general-
ly available from within India; also self-propelled harvesters are not
available. Further details on farm mechanization are given in Annex 4.
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.15      The considerable increase in the consumption of nitrogenous fer-
tilizer (which grew three-fold from about 48,000 tons in 1962/63 to about
160,000 tons in 1967/68) and the growing use of not "high-yielding" vari-
eties indicate the favorable response of Gujarati farmers to new inputs
and technology. To meet the growing demand, the Gujarat State Fertilizer
Co., one of India's major fertilizer producers, is doubling its production
capacity. Likewise, plans for the construction of a large fertilizer fac-
tory in western Gujarat are nearly finalized. Together with output from
several privately-owned fertilizer plants, supplies will be adequate to
meet increased demand. Fertilizer is distributed through the State
Cooperative Marketing Society with 24 wholesale units and about 3,000
distribution centers.
2.16      The use of improved seeds is being encouraged and priority has
been given to their production. Seed production is controlled by the Gu-
jarat Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, while purchase and dis-
tribution of certified seeds from approved growers is carried out by the
State Cooperative Marketing Society. Availability of improved seeds ap-
pears to be adequate.
2.17      The Gujarat Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, respon-
sible for agricultural research and extension, operates 5 main research
stations, 16 district research stations, 29 sub-stations, 7 dry farming
research stations, and 9 fruit research farms, which are geographically
dispersed to meet the markedly diverse cropping patterns within the State.
Research work is satisfactory.
2.18      Village level extension workers, fully engaged in extension work,
cover about 800 farming units each, though under the so-called Intensive
Agricultural District Progranis, the extension service intensity is doubled.
Contact between research and extension workers in specific crops is facili-
tated by dispersed research stations. Extension work coverage needs to be
and is being strengthened and intensified.
Land Tenure and Ownership
2.19      Largely because of a policy of encouraging ownership of land oy
small farmers (for instance, in April 1957, tenant-farmers were given the
right to purchase the land they were cultivating), individual farms are of
small size generally. As a result, members of families often own indivi-
dual plots of land which are usually farmed together. Cultivated land in



- 6 -
Gujarat is now owned by approximately 2.2 million families, of which about
46% own farms of 2 ha or less; about 30%, 2 to 6 ha; about 20%, 6 to 20 ha;
and about 4%, more than 20 ha. Farm sizes vary greatly within the State,
but larger farms are predominant in the drier and poorer regions in the
north and west.
Credit Services
2.20      The banking and agricultural credit system in Gujarat follows the
general pattern found in India. Institutional agricultural credit at the
farm level is mainly provided by cooperatives: primary credit societies ex-
tend short- and medium-term loans, and the Gujarat State Cooperative Land
Development Bank (LDB) extends medium- and long-term credit. On the other
hand, commercial banks (both private and nationalized) and the Government-
owned State Bank of India (and its subsidiary, the State Bank of Saurashtra)
also extend short-term credit and, on a relatively small scale, medium- and
long-term credit.
2.21      Cooperatives have always been strong in Gujarat.  They have pro-
vided, on average, about 45% of the total estimated agricultural credit
granted.  Most of the rest is provided by non-institutional lenders as the
share of commercial banks has been insignificant. LDB is virtually the
only supplier of long-term agricultural credit. Interest rates charged by
institutional lenders range from 8-1/2% to 9-1/2% per annum (see also para
3.19); private money lenders reportedly charge interest at rates higher
than the maximum legal rates of 12% for secured loans and 15% for unsecured
loans.
2.22      Primary credit societies are refinanced by central cooperative
banks (union of primary societies at the district level) which are, in
turn, refinanced by the State Cooperative Bank 1/ (the apex institution at
the State level); funds of the State Cooperative Bank come from deposits
and borrowings, mostly from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Funds of com-
mercial banks come mostly from deposits and from rediscounts from RBI. LDB
derives lending funds mainly from sale of debentures; it also receives sub-
stantial refinance from the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC), an
institution which operates throughout India. ARC is the most suitable vehi-
cle for extending support for IDA agricultural credit to LDB, as well as to
similar institutions in other Indian States. Its operations and those of
LDB, both of which would be involved in the Project, are discussed in the
next Chapter.
1/   A different institution and not to be confused with LDB.



- 7 -
III. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
A. Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Introduction
3.01      The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) (see Annex 1) vas
established in July 1963 to meet the need for a central organization which
could provide medium- and long-term refinance to primary agricultural lend-
ing agencies. ARC, thus, has an important role in the development of Indian
agriculture, not only as a channel for development funds (particularly
through land development banks), but also for its influence on lending poli-
cies and operating procedures of the agencies it assists.
Organization and Management
3.02      ARC's present paid-up capital is Rs 50 million; its shareholders
are institutions such as land mortgage and State cooperative banks and other
approved financial institutions. Its Board comprises nine members repre-
senting GOI, RBI (which under ARC's Charter must hold at least 50% of
ARC's share capital), and other shareholders; its present Chairman is a
Deputy Governor of RBI. ARC's head office is in Bombay. Through regional
offices (now numbering seven), ARC has direct contact with State Governments
and borrovers; these offices also supervise ARC-refinanced schemes.
3.03      The Managing Director, who is chief executive, also represents RBI
on the Board. He has a senior staff of 19, most of whom hold a law or com-
merce degree, but apart from one agricultural economist, the staff lacks
persons qualified in agriculture, engineering, or allied sciences. However,
for technical evaluation of projects, ARC employs consultants from a panel
approved by GOI and State agricultural departments. In addition, the
services of such specialized organizations as the Exploratory Tubevell
Organization, the Geological Survey of India, and the various Commodity
Boards are available to ARC, and have been used by it.
Lending Policies and Procedures
3.04      ARC can provide financial assistance only to central land devel-
opment banks (such as LDB), State cooperative banks (such as the Gujarat
State Cooperative Bank), and scheduled commercial banks 1/; under except-
ional circumstances, it can lend directly to a primary society. Refinanc-
ing is through subscription to special debentures floated by central land
development banks and by way of loans to State cooperative and major
1/   Scheduled banks are those which are included in the Second Schedule
to the Reserve Bank of India Act of 1935, having paid-up capital and
reserves of at least Rs 5 million and being entitled to certain bor-
rowing facilities from the Reserve Bank of India.



commercial banks. In addition to a State government guarantee, debentures
carry a charge on all mortgages refinanced by the issue. ARB does not
require that it be paid by the Bank it finances as collections from farmers
are received by such banks, instead part of such collections are lodged in
sinking funds and invested in GOI securities and debentures of other land
development banks. There would be at least two important advantages if ARC
financial assistance were paid back by land development banks to ARC in
installments as they are collected from farmers: funds would continue to be
used exclusively for ARC-evaluated schemes and the cost to land development
banks of borrowed funds would be reduced (LDB's sinking fund investments,
for example, average a return of no more than 5.8% per annum whereas the
cost of borrowed funds range from 6-6-1/2 per annum (see Annex 2 Para 16)).
3.05      In practice, ARC refinances medium-term projects at 3-5 years and
long-term at 5-15 years and, exceptionally, up to 20 years. In practice, most
are in the range of 5-12 years. It charges 6% per annum for its funds and
scheduled banks may not onlend at more than an additional 2-1/2% per annum.
Land developuent banks are not bound by the same restriction, but generally
follow the same interest mark-up. ARC levies a commitment charge of 1/3 of
1% and also a charge of 1Z on advance repayments made at short notice.
3.06      ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes which are
technically and financially sound and are within a reasonably compact area
(for ease of evaluation and supervision). While technical evaluations are
made by consultants, economic appraisals are done by ARC's own staff but,
here again, ARC needs experienced agricultural economists to make more
reliable economic analyses. ARC is aware of this need and has taken steps
to establish a Technical Department.
Lending Operations
3.07      During its first years, ARC made few loans, partly because it was
establishing its organization but also because it was then ARC's policy to
refinance only projects to be carried out through cooperative societies. In
June 1966, this restriction was removed and, furthermore, in 1967, ARC agreed
to increase its refinancing of loans for minor irrigation from 75% to 90%,
refinance for other investments remaining at 75%. In 1967/68, ARC approved
89 schemes for Rs 680 million; this was 60% of the total value (70? by
number) of all schemes approved since ARC was formed. In 1968/69, 113
schemes for a total of Rs 750 million were sanctioned. The pace of new
submissions has continued at a high level (there were 251 schemes under
consideration as of June 30, 1969 involving Rs 2,708 million) and is not
expected to level off for some time.
3.08      As of June 30, 1969, the majority (about 65x) of schemes approved
for financing since ARC's organization were for minor irrigation; the rest
were for the financing of land improvement and plantations, with only a
negligible amount for tractors and power tillers. The small amount approved
for schemes involving tractors and power tillers reflects, among other fac-
tors, the short supply of these items.



-9-
Sources of Funds
3.09      Apart from its share capital, ARC can raise funds from the follow-
ing sources: (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI;
(b) issue and sale of bonds and debentures guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings
from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months; and (d) deposits from GOI, the
State governments, and local authorities for periods not less than 12 months.
Total borrowings and deposits may not exceed 20 times the sum of ARC's cap-
ital and surplus reserves, an equity/liability relationship not likely to
jeopardize the position of ARC's creditors since borrowed funds are invested
in Government securities and in loans which are guaranteed by State govern-
ments and amply secured by real estate mortgages. As of June 13, 1969,
ARC's lending funds (apart from its share capital of Rs 50 million) came
solely from borrowings from GOI amounting to Rs 257.5 million and from depos-
its received amounting to Rs b.l million. Latest loans from GOI were at
5% interest per annum less 1/4% for prompt payment of interest; no interest
is paid on deposits.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
3.10      During the first 3 years when little lending was done, ARC's main
source of income was from interest earned from investments in GOI securities.
With increased lending beginning in 1966/67, interest earned from loans and
debentures was 60% of gross income, subsequently increasing further to 80%
in 1967/68 and 92% in 1968/69.
3.11      Except for the 1968/69 operations, net earnings after taxes (ARC
is subject to tax of 55% on net income) have not been sufficient to pay the
statutory annual dividend of 4-1/4% on ARC's initial share capital. The
annual deficiency has been made good by GOI in accordance with its guarantee
to underwrite the mandatory dividend. 1/ GOI has so far advanced Rs 1.41
million to meet the deficiency which ARC will have to reimburse out of
future profits. With the expected increase in the volume of its operations
(Para. 3.07), however, ARC should be financially viable (see Appendix 1-2).
With its assets held mostly in GOI securities and land development banks'
debentures, ARC is in good financial condition.
3.12      The law requires that ARC's accounts must be audited by a quali-
fied private auditor and, additionally, GOI has the power to appoint the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India to examine and report on ARC's
accounts. So far, GOI has not seen fit to exercise this power. ARC's ac-
counting system is satisfactory. Further details about ARC are given in
Annex 1.
1/   Being mandatory, the dividends in question are of the same nature as in-
terest but, unlike interest, are not allowable as a charge against pro-
fit in ARC's tax computation. Consequently, ARC, has paid substantial
taxes to the Government while receiving much smaller Government payments
to meet its dividends.



- 10 -
B. Gularat State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LD#J
Organization and Management
3.13      Organized in 1951 originally as the Saurashtra Central Cooperative
Land Mortgage Bank, LDB's membership consists almost entirely of farmers
(not of primary land development banks as is the case in most of the other
Indian States). A small portion (8%) of the total paid-in shares has been
contributed by the State Government and State cooperative organizations.
3.14      Of its 25 Board members, 17 are elected by shareholders on a
district basis. The Board delegates considerable powers to working com-
mittees. For example, an Executive Committee enjoys almost all powers of
the Board itself, while a Loan Sub-Committee approves almost all loans.
3.15      The Managing Director, appointed by the Board, is assisted by a
staff (with the rank of supervisor and above) of 634 of whom almost 500 are
in field offices. Most have degrees in law, liberal arts, and commerce,
but only 5 have technical qualifications (i.e. in agricultural, engineering
or allied sciences). Staff qualifications reflect the fact that until re-
cently LDB was primarily a land mortgage bank (as opposed to a development
bank) the loans of which were granted for any medium- or long-term require-
ment, as long as the land security offered was sufficient (most of the loans
in LDB's early years were for purchase of land occupancy rights). With
LDB's changed role (most of its loans prior to 1965/66 were for acquisition
of land and purchase of tenancy rights; see also Appendix 2-1) and because
of new evaluation requirements for ARC-supported schemes, LDB has recently
authorized the creation of a new department of professionals in agriculture
and irrigation with staff to be stationed in the Central Office and the four
division offices.
3.16      LDB has an extensive network of offices.  Besides the Central
Office in Ahmedabad (the capital of Gujarat State), LDB has four division
offices supervising 181 branches throughout the State (inspection of ac-
counts, investigation of applications for loans of over Rs 10,000 etc.).
Each branch has a managing committee consisting of members elected by its
shareholders, and by the "panchayat union" (a local government council
of a group of villages or "taluka").
Lending Policies and Procedures
3.17      In general, loans may be granted for any medium- or long-term
investment that would enhance agricultural production. To borrow, a member
must hold shares equivalent to 5% of any loan up to Rs 5,000; 7-1/2% in case
of loans above Rs 5,000. As of May 30, 1969 farmers' contributions amounted
to Rs 56 million or 90% of the total paid-up share capital. There is no
limit as to the amount of loan that may be granted but no loan can exceed
50% of the value of the land offered as security, plus 50% of the value of
the LDB-financed improvement or machinery and equipment (this represents a



- 11 -
collateral margin of 100% over the loan amount). The collateral value of
land arrived at after a complicated valuation process is very conservative
and, coupled with the stringent collateral margin requirement, has resulted
in many a farmer's project being rejected or reduced for insufficiency of
collateral.
3.18      In view of the great number of loan applications it handles, gen-
erally for small amounts and for many purposes (Para. 3.22), LDB, as a prac-
tical procedure, relates loan repayment periods to loan size rather than to
borrowers' repayment capacity. Repayment terms are very lenient: loans to
Rs 3,000 being for 10 years; for up to Rs 5,000, 12 years; and above Rs 5,000,
15 years. All loans for the purchase of tractors, however, are for 8 years ,
being the estimated useful life of such machinery. No grace period is al-
lowed for any loan except in case of loans for wells (repayment of which
begins after completion of the well, but not later than 18 months after
first disbursement from the loan) and loans for plantations (initial repay-
ment of which depends upon the crop being grown).
3.19      LDB charges 8-1/2% per annum on loans under ARC-approved projects
and 8-3/4% for all other loans. These rates are lower than the effective
rates charged by other institutional lenders in Gujarat (the noninal rates,
mostly for short-term, are: primary credit societies, 8-1/2% to 9% per annum
and commercial banks, 8-1/2% to 9-1/2% per annum, compounded quarterly,
represent effective rates of 8.77% to 9.84% per annum).
3.20      LDB pays dealers directly for machinery and equipment purchased
by borrowers, while loans for wells and other improvements are disbursed in
installments after proof of proper utilization of previous installments.
Verification of use of loan proceeds is a responsibility of branch super-
visors.
Lending Operations
3.21      From 1960/61 (when LDB's area of operation expanded with the
formation of the new State of Gujarat) to 1968/69, LDB had granted loans of
more than Rs 780 million; in 1968/69 alone, it advanced Rs 204.million. In
recent years, LDB has been granting about 25% of all loans advanced by land
development banks in India. In 1967/68, it ranked first among all such
banks in terms of annual volume of operations.
3.22      More than 80% of all loans since LDB's establishment have been for
minor irrigation, and about 6% for tractors. The rest were for other
purposes such as purchase of land occupancy rights and land for consolida-
tion of holdings (granted mostly during the early years of LDB's existeree),
soil reclamation, land improvement, etc. During the 18 months ending
December 1968, about 85% (62,000 loans) of the total number of loans granted
were for Rs 4,000 or less, reflecting the major category of farmers LDB is
serving. Such loans represented around 70% of total amounts advanced.



- 12 -
Sources of Funds
3.23      LDB derives its funds from members' contributions in the form of
share capital, accumulated reserves and net income, and from borrowings in
the form of debentures. Interim financing of its operations until the cor-
responding debentures can be floated is facilitated by borrowings from cor-
mercial banks and from the State Cooperative Bank. LDB does not raise funds
through deposits.
3.24      Debentures, guaranteed by the State Government, are the main
source (about 90%) of lending funds. As in the case of other land develop-
ment banks in India, LDB floats 3 types of debentures: ordinary or regular
debentures, purchased mainly by GOI institutions; rural debentures, aimed
at mobilizing rural savings (LDB leads all development banks in India in
sales of rural debentures); and special debentures, purchased by ARC to
finance schemes approved by it. Further details about terms attaching to
these debentures and about LDB generally are given in Annex 2.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
3.25      LDB has never incurred any loss.  About 63 to 70% of gross income
is used to meet the cost of borrowing while about 13% goes to defray salaries
and personnel allowances. LDB needs a spread of at least 2-1/2% over average
borrowing cost for it to meet expenses and provide for reserves and pay divi-
dends at present levels.
3.26      LDB has a good loan collection record resulting largely from effi-
cient management coupled with easy loan repayment terms.  There has been no
case of a loan written off as a bad debt. LDB's loan portfolio is secured by
ample collateral.
3.27      On June 30, 1969 members  contributions to share capital amounted
to Rs 62.9 million while surplus reserves totalled Rs 18.6 million. Since
1958/59, LDB has consistently paid dividends to shareholders, the last 3 years
at 5%, up from 3% and 4% during previous years. LDB is in good financial
condition. Its accounts which under the law are examined yearly by the
State Registrar of Cooperatives and, likewise, audited annually by an in-
dependent outside auditor, appear to be operated satisfactorily.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The Project is a lending program to finance farmers' investments
(totalling about Rs 492.7 million. or US565.7 million) in minor irrigation
facilities (about 85% of total investments) and farm mechanization over a



- 13 -
period of 3 years. The Project would also include investments by contrac-
tors in drilling rigs, for which LDB would provide finance, and a study of
the State's groundwater development, which the Gujarat State Groundwater
Directorate would undertake. The total Project cost is estimated at
Rs 501.9 million (US$67.0 million).
4.02      The following table shows the investments expected to be made and
the typical size of farms likely to be involved:
Total
Typical       Number of Loans          Average  Invest-li
Farm   Year    Year    Year           Invest-   ments
Kind of Investments Size(ha)  1        2       3      Total ment(Rs) Rs'000
Pumpset                 5    3,000   3,000   3,000  9,000   6,800   61,600
Dug-well & Pump-set    5    3,000   4,000   3,000 10,000  12,400  123,640
Dug-cum-bore well
with Pump-set         5      600      600     600  1,800  14,300   25,720
Shallow Tubewell       15       800     900     900  2,600  36,100   93,945
Deep Tubewell          50       400     400      400  1,200  85,600  102,665
Lift Irrigation        20        10      15       15     40  60,800    2,430
Tractors, Tractor
Implements and
Harvesters           40       700     800      700  2,200  34,200   75,300
Drilling Rigs (by
contractors)         --        8                        8 925,000    7,400
Total              8,518   9,715   8,   26A848             492,700
1/   Differences due to rounding of average investment figures.
B. Detailed Features
Minor Irrigation Investments
4.03      Investments in minor irrigation facilities would involve the in-
stallation of pump-sets to about 9,000 existing open wells (now worked by
bullocks); the construction of about 10,000 new open wells complete with
pumpsets; the transformation of around 1,800 old wells into dug-cu-bore
wells (an open well where boring is made at the bottom to increase water
flow) complete with pumpsets; and the installation of approximately 2,600
shallow tubewells, 1,200 deep tubewells, and 40 lift irrigation systems from
rivers.  These investments are expected to be made over a three-year period.



- 14 -
4.04      Investments in pumpeets to replace bullock power, in construction
of new wells complete with pumpsets, and in dug-cum-bore wells are expected
to be made by farmers cultivating around 5 ha. Investments in shallow tube-
wells would be made in farms of around 15 ha, while lift irrigation systems
and deep tubewells would be made in fairly large-size farms or by farmers
in partnership. Further details on minor irrigation are given in Annex 3.
4.05      Investments in minor irrigation facilities which tap groundwater,
(as differentiated from lift irrigation systems which tap water from rivers),
would mean an additional annual water discharge of about 1.5 million acre
feet, conservatively estimated. This is still within aggregate estimates of
groundwater availability (total annual recharge from rainfall in Gujarat is
estimated at about 6 million acre feet; present yearly withdrawal is about 4
million acre feet). Nevertheless, before investments in deep tubewells beyond
those expected for the first year of the Project (Para 4.02) are made, it
would be judicious that further investigation of groundwater resources in
Gujarat, particularly in respect of recharge from aquifers, be undertaken.
This lack of knowledge would affect the construction especially of deep tube-
wells (dug wells and shallow tubewells which form nearly 60% of expected
minor irrigation investments under the Project are not significantly affected
by recharge to deeper aquifers, because such wells depend mainly on monsoon
rainfall for recharge). It is, therefore, important that groundwater
studies should be carried out now. Consultants' services for such a survey
is discussed in Para. 4.10. Assurance was obtained that the State Ground-
water Directorate would conduct such a study (Para. 4.10).
4.06      There are two important factors which affect construction of deep
tubewells. The first is that the indiscriminate installation of deep wells
could draw the water-table down, if the recharge is insufficient, and this
could cause dug-cum-bore and shallow wells in the vicinity to go dry. The
second is that the investment in a deep tubewell is comparatively high and
it should be fairly certain that sufficient water is available before fur-
ther intensive investments of this kind are made. Until the proposed study
is completed, no more than 400 deep tubewells out of the 1,200 under this
category would be financed under the Project; and no tubewell installation
would be financed in Kaira District until said study is completed (ground-
water investigations of the Kadana Irrigation Project area which includes
Kaira District principally, is also one of the conditions of IDA assistance
to that project negotiated in December 1969). Four hundred tubewells
are considered safe even without such a groundwater study, especially since
all tubewell installations would have to be approved by the State Groundwater
Directorate (para. 5.06). During negotiations, assurances were obtained on
the foregoing.
4.07      To take care of drilling the approximately 1,200 deep tubewells
under the Project, it is expected that drilling contractors would acquire
new drilling rigs to augment present drilling capacity. If requested, LDB
would assist contractors in obtaining appropriate drilling rigs and/or pro-
vide financing for such rigs. Assurances have been obtained on the fore-
going.



- 15 -
Farm Mechanization
4.08      Investments in farm mechanization would be in tractors, suitable
tractor implements, and trailers (Annex 4). The credit program would finance
tractors (about 2,200), generally of about 35 HP. This tractor size, which
is now the most popular in the State, is well suited to Gujarati soil and
farming conditions.
4.09      Tractor loans under the Project would be made only to farmers
cultivating at least 40 ha of irrigated land, unless a tractor can be used
for farm custom work to make the investment financially feasible; in no
case would a tractor loan be made to a farmer or farmers (as a group) owning
less than 15 ha of irrigated land. Most of the investments in farm mechani-
zation would be made in eight districts (Ahmedabad, Baroda, Broach, Junagadh,
Kaira, Mehsana, Raikot and Surat) where a sufficient number of holdings have
the required size and where existing and planned irrigation development
would make extended multi-cropping possible. Investments in minor irrigation
facilities under the Project are also expected to be made in most of these
districts and a major irrigation project proposed for IDA financing would
cover Kaira (Kadana ProJect), among other districts.
Groundwater Study
4.10      The Project would provide for the financing of consultant services
for the groundwater study, discussed in Para. 4.05. The newly-formed State
Groundwater Directorate would be responsible for the study. Assurance was
obtained that such a study would be undertaken in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with IDA and that the State Groundwater Directorate would
employ experts in number and qualification, and under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.11      The estimated Project cost together with the foreign exchange
requirement, are shown in the following tabulation:



- 16 -
Rs (millions)        US$ (millions)      Foreign
Local  Fgn.  Total  Local  Fgn.  Total   Exchange
a) Lending Program
1. Minor Irrigation    410.0   -    410.0   54.7   -         54.7       -
2. Drilling Rigs          7.4   -       7.4    1.0   -        1.0      -
(incl. spares)
3. Tractors               6.7  43.7   50.4    0.9  5.8        6.7       87
4. Tractor Implements   20.1   3.3   23.4    2.7  0.4         3.1       14
5. Harvesters             0.3   1.2    1.5       -   0.2      0.2      80
(incl. spares)
Total            444.5  48.2  492.7   59.3  6.4    65.7         10
b) Tractor Spare Parts        -     7.2    7.2      -   1.0      1.0      100
c) Groundwater Study         -      2.0    2.0      -   0.3      0.3      100
Total Project Cost      444.5  57.4  501.9   59.3  7.7    67.0          11
Details of the cost estimates are shown in Annex 5.  Estimates are based on
present prices including 10% contingencies for those items to be procured
locally and 5% contingencies for those items involving foreign exchange.
4.12      The Project would be financed from the following sources:



- 17 -
IDA
Credit Funds
Far-                                                    To
mers/                                           %       ARC      %
Con-                       ARC and      Total  For-     and      of
trac-                       State       Proj- eign    State    Total
tors           LDB       Government1/  ect    Ex-      Govern-  Proj-
% of          % of          % of   Cost   change  ment      ect
Rs(M) Total  Rs(M)  Total  Rs(M)  Total  Bs M   Cost    Rs(M)    Cost
a. Lending Program
1. Minor Irri-
gation    82.0  20   32.8      8    295.2  72   410.0    -         205.0    50
2. Drilling
Rigs
(incl.
spares)    1.5   20    o.6     8       5.3  72      7.4    -         -       -
3. Tractors    12.6   25   10.1    20      27.7   55    50.4    87       43.7     87
h. Tractor
Imple-
inents     4.7   20    4.7    20      14.0   60    23.4    14        3.3     14
W. Harvesters
(incl.
spares)     0.3   20    0.3    20       0.9  60      1.5   80         1.2     80
Total Lending
Program      101.1   20   48.5    10    343.1  70   492.7    10        253.2     51
b. Tractor          2/                                       2/
Spare Parts    7.2  100    -        -                   7.2- 100         7.2    100
108.3  22   48.5    10    343.1   69   499.9    11       260.       52
c.Groundwater
Study 32      -     -      -       -      2.0  100     2.0   100        2.0    100
Total Project
Cost        108.3   22   8.5    10    345.1   69   501.9    11        262.1     52
i/ All items in these columns relate wholly to ARC with the exception of the Ground-
water Study amount which relates wholly to the State Government.
2/ Shown at CIF value. In addition, farmers would bear dealerst mark-up.
3/ Includes employment costs only of three experts, if foreign.  Local cost of study
would come from annual budget of State Groundwater Directorate.



- 18 -
Loans to farmers for minor irrigation facilities and farm implements and to
contractors for drilling rigs would be no more than 80% of investments,
while loans for tractor purchase would be no more than 75% of the cost of
tractors. Borrowers' contributions to their investments would thus be com-
paratively substantial. On average, of the total Project cost, farmers/
contractors would finance 22%; LDB, 10%; and ARC, 68%.
4.13      The proposed IDA credit of Rs 262.4 million (US$35 million equiva-
lent) would supply about 76% of ARC's financial support of the Project
(Rs 343.1 million) or 52% of total Project cost (Rs 501.9 million). Speci-
fically, IDA funds would finance: (a) the foreign exchange cost of tractors,
tractor implement components, harvesters and spare parts and the possible
hire of foreign experts for the groundwater study -- Rs 57.4 million or
US$7.7 million equivalent; and (b) one-half of the cost (all in local cur-
rency expenditures) of minor irrigation investments -- Rs 205 million or
US$27.3 million equivalent. Financing of expenditures in local currency is
thus 40Z of total Project cost and is warranted in the light of the Bank
Group's lending strategy with respect to India, which places great importance
on the financing of high priority projects in the agricultural sector. Be-
cause the requirements for imported capital goods for such projects are re-
latively small, it is necessary to finance local expenditures in order to
make a substantial contribution to the projects and the sector.
4.14      The proposed IDA credit would be made on normal IDA terms to GOI.
Assurance was obtained that GOI would assume the exchange risk and would
make the proceeds available to ARC, at the official rate of exchange, repay-
able at the end of nine years at an interest rate of 5% per annum less 1/4
of 1% rebate for prompt payment. This would correspond to the normal terms
of GOI lending to ARC and similar institutions in India.
4.15      ARC would onlend the proceeds of the credit to LDB which would be
the sole lending institution to farmers and drilling contractors under the
Project. LDB would pay interest of 6-1/2% per annum, 1/2% more than the cur-
rent ARC lending rate. The interest increase would help augment the lending
resources of ARC which, in due time, as similar arrangements are made for
future ARC operations, would grow significantly. ARC refinancing would be
repayable in installments set to coincide, more or less, with LDB's collec-
tions from farmers under the Project. Assurances were obtained on the fore-
going.
D. Procurement
4.16      Installation of dug wells, tubewells, and lift irrigation involves
generally small, labor-intensive, difficult-to-schedule operations and would
not, therefore, lend itself to international competitive bidding. Such in-
stallations would be performed by local contractors using local materials.
Competition among contractors is satisfactory and supplies are adequate.



- 19 -
4.17      Tractors are at present supplied by five Indian plants, who all
manufacture with overseas collaboration (three with companies in Bank mem-
ber countries, Eicher of the Federal Republic of Germany, International
Harvester of the USA and Massey-Ferguson of the UK). There are also im-
ports from non-member countries. Tractor supply is acutely inadequate to
meet demand and tractor dealers have a long waiting list of prospective
buyers on their books (para 2.14). In order to meet the rapid increase
in demand, GOI has encouraged the setting up of new manufacturing plants.
It has approved plans for additional plants in collaboration with foreign
manufacturers and as of November 1969 two of these additional plants were
in collaboration with manufacturers in Bank member countries (Deutz of the
Federal Republic of Germany and Ford of the USA). Another four proposals
are under GOI consideration from companies in the Federal Republic of
Germany (two), France and the UK. Consideration is far advanced on one of
the German proposals. The additional plants together with the expansion
of existing manufacturing units will considerably increase India's tractor
manufacturing capacity, but a substantial gap between this supply and all-
India demand will still remain for the next few years. Under these cir-
cumstances all tractors under the project including their spare parts,
would have to be imported.
4.18      Methods for the procurement of tractors have been considered very
carefully; as indicated in Para. 1.02, this Project is likely to be followed
by five more in other States. Consequently, the procurement methods deter-
mined now are likely to be used for the other projects where tractor imports
are required.
4.19      Three procurement methods have been considered:
(a) Farmers' purchase through existing dealerships;
(b) Bulk procurement on the basis of international
competitive bidding;
(c) Bulk procurement based on farmers' preference and
in conjunction with existing dealerships providing
after-sales service.
Farmers' purchase through existing dealerships would be the preferred solu-
tion in principle. However, this is only feasible where a reasonable level
of competition can be established both through adequate supplies and the
establishment of dealerships for makes not now represented. Under present
circumstances, this could only be achieved through liberalizing import licens-
ing for individual dealers to enable large scale tractor imports to complement
the inadequate local production. In view of India's shortage of foreign
exchange, this solution is not favored by GOI.
4.20      Bulk procurement under international competitive bidding would
have been suitable in some respects. The approximately 2,200 tractors in
the Project now proposed and the even greater numbers expected in the latter
projects for IDA's consideration would make this an attractive solution.



- 20 -
However, international competitive bidding could not take into account
actual farmer demand and preference and would tend towards a tractor dis-
tribution monopoly, probably in the public sector, thereby weakening exist-
ing dealership channels and curtailing further competition.
4.21       The system proposed for this project is essentially international
bulk procurement based on farmers' demands, with distribution through the
normal dealership system. LDB would obtain price quotations from overseas
suppliers authorized to manufacture tractors in India (USA two companies,
Federal Republic of Germany two and the UK one, see Para. 4.17) and on the
basis of such quotations farmers would express their first and second choice
make of tractor. On the basis of farmers' choice, and after consultation
with IDA, LDB would place bulk orders through the appropriate Indian repre-
sentatives of overseas manufacturers. This formula would take account of
farmers' individual preferences, tend to lower prices while strengthening
local dealerships and ensuring after-sales service which is considered es-
sential to the project. The restriction of numbers of potential suppliers
is reasonable in that the five makes available from Bank member countries
during project implementation (Para. 4.17) are enough to give adequate com-
petition without an undesirable proliferation of tractor makes with rel-
atively insubstantial support for spares supplies and after-sales service.
Firms whose requests to establish manufacturing facilities are approved by
GOI during the credit's disbursement would be added to the list of eligible
suppliers.  The present list of five might increase to six by next year and
three other proposals are pending.  Details of the method proposed are set
out in Annex 6.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that tractors
would be procured in accordance with the procedures set out above.
4.22      Prices to farmers for imported tractors are generally in line,
at the official exchange rate, with those for locally manufactured tractors.
However, because of inadequate supplies, a substantial overhang in demand,
and recent improvements in farm incomes, there is an active trade in second-
hand tractors at a premium of about 25% above the original purchase price.
Measures such as requiring a high down payment for the purchase of a tractor
(which is provided under the Project; see Para. 4.12), prohibiting the re-
sale of tractors prior to full repayment (as is now required under LDB
regulations), and increasing the price of tractors, would, to a large
degree, help deter demand from other than legitimate users. The necessity
for price increases, however, is an all-India phenomena and selective price
adjustments on a project-by-project basis would not meet the problem.
This is one of the reasons, among others, why GOI itself is currently re-
viewing the tractor-pricing problem. During negotiations, understanding
was reached that GOI and IDA would discuss this problem, especially in the
context of future IDA-financed farm mechanization projects in India.
4.23      Together with the order for tractors, GOI would allow tractor
suppliers to import tractor spare parts equal to 16.51 1/ of the CIF value
1/ Estimated spare parts requirement of a tractor in relation to its
CIF value: 1st year - 0; 2nd year - 5%; 3rd year - 10%; plus 10%
allowance overall.



- 21 -
of tractors. During negotiations, assurance was obtained that for the
five years succeeding the final disbursement for tractors under the Project,
GOI would issue licenses to suppliers of tractors imported under the Pro-
ject for the import of spare parts up to a total value of 10% annually of
the CIF value of the tractors imported under the Project; if the availabi-
lity of spare parts within India would so warrant, a smaller amount of
importation may be agreed upon between GOI and IDA.
4.24      Tractor implements would come from Indian plants.  Indian tractor
suppliers, representing foreign manufacturers, offer a variety of tractor
implements which they produce locally or contract from other local manufac-
turers. Farmers would be free to purchase from existing commercial chan-
nels. The tractor implements are either original models, modified models,
or locally-developed designs. All implements are made mainly from local
materials and components. Their performance and quality are reasonably sat-
isfactory.   However, to meet the lack of harvesters and high quality discs
and plough bottoms (Para 2.14), assurance was obtained that GOI would grant
licenses to dealers to import harvesters and to implement manufacturers to
import implement components in amounts equal to 10% of the CIF value of
tractors imported under the Project.
4.25      Good quality farm equipment and implements are essential to farm
mechanization. GOI recognizes this and studies have been made as to the
feasibility of expanding field testing entities which, through their work,
can aid farmers in their choice of implements and encourage manufacturers
in improving their products.
4.26      To ensure efficient execution of the deep tubewell program under
the Project, it would be necessary to assure that drilling contractors
entrusted with such installations are equipped and organized for efficient
operations. Towards this end, LDB would ascertain the number of tubewells
proposed to be installed in specific areas and would invite bids from
qualified contractors for installation of tubewells in these areas within
stipulated periods of time. Assurances on the foregoing were obtained dur-
ing negotiations.
E. Disbursements
4.27      Disbursements to farmers under the Project would cover 3 years.
Allowing for possible delays, IDA disbursement is expected to cover 3-1/2
years. Against appropriate statements and documents, disbursement would be
50% of the cost of minor irrigation projects and the CIF cost of tractors
and harvesters. Likewise, IDA would disburse to GOI allocations for the
CIF cost of spare parts and tractor implement components upon satisfactory
proof that importation of such tractor spare parts and implement components
has been made under licenses issued by GOI for such importation. IDA would
make disbursements for the cost of consulting services only if expatriate
consultants are engaged.



- 22 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
5.01      ARC is in the process of realigning its organization.  It is also
increasing its technical staff. During negotiations, understanding was
reached that these measures would be carried out and that, in addition, ARC
would back-stop its regional offices with necessary technicians to help im-
prove the quality of project proposals to ARC and the supervision of ARC-
supported schemes.
5.02      ARC's operations are audited by an independent auditor; likewise,
GOI can direct the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to examine its
books. ARC would continue to employ a qualified auditor acceptable to IDA.
Gularat State Cooperative Land Development Bank
5.03      LDB recently authorized the formation of a technical department
with technicians at the head office at Ahmedabad and its four field division
offices. During negotiations, assurance was obtained that the head of the
technical department at Ahmedabad and suitably qualified technicians in
charge in each of the four field offices would be appointed prior to effec-
tiveness of the IDA credit.
5.04      LDB is capable of handling the lending program under the Project.
Its management is experienced, capable and responsible and its network of
offices would assure adequate and reasonably prompt coverage of the Project
area.
5.05      LDB's accounting system is satisfactory.  Its operations are ex-
amined by the State Registrar of Cooperatives; its books are audited by an
independent private auditor. Assurance was obtained that its accounts
would continue to be examined and audited by an independent auditor accept-
able to IDA.
Lending Policies and Procedures
5.06      To help assure the technical feasibility of minor irrigation in-
vestments under the Project, assurance was obtained that all tubewell pro-
jects would have the approval of the State Groundwater Directorate, and
lift irrigation projects, the approval of the Irrigation Department.
5.07      To help assure financial feasibility of individual farm projects:
(a) All investments under the Project would be evaluated
in terms of the incremental returns to the farmers from
the additional investment. ARC would prescribe appro-
priate evaluation methods.



- 23 -
(b) Because of numerous small loan applications expected
(about 7 to 8 thousand annually ranging from Rs 4 to
15 thousand for each loan), LDB would evaluate the financ-
ial feasibility of investments (excepting those stated
hereunder) on the basis of models representative of
the area wherein investments would be made (this is
already the present practice in evaluating ARC-approved
schemes). However, in the case of investments in tube-
wells, lift irrigation, and farm mechanization, evalua-
tion of financial feasibility would be made on a case-
by-case basis.
(c) Loans for tractors would be granted only to farmers
cultivating at least 40 ha of irrigated land, unless it
can be demonstrated that the tractor would be used for
farm custom work to make the investment financially
feasible. In no case would a tractor loan be made to
a farmer or farmers (as a group buying a tractor to-
gether) owning less than 15 ha of irrigated land.
This would reduce the risk of overcapitalization of
small farms and help to avoid the use of tractors
mainly for non-agricultural purposes.
(d) Tractor borrowers under the Project would be required
to buy post-warranty service on their tractors for the
life of the loan.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that LDB would follow the
above criteria in extending loans under the Project.
5.08      Lending terms under the Project would be:
(a) Interest on loans would be raised from the present
8-1/2 to 9% per annum. The increase would adjust
present LDB interest rates to those effectively
charged by other credit institutions. LDB would pass
on the increased rate to ARC (Para 4.15) which in turn
would use the additional resources generated for lend-
ing to similarly appraised agricultural schemes.
(b) The loan terms should take account of the repayment
capacity of borrowers. Farm mechanization loans would
be for not more than 7 years and minor irrigation
loans not more than 9 years.
(c) Loans under the Project would be for no more than 80%
of the investment, except in the case of loans for
tractor purchases which should not exceed 752 of the



- 24 -
cost of tractors. The foregoing arrangement is designed
to ensure reasonable equity participation by borrowers
under the Project; in the case of tractors, to fur-
ther help limit demand to those farmers who can make
economic use of tractors.
(d)  The loan value of collaterals would be raised to at
least 67% of value appraised under present procedures.
This would liberalize security requirements and still
allow LDB 50% collateral margin over loans granted,
which is ample protection.
Assurances were obtained on the foregoing.
5.09      Assurances also were obtained that:
(a)  LDB would amend its regulations to allow borrowings
by drilling contractors under the Project. LDB regu-
lations now stipulate that loans can be granted to
farmers and farmer groups only and exclusively on land
collateral.
(b)  LDB would adopt the same lending procedures, terms and
criteria for similar operations not financed under
this Project. This would improve and ensure uniformity
in LDB's lending operations. During the next 3 years,
lending under the Project would be the major activity
of LDB.



- 25 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
Production
6.01      Investments in minor irrigation facilities, tractors and farm
machinery would make possible increased double cropping and better farming
practices; this would mean an expansion of cropped area by about 93,000 ha.
Very important, also, is the fact that minor irrigation facilities (about
85% of total investments) would permit dependable yields where yields be-
fore merely relied on uncertain rainfall. At full development, after
three years, foodgrain production is expected to increase by over 60% on
farms of participating farmers:
Cropped Area (ha)            Production (tons)
Before    After   Increase   Before    After   Increase
(ha)      (ha)      (ha)     (tons)    (tons)   (tons)
Bajri (Millet)       84,000  120,000    36,000    87,000  170,000    83,000
Jowar (Sorghum)      34,000   34,000        -      38,000   51,000    13,000
Rice                  6,000    9,000      3,000    19,000   29,000    10,000
Wheat                36,000   65,000    29,000    73,000  130,000    57,000
Maize                 1,700    2,200        500     4,000    5,000      1,000
Pulses               53,000   57,000        4,000       53,000    57,000  4,000
Total:  Foodgrains 214700  287,200    72,500   274,000  442,000   168,000
Cropped Area (ha)            Production (tons)
Before    After   Increase   Before    After   Increase
(ha)      (ha)     (ha)      (tons)    (tons)   (tons)
Cotton               40,000   36,000    (4,000)   32,000   36,000       4,000
Groundnut            54,000   77,000    23,000    54,000   77,000    23,000
Tobacco               6,600    6,600        -       6,000    7,000      1,000
Banana                  450      900        450     9,000   23,000    14,000
Sugar cane              450    1,350        900    27,000   95,000    68,000
Vegetables              900      900        -
Total: Other Crops 102,400  122,750    20,350
Grand Total         317 100  409,950    92,850



- 26 -
Markets
6.02      It is expected that production increases under the Project would
be consumed within the State, with the exception of cotton (medium-long
staple), which is a deficit commodity for India. There should be no mar-
keting problem as Gujarat has a relatively efficient distribution system
consisting of marketing societies and private merchants.
Prices
6.03      GOI expects that self-sufficiency in foodgrains in India would be
attained within this decade. However, uncertainty over the continuation
of the food zone policy makes it difficult to calculate Project benefits.
If substantial increases in agricultural production were to materialize in
the years ahead, foodgrain prices might be relaxed, particularly in Gujarat
where foodgrain prices are high. In the farm plans and financial projec-
tions illustrated in this report, two price assumptions have been made:
one, at present levels, and the other, at an overall decline of 10% in
farm gate prices from their present level. The assumed price decline is
reasonable if account is taken of GOI policy to encourage the agricultural
sector through price incentives.
Farmers' Benefits
6.04      Analyses of expected financial benefits to farmers have been made
on the basis of several illustrative types of farm enterprises that would
be financed under the Project (see Annex 7). These analyses show that sub-
stantial increases in net annual income would be derived from investments
envisaged under the Project when combined with adequate and appropriate
current inputs such as improved seeds and fertilizer. On reasonably well-
managed farms, the financial rate of return on various investments in
minor irrigation would range from 21 to 45% (at present prices) and from
17 to 41% (assuming a 10% downward price adjustment). On investments in
farm machinery, the financial rate of return would range from 26 to 43%
(at present prices) and from 23 to 32% (at a 10% downward price adjustment).
6.05      Given the cropping pattern, yield and price assumptions detailed
in the farm models (see Annex 7), farm incomes (excluding wage income but
after debt service) are expected to rise as follows:



- 27 -
Farm Size               5 ha       15 ha       50 ha      50 ha
Dug well &   Shallow       Deep     Tractor &
Investment             Pumpset    Tubewell   Tubewell   Implements
(All figures in Rs.)
Net Income per Farm:
At Present                     714        4,179      8,280       31,684
At Full Development          4,110       15,776     32,584       43,668
Increment                    3,396       11,597     24,304       11,984
Debt Service (interest
and principal)                  1,495        4,366     10,350        5,545
Increment after Debt Service      1,901        7,231      13,954       6,439
Farmers pay only a nominal fixed land revenue tax, not related to their net
income; this Project would therefore, not generate any direct tax on expect-
ed incremental net income of farmers under the Project.



- 28 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      As with other agricultural projects which rely for a large part
of their success upon participation of small farms engaged in varied
cropping patterns, a quantitative assessment of the overall benefits can-
not be made accurately. The economic rate of return would be high since
at the present stage of farming practices the simple addition of the in-
puts involved produces substantial incremental outputs. Prices are un-
certain to some extent but they are not expected to fall substantially.
To give some indication of the Project's sensitivity to lower prices, the
rate of return to the economy, based on the incremental net value of in-
creased production has been calculated on three price bases:
(a) present prices;
(b) 10 price reduction;
(c) 10% price reduction until 1975; thereafter world
market prices for foodgrains. 1/
The price assumptions used and the resulting rates of return to the economy
are as follows:
(a)                 (b)                     (c)
Present Prices      Present Prices      Projected World Prices
reduced by 10%             by 1975
- - -                    US$ per ton - - - - - -     - - - - -
Wheat           126                 113                      65
Rice            126                 113                     120
Bajri            93                  84                      60
Jowar            80                  72                      55
Maize            93                  84                      60
Rates of Return to
the Economy      29%                 22%                     17%
The cash flows on which the foregoing rates of return have been calculated
are set out in Annex 8.
1/   The assumed world market prices are those projected by the Trade
Policies and Export Projections Division of IBRD's Economic De-
partment.



- 29 -
7.02      All prices in the Project have been converted into Rupees at the
present exchange rate of US$1.00 to Rs 7.50. Family labor has been included
in operating costs at full market value. Similarly, operating costs have
been assumed at current price levels although some important inputs cost
much more than world prices (e.g. fertilizer costs the Gujarati farmer twice
what the European farmer pays). When input prices decline which is not un-
likely (for instance, when fertilizer output increases), rates of returns
would be even greater than those shown under the various assumptions.
7.03      The analyses do not take into account indirect benefits from the
processing of the additional crops to be produced nor does it measure the
social benefits of increau3ed employment in the Indian context of severe
population pressure and unemployment. Though not quantifiable, these fac-
tors would enhance the Project's already adequate economic justification.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained t ansure
satisfactory project performance. Some of the principal ones are:
i.   A study of the groundwater resources of Gujarat would
be undertaken under terms of reference agreed with IDA
(Paras 4.05 and 4.10);
ii.   Tractors financed under the Project would be imported
through bulk arrangements on the basis of farmers'
choice (Para 4.21);
iii.   Loans to farmers would be evaluated on the basis of fi-
nancial and technical feasibility where, heretofore,
loans were granted on the basis of collateral sufficiency
alone (Para 5.07); and
iv.   Financial participation of farmers would be made more
significant than was heretofore the practice in Gujarat;
farmers' contributions would be not less than 20% of
individual investments while interest on loans would be
9% per annum, up from 8-1/2% (Para 5.08).
8.02      Some important conditions of effectiveness would make LDB's lending
policies more effective and at the same time responsive to credit requirements:



- 30 -
i.   LDB would amend its regulations raising loan value from
one-half to two-thirds of appraised value of collateral
(Para 5.08); and
ii.   LDB would amend its regulations so that the same lend-
ing terms and criteria would be used for similar lend-
ing operations not financed under the Project (Para
5.09).
8.03      The proposed Project is suitable for IDA assistance of US$35 mil-
lion under usual IDA terms.



A]WEX 1
IIIDIA
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
Organization and MIanagement
1.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) was established on
July 1, 1963, with the objectives of providing medium- and long-term
resources to agricultural credit institutions and, at the same time,
directing and guiding such institutions toward a development-oriented
approach in their operations.
2.        The followring institutions can become shareholders of ARC: The
Reserve Bank of India (RBI); central or state-level land and mortage banks
and cooperative banks; and other institutions (scheduled banks, the Life
Insurance Corporation of India, insurance and investment companies, and
other classes of institutions as may be  naned   by the Government of India).
Individuals cannot be shareholders of ARC. Of the initial 5,000 shares
issued, the lawi provided that RBI shall subscribe to at leat 50%; the
central land mortgage banks and state cooperative banks to no more than 3Od;
and other institutions to no more than 20%. Future issues of shares would
be allocated in the same proportion. The initial shares issued were
guaranteed a dividend of 4-1&/1 per annum.
3.        ARC's management is vested in a Board of Directors of nine
members, three of whom are elected and the rest nominated. Three directors
represent RBI (a Deputy-Governor is Chairman of the Board); three directors
represent the Government of India (at present: The Secretary, Department
of Agriculture, and the Additional Secretary, Department of Cooperation of
the Ninistry of Food, Community Development and Cooperation; and a Deputy
Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs of the lNinistry of Finance);
and three directors elected one each by the central land development banksp
by the state cooperative banks, and by the Life Insurance Corporation of
India, scheduled banks, and other insurance and financing institutions.
4.        The 11anaging Director (also one of the directors representing
RBI in the Board) is the Chief Executive Officer, He is aided by a senior
staff of 19 (as of June 30, 1969), most of i.homi hold a law or commerce
degree or a certificate from the Indian Institute of Banking, but none (with
the exception of one) witl training in agricultures irrigation, engineering,
or allied sciences. However, ARLC employs Indian consultants for technical
evaluation of projects, a practice lhich is advantageous and will continue
despite ARCts present plans to create a Technical Department.
5.        ARC1s head office is in Bombay.  It has seven regional offices
in India (Bangalore, Calcutta, Coimbatore, Chandigarh, Kampur, NJew Delhi
and Hyderabad) t-hich assist banks and State Governments in formulating
agricultural development projects for financing, clarify ARC's policies



ANNEX 1
Page z
and procedures when required, undertake pre-appraisal of projects submitted,
and supervise general execution of projects under ARC financing. Regional
offices have only "skeleton" forces, however, and generally, besides a
Deputy-Manager who is in charge, the "staffl consists of a typist or
stenographer and possibly another clerk.
6.        In general, ARC's Charter provides that it shall be guided by
such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as GOI may,
after consulting RBI, give in writing. ARC can extend financial assistance
only to central or state-level land development banks, state cooperative
banks, and scheduled banks; in exceptional cases and with RBI approval,
directly to a primary cooperative at the farm level. Refinance is provided
through purchases of special debentures floated by central or state-level
land development banks and through loans to state cooperative banks and
scheduled banks.
7.        Until June 1966, it was not normally ARC's policy to refinance
construction and energization of wells by individuals unless the outlay
involved was large and development was envisaged through a cooperative
society organized for the purpose. In July 1966, however, ARC not only
removed this restriction, but likewise circulated a model scheme for minor
irrigation development by farmers in compact areas. Thus, began ARC's
policy of financing individual farmers on the basis of project models.
8.        At the beginning, ARC's policy was to finance no more than 75%
of a project, leaving the balance to be contributed by State Governments.
However, the generally strained resources position of most State Governments
considerably restricted the extent to which land development banks could
avail themselves of refinance facilities from ARC. Accordingly, to stimu-
late investments in minor irrigation especially, ARC increased its support
of such investments to 90%, beginning with all projects sanctioned in 1967/
68.
9.        Special debentures purchased by ARC from central land development
banks must be guaranteed by the proper State Government. In addition,
debentures are protected by a charge on all mortgages resulting from loans
refinanced from the issue. Furthermore, as is the case in all debenture
issues, ARC requires that collections from farmers be lodged in a sinking
fund in amounts sufficient to pay off the debentures at maturity. The
sinking fund is invested in GOI securities and debentures of other land
development banks. It may also be used to repurchase the land development
bank's own debentures. Since from the viewpoint of financial returns the
sinking fund arrangement does not benefit a land development bank as issuer
of debentures (average returns on sinking fund investments are no more than
5.8% per annum;  debentures cost 6-61 per annum); it would be more advan-
tageous if debentures are redeemed in installments;funds may then be reused
in ARC-evaluated and approved projects.
10.       ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes which are
technically feasible, economically justified, and are within a reasonably
compact area for facility of loan evaluation and supervision. The scheme



ANNEX 1
Page 3
can involve just one farmer, a group of farmers, or an association of
farmers.  Preference, however, is given to schemes involving a large
number of farmers.
11.       Technical evaluation of schemes is carried out by consultants
drawn from a panel approved by the Government of India. Services of the
Exploratory Tubewells Organization, the Geological Survey of India and
the various Commodity Boards are also availed of. ARC prescribes the
terms of reference in every case. Some important points looked into in
the case of schemes for minor irrigation include: an estimate of the
quantum of water proposed to be tapped, annual water recharge, annual
water draft taking into account the existing and proposed wells, type of
pump sets needed, etc. While technical evaluation procedures appear to
be adequate, there is the obvious need, however, for ARC staff with ex-
pertise to judge such evaluations and to supervise progress of schemes
on a technical basis.
12.       Economic evaluation of schemes is performed by ARC staff.  Some
of the important aspects looked into are: financial outlay necessary,
cropping pattern recommended and its suitability, availability of inputs,
farmer's repayment capacity, efficiency of project executing agency,
arrangements for the provision of short-term credits, marketing arrange-
ments, etc. Preappraisal is done generally by regional offices but final
evaluation is -,de in Bombay.  Although most of the staff had been re-
cruited from the Agricultural Department of RBI, there is need to bolster
the staff with experienced agricultural economists.
13.       Periods of refinance are determined after a study of the repay-
ment capacity of farmers based on farm models.  The terms, however, es-
pecially in the case of long-term projects, tend to be generous. Present
refinance terms are: for medium-term projects, 3 to 5 years; for long-
term projects, 5 to 25 years. At present, long-term refinance is limited
to 15 years, although 20 years may be allowed in exceptional circumstances.
14.       ARC charges 6% per annum for its funds.  However, scheduled banks
are required to charge their borrowers no more than an additional 2'` per
annum. Land development banks are not bound by the same restriction but;
they nevertheless, generally follow the same interest mark-up. ARC
collects a commitment charge of 1/3 of 1% on the amount not used in any
one year according to a schedule of expected withdrawals approved for a
scheme.
Lending (Refinancing) Operations
15.       The following table shows the progress in ARC's lending operations
during the first six years of its existence (amounts in Rs M):



ANTNEX 1
Page  4
Number of        Total
Projects        Project            ARCts
Year         Approved           Cost          Commitments
1963/64            3              22.30            20.10
1964/65            8             116.50            98.00
1965/66          15              160.30           124.60
1966/67          13               95.0o            76.80
1967/68           89             681.60           586.40
1968/69         113              748.87           663.10
Total           233            5,82h67          1,569.00
During the initial years, ARC transacted very little business due to the
need for laying the groundwork and bases for its operations and for build-
ing its staff.  An important deterrent, however, was ARCIs policy, at the
time, of refinancing only projects in which development vas envisaged
through a cooperative society organized for the purpose. In June 1966,
this restriction was removed; furthermore, CAC agreed to refinance up to
90/ of loans for rmiinor irrigation, against 75,J heretofore (PaTr2s 7and 8).
Thus; dilring thb last tiwro ;years, pr&bJects appfiovedTfor refinancing were
more than 3-1-2 times the number during the f-irst four years.
16.      lIost of the schemes sanctioned vere for projects financed by
land development banks:
as M       c of Total
a)  Land development banks........ 1,710.10         93.7
b)  State cooperative banks....*9.      69.65         3.8
c)  Scheduled commercial banks....    4.82            2.5
Total.... 1,824.57        100.0
17.       iIore than 85% of the cost of projects approved for refinance were
for minor irrigation and land reclamation (differences due to rounding):



AMNE X 1
Page 5
Projects           Total Project
Approved                 Cost
/J of                   ,of
Number     Total       Rs II       Total
a)  l{inor irrigation..........  125         53.6      1,174.78      64.4
b)  Land reclamations..........   30         12.9        367.60      21.2
c) Tractor & power tillers....    2           0.8          6.25       0.3
c) Soil conservation ..... 0000.    2         0.8         23.76       1.3
e)  Plantations................   62         26.6        169.14       9.3
f)  PouJtry**.......... .¢....*.    5         2,2          5. 04  0.3
g) Fisheries............. .   .    5          2.2         31.00       1.7
h)  Dairying0.0*.............    1            0o.4         8.27       0.5
i)  Godowns........,   .....  .    1         o.4         18.72       1.0
Total...  233       100.0      1,824.57     100.0
18.       As of June 30, 1969, there were 251 schemes pending consideration.
They would involve a total outlay of Rs 2,708 million.  The outlay involved
in the pending schemes is tlhe largest in Punjab, mainly on account of a
sizable scheme for farm mechanization.  In most States, howeVer, the bulk
of the proposed schemes are for minor irrigation.
Source of Funds
I1.       Apart from share capital, ARC can raise funds from the foLlowing
sources:  (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI;
(b) issue and sale of debentures guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings from
RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months; and (d) deposits from GOI, the
State Govelrments1 and local authorities for periods not less than 12
months. Total borrowings and deposits received shall not exceed 20 times
the sum of ARCts capital and surplus reserves.
20.       ARCts borrowings and receipts of deposits during the six years
of its existence may be summarized as follous (amounts in Rs Hi):
Year        Borrovings        Deposits Received
1963/64         50.000                 --
1964/65           --                 1,130
1965/66           __                 1.255
1966/67           --                 1.255
1967/68         30.000               1.255
1968/69        177.500               1.252
Total          257.500               6.147
All borrowings from GOI were on the following terms:



ANIMEX 1
Page 6
Rs 1M        Interest P.A.                 Repayment
50.000           None             30 years with 15-year grace
30.000           5-1/2           At end of 15 years
60.000           5-1/2           At end of 15 years
117.500           5               At end of 9 years
Since August 1968, ALC has been allowed a rebate of 1/4% on timely payments
of interest.  The larger loan of Rs 117.50 was for a shorter term since the
proceeds were used to refinance, in the main, minor irrigation schemes,
generally requiring refinance for 9 years or less. The special deposits
represent dividends payable on ARC's shares held by RBI, which, under the
lawv must be held by ARC as special deposits.  No interest is paid on them.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
21.       A comparative statement of ARC's operating results since its
establishment until 1968/69 is given in Appendix 1-1 and is summarized
below:
Net
Income    Statutory  Surplus
Gross    Total      Net   Income   Before    Dividend      or
Year   Income Expenses  Income   Tax    Dividends  Liability  Deficit
1963/64    3.75    0.30     3.45    1.80      1.65       1.91      -0.26
1964/65    4.oo    0.39     3.6.    1.76      1.85       2.13      -0.28
1965/66    4.35    0.48     3.87    2.27      1.60       2.13      -o.53
1966/67    4.98    0.61     4.37    2.40      1.97       2.13      -0.16
1967/68    6.oo    1.67     4.33    2.38      1.95       2.13      -0.18
1968/69   11.04    6.29     4.75    2.61      2.14       2.13      +0.01
22.       In the first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
mostly from interest on investments. Beginning 1966/67, this
changed when ARC began to expand rapidly its refinancing operations (para
15). In 1968/69, interest received from loans and debentures represented
more than 92% of total income received.
23.       Benefitting from cost-free funds available to it during the first
four years of its existence (para 20), ARC's main item of expense at the
time was salaries and employee benefits. Needing more funds for its
expanded operation, interest paid on borrowed money became an important
item of expense beginning with 1967/68. In 1968/69, interest paid on
borrowings and salaries and employee benefits were 70% and 23%, respectively
of total expenses (before taxes).
24.       Net income after taxes has not been sufficient to meet the
statutory dividend liability of 4-1/4% payable annually to ARC's initial



ANNE 1
Page 7
shareholders (para 2). The annual deficiency has been made good by GOI
in accordance with its guarantee under the law.  ARC will have to reimburse
these amounts out of future profits. On the basis of the results of its
operations for 1968/69, and as the five-year projection of ARC's future
operating results (Appendix 1-2) would indicate, ARC can be expected to
operate with more than adequate income to pay the mandatory dividends in
the future.
25.       ARC is in good financial condition (Appendix 1-3).  Its equity
position as of June 30, 1969, is unimpaired by losses and its assets are
in GOI securities and debentures of land development banks which are
guaranteed by State Governments. A five-year projection of ARC's financial
condition is given in Annex 1-4.
26.       In accordance with its Charter, ARC's accounts are being audited
annually be an auditor duly qualified under the All India Companies Act of
1956 (the present auditor is S. B. Bilimoria and Co.). Under the same
Charter, GOI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to
examine and report on the accounts of ARC.



INDIA
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF NET INCOME
1963/64 to 1968/69
(Amounts in Rs '000)
1963/64      1964/65       1965/66       1966/67       1967/68       1968/69
INCOME
Interest Received
a.  On Loans and Debentures                 -                1        1,089         3,058          4,833        10,200
b.  On Investments                        3,751          3,997        3,257         125            1,170           839
Total Interest Received            3,751         3,998        4,346          4,983         6,003        11,039
Miscellaneous Income                          _              -            -             -              -               1
Total Income                           3,751          3,998        14346        4983            6,003        ll.040
EXPENSES
Interest Paid                                 -              -            -             -              466         4,419
Salaries, Allowances, Consultants' Fees,
and Employee Benefits                       203            279          365           475            913         1,433
General and Administrative Expenses             92           103          115           130            289           424
Depreciation of Assets                          4              4            4             4              8            11
Total Expenses                           299            386          484           609          1,676         6,287
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                       3,452          3,612        3,862         4,374          4,327         4,753
TaXes Paid                                  1,800          1,765        2,268         2,4_6          2,380         2,614
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES                        1,652          1,847        1,594         1,968          1.947         2,39
April 16, 1970



OUJARAT AGRICULTRAL CREIT PROJET
AGR.TWNAL ENFINJC GORPORATMN
PRWOJITD STATUNT OF NIT INCC3
For Fiscal earn Indicated
1970/71                19s7V72                1972/73                 1M7/71                  19/   of,--
Rs   N Total iJom       Rs   I  Total Iom    RIs  N Total Incom         go  1  Total Inem _          1   11 " T j*
latarwt Bar    on Debmtvres and Loan.
a.caJ. Credit Peject                            1.83      4.7           7.44      12.0         14.94      15.6 J                1.10    L4.1   2D.66    1.1
b  Otbw.                                       37-14     94.7          54.39      87.6         80.67      84.1       ll.63       65.1         il.?7      8.7
IRt.zest Darned on Insatints                      0.25      o.6           o25      0_Q           0o25        0.3         0.25      0.2          J.A       .2a
Tbotal Iamt.                                39.22    100.0          62.08      100.0         95.86        IM.0    1&9.1      IO. 
Iareat Pdd on:
a.  mD Pds                                      1.11      2.8           4.74       7.6          8.59       9.0        12.00       6.7         12.37      6.7
bu Otbi rssoy Jwroe4d                          28.38     72.4          39.76      64.1         60.35      62.9        67.71      63.0         113.94    66.7
Salaries and Consultamt' fees                     4.10     lo.5           7.36      fl.8          9.81      10.2       13. 7        9.1          17.12     9.4
G rsral _  Ad1imitrative Ipa.ne.                  1.01      2.6           1.35       2.2          1.78       1.9         2.X0      1.7            3.19     1.7
Depr eiatlon of Assett                            0.02      N             0.02       N            0.03       N           0.04      N               o.5    j.
Total Nxpenaos                              34-62     88.3          53.23       85.7         80.56     84.0       115.22      82.8         356-97
NET INow8 BtFORE TM                                 4.60     11.7           8.85      14.3         15.30      16.0        23.96     17.2           28.71    15.5
Inceuo Tax Pu                                       2.53      6.4           4.87       7.8          8.42       8.8        13.18       9.5          15-79     B.5
ESTIMATED NET IN1DH AFTE TAXE                       2.07      5.3           3.98       6.5          6.88       7.2        10.78       7.7          12 I2
N = Negligible
April 21, 1970



Jm&n
HAW  iORICM LM   CREIT ?3JCT
A0RIaTRAL RXEFIrAI(c 0011ETIOI
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEEITS
it End of Fiscal Tears Indicated
1S963/64            196VQ5   r                    96/6                       1/67                           S/                          S8
Re  1                                                                                   tsn Kfrom   /ang. rou  Crom
A S . 9 T S                                             P He      Prvi_ us Det -    Bs M    Previots Dta         Ba  M    Previous Date       Be M    Previous hate         Re       N fwloew Dat
Cash on Rand & ID Ba .                      .              .158        .166         .008            .020        (.116)           .056        .036             .089        .033             .0          (.031)
Invstato ........................................ 101.854            99.091      (2.763)          55.209      (43.882)         35.793     (19.146)           8.408     (27.385)           5.W         (3.263)
LO.-                                                                               -.              1.470        1.470           3.030       1.560            7.349        40319          254.5        18.hS
DIbentur.a  Porhaed.           ,.                                     1.4.5     00 4.5 cc 47.530    43.030                     66.729   19.19S             119.038   52.309             283.dS69   iM.03
Other Assets ...................................           .799       1.07          .218           2.M3         1.326           3.382       1.039            6,45        3.0 7?                        LA60
Total Aets .............................   1L.811         104.774       1.93           106.572        1.S96            2,4           18 
LISILITIs & CAPITAL EQUITY
Loam from Oov't of bhdia .................00.........     0.ooo      50.000        -.-            50.000   _      -            50.OD                        80.000      30.000          257.500      177.5o
Special Deposite ...................................       -          1.130        1.130           2.386        1.256           3.641       1.255            4.897       1.256            6.2J 1I.
Other Liabilities ..................................        810       3.642         .832           4.183          .541          5.345       1.162            6.11,1   l    .o              &J           1-73
Total Liabilities .52,810                                  54.772        1.962          56.569        1.797          58.986       2.417           91.338   Y 9.3572S          nlfik        iIft
Capital - Paid-up ..................................    s5oo         Sooo           -               .ooo         -.-           50.000       --              so.ooo                       So.oo         -. -
Reserves and SArplu ............. I .......           ,     001        .002         .001            .003          .001           .004         .001                           o .0 -.-
Total Capital Equity .        ...................._.                      .001          ___           __M            3-.          -.              __-
Total Liabilities & Capital Equity .          102.811     104.774       1.963          106.572        1.7L6         108.g97       2.418          1141.343     32.353          3
/ Figures in parenthesis () are decreases for the period.  Incrsases in liabilities and in capital equity and decreases in assets represent
net source of funds; increases in assets and decreases in liabilities represent net application of funds.
April 21, 1970



INDIA
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINlNCE CORPORATION
PROJECTED RALAiCE SHUETS
As of Dates Indicated
June 30, 19701/   June 30, 1971                 June 30 f297                June 30,1973                 June 30 1974  fJuu 3gd975
Change froo Change fro                                                                                               ago rrom
Has M     Re         Previou  Date_/    Re H  Previous Dates/   Rs H        Previous Datev      e H       Previous Dat                  Previous Da
A SS X T S
Cash on Hand ard in Banks                       0.47        o.49         0.02             0.87      0.38          0.72         (0.15)           0.84          0.12           0.88            0.04
Investente                                      5.00        5.00 -CO                      5.00       -            5.00 C-                       .00                          5.00 
Loans                                          56.40       93.78        37.38           135.77     41.99        192.70         56.93          285.22          92.52         399.92          UJ.70
Dsbantures Pirchaeed:
Gujarat Credit Project                        _._        56.20         56.20          172.90    116.70         286.90       114.00          331.30          44.40        304.40           (26.90)
Others                                      501.64      637.06        135.42          937.01    299.95       1,400.24       463.23        1,996.74         596.50       2,794.82         798.08
Others                                         10.05         .04         0.99            12.01      0.97         12.98          0.97           13.94          o.96           14.90           0.96
Total As"tatt573.568                                               230.01        1.263.56        4       1.898.54           6          2.633.04                                       886.88
LTABL ATIInS I  COITAL MIT!
Loanst
Gujarat Credit Project from Gov't.of
of India (IDA Funds)                        -._        41.60         41.60          129.40     87.80         218.20        88.80          260.40          42.20         260.40
Othr Loans fS  Guov't. of India and
Other Sow ces                             506.9o      694.46        187.56        1,013.90    319.44       1,554.42        540.52       2,181.33         632.91       3,062.68          875.35
spocial Depesit.                                7. 0        8.65          1.25            9.90      1.25          11.15         1.25           12.40           1.25          13.65            1.25
other Liabilities                               9.18        8.83         (0.35)           8.48    (0o.35)         8.13         (0.35)           7.62          (010 5052)
Total Liabilities                        523.48      753.54        230.06        1,16i.      4            1.791.90       630.22        2.467.75         675.85 -g3jJ                   876.ot
Capital Psid-.Y                                  50.00       50.00          -l-oO.bO                 50.00        100.00          _._           150.00          50.00         150.00            _.
Reserves:
At leginwing of Iear                                        0.08                          0.03                    1.88                          6.64                         15.29
Projected Not bIcome                                        2.07                          3.98                    6.88                         10.78                         12.92
Total Available                                             2.15                          bI lf.42                     
Mandatory Dividends D_s _/                                  2.12                          2.13                     2.12                         2.13                          2.12
At l&d Of Year                                  0.08       ____          (0.05)           1Ml    1.85                            4-76152                       8.65          T               10.80
Tbtal Capital Equity                      50.08       50.03         (0.05)         101.88     51.85        106.64          4.76          165.29          58.65         176.09           10.80
Total Liabilities & Capital Equity       573.56      803.57        230.01        1,263.56    459.99       1,898.54       634.98        2.633.04         734.50                         886.88
V/ Estimated figures.
2/ Figures in ( ) denote decrease for the peried. Increase in liabilities and capital equity and generally, decrease in assets represent net sources, of funds; increases in assets
and decreases in liabilities represent net applications of funds.
3/ Under ARC's Charter, the initial capital issue of Rs 50 million is entitled to guaranteed dividends of 4-1/4% p.a.
April 21, 1970



A2:EX 2
INDIA
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE GUJARAT STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BAiNK (LDB)
Organization and Management
1.        Registered in 1951 originally as the Suarashtra Central Coop-
erative Land Mortgage Bank, LDB's name was changed to the present one
in May 1960 with the creation of the new State of Gujarat consisting of
Saurashtra State and parts of the former State of Bombay.
2.        LDB's membership consists almost entirely of farmers (see Para.
15). LDB differs from those in other Indian states where land develop-
ment banks act as apex institutions to a tier of district and village
level societies. The entire administration is controlled and regulated
from LDB's Central Office at Ahmedabad which works through 4 division
offices supervising 181 branches all over Gujarat.
3.        LDB's management is vested in a Board of Directors of 25
members:
a)  One elected from each of the 17 districts ............. 17
b) One representative of the Gujarat State
Cooperative Bank ........      ..........................  1
c) Three nominated by the State Government, one of whom
must be the Registrar of Cooperative Societies ..... 3
d)  Three directors selected by the Board itself .......... 3
e)  LDB's Managing Director ............................... 1
Total                                       25
4.        To facilitate administration, its by-laws direct the LDB's Board
of Directors to create an executive Committee,which enjoys almost all
powers of the Board itself;  besides,other Committees lhave been created
as cell:
a)  Loan Sub-Committee which approves all loans;
b)  Finance Sub-Committee which advises on the ways and means
for raising lending funds;
c)  Staff Selection Sub-Committee which acts on recruitment of
staff with the rank of supervisors and above; and,



ATNEX 2
d) Administrative Sub-Committee, consisting of the Chairman
and Vice-Chairman of the Board and the Managing Director,
(Para. 5), which deals with problems and affairs of
administration.
5.        The Ilanaging Director is appointed by the Board of Directors and
is LDB's chief executive officer. LDB's work force totals to about 1,300
of which 634 (on June 30, 1969) are of staff ranIk (supervisors and above).
Of the staff, 64 are in the Central Office in Ahmedabad while 92 are in
the Rajkot office (dhich serves as a branch central office); about 500 men
are assigned in the field offices.  Yost of the staff have degress in law,
liberal arts, and commerce, but with the exception of 5, none has training
in agriculture or engineering or allied sciences. This is understandable
because, until recently, LDB was primarily a land mortgage bank, the loans
of which were granted for any medium- or long-term requirement (a large
part of its loans in the earlier years were for purchase of occupancy
rights) if the land security offered was sufficient. At the time, staff
responsibilities were mainly the appraisal of land security offered and
the investigation of title to it.
6.        LDB has 181 branches serving farmers at the ?ttalukatI (a group
of villages) level. Each branch has a managing committee composed of
from 9 to 11 members: 4 to 6 members elected from amongst the share-
holders; 2 nominated by LDB's Board of Directors; and 3 ex-officio mem-
bers consisting of the Chairman of the Production Committee of the
"Italuka panchayatl? ("ttaluka" administrative council), the '"t:2luka"
Revenue Officer, and the "italukalt Development Officer. The branch
managing committees consider all loan applications and make appropriate
recommendations to the Central Office in Ahmedabad. They have the power
to approve loans for well installationsnot exceeding Rs 4,000.
Lending Policies and Procedures
7.        Loans may be granted only to farmer-members of LDB (not all LDB
members are farmers - see Para. 15) and only for the following purposes:
a)  Construction, reconstruction, and improvement of, or major
repairs to minor irrigation works (dug wells, tube wells,
and lift irrigation including pump sets, engines, storage
tanks, and distribution systems);
b)  Drainage, land reclamation, and land improvement;
c)  Construction of farm improvements;
d)  Purchase of farm machinery including machinery for
crushing sugar cane and manufacture of gur or Kandasare
sugar;
e)  Purchase of land occupancy rights and land for the con-
solidation of holdings; and,



ANNEX 2
Page 3
f) Such other purposes as the State Government, by notifi-
cation in the Official Gazette, declares to be for land
improvement or agricultural production.
8.        A borrower must hold shares of at least 5% of any loan up to
Rs 5,000; at least 7 1/2% of any loan above Rs 5,000.  There is no limit
as to the amount of loan that may be granted; however, no loan can exceed
50% of the appraised value of the land security (taken on a first mort-
gage), plus 50% of the value of all LDB-financed improvements and pur-
chase of machinery. This represents collateral protection of double the
loan amount.
9.        The appraised value of the land security is arrived at in 3
ways:
a)  The value of land is estimated at 5o0  times the land
assessment.
b)  The value of land is the average of:
i. average selling price for the last 3 to 5 years as
officially registered,
ii. value of the land calculated at 250 times the land's
assessment,
iii.  value of the land calculated at 250 times the average
assessment of land in the village, and
iv. value estimated by the local "panchas" or assessors
after considering the land's characteristics, the
irrigation facilities, the income from it and other
factors.
c)  The value of land is computed at Rs 400 per acre.
Fifty per cent of the resulting value most favorable to the farmer is
taken as the loan value of the land security.
10.       In view of the great number of loan applications LDB has to
handle, generally for small amounts and for varied purposes (Para. 13),
and because of lack of trained personnel sufficient to make individual
evaluation if this were possible, LDB was forced to adopt the practical
procedure of relating loan repayment periods to loan size rather than to
individual borrower's repayment capacity. Accordingly, loan maturities
are:  (a) loans to Rs 3,000, 10 years; (b) loans to Rs 5,000, 12 years;
and (c) loans above Rs 5,000, 15 years.  No grace period is allowed for
any loan except in the case of loans for wells the repayment of which
begin after completion of the well (but not later than 18 months after
the first disbursement from the loan) and loans for plantations initial
repayment of which depend upon the gestation period of the plantation
crop.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.      The growth of interest rates which farmers have to pay for LDB loans
is shown in the following tabulation:
From: the start of operations ...................... 6-1/4% p.a.
: Sept. 1, 1957 ................................. 6-3/4% p.a.
:   April  1., 1961 .....  ........ eos..oo...... #*..  7-1/4%  p.a.
:   Nov. 1,  1964 ............. .......... . ........ 7-3/4%  p.a.
: Feb. 18, 1965 ... .  .......... *.-s*  8-3/4% p.a.
Farmers still pay 8-3/4% p.a. for loans, excepting in the case of loans under
schemes approved by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) for which
8-1/2% interest p.a. is collected. These rates are lower than the effective
rates charged by other institutional lenders in Gujarat. The rates, mostly
for short-term loans, are: primary credit societies, 8-1/2% to 9% p.a.; and commer-
cial banks,8-1/2% to 9-1/2% p.a. All these rates are compounded quarterly to give
effective rates of 8.82% to 9.84% p.a.
Lending Operations
12.      The last four fiscal years accounted for more than 60% of the total
lending operations since LDB's inception -- the last two fiscal years, especially,
showed marked expansion:
Rs Ml        % of Total
Prior to 1965/66      .     .        34h.1            38.1
1965/66 ..........................   102.5            11.3
1966/67  ........................ .   86.9             9.6
1967/68 .............8.*..*.....     167.0            18.5
1968/69    .      ................ .  203.8           22.5
Totals ........     gO4.3           100.0
In recent years, LDB had been granting about 25% of all loans advanced by state
land development banks in India. In 1967/68, LDB ranked first among all such
banks in terms of annual volume of operations.
13.      Appendix 2-1 shows loans granted by LDB classified as to purpose.
Since its establishment, more than 80% of loans granted by it were for minor
irrigation, while 6% were for tractors. The rest of the loans granted financed
purchases of land occupancy rights (almost 57,000 tenants were helped), soil
reclamation, purchases of land for consolidation of holdings, land improvement,
etc. The great majority of the loans were for Rs 4,000 or under (Appendix 2-2):
No. of loans    Percentage to
Rs 4,000 or under Total Number
1963/64 ....................... . 26,163           93.5
1964/65 .......................... 21,821          88.4
1965/66 ......  ......... I...    36,485           90.3
1966/67 .....................     30,943           90.8
1967/68  ............ o ....      40,511           85.4
July 1, 1968 to Dec. 31,1968      21,291           83.2



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Source of Funds
1h.       LIB derives its lending funds from membership contributions in
the form of share capital, from accumulations of net income after divi-
dends, and from borrowings in the form of debentures. Interim financing
of its operations until the corresponding debentures can be floated is
facilitated by overdrafts and/or advances from commercial banks and from
the Gujara.t State Cooperative Baxc. LD1 does not rtis- funds through de-.
posits.
15.       On ITay 31, 1969, total memberst contributions were Rs 62.9
millions. Almost 92% of these were contributed by farmer-members, the
rest by the State Government and various State cooperatives (Appendix
2-3). Members' contributions, together with accumulated net income
after dividends, have grown as follows ( Rs M ):
Members'        Accumulated
Contributions        Income
June 30, 1965 .......     ......   25.2               10.4
June 30, 1966 ...............   32.8                  12.5
June 30, 1967 .. ................  38.9               15.3
June 30, 1968     ..........        50.1              15.3
May 31, 1969  .........          ...   62.9           18.6
16.       Debentures have been 9CC of the source of LDB's lending funds.
They are guaranteed by the State Government as to payment of interest
and repayment of principal and are secured by the mortgages financed
from the proceeds of the particular debenture issue. As in the case
of other state land development banks in India, LDB floats 3 types of
debentures:
(a)  ordinary or regular debentures, 50% of which are pur-
chased by the Life Insurance Corporation of India, The
State Bank of India, and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
under prearranged quotas; the rest are sold in the open
market. Brokerage and underwriting commission are fixed
by RBI. Discount in the issue price depends upon money
market conditions. Present effective cost of borrowing
is a little over 6 1/4 Z p.a.
(b) rural debentures, which are sold only to individuals
since the aim for their issuance is the mobilization of
rural savings. To stimulate their sale, RBI subscribes
at the ratio of 8 for every 7 rural debentures sold to
private persons and receives interest at 1% less than
the regular rate. Present interest paid on 7-year
rural debentures is 6 1/2% p.a.
(c) special debentures, which are issued for financing
agricultural projects approved by ARC. They are sub-
scribed by ARC and the State Government in proportions
decided by ARC as a condition of its financial support.
Likewise, interest paid on debentures is decided by ARC
and which now is 6% p.a.



ANNEX2
Page 6
17.       outstanding obligations of LDB in the form of debentures were as
follows:
June 30, 1965               .................. Rs. 282.5  M
June 30, 1966              ..................      363.6  it
June 30, 1967 ..............................       464.5  it
June 30, 1968 ..................... .,.,,,.       550.1
May 31, 1969  ..................                   744.0
The growth in debenture borrowing parallels the growth in LDB's earning
assets (investments and loans).
Results of Operation and Financial Condition
18.       LDB has never incurred any loss.  Practically all of its income
is derived from interest on loans and investments. On the other hand,
from 63% to 70% of total income is used to meet the cost of borrowing,
while about 13% goes to defray salaries and personnel allowances.  LDB
considers that it needs a mark-up of at least 21-;$ over average borrowing
cost for it to meet expenses and provide for reserves and pay dividends.
Appendix 2-4 showTs LDB's results of operations during 1964/65 to 1968/69.
Appendix 2-5 is a projection of LDB's results of operation from 1970/71
to 1974/75, taking into consideration operating conditions under the
Project.
19.       LDB has a good collection record resulting largely from efficient
management 1/, easy loan repayment terms, and conservative collateral mar-
gin requirements. Foreclosure proceedings have been few and there has been
no case of a loan written off as a bad debt. LDB's loan portfolio is se-
cured by ample collateral while its investments portfolio consists of
Government securities and debentures of other state land development banks.
20.       LDB is in good financial condition.  On N4ay 31, 1969, member
contributions to share capital stood at Rs 62.9 million while surplus re-
serves were Rs 18.6 million (Para. 15). It had paid dividends of 5% during
the last 3 years, up from 3 to 4% paid during previous years. Appendix 2-6
shows LDB's financial condition at the end of fiscal years 1964/65 to May
31, 1969. A projection of its financial condition to 1974/75 (Appendix 2-7)
indicates that LDB will continue to be in good financial condition.
21.       Under the law, LDB is subject to audit, and is being so audited,
by the Registrar of Cooperatives. LDB's accounts are likewise audited by
a firm of private chartered accountants. LDB's accounting system is
satisfactory.
1/ The fact that the "talukalt revenue officer is a member of the branch
managing conmittee (Para. 6) contributes much to the good collection
record.



The Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank, Ltd.
CLASSIFICATION OF LOANS GRANTED ACCORDING TO LOAN PURPOSE
FRON INCEPTION TO MA  31  1969
(Amounts in Rs '000o
Wells (Repair                  3hgines  (Oil
and  Construction)               and KLectrij)                    Tractors                         Others                       Year's  Tbtal
Nur/               to Number/ 71  to  7                       Number;         %   to          Number/         S   to          Number/ f           to
Amount      Grand Total        Amount      Grand Total        Anount       Grand Total        Amount       Orand  tal         Amount      Grand Total
1. Prior to 1965-66
Nuubor of lomm .76,863                                 45.7           52,627          42.9             1,350          48.4
Total amount .100,270                                  31.8          170,783          40.0            22,121         42.6            50,888          46.3            344,062         38.1
2. 1965-66
Number of loa92 ...............        19,297          11.5            15,256         12.5               3U           11.1
Total aount.33,371                                     10.6           52,8P4          12.4             4,649           9.0            11,617          10.6          102,461          11.3
3. 1966-67
Nunb.r of loans .19,759                                11.8             9,948          8.1              .190           6.8
Total aunt .38,227                                     12.1           34,838           8.2             3,170           6.1            1o,687           9.7            86,922           9.6
4. 1967-68
Number of loana .19,128                                11.4            21,719         17.7               512          18.4
Total amount ........,.,.              56,042          17.7           78,411          18.4            11,266          21.7            21,273          19.3          166,992          18.5
5. 1968-69
Numbar of loans .32,981                                19.6            23,016         18.8                427         15.3
Total amount                           87..................   27.8     89.885         21.0            10.682          20.6            15,540          14.1           203.817          22.5
6. Grand Total
Number of loans .168,028                              100.0           122,566        100.0              2,790        100.0
Total amount ..................       315,620         100.0           426,741        100.0            51,888         100.0           110,005         100.0           904,254         100.0       H



The Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank, Ltd.
Appendix 2-2
CLASSIFICATION OF LOANS GRANTEID ACCORDING TO LOAN SIZE
FOR THE FISCAL YERS INDICATS'/
(Amnounts in Ra '000) 2
6-                 i       -66              1  ~-_617                                        - 6-6  OrI    ~
Numb.r/      o       Nuaber7     or       Numb65-766               196-7            Nubr    fo             ime3    9
Amount    Total      Amount    Total     Amount    Total       Amount    Total      Amount    Total      Amount    Total
1. Below Rs 500:
Nib.r of loans .3,997    14.3                              2,900    11.2        5,587    13.8         4,768    14.0        2,731      5.8       1,393      5.4
Total amount .3,652                              5.7       2,815      4.0       4,o68      4.0        4,652     5.3        3,383      2.0       1,071      1.2
2. Rs 51 - Rs l.000t
Number of loans .9,618    34.4                              5,926    22.9        9,027    22.4        8,303    24.4        6,252    13.2         3,449    13.4
Total amount.                        14,668    23.1         9,219    13.1      12,216    11.9        11,770    13.4       11,352      6.8       4,836      5.6
3.  A. 1.001 - Rs 2,000:
Numbe.r of loans .4,815    17.2                             4,532    17.6        7,953    19.7        8,115    23.8       15,004    31.6         7,517    29.1
Total amunt .9,516    15.0                                 9,238    13.1       16,811    16.4        18,819    21.4       41,080    24.6       18,071    20.8
4. IR  2,001 - Rs 3,000:
Nhmber of loans .3,197    11.4                              3,639    14.1        4,945    12.2        4,207    12.3        7,027    14.8         3,112    12.0
Total amount .8,280    13.0                                10,057    14.3       13,260    12.9       11,344    12.9       25,977    15.6         9,236    10.7
5.  Rs 3.001 - Rs 4,000:
NIIber of loan.                        4,536    16.2        5,824    22.6        8,973    22.2        5,550    16.3         9,497    20.0        6,020    23.3
Total amount .16,842    26.5                               21,462    30.4      33,551    32.8        21,342    24.3       36,438    21.8        23,258    26.8
6.  Ra 4.000 - R  5.000s
Number of loans .1,161                           4.1        1,821     7.1        2,435     6.o        1,885      5.5       3,810      8.0        2,727    10.5
Total amount .5,265                              8.3        8,413    11.9       11,200    10.9        8,576      9.8      19,266    11.5        13,570    15.7
7.  Re 5.001 - Rs 7,500:
Number of loans ..4.44                           1.6          811     3.1          953      2.4         779      2.3        1,777     3.8          895      3.5
Total amount .2,825                              4.4        4,912     7.0        5,767     5.6        4,894      5.6      12,859      7.7        6,741      7.8
8. Over Rs 7,500:
Number of loans .229                             0.8          369     1.4          515      1.3          480     1.4        1,316      2.8         720      2.8
Total amount .2,544                              4.0        4,357     6.2        5,588      5.5       5,525      6.3      16,638    10.0         9,898    11.4
Totals:
Number of loans .27,997   100.0                            25,822   100.0       40,388   100.0       34,087   100.0        47,414   100.0       25,833   100.0
Total amount .63,592   100.0                               70,502   100.0      102,461   100.0       87,922   100.0       166,992   100.0       86,680   100.0



I N D I A
GUJARAT AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
THE GUJARAT STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK
PAID-UP SHARE CAPITAL ON MAY 31, 1969
Government of Gujarat State ............................................              fl..... Rs  5,000,000
Wankaner Taluka Sahakari Bank Limited, Wankaner                  .    .    .    .    .5,000
Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Limited, Ahmedabad. . . . .                                     5,000
Gujarat State Cooperative Marketing Society, Ahmedabad            . . . .             .1,000
The Gujarat Cooperative Housing Finance Society Ltd., Ahmedabad    .... .                    100,000
The Kaira Dist. Cooperative Land Development Bank Limited, Nadiad...                         500,000
The Broach District Cooperative Land Development Bank Limited, Broach                              50
The Surat District Cooperative Land Development Bank Limited, Navasari                           100
The Baroda Dist. Cooperative Land Development Bank Limited, Baroda ..500
Private Individuals. .6,458,847
Total ..................  Rs 62,070,497



The Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank, Ltd.
OONDE1ID STATXYRTS Or NET DCOME
During The Floe-Al ear. /Indicated
1A6-65                       1965-66                      1966-67                       1967-68                       16 
Re  '000   Total Incom       Re  '000   Total Incom       R8  '000   Total Incom        Rs  '000   Total Income           I '000   Total Ineoem
I h C O h I
Interest and Fees ................  17,450          99.2          21,596          98.7         29,448          98.2          38,162          99.6          50,035          99.4
Cosmmsion, Brokerage
and Discount ...................       51           0.3            200           0.9             116          0-4             106           0.3             266           0.5
Govyt Share in Branch
Ixpnse .......... ...........          64           0.4             -055          .3              41          0.1              24           0.1              12           0.1
Other Incoe ...................          21           0.1             23           0.1             370          1.3              22            N               49_
Total Income ...........  17,586         100.0          21,874         100.0         29,975         100.0          383,14         100.0          50.362        100.0
uIPXNSBS
Interest on Money Borrowed ......   10,207           58.0         13,727          62.8          18,997         63.4          24,644          64.3          33,282          66.1
Salaries and Allowances .........    2,095           11.9          2,551          11.7           3,533         11.8           6,143          16.0           6,999          13-9
Depreciation of Assets ...........       84           0.5            114           0.5             107           0-3            176           0.5             208           0.4
Other Expenses ...................   3,562           20.3          2,328          10.6           3,141         10.5           5,876          15.3           3,251           6.5
Total Expenses ........   15,948          90.7          18,720          85.6         25,778          86.o          36,839          96.1          43,740          86.9
Net Income ......................     1,638           9.3          3,154          14.4           4,197          14.0          1,1475          3.9           6,622          13.1
/ July 1 - June 30.
N   Negligible.



I N D I A
The Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank
PROJECTED STATEMENT OF NET INCOME
During the Fiscal Years Indicated
1970/71                 1971/72                 1972/73                  1973/7%4                1974/75
% of Total              % of Total              % of To=tl               %of Total                %of Total
Rs M     Income         Rs M     Income         Rs M     Income          Rs M     Income         Rs N      Income
I N  C O  M   E_:
Interest Earned on:
a. Project Loans ........    ................    2.95  3.2           11.68    10.5            22.97    17.7           29.77    20.3            29.03    17.9
b. Other Loans ........    ..................  73.52    79.1          78.92    71.1           81.50    63.0           86.86    59.3            97.91    60.4
Interest on Investments .......   ..............  16.25    17.5         20.22    18.2            24.68    19.1           29.53    20.2            34.81    21.5
Other Income ............. ...................    0.22    0.2            0.23      0.2            0.24     0.2            0.25      0.2            0.26     0.2
Total Income ........   .................  92.94   loo.0        111.05   1oo.o           129.39   100.0          146.41   loo.o           162.01   100.0
E I P E N S E S :
Interest Paid on:
a.  Special Debentures ......   .............   1.83   2.0             7.44     6.7           14.94    11.5            20.10    13.7           20.66    12.8
b.  Other Debentures ia4 Borrowings ......  64.13    69.0             71.88    64.7           77.50    59.9            84.69    57.8           96.25    59.4
Salaries and Allowances ......   ...............  10.58    11.4         12.70    11.4            15.24    11.8           18.29    12.5            21.95    13.5
Other Expenses ........... ...................    4.68    5.0            5.62      5.1            7.31     5.6             9.50     6.5           12.35      7.6
Depreciation of Assets ...................,. 0.25         0.3             0.28     0.3            0.31     0.2             0.34     0.2            0.37      o 2
Total Expenses ........   ...............   81.47    87.7        97.92    88.2           115.30    89.0          132.92    90.7           151.58    93.5
NET INCOME .................................  11.47    12.3              13.13    11.8           14.09   -11.0            13.49     9.3           lo.43      6.5
April 21. 1970



Gujarat State Land Development Bank, Ltd.
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
As of Dates Indicated
June 30, 1965        June 30, 1966              June 30, 1967               June 30, 1968              June 30, 1969
Change from  /              hange from                 Change from                Change from
Previous Date-             Previous Date               Previous Date              Previous Date
Rs M         RsM        (Rs M)           Rs M      (Rs M)           RSM        (Rs M)           Rs M       (Rs M)
A S S,E T S
Cash on Hsnd and in Banks ...............      3.99         6.97        2.98           35.96      28.99            4.94      (31.02)          10.09        5.15
Invest.ents ..............................  84.16         107.13       22.97          125.50      18.37          146.04       20.54          194.56       48.52
Loans ..................................    242.79        317.12       74.33          371.17       54.05          483.99     112.82          657.38      173.39
Other Assets ............................      3.22          4.46       1.2h            6.68        2.22            5.95        (.73)         10.48         4.53
Total Assets ..................  334.16         435.68     101.52          539.31      103.63          6b0.92      101.61          872.51     231.59
LIABILITIES & CAPITAL EQUITY
Borrowings:
Debentures ...........................  282.46         363.63       81.17          464.49     100.86          550.14       85.65          756.27      206.13
Loans from State Gov't ...............    1.45            0.93      (1.52)            .72        (.21)            .42       (.30)           _._         (.b2)
Overdrafts ...........................      3.51        10.54        7.03            2.14       (8-40)           5.23       3.09            7.72        2.49
TOal Borrowings ..............  287.12          375.10       87.68          467.35      92.25          555.79       88.44          763.99      208.20
Advances and Deposits Payable ...........    7.33           10.06       2.73           11.50        1.44           13.72        2.22          19.69        5.97
Other Liabilities .......................      3.82          5.25       1.43            6.30        1.05            6.03        (.27)           7.26       1.23
Total Liabilities .............  298.57         390.41       91.84         435.15       94.74          575.54       90.39          790.94      215.4O
Capital Equity:
Paid-up Share Capital ................    25.16         32.78        7.62           38.91        6.13           50.12      11.21           62.95       12.83
Reserves (including Net Income) ......   10.43           12.49       2.06           15.25        2.76           15.26         .01          18.62        3.36
Total Capital .................   35.59           45.27       9.68           54.16       8.89           65.38       11.22           81.57       16.19
Total Liabilities and
Capital Equity ..............  334.16         435.68      101.52          539.31     103.63          6141.92     101.61          872.51      231.59
:_              -___                                                               _                           _
1/ Figures in parenthesis () are decreases for the period. Increases in liabilities and in capital equity and decreases in assets
represent net source of funds; increases in assets and decreases in liabilities represent net application of funds.



I N D I A
The Gujarat State Land Development Bank
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
As of Dates Indicated
June 30, 1970-/       June 30, 1971               June 30, 1972                        1973               June 30. 197g4              June 30, 1975
Change from                Change from                 Changerom                   Changrom om                 Change from
Rs M          Rs M    Previous Date2/   Rs M    Previous Dats2_/   Rs M    Previous Date"/  Rs M    Previous Date-/   Rs M    Previous Date-V
A S SE  T S
Cash on Hand and in Banks .....................           14.19          10.00         (4.19)        10.00          _._          11.00          1.00         11.00          -.-          12.00          1.00
Inveetments  ..................................          248.54         312.02         63.48        385.35         73.33        465.82        80.47        552.48          86.66        647.81         95.33
Loans:
Project          ..-.-                                                6_4.1_        614.10      195.50        131.40        314.90        119.40        346.70         31.80        298.50        (48.20)
Other  Loans  .714.70                                                885.83         91.13        917.98        32.15        944.89          26.91     1,040.56          95.67     1,197.38        156.82
Other Assets                        .12.23                               11.98       (_25)                         11.70  (0.28)  11.39        (0. 31)       11.05         (0. 34)       10.68         (0. 37)
Total Assets .1.069.66                                       1.283.93        214.27      1,520.53        236.60      1,748.00        227. 47     1.961.79        213.79  2. 166.37           204.58
LIABILITIES  &  CAPITAL  EQIITY
Long-Term Borrowings:
Special Debentures (Project) .-.-                                     56.20         56.20       172.90        226.70        286.90        1214.00       331.30          44.40       304.40         (26.90)
Other Debentures and Borrowings .952.14                           1,100.00         147.86     1,200.00        100.00      1,280.00          80.00     1,430.00        150.00      1,650.00         220.00
Advances and Overdrafts Payable .15.14                                    5.05        (10.09)         1.78         (3.27)        11.48          9.70          9.47         (2.01)         4.17         (5-30)
Other Liabilities  / .7.26                                                7.26           -            7.26         -.-            7.26            _           7.26          -             7. 26          -
Total Liabilities  .....................         974.54      1,168.51        193.97      1,381.94        213143      1,585.64        203.70      1,778.03        192.39      1,965.83        187.80
Capital Bquity:
Paid-up Share Capital .73.99                                          87.17         13.18        102.33         15.16       117.91          15.58        132.44         14.53        146.09         13.65
Surplus and Reserves:
At Beginning of Year                                               21.13                       28.25                       36.26                         .45                       51.32
Add-Projected Net Income (Appendix 2-5)                            11.47                      13.13                       14.09                       13.49                       10M43
Total Available                                                    32.60                5                                                                 9                        61.7  f
Deduct-Dividends Due 4/                                             4.35                        5.12                       5.90                         6.62                        70 ts
At E1nd of Year .21.13  27.27                                                     7.12    3 b .2b             8.01    4 4               .45 8.19        1.2           6.87   _313_                31
Total Capital Equity .95.12                                     115.42         20.30       138.59          23.17       162.36          23. 77      183.76          21.40        200.54         16.78
Total Liabilities & Capital Equity             1,069.66  1. 283.93            214.27     1,520.53         236.60     1,748.00        227.47      1,961.79         213.79      2,166.37   204.5 8
1/ Estimated figures.
2/ Figures in ( ) denote decreases for the period. Increases in liabilities and capital equity and, generally, decreases in assets represent
net sources of funds; increases in assets and decreases in liabilities represent net application of funds.
3/ For the purpose of this projection, "other assets" and other liabilities were assumed as unchanged.
:/ Assumed at 5% p.a., the rate at which LDB had been paying dividends lately.
April 21, 1970



AMNEX 3
GUJARAT AGRICULTURIAL CREDIT PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION
A. Introduction
1.        In terms of the outlay proposed, 85% of the investment program i         es core.
with minor irrigation. Investments would be mainly in groundwater develop-
ment (see Part C); some small surface water schemes involving pumping from
perennial rivers would also be financed (see Part B).
2.        In Gujarat, three seasons are recognized for agricultural purposes;
these are: kharif (June through October),rabi (November through February),
hot weather (M.Iarch through Nlay). NIost of the cropping is done during kharif
using monsoon i'adnfall, and in rabi, on residual soil moisture after the end
of the monsoon. Very little cropping occurs during the hot weather season
except for restricted areas where ir:igation water is available.
3.        Rainfall varies quite sharply from the near desert conditions of
the Rann of Kutch in the northwest, with an annual rainfall of less than
400 mm, to the lush green areas in the extreme southeast where the rainfall
reaches 2,000 mm. For most of the State, the rain falls in the months of
June to September, but in the south, the monsoon season extends into October.
In December to April, some rain can occur, but rarely exceeds an average of
2 or 3 mm per month and thus cannot be considered to contribute to crop
water requirements.
4.        In low rainfall areas, millet (bajri) is generally grown during
the monsoon season. From experiments under similar climatic conditions,
the water consumption of this crop for optimum growth is about 22 inches
(560 mm). The rainfall in some of the northern districts of the State does
not provide sufficient water even for this crop under average conditions
but in practice, some years have plenty of rain while others are deficient.
Even the rain that does occur cannot be wholly used in crop consumptive use;
there are losses due to surface run-off, evaporation and deep percolation
into the soil.
5.        In the south, the rainfall, though plentiful, is often untimely
and as a result yields are reduced. Crops which grow on residual soil
moisture during the rabi season in these areas are often chronically short
of water and the yields are thus very low. Wheat is one of the crops
grown at this time and its consumptive use requirement is about 16 inches
for optimum growth. It is quite impossible to obtain this amount from
residual soil moisture even if the soil is fully wetted at planting time.
6.        Until recently, the Gujarati farmer depended entirely on rainfall
for successful cropping and it has only been during the last 20 years that
the benefits of irrigation have been recognized. Irrigation is reouired in
varying degrees in all seasons if high yields are to be obtained. This is



ANNEX 3
Page 2
more especially the case now that high yielding crop varieties are being
used together with heavy applications of fertilizer. Irrigation can be
particularly beneficial even during the monsoon season because the start
of the monsoon can be delayed, as it was this year (1969), or there can
be a deficiency of water at the end of the season. Many farmers claim
that, in some seasons, one or two applications of irrigation water to
supplement a deficient monsoon may increase yields considerably.
B. Surface Water Development
Introduction
7.        Some 60 irrigation schemes have been identified by the Irrigation
Department of the Gujarat Public Works Department (PWD); some of these
have been completed, some are under construction and others are in the
planning stage. They all involve dams or weirs across the many small
rivers and streams, together with canal systems, to deliver water for ir-
rigation by gravity. When these schemes are completed, about 20% of the
area of the State will receive irrigation water for the whole or some part
of the year. Most of this development will take place in the high rainfall
districts to the southeast (Kaira, Boroda, Broach, Surat and Bulsar) and
many of the rivers involved rise in the hil' Ls of Madya Pradesh and
Maharashtra beyond the Gujarat State boundary (the Kadana Irrigation Pro-
ject involving Kaira District principally,already approved for IDA finan-
cing, would irrigate an estimated 283,000 ha).  Apart from these public
projects there are proposals to further exploit the rivers by allowing
private farmers to pump water for irrigation. This is knowmnas lift irri-
gation.
Lift Irrigation
8.        Generally, lift irrigation is encouraged in areas lying high above
the river level which cannot be commanded by a conventional gravity flow
system. Normally, such developments are restricted to rivers with a peren-
nial flow and it is necessary for the farmer to obtain the permission of
the Irrigation Department before any such development can be undertaken.
This prevents over-pumping of the river and protects the rights of down-
stream users. However, it appears that farmers use river water intelli-
gentally in that they do not pump extensively during the hot weather when
water is very short. Generally, at this time, they may use a little for
perennial crops such as sugar cane and orchards and also for a small area
of fodder. The main use of pumped water is for supplementing monsoon
rainfall and for providing irrigation for rabi crops.
9.        Nowhere is the lack of technical advice more obvious than in the
construction of present lif- irrigation works.  Generally, the farmer
visits a neighboring installation and copies or adaEts this for his own
needs. For instance, economy could have been attained if farmers grouped
together for a common investment instead of each one having his own lift
irrigation. Likewise, header tanks (which are very costly) used to provide



ANNEX 3
Page 3
constant delivery flow and, in some cases, to provide reserve storage, and
not very necessary. Pumping surges are not particularly hazardous in the
case of lift irrigation and the quantity of useful storage provided is
virtually negligible. Cle.rly the farmer needs technical advice and the
State Irrigation Department should be able to assist him.
0. Groundwater Development
Introduction
10.       In essence the problems of groundwater development in Gujarat are
simple.  Firstly, it is necessary to consider whether there is enough water
being added (recharge) to the general body of groundwater to ensure that
an adequate supply can be pumped indefinitely. If this is not the case,
the wisdom of extracting more water than can be replaced (Itmining"t) must
be examined. Having decided these matters, it is then necessary to ask
whether the means employed to exploit groundwater are adequate or whether
design concepts and specifications should be reviewed in order to increase
efficiency and reduce costs. These matters mainly effect the long term;
there is little doubt that, in the short term, high returns are obtained
from the present rather haphazard development of groundwater resources.
11.       Three types of wells are employed in Gujarat to exploit ground-
water; the commonest of these is the dug well which has been used in India
for several thousand years. When constructed in alluvium, it is from ten
to twenty feet in diameter and sometimes as much as sixty feet deep. Water
flows into the bottom of such wells. The second type of well is known in
India as the dug-cum-bore well and is really a development of the first
type in that a boring of perhaps six inches diameter is sunk in the bottom
of a dug well in order to increase the flow. In some cases, these borings
may be two or three hundred feet deep. The third kind of well that has
become increasingly popular during the last ten years is the tubewell. In
Gujarat, this type of well is about two feet in diameter and up to 800 feet
in depth.
Investigation and Planning
12.       The responsibility for groundwater development in the State is
shared by several organizations. GOI has an interest through two autho-
rities; these are the Geological Survey of India (GSI) and the Exploratory
Tubewell Organization (ETO). At State level, there are groundwater cells
in the PWD and in the Agricultural Department. At present, these two
cells are being combined into a body to be known as the State Groundwater
Directorate. In the past, the division of responsibility between the
various organizations has been ill-defined and it is not surprising that
the long-term development of groundwater as a resource has not received
the attention that it merits. Rather, the emphasis has been on expediency
and the fast exploitation of this resource without due regard to the con-
sequences of such action. Both PWD and the ETO have been involved in
drilling production walls when more attention might have been given to
investigations, analysis and planning.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
13.       The need for adequate planning is illustrated by the developments
in the Nkehsana District (not part of this Project), where groundwater has
been considerably over-pumped and as a consequence some of the shallower wells
have gone out of production. The same situation is developing around the city
of Ahmedabad which is included among the proposed Project areas. Although no
public wells are now being constructed in Mehsana and no LDB loans are being
advanced for the construction of tubewells, there is no law which would pre-
vent private individuals from installing deep wells if they wish. It would
be desirable for the State to take this matter up soon in order to protect
the considerable investments that have already been made in well construction.
14.       The real need at the moment is for further investigation work, in
order to define more closely those areas which are suitable for groundwater
development and to establish the recharge potential of the various aquifers.
It is also necessary to prepare a comprehensive inventory of existing wells
and to monitor the changing groundwbater situation in the various Project areas.
Some of this work is being done at the moment by the varinus bodies engaged in
groundwater development but there is a certain amount of duplication in some
rospects and some important features are neglected altogether.
15.       Groundwater development and planning should be vested in one body
and that body should be the State Groundwater Directorate. None of the
problems encountered in Gujarat are unique and the solutions to these are
well known and adequately treated in the literature. The outstanding re-
quirement is the application of these well-known principals, the systematic
gathering of basic data, and the thorough analysis of such data. This does
not necessarily mean a vast program of data gathering, in fact this should
be avoided. A carefully planned study is required in which the minimum of
data sufficient for the purpose whould be gathered.
16.       A stubJ of the groundwater resources of Gujarat would necessitate
that qualified and experienced staff are available in the State Groundwater
Directorate.  It may also be necessary to provide the Directorate with three
advisors with wide and proven experience in groundwater investigations and
development planning. Details of job descriptions for such advisors are
given in Appendix 3-1.
Water Availability in Relation to Proposed Investments
17.       Jungmann based the estimate of vertical recharge due to rainfall
on the empirical formula:
Rp = 2(R-15)2/1
where     Rp - recharge in inches per year
R = average rainfall in inches per year
This probably gives a fair approxdmation of the contribution of
rainfall to recharge but no better than that because the formula does not
take account of topography or vegetal cover. It is interesting to note that
according to tllis formula, there is no vertical recharge where the rainfall
is less than 15 inches (380 mm). This would virtually rule out such recharge



ANNEX 3
Page 5
on something over 20% of the State. Further, more than half the State would
have a vertical recharge of less than four inches per year.  It is in such
areas that a number of dug and dug-cum-bore investment would be made. Fort-
unately it is difficult to overpwup such dug wells because the well soon goes
dry and in fact, the farmer operates it intermittently in practice; he pumps
it until it becomes dry and then allows it to recover for several hours be-
fore further pumping. The fact that recharge is so small is reflected in the
small acreage that he can cultivate using his well. Nevertheless his returns
are still very high.
18.       In most of the areas proposed for tubewell development, especially
those towards the south, rainfall is high and the recharge as estimated by
the formula may be seven inches or more. Together with high residual soil
moisture left at the end of the monsoon period in thcse areas,this should be
sufficient for intensive rabi cropping.
1/
19.       Jungmann=  estimated that the total recharge from rainfall in the
State was about six million acre feet while Dr. Raga Rao_'has estimated that
present groundwater withdrawal is about 4 million acre feet.  This suggests
that a further 2 million acre feet could be developed, even ignoring any
horizontal recharge.
20.       The Project would involve about 14,400 new dug and dug-cum-bore
wells and 1,200 tubewells. Observations of the appraisal mission in the
field and the results quoted in various reports show that dug wells general-
ly produce rather less than half a cusec and dug-cum-bore wells between i
and 1 cusec. If an average of half a cusec is taken for these wells, and
say, one and-a-half cusecs for tubewells, the total increase in discharge if
wells are operated for 1,700 hours 3/ for the small disch1rges and 3,000
hours for tubewJells, is as follows:
14,400 x ½< x 1,700 x 2 = 1.02 million acre feet per annum
24
1,200 x 1½ x 3,000 x 2= 1.47 million acre feet per annum
(Note: 1 cusec flowing for one day is approximately 2 acre feet).
This board calculation indicates that there is potential for installing the
wells proposed in the Pr6ject.
21.       The problem of determining the true recharge of groundwater in
Gujarat is one that should receive priority attention by the State Ground-
water Directorate.
1/ Jungmann, Agricultural Credit Mission Report on India, IBRD, 1969.
2/ Chief Geo-Hydrologist.  Exploratory Tubewell Organization, Government of
India.
3/ Estimated by Patee, Mandappat, and Desai in IltHanagement of Lift Irrigation"
Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad 1969.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Electrification
22.       The policy of the Gujarat State Electricity Board (GSEB) is to
supply all wells and lift irrigation schemes with electricity in the short-
est possible time and indeed, their past performance is impressive.  So far,
some 49,000 wells have been electrified and the present rate is 11,000 wsells
per year. From 1969-70, the rate is to be increased to 20,000 wells per
year and this target will be maintained throughout the Fourth 5-Year Plan
period. Fifty percent of the effort is put into existing areas and the re-
mainder is spent in extending into newx areas. Even with this impressive
record the demand far exceeds GSEB's installation capacity and there is a
long waiting list. GSEB estimates the present potential demand at about
70,000 wells.
23.       Farmers who benefit under the annual GSEB program are not required
to contribute to the costs except in the expenses of connecting the tubewels
to the nearby transformer. Selection of beneficiaries is by a committee at
the lttalukaUl level; farmers are selected on the basis of proximity to power
lines and overall economic considerations.  Farmers who are not selected may
get a priority connection if they lend GSEB the cost of the connection. This
loan is redeemed by GSEB after ten years at 5% interest per annum.  Alterna-
tively, the farmer can elect to pay half of the cost of electrification as
an outright grant and GSEB will pay the remaining half. A well qualifies
for electrification if it can pump for at least six hours a day during the
non-rainy season. GSEB carries out a survey to establish that this cri-
terion is met.
Pumps and Motors
2h.       There are 31 firms dealing with pumps and motors in Gujarat.  Most
of them manufacture small pumps and oil engines on a small scale, but their
products meet a real need and are generally considered by farmers to be
satisfactory. For the bigger-sized engines there is a marked preference
for imported ones. Many farmers prefer a second-hand imported engine to a
new one that is locally manufactured. Locally made centrifugal pumps are
satisfactory, cheap, and in plentiful supply.
25.       Two of the large manufacturers producing deep well turbine pumps
and motors were visited by the appraisal mission. These concerns were
selling their products all over India and were also exporting. They make
a wide range of pumps from 4 inches in diameter, with as many as 24 stages,
to custom-made pumps of 100 inches in diameter. These two firms had at
present approximately 20% more capacity for manufacturing pumps in the
ranges required than the demand. Their present combined capacity is scrie
2,400 turbine pumps per year. A third firm producing 600 pumps per year
was fully up to capacity but was engaged on factory extensions to enable
them to double the output. There is no shortage of capacity for producing
pumps and motors to meet the expanded program envisaged in the Project.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Implementation
26.       The drilling capacity of Gujarat contractors is adequate for on-
going requirements. Generally contractors expect to drill between 30 and
50 wells per rig per year; the State FwD completes about nine per year and
ETO in Banaskantha district have probably only averaged four per year. The
wells involved are all in alluvium and are about 300 to 800 feet in depth.
For comparison purposes tw¢o international contractors in the Indus Basin
completed over 100 wells per rig per year with a depth of 250 to 300 feet.
The conditions encountered are very similar but the difference in per-
formance in Gujarat is due to the fact that many of the rigs employed are
old and that spares of adequate quality are not available.
27.       A second reason for poor performance is the lack of operational
organization on the part of the contractors themselves. Well-drilling
schedules are haphazardly arranged by virtue of the fact that each well
is individually negotiated with farmers. This means that successive wells
may be many miles apart and much of the time that could be used in pro-
dactive drilling is lost in travelling. With such a large program of well
drilling as in envisaged in Gujarat, LDB should encourage the possibility
of a contractor tendering for a block of wells in one particular area at
fixed rates.  This would enable him to cut dowm on travelling time and to
stockpile material so as to plan his work on a more rational basis. Such
a procedure should also result in cheaper wells.
28.       To take care of the tubewells under the Project on top of on-
going requirements, it would be likely that contractors would have to ac-
quire new rigs. In such an eventuality, it would be necessary for LDB to
assist contractors in acquiring rigs and in providing finance for them.



Appendix 3-1
Page       1
flIDIA
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO
THE GUJARAT STATE GROUNMTATER DIRECTORATE
Terms of Reference
The responsibilities of experts that would be hired by the State
Groundwater Directorate in connection with the projected study of Gujarat's
groundwater resources would be:
1. To review and advise on the general and research programs of
the Directorate.
2.  To review and advise on the staffing of the Directorate.
3. To assist on the training of staff for groundwater work.
4. To carry out field visits and advise on the proper equipment
and riiethods to be employed in collecting field data.
5. To advise on minimum data requirements and their handling
and processing, so that a complete picture can be obtained
in the shortest possible time of the geology, aquifer con-
ditions, water quality, horizontal and vertical recharge,
and the possibility of sea water intrusion in certain areas.
6. To consider the extent groundwater "1mining" is occurring in
some areas and to advise as to the degree of "mining" that
should be permitted, if at all.
7.  To review and advise on the methods presently used for
groundwiater development and consider what technical im-
provements should be made to wells and pumping devices
to improve efficiency and thus reduce overall costs.
8. To advise the Directorate in its groundwater consulting
responsibilities to LDB.
9.  To advise on the need for a law to protect the ground-
water resources of Gujarat.
Specifications for and Duties of Posts
Thc quazlifications and specific duties of groundwater experts
should be:



Appendix 3-1
Page       2
1. Chief Advisor:
(a) Background should be either in engineering hydrology
or geo-hydrology; should have at least 10 years'
relevant experience since graduation, most of it in
groundwater development and planning; and should
have personally conducted fieldwork in groundwater
investigations or should have worked on a well con-
struction program.
(b) Would be responsible for overall direction of the
advisory program; would advise the Directorate on
policy and research matters; would direct and take
an active part in field and analyses work assigned
to the other two experts.
2. Geo-Hydrologist:
(a) Background in geology and geophysics with at least
seven years' experience since graduation; should
have had experience in groundwater investigations
and, particularly, in aquifer testing in the field
and in the analysis of results; should have worked
on the problem of recharge; and should be thorough-
ly familiar with and experienced in the methods of
determining recharge.
(b) Would advise on recharge determinations so that a
complete picture of sources and quantities of re-
charge for all districts in the State can be es-
tablished as soon as possible; would monitor field
work himself by carrying out checks on a proportion
of the data; and would help to train local staff.
3. Engineer/Hydrologist:
(a)  Should have had at least seven years' relevant
experience since graduation; should have been
concerned with groundwater investigations or
well construction in the field; and should have
had experience in the design of wells and well
fields.
(b) Would give attention to the economic development
of groundwater, problems of "tmining", and the
problem of intrusion of saline water into wells;
would work in coordination with geo-hydrologist
in the field and in the analysis stages of the
recharge problems; and would train local staff
in all aspects of his work.



ANEMX 4
MDIA
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FAFlI ESCH&IZATION IN GUJA1?AT STATE
Working Animals
1.        Although draft animals are still the main source of power for
agricultural oporations in Gujarat, it is interesting to note that they
have not appreciated in number.  Between 1961 and 1966, the number of
cattle and buffaloes have remained at constant levels -- male working
bullocks at about 3 million heads, milking cows at about 1.8 million
heads, and male working buffaloes at about 20,000 heads. Only female
working buffaloes, which have become the preferred milk producing. sni.
mals and are rarely used for draft work showed any marked increase (from
1.66 to 1.80 million). Increased draft requirements are being met by
tractors and it is expected that the number of male cattle used for field
work will decrease in the future.
Farm Labor Supply
2.        Broadly, the objective of the State's agricultural program is to
increase agricultural output and income with emphasis on a 50% increase on
production of foodgrains. Production gains would, in part, be brought
about by higher cropping intensity, possible through improved water supply.
Potential cropping intensity could be increased by at least 30% which
would require a proportionate increase in farm labor. Although there ap-
pears to be rural underemployment in general, farms located close to urban
or industrial areas have been hampered by seasonal labor shortages or in-
creasing labor costs due to the availability of alternative employment
opportunities. Such conditions prevail in southern and central Gujarat,
and, to some extent, in northern Gujarat; medium and large farms are par-
ticularly affected. Farm mechanization would help overcome the seasonal
labor supply bottlenecks.
Need for Farm Mechanization
3.        There are two distinct periods of workload on Gujarati farms in
an agricultural year when the need for motive powver is at its peak: the
kharif cultivation period and the limited time between kharif harvest and
rabi cultivation. In both periods, farms find it difficult to finish field
operatinns on time, even when bullock power is abundant. As a result, con-
siderable areas remain fallow. For instance, paddy puddling during kharif
cultivation, which is not only highly time-consuming, but also involves
heavy field work, makes farmers decide not to expand their rice cultivation
with bullock power alone. Still more serious is the peak of workload
between kharif harvest and rabi seeding. An important rabi crop is wheat
in Gujarat which requires early cultivation for satisfactory yield. Tractors
have enabled farmers to expand fields of marketable crops, in particular
wheat.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Tractor cultivation works the soil much deeper and mixes and
aerates the soil better than is possible with bullock-drawn country ploughs.
Besides enlarging the rooting zone, tractor cultivation has a beneficial
effect on crop germination, soil nutrient mobilization, and the degree in
which plants benefit from irrigation, all contributing to increase yields.
Furthermore, tractor cultivation suppresses weed germination and saves on
weeding expensoa.
5.        Depending on the farming region, tractor use would permit increase
in the area cropped more than once by around 30%. This could not be ac-
complished with traditional techniques, because bullock work would lack the
power and speed to complete field work. Tractor use makes it possible to
improve the utilization of the available farm land, which otherwise would
be left fallow. Further, a tractor cultivated farm would require less
fodder area for work animals than a bullock-assisted farm. The fodder area
may be reduced by 75b4 and this saving used for marketable crops.
6.        Tractors work the soil better and make it possible to extend the
use of fertilizer and high yielding varieties which require well-prepared
seed beds. On irrigated farms, water use would increase proportionally
with the increase in net sown area; this would mean better utilization of
available water resources. Field labor requirements would also increase
as a result of increased multiple cropping. In summary, tractor work
would improve the use of resources which would otherwise be underutilized.
Tractor Demand and Supply
7.        Because of the work animal and farm labor constraints explained
above, demand for tractors is high in Gujarat State. Tractor dealers have
several thousand prospective tractor owners on their books and the waiting
period for the more popular tractor makes is two or three years. Tractors
are at present supplied by five Indian manufacturers, who all produce Eith
overseas collaboration. Tractors are also imported from Eastern European
countries under soft currency arrangements.
8.        Local production of tractors in India has increased from about
3,000 units in 1964 to about 14,000 units in 1968, and is expected to reach
about 18,000 units in 1969. The bulk of the production falls in the 30-50
HP tractor group; though not of the latest design, all the tractors are
equipped with hydraulic draw systems. Two more overseas suppliers (Ford
of U.K. and Deutz of West Germany) have concluded, or are in the process
of concludnng tractor production arrangements with Indian manufacturers.
GOT is also considering plans to produce a light tractor. It is possible
to increase production to about 30,000 units per year in the early 1970ts,
provided GOI releases timely and adequate foreign exchange for the impor-
tation of components and tools for expanding existing and erecting new
production facilities.



Amnm    h
Page 3
Tractor Population and Ownership
9.        Tractor numbers have increased in Gujarat State from about 2,000
in 1961 to 5,210 units (in 1968/69) -- equivalent to one tractor for every
2,000 has of cropped area. Tractor density is highest in districts of high
rainfall and in aUuvial tracts where irrigation has been relatively well
advanced. It is expected that in these districts tractor demand will con-
tinue to be high. The most popular tractor type is of 30-35 HP (Appendix
4-1). It is a universal and economic machine, well suited to Gujarat soil
conditions and to medium-to-large sized farms.
10.       There is no official data available on farm size and income struc-
ture of tractor farms in the State. Hawover, a market survey conducted in
Western India (including Gujarat), by one of the major tractor supplies in
1967, gives some information:
(a) Tractor Ownership and Farm Size
Farm Size in ha                 Percent Tractor Owners
Less than 10                            4
10 - 20                      15
20 - 30                      25
30 - 40                      13
40 - 6o                     18
60 -100                      14
More than 100                          11
100
(b) Tractor Ownership and Income
Gross Annual Income in 1000 Rs Percent Tractor Owners
Up to 50                               17
50 -lo                           38
100 - 200                        25
200 - 300                        11
300- 400                          2
00 -500                           4
Over  500                               3
100
Thus more than half of the tractor owners cultivate farms of 10 to 40 ha and
more than 50% had an annual gross income of up to Rs 100,000. They would
represent farms falling in the group termed as medium-or-large-sized units
in Gujarat State. In interpreting the above statistics, however, one must
be reminded that in India, tractors are, in almost all cases, distributed
on a first-come, first-served basis.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Tractor Implements
11.       All tractor suppliers offer, along with their tractors, a range
of implements which they produce themselves or contract from other manu-
facturers. Also, a considerable number of amall workshops make tractor
tools. The implerments are either straight copies of models from elsewhere,
modified models, or locally-developed models and are made mainly from local
raw material and components. Bottlenecks have existed in the supply of
suitable steel for plough bottoms and discs for ploughs and harrows.
12.       Tractor implements in the market include mainly implements for
preparatory tillage operations, including paddy puddlers, land levelers
and trailers of various sizes. Their utility is fairto satisfactory, and
major producers are constantly improving their designs. Some devices for
sowing and planting, and interculture operations are available. Some mount-
ed seed and fertilizer attachments are being used, but appear to need further
improvement before they would become generally popular with farmers. No
suitable implement for the mechanization of harvesting is available.
Tractor Farm Utilization
13.       Because of the restricted range of available implements and lack
of farmer's training in tractor management, tractor use is mainly concerned
with preparatory tillage work and farm transportation. Seeding, planting,
and intercultivation is left to bullock work and labor. It would be diffi-
cult for the majority of tractor farmers to achieve full mechanization in
the foreseeable future. All would have to retain or hire some work animals
for after-seeding operations. In addition, tractors are used to thresh
cereals and to drive pumps, crushers, choppers and other farm machinery.
Small tractor farmers who have spare tractor time engage in tractor con-
tract work, for which a good demand exists.
14.       Tractor utilization in terms of annual working hours appears satis-
factory. A highly diversified cropping pattern with three overlapping crop-
ping seasons,suitable weather during nine to ten months, and manageable soil
conditions provide sufficient working opportunity on farms  aith adequate
water resources for year round cropping. It is estimated that on average
a well-maintained tractor clocks 1,200-1,500 working hours a year.
15.       On-farm care and maintenance of tractors is by and large adequate,
because Gujarati farmers are exceptionally cost conscious. Taactor opera-
tion   usually entrusted to a family member or a reliable employee (on
larger farms) who holds a driver's license.
Outlet, Repair and Spare Parts Facili+.es
16.       Three tractor suppliers representing manufacturers inBahk.member
countries have appointed dealers with 19 outlets and major repairshops
attached to them in the State. They are supervised and assisted by techni-
cal and marketing representatives of suppliers stationed at Ahmedabad. Re-
pair shops employ service vans and motorized rmechanics for on-farm servi-
cing and minor repairs, but annual overhauls and major works are preferably
done at the outlets workshop.



AITNEX 4
Page 5
17.      Other routine services supplied by tractor dealers include:
(a) free warranty inspectinns, including one overhaul
during the first year of operations;
(b) post-warranty servicing arrangements at fixed annual rates;
(c) several days of on-farm training of operators and farmers
upon delivery of a new tractor;
(d) provision of operators' manuals in the Gujarati language;
(e) organization of farmers' courses and field demonstrations
in tractor and tractor implement use.
18.       All dealers are required under their agreemoats with cupplicrs to
maintain adequate spare parts inventories. The repair shops visited during
appraisal were found satisfactorily stocked with parts for common repairs.
Major items, like cylinder blocks, however, are ordered from suppliers when
they are needed, and dealers and farmers complain about delayed delivery
periods.
19.       Tractor repairs are carried out also by a multitude of village
and small town shops, which are sometimes run by former employees of tractor
dealers.  These village shops perform an active and important service in view
of their availability to farmers. They often accept part of their charge in
kind.
20.       Tires in standard sizes required by locally manufactured tractors
are presently made by four Indian producers; a fifth is going to enter pro-
duction. There has recently been a shortage in replacement tires in Gujarat
mainly due to a strike. Tractor tires had to be rationed to one set per
tractor per year though this has now been reduced to six months.  There was
also a lack of coordination between tractor and tire manufacturers through
the latter's reluctance to increase production in keeping with the growth
of tractor production. Because government fixed prices, tractor tire pro-
duction is less remunerative to them than production cf tires for trucks.
Representatives of the tractor and tire industries explained that inter-
industrial coordination has now been improved and that shortages in Gujarat
are unlikely to occur in the future.



I N D I A
GUJARAT AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
Tractor Numbers and Dealer Outlets According to Makes in Eight Selected Districts, Gujarat State. June 1969
(Sourcess Dept. of Agric. Gujarat State and LDB)
D  i  s t  r  i c  t                                                    Percent
Of
M  a k  e                       P    Ah edabad     Baroda      Broach     Junagadh      Kaira     Nehsana     Rajkot      Surat      Total      Total
1. Tractors and Jarm bquipment
Ltd.  (TAJE), Madras, (Masey-           28         2            --          7          17          36         22           30         1       1,083       26.0
Ferguson of U.K.)                       35        63            94         40          35         347        209          101        79
2. International Tractor Co. of
India Ltd., Bobay (Inter-               20         -                        --          -          --         --            5        35         648       15.5
national Harveater Co. of U.K.)         35        66            -          35           2         275        189           14        27
3. Esoorts Ltd., Faridabad                  35        30            27         30          23          31         25            1        75         377         9.0
(Notoriport of Poland)                 50         11           22          --          13         36          36            2        15
4. Biniuftan Tractors Ltd.
Baroda (Notoko, of Osechos-             35        43           35          35          --         234        169            1        78         957        23.0
lovakia)                                50        52           64           4          15         108         65            4        50
5. Zetor (imported - Cazehoalovakia)        30         2            -          10          12           5          3           53         --        176         4.0
35         9                                   4 --  46     2          1            3        30
6. RnJsian Makes (imported)                 18        17            --          5           --         84         52           14        250        649        15.5
30        20            14          7          13          34         22            4        13
50         5           __          --           4          22         18            1        50
7. OthersV                                  --         6            --        137           28         21         15           48         37        292        17.0
Total                   326           256        310          208      1,235         826         281)       740      4,182 1    100.0
=    =            =                       =          _           2_==
Dealer Outlets
TAi  (Measey-FerguBon)                                 1             1         --           --          1           1           1          1          6        24
International (Voltas Ltd., Bombay)         --         1            --         __           __          1          __                      1          3        12
Escorts                                                1             1         --           --          1          --           1 1                   5        20
Others                                      --         3             2         --           --         --                       3          3      1            414
Total          --         6             4         --                       3 3      _              5          6          2       100
I/  Includes a small number of Eicher Tractors manufactured by Eicher Tractors Ltd , India, Faridabad (Eicher Co. of West Germany).
/ Eighty percent of the total tractor population in the State.
/ Includes outlets for Hindustan and Russian tractors.
Eighty-three percent of all dealer outlets in the State.



Appendix 4-2
IMPACT OF TRACTOR USE ON FARM OPERATIONS AND RESULTS IN
CEmTRAL GUJARAT-
A. Basic Assumptions;
Rainfall;          750 mm per year
Soil:              medium - black
Gross farm area: 15 ha
Source of irrigation: dug-cum-bore well with pumpset
2/                  Without Tractor   With Tractor
B.  Cropping Intensity:-                            158               192
Net sown area (ha)                     23.75             28.75
Multiple cropped area (ha)              8.75             13.75
Fodder area (ha) 3/                     0.75              0.25
14/
C.  Input Use per ha:-
Seed (Rs)                                 85               113
Fertilizer (kg/NPK)                      144               182
Irrigation (mm)                          510               65o
Bullock work (pair in days)               54                11
Tractor work (hours)                      --                40
Field labor (days)                       213               231
D. Net Income (Rs):
Per ha V                               1,052             1,553
Increment (g)                             --                48
1/ See also Farm Model V, Appendix 7-2 through 4.
2/ Percent net sown area of gross farm area, during
the agricultural year.
3/ For working animals only.
T/ Per ha of gross farm area.



Appendix 4-3
IMPACT OF TRACTOR USE ON FARM OPERATIONS AND RESULTS IN
NORTHERN GUJARAT J
A. Basic Assumptions:
Rainfall:         650 mm per year
Soil:              sandy loam
Gross farm area:  50 ha
Source of irrigation: tubewell
Without Tractor  With Tractor
B.  Cropping Intensity:                            142             176
Net sown area (ha)                        71              88
Multiple cropped area (ha)                21              38
Fodder area (ha) 3/                      2.0             0.5
C. 4nut Use per ha:
Seed (Rs)                                 85             112
Fertilizer (kg/NFK)                       96             126
Irrigation (mm)                          544             675
Bullock work (pair in days)               45              18
Tractor work (hours)                      --              30
Field labor (days)                       149             172
D. Net Income in Rs:
Per ha -                                 616             855
Increment (%)                             --              39
1/ See also Farm Model VII, Appendix 7-2 through 4.
2/ Percent net sown area of gross farm area, during
the agricultural year.
3/ For working animals only.
T7/ Per ha of gross farm area.



INDIA
Gujarat Credit Project
DETAILS OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
(Costs in Rs loO)
lst Year                 2nd Year                 3rd Year                    To,talZPoject
Total                    Total                    Total                   AVera go
Units    Cost           Units      Cost           Units    Cost            Units  Unit Cost  Cost (Rs '000)
I. Investment Progrsm
a.  Minor Irrigation
1.  Puup sets ...............                .... 3,000    20,533          3,000      20,533         3,000     20,534         9,000      6,844      61,600
2. Dag-wells with pump sets .......   .............. 3,000  37,092         4,000      49,456         3,000     37,092        10,000     12,364     123,640
3. Dug-cum-bore wels with pump sets . ... ...  .....   600   8,573           600       8,573           600      8,574         1,800     14,289      25,720
4. Shallow tubewells ............ ................   800     28,905          900      32,520           900     32,520         2,600     36,133      93,945
5. Deep tubewells ................................   400    34,222           400      34,222           400     24,222         1,200     85,554     102,665
6. Lift irrigation ..............................    10        608            15         911            15        911            40    60,750        2 430
Total Minor Irrigation Investments           129,933  129,933                    .133,852                                                      410,000
b. Well-Drilling Rigs with Spares & Equipment   .......    8       7,400                   --                                         8    837,500       7,400
c. Tractors ....... .                           .....   700    16,036            800      18,327           700    16,037          2,200     22,909      50,400
d. Tractor Implements ............................... various    7,923         various     9,v55         various    7,922        various     --         24,900
Total Investment Program       .161,292                                 173,597.........................i     157,811                              492,700
II. Tractor Spare Parts .....   various                              2,291         various     2,618         various    2,291        various     --          7,200
III. Oroundwater Study ....................................            ,000           1,000                                                                   2,000
Total Project Cost ...................................1.53                               177,215                                                       50i1, 9



ANNEX 6
I'DIA
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TRACTOR FROCUREMENT
1.      The Project now proposed would be the first of six Indian agricultural
credit projects expected to be considered by IDA in the near future. All of
these projects would involve substantial tractor imports. Considerable
attention has been paid therefore to a scheme for procurement which would be
suitable for use in connection with the six projects.
2.      Farmers' purchases through existing dealerships would not be feasible
as the necessary competition between dealerships could only be obtained by
liberalizing import licensing to enable large scale tractor imports. In view
of India's shortage of foreign exchange this would be inappropriate. Normal
international competitive bidding could only be organized through State entities.
This would tend towards a Government tractor distribution monopoly and further
weaken existing dealership channels and it would not take farmers' choice into
account.
3.      A compromise formula has been proposed to the Government of India;
the details of this formula would be as follows:
(a)  an orgarization capable of undertaking bulk procurement
would be designated by GOI with the agreement of IDA.
LDB would be the vehicle for this;
(b) on the basis of about 700-800 tractors per year for a
total of about 2,200 tractors under the Project, LDB
would obtain quotations on unit prices at varying quanti-
ties from suppliers in Bank member countries currently
authorized to manufacture tractors in India. These are
Eicher, Federal Republic of Germany; International
Harvester, USA; and Hassey-Ferguson, UK; with plants in
production and Deutz, Federal Republic of Germany and
Ford, USA with plans for manufacture approved by GOI.
Further companies may be added to the list; GOI is
currently considering four additional proposals.
Quotations would be sought by public invitation and the
form and substance of the bid requests would be subject
to IDA concurrence;
(c) LDB would require all suppliers submitting quotations
to give it full particulars as to present, or intended,
after-sales service arrangement, including provision
for spare parts equal to 16.5% of the CIF value of tractors
supplied (estimated requirement for first three years of
the life of a tractor). Any supplier not providing
satisfactory assurances as to after-sales service would
be disqualified, with IDA agreement, from supplying
tractors under the Project;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(d) within Gujarat, LDB would advertise the quoted prices
and the after-sales service offered by the different
suppliers. Farmers would be required also to state
their first and second choices of tractors which they
would be willing to buy;
(e) LDB would aggregate the orders received, according to
first tractor choices. If the aggregate orders for a
particular model cane to below the minimum acceptable
order for that manufacturer at the unit prices quoted
for varying quantities, LDB would discard the first
choice for those farmers and substitute second choices;
(f) LDB would then enter into contracts with the selected
suppliers at the unit prices quoted for the size of the
order placed. Contracts would specify after-sales
service arrangements and include performance assurances.
Dealers representing suppliers would be required to sell
post-warranty service; and
(g) together with the order for tractors, GOI would allow the
importation of spare parts equal to 16.5% of the CIF value
of tractors ordered.
4.      It is expected that the foregoing method would take account of indilvi-
dual preferences and tend to lower prices while strengthening the local dealer-
ships and benefiting from their after-sales service which is considered essen-
tial to the Project.



ANNEX 7
INDIA
GUJARAT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARII INCOMES AND FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURNS ON INVESTMENTS
1.      Because of great variations in rainfall and soil types in Gujarat,
there are also considerable variations in cropping patterns within the State.
Appendix 7-1 shows the present crops grown in the various parts of the State.
2.      For the purpose of estimating representative farm incomes, nine farm
models were prepared taking into account rainfall and soil types. The models
also took the following into account:
(a) Farm Units. The farm sizes used in the models represent
units which would be required for satisfactory employment
of the additional investments. Project participants would
comprise progressive farmers who would use adequate fertilizer
and pest control measures and would grow the high yielding
varieties of crops; and tractor investments would be made by
such farmers cultivating at least 40 ha of irrigated land,
unless it can be used for custom work to make the invest-
ment financially feasible; in no case would a tractor loan
be made to a farmer or farmers owning less than 15 ha of
irrigated land.
(b) Cropping Patterns and Expected Yields. These have been
worked out in collaboration with farm specialists in
Gujarat and reflect cropping possibilities and expected
yields prior to and after investments (Appendix 7-2).
(c) Cropping Intensity. Tractor use would permit increased
cropping intensity of about 30%; its combination with
the irrigation water wTould permit an increase to about
50%.
3.      Estimates of expected income from farming operations (exclusive of
additional income from investmnnts such as sales of water and tractor farm
custom work) are shown in Appendices 7-2 and 7-3. As India moves toward
self-sufficiency in foodgrains one can assume that prices to farmers would
decline gradually. However, the GOI policy to encourage the agricultural
sector through price incentives should ensure that the maximum fall would be
10%. Consequently, the estimates were based on two different price assump-
tions: one at the present price level (1968/69); the second on the assump-
tion that prices would decline by 10% from the present level during the
period 1972/73 to 1975/76.



I N D I A
(aijarat Agricultural Credit Project
AGRO-CLIKATIC  ZONS AND FARK MODBL  DIS.IBW!ION
Current             Farn  Models
Av. Annual                                  Current                 KaJor Sources                 tpical
Representative     Rainfall                                 Kai                             of                     Farm Size
Zone               Districts           (un)       Major Soil types          xalarf     Rabi           Minor Irrigation         No     (ha)     EKected Investment
A. Eastern Oujarat       Aureli              400-700      Medium black soil        Grounduut    Pulses         Dag-wells                 I       5       Dug-vell with pow
Bhavnagar                       Coastal alluvium         Bajri 2/     Jowar 1/       Tank irrigation          II       5       PuIp to existing dag-xell
Jam-agar                                                 Jowar TV      What
Junagadh                                                 Cotton
Rajkot
Surandranagar
B. Southern OuJarat      Bulsar            1,000-2,000    Deep black soils         Paddy        Pulses         Dug-wells               III       5       Bore-well and pW  to
Surat                            Coastal alluvium        Jowar 1/      Vegetable     Dug-cum-bore-wulls                          existing dug-well
Cotton
Sugar cane
Fruit
C. Central Gujarat       Ahmedabad           600-goo      Alluvial sandy loam      Bajri 2/     Pulses         Dug-wells                IV    15         Shallow tubewell
Baroda                           Medium black soils      Cotton        Jowar 1/      Dug-cum-bore-vmlls         V    15        Farau _ehanisation on
Broach                           Deep black soils        Paddy         Wheat         Tabevells                                   dug-oun-bore-xell farm
Kaira                                                    Jowar 1/      Tobacco
Panchmahals                                              Groundaut    Fodder
D. Northern Gujarat      Banaskantha         400-900      Aluvial sandy soil       Bairi 2/      Pulses        Dug-wells                VI      50       Deep tubewell
Mehsana                          Alluvial sandy loam      Groundnut   Wheat          Dug-cua-bore-wells       VII     50       Farm mechanization on
Sabarkantha                     Medium black soils       Jowar 1/      Fodder         Tabewells                                  deep tubueell farm
Cotton       Spices         Lift irrigation        VIII     20        Lift irrigation
Paddy                                                IY     20       Farm mechanization on
Maise                                                                   lift irrigated farm
1/ Sorg
2/ Millet (Pennisetum)



I N D I A
Appendix 7-2
Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project            Page 1 of 3
YIELD, COST AND PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
Yield                   Cost             Price
Full                    Full
Year .       . Before  Development    Before  Development
kg/ha      kg/ha        Rs/ha      Rs/ha        Rs/kg
Model I (Farm Size: 5 ha; Investment: Dug Well & Pumpset on Rainfed Farm)
Bajri                          700      1,l400         342        561        0.70
Jowar                          800      1,500           376       707        0.60
Groundnut                      700      1,100          455        708        1.00
Seed Cotton                    500        850          655      1,098        1.50
Pulses                         400        800          160        313        0.75
I.heat                          --      2,200           --        877        0.95
Fodder (Bajri, Jowar)        2,000         --          175         --           --
Fodder (Lucerne)                --    12,000            --        821           --
Model II (Farm Size:  5 ha;  Investment:  Pumpset on Farm having Bullock
driven Dug Well)
Bajri                        1,100      1.,400         527        561        0.70
Jowar                        1,200      1,500          648        707         0.60
Groundnut                      800      1,100          667        708        1.00
Seed Cotton                    750        850        1,009      1,098        1.50
Pulses                         600        800           270       313         0.75
Wheat                        1,500      2,200          804        877         0.95
Fodder (Lucerne)             8,000    12,000            693       821           --
Model III (Farm Size:  5 ha; Investment:  Bore & Pumpset on Farm having Bullock
driven Dug Well)
Rice                         2,900      3,000          643        654         0.95
Jowar                        1,700      1,800          524        531         0.60
Seed Cotton                    850     1,000           939        999        1.50
Sugar Cane                  60,000    70,000         2,595      2,745        0.05
Banana                      20,000    25,000         1,932      2,095         0.25
Kharif Vegetable             8,000         --          575         --        0.15
Rabi Vegetable              12,000    14,000           598        610        0.15
Pulses                         700        800           355       393         0.75
Fodder (Bajri, Jowar)        5,000      6,500           534       607           --



4 PA -7-2
Page 2,of 3
Yiel.d                 Cost            Price
Full
Tear ....... Before                  Before  Devlopent
kh                     Re/ha-        ha
Model 1V (Fars Size: 15 ha; Iuveuent:t Shalow Tubewrl on Raipfed Farm)
Bajri                         800    1,500           342       526 V      0.70
Rde                3e,000                             --       777        0.95
Seed Cotton                  500        900         655     1,013        1.50
Grotmdnut                     800    1,100           455       606        1.00
Wheat                         900     2,100          467       875        0.95
Tobacco                       Boo    1,30D           776    1,499         1.50
Pulses                        450       800          160       367 21    0.75
Suieer BaJri                   --     2,000           --       799 -      0.70
Fodder (Bajri, Jovar)       2,500    6,500           175       625          --
1/ 50% hired bullock work.
I/ 100% hired bullock work.
Model V (Farm Size: 15 ha; Investmet: Tractor & Implents - 3 on Farm having
Dtg-Cu-Bore Well)
Bajri                       1,500    1,500           526       629        0.70
Rice                        3,000     3,100          777       914        0.95
Seed Cotton                   900       900       1,013    1,100          1.50
Groundnut                  1,100    1,100            606       756        1.00
Nheat                       2,100     2,300          875     1,033        0.95
Tobacco                    1,300    1,400         1,499 2/ 1,625          1.50
Pulses                        800       850          361 0s    342        0.75
Summer Bajri:              2,000     2,100          799 -     834         0.70
Fodder                         --     6,500          624       726          --
V 50% hired bullock work.
2/ lOC hired bullock work.
gote:  6 bullocks at Rs 400 each sold; 885 hours
custoa work "sold".
Model VI (Farm Size: 50 ha; I vestment:  Tubewej & Putpset on Raned Farm)
Bajri                         700    1,400           342       579        0.70
Jowar                         800     1,500          376       725  0/ 0.60
Seed Cotton                  700    1,050           655     1,116 g      1.50
Groundnut                     700    1,100          455        738 I'    1.00
Polses                       400        800          160       331 V      0.75
Ileat                         700     2,200          467       895 V      0.95
SDuer Bajri                   --      2,000           --       781        0.70
Fodder (Bajri, Jowar)       2,000     6,500         175        560          --
Fodder (Lucerne)               --   12,000            --       821          --
1/ Includes 396 days of hired bullock work
equally distributed.



Appendix 7-2
Page 3 of 3
Yield                  Cost            Price
Full                   FMl
Year ... ...... Before  DeveloPant   Before  DeeloPient
k&a  _kg/ha            Rs/ha_    RsAia        BR
Model VII (Fam Size: 50 ha; Ivestment: Tractor & Iulements - 3 on Farm having
having Tubewell & Pwrpset)
Bajri                       1,400     1,400          579 T     719        0.70
Jowar                       1,500     1,500          725 `    860         o.60
Seed Cotton                   950       950        1,116 6    1,185       1.50
Groundnut                   1,100     1,100          738       795        1.00
Pulses                        800       800          331       331        0.75
Wheat                       2,200     2,400          895    1,035         0.95
Summer Bairi                2,000     2,100          781       873        0.70
Fodder (BaJri, Jovwar)      6,5DO        __          560        --          __
Fodder (Lucerne)           12,000    15,000          821       923          __
I/ Includes 396 days of hired bullock work
equally distributed.
Note: 14 bullocks sold at Rs 400 each.
Model VIII (Farm Size: 20 ha; Investment: Lift Irrigation & Pumpset on
Rain ed Farm)
Bajri                         700     1,l400         342       616        0.70
Jowar                         800     1,500          376       818        o.60
Rice                           --     3,000           --       954        0.95
Maize                         900     2,200          391       704        0.70
Seed Cotton                   700    1,000           655     1,096        1.50
Groundnut                     700     1,100          455       720        1.00
Pulses                        400       800          160       362        0.75
Wieat                         700     2,200          467       877        0.95
Sumer Bajri                    --     2,000           --       781          --
Fodder (Bajri, Jowar)       2,000     6,500          175       560          __
Model IX (Farm Size: 20 ha; Investment: Tractor & Implements - 3 on Farm
having Lft Irrigation)
Bajri                       1,400    1,400           616       719        0.70
Jowar                       1,500     1,500          818       860        0.60
Rice                        3,000     3,100          954.    1,094        0.95
Maize                       2,200     2,200          704       864        0.70
Seed Cotton                  850     1,000         1,098     1,185        1.50
Groundnut                   1,100    1,100           720       870        1.00
Pulses                        800       850          362 -/   345         0.75
'heat                       2,200     2,400          877     1,035        0.95
Summer Bajri                2,000     2,100          781       873        0.70
Fodder (Bajri, Jowar)       6,500     6,500          560       744          --
1/ 50% hired bullock work.
%/ 100% hired bullock work.
Note: 6 bullocks sold at Rs 400 each.



Appendix 7-3
oNjarat  A4ricultural  Credit  ProJect                             Page  1 of 2
FARM  1DD5L  (UMM   PRMUT  PRICs  lEEIPT ION)
burn               *                            let value
Armte Y                                          Os                   of Production
FtiL                     FullF]l                                           Full
Before  Development      Before      lopa  t     Befor    De   lopnt       Before  Developst
(Lh-L      (hO           (1 )       (UT,          (4s)       (Re)1(                   (Es
Model I (Parm Size:  5 ha; Presents Rujnfed;  Investemnt:  Dg Wall & Pueet - Ra 11,200)
BaJri                        1.00      1.75             490     1,715            342       982            148       733
Jowar                        0.50      0.50             240       450            188       354             52        96
1.50      1.75           1,050     1,925            683     1,239            367       686
Cotton                       1.00      0.50             750       637            655       549             95        88
Pulses                       1.00      1.00             300       600            160       313            140       287
Wheat                          -       2.00              --     4,180             --     1,754             --     2,426
Fodder (Bajri, Jowar)        0.50        --              -         -              88        --            (88)       -
Fodder (Lucerne)               -       0.25              -         -              __       206             --       (206)
Total                  5.50       7.25                       507           ,          397                    4,110
Model II (Farm Size;  5 ha;  Preeent   Dug Well;  Investent:  Pumnset -Rs 6.200)
Bajri                        1.25      1.75             963     1,715            659       982            304       733
Jowar                        0.50      0.50             360       450            324       353             36        97
Groundnut                    1.75      1.75           1,400     1,925          1,167     1,239            233       686
Cotton                       0.75      0.50             844       638            757       549             87        89
PUlSeS                       1.00      1.00             450       600            270       313            180       287
Wheat                        1.00      2.00           1,425     4,180            804     1,754            621     2,426
Fodder (Lucerne)             0.25      0.25              *_         _            161       205           (161)     (205)
Total                  6.50       7.75          5,442      9,508         4,142      5.395         1,300      4,113
-                          =m ENE    -                                      
Model III (Farn Size;  5 ha; Present: Dug Well;  Investmnt:  Bore plus Puupset - Ra 12,970)
Rice                         2.50      3.00           6,888     8,550          1,608     1,962          5,280     6,588
Jowar                       0.75       0.50             765       540            393       266            372       274
Cotton                       1.00      0.25           1,275       375            939       250            336       125
Sugar Cane                   0.25      0.75             750     2,625            649     2,059            101       566
Banana                       0.25      0.50           1,250     3,125            483     1,048            767     2,077
lhar1:Vegetables             0.25        -              300        --            144        --            156        --
PusJes                      .I00       1.00             525       600            355       393            170       207
Rabi Vegetables              0.25      0.500            360       840            250       305            110       535
Fodder (BaJri, Jowar)        0.50      0.25              -                       267       152           (267)     (152)
Total                  6.75       6.75         12,113    16,655          5,088      6,435          7,025    10,220
_           -             _          -                        =_
Model IV (Fam Size:  15 ha;  Precent;  Rainfed;  Investment:  Shallow Tubewell & Pumpset - Rs 32.720)
BaJri                        6.oo      6.00           3,360     6,300          2,052     3,156          1,308     3,144
Rice                           --      2.00              --     5,700             -      1,554             --     4,146
Cotton                       3.00      3.00           2,250     4,050          1,965     3,039            285     1,011
Groundnut                    3.00      3.00           2,400     3,300          1,365     1,818          1,035     1,482
'Wheat                       1.00      4.00             900     7,980            467     3,500            433     4,480
Tobacco                      2.00      2.00           2,400     3,900         1,552      2,998            848       902
Pulses                       3.00      2.00           1,012     1,200            48o       722            532       478
Summer BaJri r_                        1.00              --     1,400             --       799             --       601
Fodder (Bairi, Jowar)        1.50      0.75              _         __            262       468           (262)     (468)
Total                 19.50      23.75         12,322    33,830          8,143    18,054          4,179    15,776
-                     _ =    ==   =
Model V (Farm Size:  15 ha; Preaents Dub-Cun-Bore Well & P>eet;  Investment:  Tractor & Equipments - 3 -- BS 33,170)
BaJri                        6.00      6.oo          6,300      6,300         3,156      3,774          3,144     2,526
Rice                         2.00      4.00           5,700    1l,;Wo         1,554      3,656          4,146     8,124
Cotton                       3.00      2.00           4,o50     2,700          3,039     2,200          1,011       500
Groundnut                    3.00      3.00           3,300     3,300          1,818     2,268          1,482     1,032
Wheat                        4.00      8.00           7,960    12,480          3,500     8,264          4,480     9,216
Tobacco                      2.00      2.00          3,P00    I4,2w            2,9S      3,QM             s0t       950
Pulses                       2.00      2.00          1,200      1,275            722       684            478       591
Sumser Bairi                 1.00      1.50          1,400      2,205            799     1,668           566        537
Fodder (Bajri, Jowar)        0.75      0.25              --        --            468       182           (468)     (182)
Total                  23.75     28.75         33,830    49,240         18,054    25,946         15,776    23,294
IMUN  mmmm         00110-    -NON          -MES: ANEE                ON



Appendix 7-3
Page 2 of 2
(]rous                                          Net Value
Area               Production  Valva               Costs                of Prodaction
Fail                     Full                     Pull                      FMUl
Before  Development      Before  Development      Before  Development       Before  DevelopKent
(ba)      (ha)           (RL )j.   (Re)           (Re)       (R                )      (Rs)
Model VI (Farm Size:  50 ha;  Present:  Rainfed;  Investnent:  Tubevell & Puapset - Re 77,550)
Bajri                        16.00    16.00            7,840    15,680          5,470      9,264          2,370     6,416
Jowar                        10.00    10.00            4,800     9,000          3,760      7,250         1,040      1,750
Cotton                        3.00      6.oo           3,150     9,450          1,965    64696            1,185     2,754
Groundnut                    10.00    10.00            7,000    11,000          4,550      7,380          2,450     3,620
Pulses                        8.00    12.00            2,400     7,200          1,280      3,972         1,120      3,228
Wheat                          5.00    12.00           3,325    25,080          2,335    10,740             990    14,340
Swimer Bajri                    --      3.00              --     4,200             --      2,343             --     1,857
Fodder (BaJri, Jowar)         5.00      1.00              __        --            875        560           (875)     (560)
Fodder (Lucerne)                --      1.00              ---                      --        821             --       (821)
Total                   57.00    71.00          2815    81,610            20,235    49,026          8,280    32,584
=_~~~~ ___
Model VII (Farm size:- 50 ha;  Present,  Tubweull & Pnu.ts  Invetumt,t  Tractor & lkui.pnet -3  R-eg 33,170)
Bajri                        16.00    20.00          1S,6O   19,600            9,264    14,380           6,416     5,220
Jowar                        10.00      0.0o0          9,000     9,000          7,250      8,600         1,750        400
Cotton                        6.00      6.00           8,550     8,550          6,696      7,110         1,854      1,440
Groundnut                    10.00    12.00          11,000    13,200           7,380      9,540          3,620     3,660
Pulses                       12.00    13,50            7,200     8,100          3,972      4,468         3,228      3,632
Wheat                        12.00    22.00           25,080    50,160         10,740    22,770          14,340    27,390
Sunmer Bajri                  3.00      4.00           4,200     5,880          2,343      3,492         1,857      2,388
Fodder (Bairi, Jowar)         1.00        --              --         --           560         --           (560)       --
Fodder (Lucerne)              1.00      0.50                                      821        462           (821)     (462)
Total                   71.00    88.00          80,710   114,4 p49,026    70,822                   31,684    43,668
Model VIII (Farm Size: 20 ha; Present: Rainfed;  Investmet: Lift Irrigation & PuMpet - Rs 56,000)
Bajri                         4.00      4.00          1,960      3,920          1,368      2,464            592     1,456
Jowar                         3.00      1.00          1,440        900          1,128        818            312        82
Rice                             --     1.50              --     4,275             --      1,431             --     2,844
Maize                         3.00      4.00           1,890     6,160          1,173      2,816            717     3,344
Cotton                        3.00      4.00           3,150     4,500          1,965      4,392         1,185        108
Groundnut                     3.00      3.00           ,100      3,300          1,365      2,160            735     1,140
Pulses                        3.00      3.00             900     1,800            480      1,086            420       714
Wheat                         0.50      5.00             332    10,450            233      4,385             99     6,065
Susmer Bajri                    --      1.00              --     1,400             --        781             --       619
Fodder (Bajri, Jowar)         2.50      1.50             _--                      437        840           (437)     (840)
Total                   22.00    28.00                                      11,772  21,173          3623    15,532
Model Ir  (Farm Size:  20 ha;  Present:  Lift Irrigation & PsmmBpet;  Investment:  Tractor & Dquipment - 3 -- Rs 33,170)
BaJri                         4.00      4*00           3,920     3,920          2,464      2,876         1,456      1,044
Jowar                         1.00      1.00             900       900            818        860             82        40
Rice                          1.50      3.00           4,275     8,835          1,431      3,282          2,844     5,553
Maize                         4.00      5.00           6,160     7,700          2,816      4,320         3,344      3,380
Cotton                        4.00      4.00          5,100      6,000          4,392      4,740            708     1,260
Groundnut                     3.00      3.00          3,0        3,0B           2,160      2,610         1,140        690
Pulses                        3000      3.00          1,600      1,912          1,086     1,035            71?        877
Wheat                         5.oo    10.00           10,450    22,800          4,385    10,350          6,065    12,450
Summer BaJri                  1.00      1.00          1,400      1,470            781        873           619        597
Fodder (Bajri, Jowar)         1.50      0.50              --        --            840        372           (840)     (372)
Total                   28.00    34.50          37,30      56,837         2,3    3                    132    25,519
=-ot== II



I N  D  I A                                                  App.9d1 7-4
?TNANIL 4U        Lt1 of  8   TiU  7D(R ms0
.....           1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8        9-25
od6.1 I (68, Si", S 8 ;      r P7 t, lNard. ,  D _toft.  VW11 & Pm..t)
P-rOOOt Pr1.0. To,.1 P0.02.0,
I.-ro      Mt 0.1- Soe                    353        5.13      6,7        6,677      6,67       6,677      6,677      6,67T      6,6?7
?r In.r.M.1 Opa,atioal Usp-                                    3'2iL  JSti  N   3g   63,62                 3'281      3 281      3'281
Ibt Vale.    Pr.d.ti3                                ?I70-6)              5                                           VW-        ?7-
Capital 1.wes80St___
NIt Capital 71.                                               _:3Z                                         la _  _37  3Z __-
Aaity- B- 1,495                                                              i
Fic Jl1 Rt   of Rtwo - Pr...t Wi-                              ____ s
10% pri.. do.li., 241
Modal II (r. Si.., 5 he, r-r.t, 800 .1L1, l              t,   pF._t)
P7r..t Pric. 1.0  Pr7l
IL-cr_.  Not 3.1.                         2,523      3,553      1,066     4,066      4,066      4,066
Inex_tol Opertioml 6        _9            _,253     1           ,25       1,3        1,253      13
lbt lala of r cd o1 23i 7r2
G.pit0.1 l~.at                           (6&2)
lIt Capital 719                              ) ;-
Aityi, Be 1,106
7.ciol 3.t1 of 8.t1     - Pr7a1t pric00       Os
lCS prI.. detclim , A
2..1  III (10.- Si.., 5 h.; P-.tt D,  Valli D.1    T-.0 s0, 3... ple. pins.t)
prit ut Pric.  1_  rr tillt
D-          NMt Sala                      3,80      4,324     4,512      4,542      4,542      4,542      4,512      4,5h2      4,542
I.ort et.l Opomtio.o    .                 13117 137                           7        1        1,347      1,317      1,317      1,347
Not 7tel. of Prodlltim                              2                    7  , 5
ToPital  Mtov.1o                        (12 970)        -          -          -          -         -           ~         -
t Capital   .                ))                      2.S77 g   i3.1       3,1955      33 95                           3,195    19
Ahmity, R. 1,730
Pi...o1.1 Pt8. of Ib1t-  - P-o t prilsFt    30%
18% pW., da01... m
3.d41 IV (1.  8i-, 15 80, P .-t, 3itdj    agUmn, mal" 0..b.e   & nm..t1
pr"at Pr-ioata L    , Sttl"
k.,1.l Not ski"                          1h,i79     19,2M2    21,5c6     21,506     21,5s8     21,5so     21,508     21,508     21,508
DICZ_1OtO 9601p  .t ...l Ic-0            S          9,9q       S 9.921    9,91       9S9U       9,911      9,511      9,911      9,911
N.t I61- of Preetl                        ff         17         I        if         U,ssf7     if,!       if .9'    1157       11,797
Captr  D msgtamt                                                _M 2)   - - 
N.t Ctp9it l-                                                                         19       l  M          $       11,597     11,597
Ao51ty, R. 4,366                                              '                                  -          _          -
710001.1 R.t1  of Rot-  - 97.0t pric c,       425
10% prilo d0.3. .3
Md 41 V (?  . Si-., 15 h-o P?o- t, Msa-Ow-W.. Wal & 1_   t, I 1  Mw,  P7 T-t1r &  miga-t - 3)
Toor_8erol Nlt S.1                      17,356     18,50     18,506     11,506     16,508     18,506
Iccr   ta Dp-ratiaml       *              78S 7q .    892      782        782        7S2        7
lNt V.1. of Prdo1tio0                               IC
capital I_.t_t                             ,17)         --        _           __        __     ___
Not Capital 7l1                         a 17 ,)    -  1               6  ____                  10_616
A0it1, R1 5,545
FiDICC.  ort, of otT. D - P70t pri....    35%
10% pMot. d40.11     32%
3Odo1 VI (7n  S.., S0 h-; p..t, RAi0.4   Togtawf_   T Y            11 k ? P.t)
no.m-t Price 1.01 Pmails1,
l-not 1 Not  1.                          28,375    40,285     53,095     53,095     53,095                53,095     53,095     53,095
Mhor....tal 0p9rat10l x  -a2 7a                                                                     : 7   2Z 791    2e.7S1  28.791  2S 791  2B,791  2e,791
Nlt Val. of P-d0tioc                       (             411  11,1  24,34   ,        2,301    24,304      21,301     2b,30b     2b,30b
Ibt O.pillc t   t                                                                              ______                           __ ___
An1t1, PA 10,350
71..i.e.1 t3. of Rat     - 91.0t pi00         26%
Xo% prio. dmoli.1 23%
.d4.1 VII (No. 8Ms.. 50 Mt Pr.,.ftt  TO .bl  4 P9 cti Jc..       trto .   200t0r & 6NipMrt - 3)
Pc. nt 1ri1, Tavel Pr0il0.
To.,intel Not 3.1..                      31,810     33,780    33,780     33,780     33,780     33,780
10070t       pU      1 _*                21. S61 ae.  677  a,3  2179      21796     21796      21,796
lIt Vol of Prehoti..                     I,         HW T.  1W I
Capital  Brt                               31Sb
Not cap tal plow                                                                     U.~W  ~1,8
Am-itY, Ri 5,545
PA1 0i01 R10t of Rat-10 - Pra.07  pric-...    43%
10% pWic d0a.0, 39%
H.d-1 VIII (?o- Sie, 20 b1   Pr-o ntl P.1.0d.        o         Lift D7i7ptioo & _pe..t)
rentPri r lonl ?-%ile.
Toor07t.l lIt #1...                      15,361    20,492     21,933     24,933     24,933     Z4,933     21,933     24,933     24,933
1.'.wa 1  Wra t  Ud13021.02 13.24 13041,2 3041041,2 32
C        ptd V .e S Uo 91.603                        7,8          09 11,909         11,909     11,909                           i 11,909
ma. piw. I. o.e.e                       jj13            --&                  --                             -9- 
yc3 Topitol ?20.                        (53.)    7,46e          1,09 1,90  t90       11,909    11,909    11,909        11,909   11,909
Asaftlty, U. 7,4733                                                                                              
J10nci l 81t. of R.t-rr - Pro.t p4to.,    215
10% pric daoli., 17%
Md41  II (fto Sb.,  20 h., p_       ,   it 3.363..ii_ & ?      I,     .t_t,   oto, & n          t  - 3)
Pn mt Fri.. Lmll niltA
ocr_mtl lIt  .1i..                       18,(S2     19,532    19,532     19,532     19,532     19,532
]nt V.1_t of P-d14t5lD       l     b5                   D l               9,3l7  1015 10lbS
C pit.1  Dn.seat t32,170)                               --        -_ S                  -          -
lIt CApitd1 7100                        (2k,733)       9!          f                 93           8
iit7, Ri 5.545
710.l 3.11-t or 0.0   - po0o1ric_ 9    .
10% prie. dC    ,  23V



IICOMIC R1A  OF RlrrUR
ANNEX 8
Incremntal Net Value of
Year   I,netant    Production under Three Aapuptious
(in mlflon RJ)
a           b            c
1        164.9         21.3        21.3         21.3
2        173.3        60.6         60.6         60.6
3        161.1       107.5        102.5        102.5
4           --       134.2       318.7         118.0
5           --       134.2        114.5        114.0
6           --       134.2         90.2         61.5
7         13.3       134.2         90.2         61.5
8         15.2       134.2         90.2         61.5
9         13.3       134.2         90.2         61.5
10           --       134.2         90.2         61.5
11           --       134.2         90.2         61.5
12         20.0       134.2         90.2         61.5
13         13.3       134.2         90.2         61.5
14         15.2       134.2         90.2         61.5
15         13.3       134.2         90.2         61.5
16           --       1314.2        99.2         61.5
17           __       134.2         90.2         61.5
1B           --       134.2         90.2         61.5
19         13.3       134.2         90.2         61.5
20         15.2       134.2         90.2         61.5
21         13.3       134.2         90.2         61.5
22           --       134.2         90.2         61.5
23           __       134.2         90.2         61.5
24           --       134.2         90.2         61.5
25          --        143.6         99.6         70.5
Rate of Retwa ........  29%         22%          17%
Note: a: hider present price rate.
bs AsamdAg a 10% price decline untl 1975.
cs ABsumAg a 10% price decline until 1975 and
world market prices thereafter.



70o
I NDIA
GUJARAT STATE-AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
25o
PA^K 0S TA^H                                                       e°4 9 So
0          (-AM
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~E8RUA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  ~~~~M                                                                                      .  IBR-   26-



