CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 191 IN
Project Agreement
(Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
GUJARAT STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD.
DATED JUNE 3, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 191 IN
Project Agreement
(Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
GUJARAT STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD.
DATED JUNE 3, 1970


﻿0
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       June  3, 1970,    between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) of the one
part and AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called
ARC) and GUJARAT STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK
LTD. (hereinafter called LDB) of the other part.
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement of even date herewith between India, acting
by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, which
agreement, the Schedules thereto and the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated January 31, 1969, made
applicable thereto are hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement, the
Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set. forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
(B)  by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of Gujarat, the State of Gujarat has agreed to undertake certain obligations
in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
(C)   the Association has agreed to the foregoing only on condition inter
alia that ARC and LDB agree to undertake certain obligations to the Association
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS ARC and LDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
shall have the respective meanings therein set forth.
0


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of ARC and LDB
Section 2.01. ARC and LDB shall carry out Parts 1, 11 and III of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC and LDB shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with the Borrower on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth
in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association. ARC and LDB shall exercise their rights in relation to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
ARC and LDB shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any provision of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(b)   The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out of Parts
1, II and III of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement
and as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Association, Gujarat, ARC and LDB.
(c)   LDB shall follow lending terms, criteria and procedures uniform to
those set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement with respect to its lending activities
similar to those under the Project. With respect to its other lending activities, LDB
shall follow lending terms, criteria and procedures consistent with those set forth
in said Schedule 1.
Section 2.03. (a) LDB will arrange for tubewell drilling under the Project
and will ensure that drilling contractors who are entrusted with the installation
of tubewells under the Project are equipped with adequate numbers of drilling
rigs suitable for efficient operations. LDB will ascertain the number of tubewells
proposed to be installed in different blocks of the Project area, and invite bids
from contractors for the installation of such numbers of tubewells in defined areas
and within specific periods of time. LDB would select for each number of tubewells
the contractor who offered the most favorable terms with satisfactory assurances
as to equipment to be used. LDB would draw up the terms of individual contracts
to be entered into between individual farmers (or groups of farmers) and the
contractor. The contract terms would stipulate that each individual installation


﻿5
would be part of the indicated number of tubewells to be installed in the defined
areas within the specified time periods. To the extent practical, all individual
contracts resulting from each bidding operation would be signed at the same time.
Contracts would include suitable penalty clauses in case of default by the
contractor.
If requested, LDB will assist contractors in obtaining drilling rigs, and/or
provide financing for such rigs.
(b)   LDB will send to the Association for its prior approval: the form of
the notice to be used in calling for bids for tubewell installation, before the first
such call; its analysis of the bids and its recommendations for awards before the
first and all subsequent awards are made; and the form of the individual contracts
to be signed between farmers and contractors before the first such contracts are
signed.
(c)   LDB will send to the Association for its review and comment all
subsequent notices used in calling for bids and specimen contracts under each
number of tubewells awarded to contractors.
Section 2.04. ARC and LDB shall (i) establish separate accounts in respect
of all funds disbursed and received on account of the Project, (ii) have such accounts
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association, and
(iii) promptly after the preparation of the audit, and not later than four months
after the close of their financial year, respectively, transmit to the Association
certified copies of such audited accounts and a signed copy of the auditor's report.
Section 2.05. LDB shall not, without the prior approval of the Association
to be given on the basis of the results of the study referred to in Section 2.01
(b) (i) of the Gujarat Agreement, grant loans (i) for more than a total of four
hundred (400) deep tubewells, and (ii) for tubewells or tubewell installations in
the Kaira District.
Section 2.06. ARC and LDB shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to show the results
achieved by the Project; shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
such goods and any relevant records and documents; and shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the Project, such goods and services, and the operations,
administ,ation and financial condition of ARC and LDB.


﻿6
Section 2.07. (a) ARC, LDB and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of The Credit will be accomplished. To that end, ARC,
LDB and the Association shall from time to time exchange views through their
representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit, the
Project and to the performance by ARC and LDB of their obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   ARC and LDB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit or the performance by ARC and LDB of their obligations
tinder this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. ARC and LDB shall at all times charge interest on all of their
loans at rates sufficient to enable ARC and LDB, respectively, to: (a) cover all
operating expenditures and charges including taxes (if any) and interest payments
on borrowings; (b) maintain adequate provisions for bad and doubtful debts; and
(c) maintain adequate general reserves.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Project Agreement shall enter into force and effect on
the Effective Date. If the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant
to Section 10.04 of the General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify
ARC and LDB of this event and, upon the giving of such notice, this Project
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 3.02. This Project Agreement shall terminate and all obligations of
the Association, ARC and LDB hereunder shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement terminates, or on the date when
all principal withdrawn by LDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement prior to
the Closing Date and interest thereon shall have been repaid by LDB to ARC,
whichever is the earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right,
power, or remedy accruing to either party under this Project Agreement upon any
default shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a


﻿7
waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such
party in respect of any default or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair
any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent
default.
Section 4.02. Any notice, demand or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall
be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand
or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such demand or request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
*                   United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Garment House
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 WB
India


﻿8
Alternative address for cables:
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Garment House
Bombay
For LDB:
Managing Director
Gujarat State Cooperative Land
Development Bank Ltd.
489 Ashram Road
Ahmedabad 9, Gujarat
India
Alternative address for cables:
Kheti Bank
Ahmedabad
Gujarat
Section 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of (i) ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing; (ii) LDB may be taken or executed
by its Managing Director or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing.
Section 4.04. ARC and LDB shall furnisl to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of ARC
and LDB, take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by ARC and LDB pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.05. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ Maharajakrishna Rasgotra
Authorized Representative
GUJARAT STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD.
By /s / Maharajakrishna Rasgotra
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures
1.    Technical Feasibility of Minor Irrigation Investments:
To help assure technical feasibility of minor irrigation investments, deep
tubewell projects should have the approval of the State Groundwater Directorate,
and lift irrigation projects, the approval of the State Irrigation Department; both
of these agencies should approve, among other things, the design of the irrigation
improvement as technically feasible.
2.    Financial Feasibility of Farm  Ivestments:
To help assure financial feasibility of individual farm investments:
(a)   All investments would be evaluated in terms of the incremental returns
from the additional investment, with investments in tubewells, lift irrigation, and
farm mechanization evaluated on a case by case basis. ARC would prescribe the
method of evaluation.
(b)   Loans for tractor purchase would be granted to a farmer or groups
of farmers cultivating at least 40 ha of irrigated land, unless the tractor can be
used for farm custom work to make the investment financially feasible. In no
case would a tractor loan be made to a farmer or a group of farmers owning
less than 15 ha of land.
(c)   Tractor borrowers would be required to buy post-warranty service on
their tractors for the life of the tractor loan.
3.    Lending Terms from LDB to Farmers/Contractors:
(a)   Loan Size: All loans should be for no more than 80% of investment,
except loans for tractor purchase which should be for no more than 75% of the
cost of the tractor to the Borrower.
(b)   Interest Rate: 9% per annum    on all loans.
(c)   Loan Maturity: The maturity of loans would in no case exceed the
useful life of the asset to be financed and should take the repayment capacity
of borrowers into consideration. Specifically, under the Project loans for (i) farm
mechanization shall be for a period not exceeding 7 years; (ii) minor irrigation
facilities for a period not exceeding 9 years; and (iii) drilling rigs for a period
not exceeding 9 years.


