Do=        F1  LEM1CRUF'ICH   COH Y
TheWoJ          Report No.  9819-JM   Type: (I'Is)
WISE, C.  / X3179 / l9003/ (AEDD2'
FOR omac
Repw No. 9819
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3012-JM)
AUGUST 16, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department III
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a resricted dtibution ad may be nsed by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial dotie  Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
November 1985-end 1988         US$1 = J$5.48     J$1 = US$0.18
1989 (average)                US$1 = J$6.48      J$1 = US$0.15
1990 (average)                US$1 = J$7.18      J$1 = US$0.14
1991 (end-March)              US$1 = J$8.26      J$1 = US$0.12
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIS         Emergency Information System
ERIL        Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
JCTC        Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
JDF         Jamaica Defence Force
MLWSS       Ministry of Labor Welfare and Social Services
MOC(H)      Ministry of Construction (Housing)
MOP         Ministry of Finance
ODP         Office of Disaster Preparedness
UDC         Urban Development Corporation
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



THE WORLD BANK                IR omc  USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oieof 00"ta-CwaI
OPwatm Evakuteun
August 16, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE E7VICUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Jamaica - Emergency
Reconstruction Iamort Loan (Loan 3012-JM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Jamaica - Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan (Loan
3012-JM)" prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office.  No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
| T   *r '               r.  -



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3012-JM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PFae No.
PREFACE ...... . ........... . .                . . . . . . . . . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY.. . . . . . . . . ..iii
Part I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S ASSESSMENT  . . . . . . .      1
A. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
i.   Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Macroeconomic Situation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hurrican Impact    1.                .
C.  Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . .     2
D.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . .     3
E.  Project Implementation   . . .     . . . . . . . . .     4
Electricity Services.....                                4
Low-Income Housing Program . . . . . . . . . . . . .     4
Agriculture  . . . .  .  .  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ...  ..  8
Other Facilities .  ........  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  8
F.  Project Results  ........  .   ........ ..9
G.  Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
H.  Bank Performance . . . . . . . . .     .  .   . .        11
I.  Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
J. Consulting Services                .12
Part II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT  . . . . .    15
Part II Annexes:
Is Hurricane Assistance - Pledges vs. Receipts . . . . . . . . .     47
IIs Estimates of Damage in Major Sectors  . . . . . . . . . . . .     49
III: Sample Data Sheet Used by Field Officers   .    .  .  ..  .       50
IV: Number of Building Stamps Issued to Beneficiaries by
Categorisa     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5l
V: Table 1: Small Farmer Rehabilitation  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .     52
Table 2:  Poultry Programume . . . . .   .       . . . . . .     53
Vls Achievement of Objectives by Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . .     54
VII:  Chronogram of Main Events Related to the Hurricane  . . . . .    55
|  Ti '|, 'w     nent F    - f- . r- t*d d  tn ri it -  a   V  <I I 'r * *   e    i  t



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont ' d)
Faa. No.
Part III.  STATISTICALANNEX       . .    . . . . . . . . . . . .     57
Table 1:  Estimates of Hurricane Damages . . . . . . . . .    .      58
Table 2:  Details of Financing Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . .   59
Table 3:  A. Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    .      60
B. Mission Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .     60
Table 4:  Utilization of Funds . . .          .  . . . ...     . . .   .  61
Table 5:  Status of Hexcell Housing Units  . . . . . . . . . . . .   62
Table 6:  Details of Building Stamp Program   .  .  .  .  .  ..  .   63
Table 7:  Details of Small Farmers' Rehabilitation Component . . .   64
Table 8:  Status of Hurricane Damaged Hospitals and Clinics  . . .   65
Table 9:  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   66



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3012-JM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for an Emergency
Reconstruction Import Loan (ERIL) in Jamaica, for which Loan 3012-JM in the
amount of US$30.0 million was approved on December 22, 1988. The loan was
fully disbursed in two months, February 1 to March 28, 1989. The closing date
was December 31, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Division,
Country Department III, of the Latin America and Caribbean Region (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
The PCR is based on the findings of a status report dated March 30,
1990, documents contained in the files, discussions with staff involved with
design and implementation of the project, and a visit to Jamaica in January
1991.     A paper entitled The Jamaica Hurricane Reconstruction Proiect:
Findings Relevant to Future Bank Reconstruction Operations, prepared in April
1991, provides details of the wider implications of the findings of this PCR.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIOg IMPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3012-JM)
EVALUACION SUMiAR
i..      As specified in the Staff Appraisal Report. the objectives of the
emergency reconstruction import loan (ERIL) were to: (i) help finance the
country's rehabilitation needs; (ii) enable the mobilization of additional
cofinancing on concessional terms; and (iii) provide a sound framework for
overall coordination and implementation of the government's reconstruction
program. These objectives were met with varying degrees of success.
Proiect DesiRa
ii.      The intention of the government and donors was to have a multi-sector
reconstruction program consistent with Jamaica's balance of payment require-
ments and economic needs. During project design, emphasis Was placed upon a
fast-disbursing loan to catalyze additional cofinancing on concessional terms
to rehabilitate basic infrastructure (power. water and communications), with
low-income groups assisted through a shelter certificate program in cooperation
with private suppliers. Supervision of implementation was the responsibility
of a multiple of central government agencies which were also involved in actual
execution.
iii.       The basic approach of quick intervention to foster speedy economic
recovery turned out to be a sound one. Reconstruction of productive capacity
was very fast and efficient, particularly with respect to the pover sector, but
also for water, drainage rehabilitation and roads. It took about four months
to re-establish electricity throughout the island, despite the substantial
devastation.
iv.      At the same time, however, there could have been greater emphasis in
the project upon a more structured and independent system for program
coordination, primarily becauae: (i) a large number of agencies were involved;
(ii) the assistance was in the form of a quick-disbursing program, and leverage
and ability to address problems diminished as loan funds were used up; and
(iii) several donorseV were involved in implementation. The project should also
have included in its design greater involvement at the grassroots level which
could have optimized use of the private sector in decision making as well as
implementation.
v Approximately 26 different countries and agencies came to the aid of Jamaica
pledging a total of US$488.5 million, of which US$438.8 million had been
commiltted by end December 1990. A list of the donors and their commitments
is provided in Annex Tables 2 and 4.



- iv -
Prolect OrRanization
v.       A major difficulty in project organization lay in the apathy of many
agencies in. razticipating in implementation. Much time was lost in determining
an appropriate institutional arrangement for the project.   A satisfactory
compromise was finally reached, including an interagency committee which
coordinated activities with the aid of a partially implemented emergency
information system (EIS) in the relevant agencies.
vi.      In retrospect, in view of the political events of the time (para. 15).
it appears that the Bank and other doiors could have more clearly defined the
responsibilities of the relevant agencies at the start of the project. This
would have helped to isolate or insulate technical decisions from other
pressures and influences which surfaced during implementation.
Implementation Results
vii.     The Government's reconstruction program. has had mixed results.  The
quick-disbursing feature succeeded in avoiding a cash-flow problem for Jamaica
in the crucial period after the hurricane. Uithin two and a half months of
being declared effective, the entire Bank loan was disbursed.   A similar
situation existed for other external assistance.   Rehabilitation of social
infrastructure (schools, hospitals) resulted in upgrading of many of these
facilities in compliance with emergency standards. Power, water, roads and
drainage were efficiently completed (para. 10). Implementation of the housing
programs for low-income beneficiaries proved to be a difficult challenge of the
program (paras. 11-24).
viii.    The key problem affecting the housing program was the lack of a strong
administrative system.   In the absence of such a system the implementation
process turned out to be hephazard in many respects. The EIS was not utilized
as planned, and actions were taken which were contrary to Bank advice and which
could not have been justified by the existing data. Thus, for example, there
was large scale importation of prefabricated units (4,310) which were then
distributed without any system being in place to manage and monitor them
(para. 16); large scale purchase of zinc sheets left the country vith an
oversupply which finally had to be distributed by political representatives,
t!=:ough a distribution program, which, for the most part, negated much of the
screening and selection processes established under the formal ERIL program
(paras. 22-24).
Key Issues and Recommendations
ix.      There are several key issues which merit consideration in order to
better prepare Jamaica to handle natural disasters in the future. A registra-
tion system should be put in place to help with damage assessments not only for
shelter but also for other social infrastructure and agriculture. Much time
was lost in clarifying institutional responsibilities (para. 11) and on
deciding how to get basic data (para. 12), and this contributed to pressures
for immediate political action.  It is highly recommended that in order to
avoid a repetition of this situation, the government should compile a complete
register of all residents, farmers, etc., especially the low-income ones who
would need assistance in an emergency. With such a register, little time would
be lost in sorting out legitimate claims and deciding needy cases.



- v -
X.       Given the importance of having a register with a well-integrated
system of emergency preparedness (including relief and reconstructioa
expertise), the Bank and other donors should actively work to encourage the
adoption and maintenance of such a register. Countries should be made awazs
that unless they maintain an adequate system, they should not expect much
reconstructio- assistance since such assistance is not sustainable in the
absence of a tramework and mechanism to implement the works.
xi.      The experience of the reconstruction program raises three basic
questions: (a) in terms of physical stock, is Jamaica better off today than it
was before the hurricane in September 1988? (b) is the country better prepared
today for another hurricane or earthquake? and (c) how should the Bank and
other donors respond  to similar future disasters?   Regarding the first
question, in terms of physical stock, it is difficult to say definitively. On
the one hand, the rehabilitation resources (donor-financed as well as the
reinsurance inflows) have improved and upgraded Jamaica's undermaintained
capital stock; the power network will probably be more resilient as a result
of a review of specificatPInn  gt the time of reconstruction.   On the other
hand, there remains a significant proportion of low-income residents whose
housing units do not comply with building codes and standards and who could be
in a worse position than before the hurricane.
xii.     In terms of preparedness, indications are that, overall, the country
may be less vulnerable today t1:an it was before September 1988.  Its fore-
casting, monitoring, early warning and pre-disaster preparedness and relief
capabilities may be a bit more reliable today because of improved communication
equipment and some training programs. But more importantly, the proje4t helped
to raise awareness on the issue of vulnerability through studies on: insurance
schemes for low income housing, agriculture, and selected government facili-
ties; the review of building code and enforcement; and preparation of
registries on low income groups.
xiii.    In terms of a strategy of the Bank and other donors for future
disasters, the basic approach of quick intervention to help the country during
a very vulnerable period is still sound.  Focussing upon assistance to low-
income groups with a certificate program redeemable through private suppliers
while assisting with reconstruction of basic services is unquestionably an
appropriate way to respond in an emergency. However, there should be emphasis
upon a more structured and independent system for overall coordination,
especially if there is a quick-disbursing program in a highly politicized
environment.
xiv.     Experience under this program shows that there is a need to review the
manner of intervention for reconstruction works. Authorities should actively
work to foster participation of the beneficiaries and NGOs in the interest of
cost-effectiveness and efficiency (para. 26). Many small farmers, for example,
appeared to have used their own resources to recover from the hurricane. In
fact, the promise of assistance which did not materialize in adequate volume
or coverage may have delayed speedier recovery by creating expectations and
delaying individual initiatives.  It could be made clear, for example, that
those beneficiaries who form a cooperative group and are willing to contribute
their labor would have preference over those who are not willing to do so.



- vi -
xv.      It is worthwhile noting that while the response of the international
donor community was prompt and generous after Hurricane Gilbert, this may most
lilkely not be so for future emergencies. Important factors which may influence
reaction of the international donor community are the recent opening up of
Eastern Europe, the aftermath of the Gulf Crisis and the consequential
assistance needs.
xvi.     One question which merits some attention concerns project design and
the rationale for emphasizing a quick-disbursing loan. Ex-ante indications
were that Jamaica needed to have access to foreign exchange for reconstruction
works. However, in light of the effects of reinsurance flows, relief efforts,
and actions of other donors and lendera, could it be that there was an
overestimation of such a need?   Could this be partly responsible for the
overpurchasing of material?   Would it have been better to tranche such
assistance and/or combine it with a package providing reimbursement against
identified key project works? Donors should work on a more comprehensive plan
for providing disaster preparation and mitigation assistance to borrowers,
rewarding those receptive to such assistance. One final note is that Jamaica
should use the experience of Hurricane Gilbert to draw up guidelines for
coordinating donor assistance (particularly to minimize duplication in
reporting commitments and expenditures), and supervising implementation of
emergency interventions. The GOJ should also focus on the insurance recommen-
dations regarding setting up of a registry and insurance of government
property.
xvii.    The experience of the Jamaica ERIL is consistent with the findings of
a Bank review of about one hundred Bank-financed operations targeted to
emergency reconstruction after disasters (para. 11). To summarize the findings
of the review, the key to project success lies in: (i) keeping projects simple;
(ii) having the government's strong commitment to the project; (iii) full
cooperation and frequent communication between the borrower and the Bank;
(iv) not imposing major conditions that are difficult to meet in a crisis;
(v) simplifying and consolidating the borrower's procurement and disbursement
procedures; (vi) strengthening the institutions that exist rather than creating
new ones; and (vii) making sure that the borrower is better prepared in the
event of another disaster.



PROJECT COMPLETION RPORT
JAMAICA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3012-JM)
PART I. PROJECT REVIW PROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name:       Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan
Loan No;   3012-JM
RVP Unit:   Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:    Jamaica
Sector:     Infrastructure and Energy
B. Back&round
Macroeconomic Situation
1.        Hurricane Gilbert struck Jamaica at a time when the country had begun
a period of resumed economic growth after two decades of economic stagnation.
Real economic growth registered 5.2Z in 1987, compared with 1.9Z in 1986, and
5.5% in 1988 (pre-Gilbert). All sectors of the economy were contributing to
this growth; there was strong rebound in investment in 1987, reversirg the
declining trend that had started in 1984; good progress was also made in
restoring viability to the country's external accounts; export performance was
strong in all sectors.   It took about five years to reach this improved
performance, which was the result of an ambitious adjustment program, aimed at
restoring economic growth and correcting the structural imbalance in the
external accounts. However, the economy was still highly fragile due to its
very high external debt overhang, and the impact thus caused on debt service.
2.        Hurricane Gilbert delivered a significant setback to the improving
economy.   All of the economic sectors were affected with severe physical
damages to the agricultural sector and the country's building and housing
stock.     The current account deficit  (before grants)  in FY88 remained
essentially at FY87 level (6.52 of CDP). thanks to the large volume of
insurance reflows amounting to about 122 of GDP. The deficit widened in 1989
to 112 in part related to the higher level of imports that were required 4or
reconstruction works.   In terms of net impact, had it not been for the
compensatory flows from the loans and grants which came in then. the current
account deficit would have further widened.
Hurricane Impact
3.        Hurricane Gilbert has been recorded as one of the most powerful in
the Western Hemisphere in this century. It struck Jamaica on September 12,
1988, with peak winds clocked at nearly 140 miles per hour, causing extensive
damage throughout the island. The loss of life and injury was low (estimated
at a total of 45), due in part to the effoctiveness of an early warning system.
Annex Table I contains estimates of hurricane damages. As it indicates, final



- 2 -
estimates of destruction and losses amounted to about US$840 million, the
equivalent of approximately one-third of GDP.  The most seriously affected
sectors were the country's building stock (US$480 million); agriculture crops
(US$92 million); manufacturing facilities (US$82 million); public infrastruc-
ture (US$68 million); and tourism facilities and revenue losses (US$57
million).
4.        In terms of physical damage, it was estimated that almost half of the
housing stock (of about 550,000 units) was affected. the majority of them
losing roofs, but approximately 30,000 being totally destroyed. Agricultural
crops suffered severe damage, and the broiler industry was shattered with loss
,f birds and coops.  Electricity supply was severely disrupted as both the
generation and distribution facilities were damaged; the latter more extensive-
ly than the rormer.   Also, there was widespread damage to various public
buildings such as schools, hospitals, clinics and offices; equipment and
supplies were similarly affected.
5.        In order to understand the events affecting the reconstruction
effort, it is important to mention that Jamaica was about to have a general
election at the time that Hurricane Gilbert struct   The upcoming elections
played a very pivotal role in determining the mannw. and pace at which most of
the reconstruction work was implemented. The inherent weaknesses in the public
institutional system and the lack of clarity of roles and responsibilities made
it easier for the relief and reconstruction efforts to become politicized.
C. Project Obiectives and Description
6.        The objectives of the emergency reconstruction import loan were to:
(i) help finance the country's reconstruetion needs; (ii' enable the mobiliza-
tion of additional cofinancing on concessional terms; and (ili) provide a sound
framework for overall coordination and implementation of the government's
reconstruction program.   The loan was expected to be disbursed against a
positive list of imports (financing 1002 of foreign exchange expenditures) as
follows:
(a) Categorv I (US$20 million): (i) construction materials and equipment;
and (ii) transport equipment for public agencies related to the
reconstruction program up to a maximum amount of US$3 million;
(b)  Category II (US$5 million): selected agricultural supplies; and
(c) Categorv III (US$5 million): equipment and materials for electric
power restoration.
7.       The loan also included mechanisms and procedures to: (i) ensure that
implementation of the major program components followed appropriate reconstruc-
tion standards; (ii) review possible mechanisms to mitigate the impact of
similar catastrophes in the future; (iii) establish and monitor eligibility
criteria and supervision mechanisms for the low-income assistance programs;
(iv) ensure that facilities were economically justified; and (v) coordinate the
financing and implementation of the whole program on a continuing basis.



D. Proiect Design and Organization
8.          Immediately after the hurricane, the Government contacted the Bank and
other international agencies and governments and sought relief and reconstruc-
tion  assistance  based  upon  preliminary  damage  estimates.                          The  Bank  then
Chrmonam of -Min Events
Date                               Event
09-12488          Hurricane Gilbert struck Jamaica
09-1648           Preliminary damage estimates prepared
. 094748          UNDP convened first donor meeting
09-18-88          First shipment of relief supplies arr
09-               Caribbean Food and Nutrition Institute (CFNI) prepared surveillance report Caribbean
Group meeting involving USAID, iD8 and ibilteral donore
09-2248           IBRD identification team held discussion vi4th Prime Minister and set up reoonstruction
team in Ministry of Finance (MOF) Iith UNDP  assistance
09-2548           Donor meeting in Berlin
09.2748           Meeting with CDB re tentative lending prtgram
09-28-8           Team sponsored by Natural Hazards Projects (NHP) of the OAS assisted ODP in
compiling damage assessment infonnatlon; iNstned Eirnergny Infonnation System
(EIS) in ODP
09-298            Final donor meeting convened by UNOP
10-1748           IBRD Agriculturat sector mission
10-1948           Approval of loan from West Oermany (US$55.0 milion)
10-31.88          Confirmation of assistance from Canada
- 4110948         Government met to decide on stfategy for loan neotiations
Ii 1^418          Government agencies convened to nvew impact of Oilbert
-1-11-88          OPEC loan apprved (USS5.0 million)
12-02-            IBRD loan negotiated
12-12-88          IDB loan approved (US$73 milion)
12-22-88          IBRD loan approved (US$30 million)
01-10.89          IBRD loan became effective
01-26-8           Loan approved from Japan (US$30 milon)
0241-89           Firsm disbursement IBRD loan (US$9.0 million)
02-0              Loan approved from France (USS25.4 mMlon)
03-2589           Second disbursement 1DR) loan (US$13.5 million)
03-28489          Final disbursement IBRD loan (USS7.5 million)
organized a special Donors Menting in Berlin during the Bank's Annual Meetings.
Box 1 provides a chrcnogram of the main events shaping the design of the
project. From previous experience, the Bank was aware of the need for a quick,
well-defined and coordinated response. As a reeult, an identification mission
was sent to Jamaica nine days after the hurricane and an appraisal mission
followed  in  October.    By  the  end  of  November  1988  the  Bank.  IMF  and  other
donors had reviewed the Government's needs and decided upon a reconstruction
package  with  identified  financing  sources.    The  volume  of  loans  and  grant
assistance is summarized in Table 1 below. Annex Table 2 provides further
details of financing requirements. donor pledges and commitments. Included in
that package was reallocation of loan funds from two ongoing Bank loans (Power
IV Loan 2869-JM. US$4.0 million, and Water and Sewerage Loan 2422-JM, US$1.5



- 4 -
Table 1: Sumary Financial Flows to MIML by Type
Pledged     Actual     Shortfall
Amount     Receipts        (Z?
Grants               146.10       147.30           0.8
Loans                342.40       291.40          14.9
Total             488.50       438.70          10.2
million) to meet immediate emergency reconstruction needs in the program. An
IBRD loan for US$30 million was negotiated in November 1988, approved by the
Board in December 1988, and became effective on January 10, 1989 (Annex
Table 3).
9.       Given the existing economic situation and Jamaica's need for immediate
access to foreign exchange, it was decided that Bank assistance would be in the
form of an Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan (ERIL) disbursed against a
positive list of imports needed to support the emergency reconstruction effort.
While a loan package was being assembled, the Bank assisted in facilitating a
commercial bridge loan to Jamaica to meet its immediate needs. To further help
expedite the recovery process the Bank also agreed to provide retroactive
f-inancing of up to 30Z of the reconstruction loan amount for expenditures
incurred after September 21. nine days after the hurricane. Loans and grants
provided by other donors were used to finance reconstruction works directly or
through general material imports (Annex Table 4).
E. Proiect Imnlementation
Electricity Services
10.      Of all of the affected sectors. the importance of restoring elec-
tricity services on a priority basis was very obvious.   Consequently, an
intensive effort was launched. Jamaica Public Service Company (JPSCO) began
its reconstruction works with a well-planned administrative system and adequate
resources (estimated at J$150 million) in the form of material and equipment
and technical manpower from the United States of America, Canada, the United
Kingdom and IBRD. The island was divided into separate sectors and different
teams were given responsibility for their respective sectors. Within four
months of the hurricane power was restored to the entire country.
Low-Income Housing Program
11.      Rehabilitating the low-income housing stock proved to be a difficult
challenge in the emergency reconstruction works, largely because of the socio-
economic, legal and institutional issues which had to be addressed - In the
g For a more detailed cross-country analysis of the issues involved, refer to
Lessons  Learned  from  Emeraency  Lendine,  The World  Bank,  Environment
Department, Divisional Working Paper No. 1990-15.



- 5 -
process of deciding vhich agency was to be assigned what task, no agency
appeared willing to be the overall coordinator. The Ministry of Construction
(Housing) (MOC(H)) regarded the reconstruction tasks as welfare functions
belonging to the Ministry of Labor Welfare and Sport (MLWS); the Ministry of
Agriculture did not believe it was capable of handling the various multisec-
torial functions of the project; the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) did
not have sufficient experienced staff and was primarily a relief agency; the
Urban Development Corporation (UDC) was occupied with other reconstruction
activities. The onus finally landed on the MLWS with the understanding that
MOC(H) and, to a lesser degree, UDC. would have a dominant role to play in the
non-welfare cases.
12.      Another challenge facing the government was to get an accurate profile
of shelter damage. Estimates were initially made by Bank staff and government
officials during appraisal, by field officers of the MLWS and also the Jamaica
Defence Force (JDF). The question of the most efficient manner to obtain such
a profile (including, for example, how many families suffered damages, to what
extent, what were their ownership patterns and location, what resources they
had. etc.), given the need to have a quick but reasonably accurate response,
became the subject of lengthy discussions soon after the hurricane.  After
considering various alternatives, it was decided that since the MLWS had some
experience with a food stamp program for low-income families and it had staff
and facilities to do statistical analyses, it would be best to have this agency
conduct the damage analysis.
13.      In parallel with the MLWS survey, provisions were made to ensure that
adequate supplies of reconstruction material would be available throughout the
country. The donors, lenders and the government were very concerned about
having insufficient building material since this could have led to price
gouging by speculators. The Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation (JCTC) was
therefore instructed to secure adequate stocks to meet all reconstruction
needs. To be doubly sure of the availability of material when needed, the Bank
agreed with the government that JCTC's monopoly import position would be
relaxed to allow private local merchants to import some building supplies on
their own account. In order to avoid creating an additional bureaucracy to
manage the stocks of material, the Bank and the government agreed to have a
system of building stamps issued to beneficiaries who would then go to
privately-owned hardware stores and obtain their supplies. As the stamps were
used to pay for these supplies, the hardware dealers then submitted the stamps
to the government for payment. Additionally, the government agreed with the
Bank to have UNDP finance a technical assistance program for technicians to
give demonstrations on how to reconstruct their units in compliance with
earthquake and hurricane resistance standards.
14.      In order to have a well-coordinated  implementation  system,  the
government agreed to work with UNDP and OAS to have an Emergency Information
System (EIS) installed in each participating agency, including the Prime
Minister's office and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The EIS was to be an
integrated data base and visual planning system which would be used to manage
project implementation by providing all relevant data side by side for the
manager to review and make sure that all of the necessary inputs were available
for works to proceed at a specific location. It was also expected that the
system would later evolve to a general management information system, to be



used not only for emergencies, but for day-to-day management of various
agencies.
15.      All of the above preparations were underway when a date for national
elections was being decided. Even in a period of no election campaigns it is
usually very difficult to manage a large national reconstruction program
involving grants to citizens in several sectors, without conflicts and
questions about fairness and the criteria for making such grants and selec-
tions.   When election  factors  enter  the equation  they  create  enormous
complications and bottlenecks as elected staff begin to focus upon the election
activities and devote less time to administrative tasks, and groups accuse each
other of trying to influence voters.   The Bank and other donors tried to
mitigate the negative effects of the elections by: (a) agreeing with the
government on criteria for classification of damages; (b) including a role for
the church and other NGOs; and (c) providing for both political parties to
screen and comment upon the list of beneficiaries before assistance Was
provided.  In spite of these efforts, complications still arose for reasons
discussed below.
16.      Jamaica held elections in February 1989, and the election campaign
covered a crucial period of start up of the housing reconstruction program.
MLWS began its damage survey, but it was grossly understaffed and ill-equipped
with vehicles to undertake the task. Moreover, although its staff had some
experience in dealing with recipients of food stamps, they were not familiar
with technical aspects of assessing building damages and categorizing these
into one of the six established categories (Table 2 below). Logistical and
technical shortcomings created delays in getting a reliable damage assessment
and this, in turn, caused impatience, frustrations and criticisms of the
program.
Table 2: Distribution of Stamps by Value
Stamp       Stamp    No. of                 Total
Category    Value Beneficiaries       Z  Stamp Value        x
I     10,000         4.976      41   49,760,000       20Z
II      4,000         5.763      51   23,052,000        91
III      3,000        20,611     161   61,833,000       241
IV      1,500        70,175     561  105,262,500       411
V        750        11,016      91    8,262,000        31
VI        500        12,781     101    6,390,500        32
Total               125,322    1001  254,560,000    100%
17.      With pressure building to provide tangible results, the government
effectively bypassed the mechanisms of the ERIL program and distributed about
500 pre-fabricated units and some zinc sheets which one donor had provided.
These distributions were made on the basis of very preliminary assessments, and
there was no underlying system of guidelines or review in place. Additionally,
the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation (JCTC) was instructed to proceed with
massive purchases of zinc sheets and lumber and to acquire an additional number
of prefabricated units (Hexcell) from Miami. Having bypassed the implementa-



tion framework of overall coordination via the EIS system, reconstruction works
proceeded on an ad-hoc basis from that point.
18.      During the twelve months following the hurricane, MLWS was not able
to provide any definitive damage assessment figures. Part of the problem was
undoubtedly due to technical and logistical constraints and difficulties in
keepir-g the data current in light of temporary reconstruction work by
individuals. However, one of the main reasons for not having a definitive list
was that the agencies could not agree on the names listed even after there was
some initial agreement on one updated list which was forwarded to the Bank.
19.      There were various "revised' lists prepared, and with a change of
government, new overall surveys were conducted with the JDF and other agencies
visiting households to ascertain damages. During the latter phase of these
surveys, there was apparently some attempt to reduce the affected numbers in
order to make them correspond with the funds available for this component.
Several residents who were thus on one list were excluded from a later one,
even though their circumstances had not changed.
20.      The building stamp program began, based upon the various lists which
were prepared. As detailed in Annex Table 6, there were six categories for
grant assistance ranging from J$10,000 for a new unit to J$500 for minor
damages. Only 4X of the beneficiaries received stamps in Category I, amounting
to 20% of the total value of all stamps distributed. This was a consequence
of a decision to stop issuing such large stamp values after it was found that
many beneficiaries were exchanging the stamps for cash rather than home
reconstruction.
21.      Although adequate stocks of material were imported and sold to the
various hardware dealers, delays in finalizing the lists, issuing stamps and
paying dealers caused them to be very dissatisfied with the process. [As of
January 1991, there remained a total of J$86,000 in outstanding payments to the
hardware dealers]. At the same time, beneficiaries were slowed by the lack of
timely technical advice, since the appointment of technical staff to work with
beneficiaries was delayed, and when they were appointed, there was a shortage
of vehicles for field visits. UNDP was very instrumental in financing the
appropriate staff and providing training assistance as well as bridge financing
for the necessary vehicles. Technical staff then worked through UDC and the
MOC(H), to assemble the prefabricated units and advise beneficiaries on how to
repair and secure their homes.
22.      JCTC imported about 39,000 tons of zinc sheets and large quantities
of lumber to meet anticipated reconstruction needs. However, one year after
the hurricane, it still had about 37,000 tons of zinc and much of the lumber
remaining.   Since the large stockpiles cannot be stored for long without
deteriorating, the government, after briefly exploring the possibility of re-
exporting the items, decided to distribute them free of charge among disaster
victims. The Ministry of Local Government (MLG). was assigned the task of
distributing the zinc and other fittings through members of parliament (MPs),
shadow cabinet members and NGOs. While on paper, the criteria for distribu-
tion, monitoring and accounting for the material appear adequate, in actual
practice, it has been very chaotic. JCTC, the shippers, MLG, the MPs and NGOs
all have partial documentation on status of distribution, and, in most cases,
there is no standardization of records to facilitate analyses.



- 8 -
23.      Based on actual field interviews, newspaper accounts and discussions
with several officials involved with the program, there were no uniform
criteria for distribution of the zinc and supplies, and the goal appears to
have been to get rid of the material irrespective of the manner in which it was
distributed or to whom. Records of the early phase of operations and field
interviews indicate that the average beneficiary of this program received about
25 zinc sheets.   These recipients should not have been the same as those
participating in the building stamp program. However, there was really no way
of avoiding this duplication since each MP and shadow minister had wide
discretion on how his/her allocation of material was made and how information
on final disposition of the material was recorded.   A fair and equitable
distribution among the needy on the basis of hurricane damage Was not possible
under this system, and, through its large size, it undermined most of the
achievements which the formal reconstruction program had.
24.      Some of the reasons why the zinc distribution program failed were: the
slow pace of reconstruction works; failure to follow the importation procedures
of the program; larger than anticipated recycling of used zinc sheets and
lumber, and an overestimation of the time it would take to repair domestic zinc
production facilities. Indications are, however, that the huge piles of unused
zinc and lumber resulted more from poor planning and coordination efforts than
from anything else. Monitoring usage and ordering in smaller quantities over
time with the option of cancelling unshipped orders (even with a penalty),
would have eliminated this problem and been more cost effective. Additionally,
a register on low-income residents (including characteristics of their housing)
would have helped in avoiding the problem of having an oversupply of materials,
some of which were not compatible with their needs.
Agriculture
25.      Annex Table 7 presents details on the Small Farmers' Rehabilitation
Program. This program has achieved some success even though it also initially
suffered from the same types of logistical problems facing the housing
component. It was originally expected that there would be a survey to register
farmers' losses, and farm stamps would be issued to help them re-establish
their crops. After receiving a flood of claims from people who were not really
farmers, and facing various administrative problems. it was decided not to use
a stamp program but to provide reimbursement grants to qualified farmers who
planted various cash crops and had small broiler operations. Additional funds
were provided for farmers who grew banana, coffee and cocoa and for those who
were involved in fishing operations. Among those who received assistance, the
average amount received for cash crops was about J$300 to J$500; while for
small poultry farmers, the sum averaged about J$2.400. Preliminary indications
are that pre-Gilbert production patterns have been largely re-established. The
broiler industry, for example, has exceeded pre-Gilbert output and there are
many more producers today.
Other Facilities
26.      Schools, hospitals and public facilities were repaired using grants
and concessionary funds primarily from USAID and IDB with construction
supervised by UDC. Repairs went more slowly than had been anticipated because
of the extensive repair work that had to be done at most of the facilities and
initial confusion about responsibility for works. Lack of funds was also a



problem. Repairs of the public facilities have not been fully completed and.
some services --health-- for example, are still being rendered from temporary
shelters.  The status of repairs at the health related centers is given in
Annex Table 8. It is noteworthy that maintenance of most of these buildings
had been poor prior to the hurricane, and this contributed to the delays and
extensive scale of repair work needed.   It was also noted during the PCR
mission that delays and high repair costs could have been minimized by
decentralizing the decisions on contractual repair work. There appeared to be
sufficient grass root management and community skills to effectively get most
repair works done while maintaining UDC coordination.
F. Project Results
27.      The results of this project can be evaluated in terms of efficiency
and effectiveness. Results were mixed on both counts. It took only two months
(February 1 to March 28, 1989) for the loan to be fully disbursed. Electrical
power was restored to the country within four months of the hurricane.
Construction materials and equipment were provided, as required, to expedite
the relief and reconstruction efforts on low-income housing and public
facilities such as clinics and hospitals. The project's final targets were
achieved and in most cases exceeded (Annex Table 9). Repairs to schools were
also expedited so that classes in the majority of cases could be held using a
shift system within one month of the hurricane.
28.      At the same time, however, these efficiency gains were undermined
somewhat by the politicization of the relief and reconstruction process. The
large scale importation of zinc sheets and subsequent distribution could not
have been justified by the data available at the time. While it can be argued
that factors such as initial underestimation of production capacity from the
local damaged plant, householders' re-use of old zinc sheets and lag in
issuance of construction certificates. largely contributed to this surplus, it
also appears that there was not an adequate feedback mechanism to JCTC. Nor
was the importation done in stages whereby, as the buildup became obvious,
later purchases could be curtailed or delayed.   While JCTC was able to
distribute only 2,000 tons of zinc sheets through the distribution system set
up under the project to allocate such supplies on the basis of justifiable
need, the poorly controlled mass distribution system via politicians was 37,000
tons.
29.      From a point of view of effectiveness, the program also had mixed
results.   The project helped to crystallize the mobilization of adequate
amounts of co-financing on concessional terms. Donors, for the most part, were
very flexible in their on-lending terms, converting loans to grants where the
need was urgent in order to facilitate the relief process. The project made
a large-scale effort to ensure that appropriate reconstruction standards in
terms of power  supplies,  public  facilities and low-income housing were
followed. In terms of the numbers affected, some 20,565 farmers with holdings
totalling 8,226 acres benefitted under the ERIL; an additional 1,464 poultry
farmers benefitted, exceeding the target by 74X; beneficiaries of the building
stamp program numbered 125,323, or 5% short of the anticipated target. At the
same time, however, the effectiveness of the ERIL could be threatened if
sustained efforts are not taken to improve on workmanship in construction and
repair works, e.g. roofs that are not properly attached, hurricane straps that
are absent, and walls that have large gaps where panels are joined. This is



- 10 -
an area where MOC(H) should take a lead role in coordination of follow-up
activities.
G. Proiect Sustainability
30.      The reconstruction program has left Jamaica in a somewhat better
position in terms of preparedness for future disasters than it was in September
1988. In terms of forecasting, early warning, pre-disaster preparedness and
relief efforts, indications are that the system may be more reliable, having
benefitted from improved communication equipment and training programs.
Several studies commissioned by ODP has left it in a better position to advise
on, and indeed, play a pivotal role in any future disasters. This will, of
course, depend on the operating and personnel policies of ODP and a commitment
to make the changes needed to attract and retain staff.
31.      Schools and other public facilities have, for the most part, been
repaired and upgraded to meet required standards; in some cases, schools that
were badly located have been completely rebuilt on safer sites with kitchen and
other facilities necessary for relief efforts during future disasters.
32.      An important factor that threatens the sustainability of this project
is that, in many cases, residents of damaged units have not properly repaired
their homes; the most frequent violation is poor anchorage of the roof
structure to the walls. The importance of complying with this standard was
substantiated by the available evidence from the hurricane. Buildings suffered
most through the loss of roofing; roof trusses and rafters anchored by the
standard hurricane straps to the wall top plates performed universally well.
Without adherence to this standard, the potential for destruction to physical
property and loss of life would therefore be much greater in another emergency.
Another related issue is the poor condition of the Hexcell units one year after
their erecticn.  While the MOC(H) performed a good monitoring role in these
areas during implementation of ERIL, more resources are needed to adequately
address these issues.
33.      While the administrative  structure and responsibility  for early
warning and precautionary actions are relatively well-defined for the ODP and,
to a lesser degree, the various parish councils, the same is not true for
overall management and monitoring of reconstruction tasks. Even for ODP. staff
turnover and delays in getting the EIS operational will curtail its ability to
analyze data and plan actions in a more efficient and comprehensive manner.
The lack of a strong overall system to coordinate relief and reconstruction
activities, including allocation of resources, remains a key area to be
addressed by the Government.
34.      The government needs to compile a complete register of all residents
and farmers, especially the low-income ones who would need assistance in an
emergency.  With such a register, little time would be lost in sorting out
legitimate claims and deciding needy cases. This process caused a lot of delay
under the ERIL, and it should not be repeated in future emergencies. Also,
before an emergency occurs, an analysis should be made of the profile of the
population and policy makerc should decide on possible contingency plans for
various socio-economic groups. Havi.g such a register is a priority item in
emergency planning, and the current preparation of a census report could
greatly facilitate this process. Along with the presence of a register (for



- 11 -
householders, farmers, etc), having a well-integrated system of emergency
preparedness (including relief and reconstruction expertise) is essential.
While Jamaica has some elements of such a system, the lines of authority and
responsibility and even basic equipment and staff need to be addressed and
changes implemented.
35.      Based on available evidence, the power network is more resilient,
thanks to a review of specifications at the time of reconstruction.   Its
capacity to withstand very high winds remained at the pre-Gilbert level,
however, because of prohibitive costs that would be incurred to upgrade the
network.   These standards were reviewed; they met US standards and found
acceptable with cost probability factors.
H. Bank Performance
36.      The Bank's basic approach of quick intervention to help the country
during a very vulnerable period,  remains a sound one.   Focussing upon
assistance to low-income groups with a certificate program to be redeemed
through private suppliers, and assisting with reconstruction of basic services
turned out to be appropriate.   However,  even though it was politically
difficult, the Bank should have insisted, at the design stage, on establishing
a more structured and independent system for overall coordination, especially
since assistance was in the form of a quick-disbursing program where leverage
and ability to address problems diminished as loan funds were used up.
37.      The Bank tried to address the country' s various needs through a
comprehensive assistance program. The balance of payment needs of the country
were of great concern and so the Bank's loan was made to facilitate imports to
the country.   The Bank showed flexibility in making an exception to its
retroactive financing policy when it agreed to 30Z retroactive financing, and
was very instrumental in securing bridge financing for the country to
facilitate quick implementation of reconstruction works for essential economic
services. The record response time of the Bank and other donors was made with
the understanding that the country would establish and follow mutually agreed
upon systems and procedures for implementing the reconstruction program.
Unfortunately, while the Bank (and other donors) succeeded in avoiding a cash
flow problem for Jamaica in the crucial period after the hurricane, and while
it was successful in getting the government to temporarily lift and review many
of its restrictions on private importation of material, it had declining
leverage for getting the physical works implemented.
I. Borrower Performance
38.      For a variety of reasons, performance of the Borrower was uneven.  The
project got off to a good start with the authorities very eager to meet loan
conditions  to expedite  its effectiveness.   Initially,  there was a good
coordination plan among agencies in taking steps to move the program along.
such as, drawing up a low-income household survey; verifying income distribu-
tion and home and land ownership patterns; and drawing up operational
procedures for the issuance, monitoring, verification and overall management
of the Building Certificate Program; implementation arrangements were defined
and agreed upon and recruitment of staff was pursued with vigor, (albeit
without much tangible results at times), for all areas of the program.



- 12 -
Development of the EIS was accelerated and partial installation into several
offices (MSS, MOCH. UDC, JCTC, ODP and the Prime Minister's office) was prompt.
39.      Even under normal circumstances, it is extremely difficult to manage
a multi-sector national construction program. When this becomes a reconstruc-
tion operation with an unusual amount of political and socio-economic pressures
and shorter time constraints, the task becomes very difficult for even the best
of institutional systems to handle. Much of the early start-up gains were
undermined by changes and delays caused primarily by pre- and post-election
activities.  As the elections neared, almost all implementation works were
halted while key staff of the various units joined in campaign activities. The
change in government led to new appointments at various levels of the agencies
involved, and reassessment of the program and orientation of staff on what
happened artd what was to be done. All of these factors seriously affected the
Borrower's capacity to effectively deliver appropriate assistance to hurricane
victims.
40.      Delays in preparing an acceptable and timely list of damage assessment
figures not only for shelter but also for other social infrastructure, was
another weakness of the Borrower. Valuable time was lost in deciding how to
get basic data and this contributed to pressures for immediate political
action. Along with the need for a national register (for householders, farmers
etc), having a well-integrated system of emergency preparedness (including
relief and reconstruction expertise) is essential.  While Jamaica had some
elements of such a system, the lines of authority and responsibility, and even
basic equipment and staff were not adequate.  The issue of institutional lines
of responsibility and coordination must be effectively addressed not only for
future emergencies but to foster efficiency and accountability within and among
agencies.
J. Consulting Services
41.      Overall consulting services turned out to be very useful.  Two major
studies were commissioned which produced useful findings. The Insurance Study
for agriculture, housing and public sectors essentially concluded that for
large-scale agriculture and upper-income housing, existing private sector
coverage and arrangements were adequate, although premiums could be expected
to rise since insurers and re-insurers would want to make up their Gilbert-
related losses. For small farmers and low-income housing, the study concluded
that insurance coverage would be prohibitively costly and difficult to
administer because of the informal nature of the asset being insured in these
sectors. However, for future emergencies, in order to prevent a recurrence of
post-Gilbert documentation problems and delays, the study recommended that the
Government embark upon a national registration program, where for a nominal
fee, small farmers and low-income households would register with the Government
and have their data verified and periodically updated and made available for
managing relief and other assistance programs.
42.      The analysis of the public sector insurance system pinpointed several
areas which could be improved with resulting better coverage at lower costs
than those the government was paying. Inventory, prioritizing of assets by
category of importance, risk analysis and management, consolidation of
insurance purchases, etc. are among the recommendations made.  After various



- 13 -
reriew and discussion stages, the findings of these studies appear to have been
fully accepted, and consideration is being given to steps to implement them.
43.      A Broiler Industry Study was also carried out reviewing the competi-
tivenass and need for domestic protection in the industry. The results of the
study oriented the government to the need for a more open market, and the
government has finally agreed to reduce the preferential tariff for poultry in
stages over the next two years to the level prevailing for other products.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introdluction
1.   The project has met its objective of providing balance of
payments support through financing of the priority import
requirements of the reconstruction programme.  Emanating
from this has been significant rehabilitation from damage
caused by Hurricane Gilbert. Further, the understandings
gained and the improvements to be made in the institutional
capacity of relevant organizations will impact positively on
the country's disaster management capability. Problems with
impltmentation were partly attributab,le to lack of
experience in handling a crisis of the proportion of
Hurricane Gilbert and to the limited time that was available
during the emergency for project formulation.
Backarognd
2.  The Emergency Reconstruction  Import  Loan  (ERIL)  was
negotiated to address certain major requirements of sectors
which suffered as a result of Hurricane Gilbert which struck
Jamaica on September 12, 1988, causing extensive damage to
buildings, crops, livestock, the ecology, infrastructure and
companies' stocks/inventories throughout the island. Damage
to the housing sector was the most severe as   will be
illustrated in the detailed discussion in subsequent areas
of this text. The damage to domestic crops brought about a
significant increase in food imports.   At the same  time
loss of electricity supplies resulted in the loss of
productive capability. The net effect on the economy was:
Jamaica's Medium Term Framework Programme was disrupted;
national income flows and export earnings declined;
employment declined in the short term; the targetted rate



- 16 -
of GDP growth for FY 88/89 of 5.5 per cent was adversely
affected, growth being reduced to 4.6 percent. Coupled with
these was the increase in the budget deficit.    The
Government   took on the  task  of  increasing  imports
significantly to meet the shortfall created by the loss of
crops, stock and productive capability.
3.   The Programme of Rehabilitation was carried out in two main
phases, beginning with emergency relief measures immediately
following the hurricane by the Office of Disaster
Preparedness (ODP) under the direction of the Office of the
Prime Minister (OPM). This phase of the programme involved
the setting up of a committee at the Office of the Prime
Minister to monitor and manage the distribution of relief
supplies which arrived in the island.
4.  Simultaneously,  the Jamaica Defence Force along with
community representatives carried out preliminary estimates
to determine the extent of the damage and the cost of
rehabilitation. Independent agencies such as the Red Cross
Society and the Salvation Army initiated their own relief
activities.
5.   The first co-ordinated effort of external agencies comprised
an ad hoc convening of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation
in Economic Development (CGCED) on September 25, 1988 during
the World Bank's Annual meeting in Berlin.    This was
organised by the World Bank at the request of the Government
of Jamaica (GOJ) for the programme of external financing
to be co-ordinated by that institution. Assistance from
external agencies in concessional terms amounting to US$0.5



- 17 -
billion was sought and this was expected tc. complement
reinsurance inflows of US$0.6 billion. These funds were
expected to provide well needed foreign exchange to assist
in financing   urgent reconstruction activities and provide
Balance of Payment support.   (See Annex I).
6.   Subsequent  to  the  meeting  in  Berlin  appraisal  and
negotiation were carried out from October to December 1988
and loan effectiveness was achieved on January 10, 1989.
7.   DESCRIPTION OF DAMAGE
Agriculture
Approximately 75% of farm families suffered major damage or
loss of income.   The banana and broiler industries were
almost wiped out and the cocoa, coffee, ornamental
horticulture and coconut industries suffered severe damage.
(Annex II).  Damage to this sector can be categorized in
terms of loss of foreign exchange in respect of exports,
increase in foreign exchange outlay due to significant
increases in the importation of food items and loss of crops
and broiler production.
s.   Particularly hard hit were an estimated 150,000 small
farmers with farm sizes below 5 acres ( approximately 75% of
Jamaican farms).   Approximately 66 and  2/3 per cent of
these are subsistence farmers.  The Government recognized
that recovery would have been more difficult for this group
to achieve and consequently a large proportion of the
assistance received was channelled into this sector.



- 18 -
9.   Low Income Housing
The hurricane damaged approximately 55 per cent of the
country's housing stock to varying degrees. Sample surveys
revealed that approximately 5 per cent of houses damaged
suffered total destruction, about 23 per cent suffered total
roof loss and approximately 38 per cent had major structural
damage. The highest incidence of roof loss occurred in the
informal sector where a large percentage of buildings is
self-built.   It is estimated that of the J$260 million
damage to the housing sector, J$145 million accrued to the
informal sector.
10. Social and Economic Infrastructure
The focus in this sector was on the electrical power
distribution system which suffered massive damage in the
form of fallen poles, lines and transformers. The cost of
reconstruction was estimated at US$61.3m.
THB PROJECT
11. External Assistance
World Bank
The World Bank's loan support to the GOJ of US$30 million
was to be used to provide balance of payments support
through "the financing of priority import requirements of
the GOJ's overall reconstruction programme". Further, the
loan was to assist in securing additional funding on a
co-financing basis.    The loan financed rehabilitation
activities in the three priority areas as follows:
a)   Low Income Housing - This sector received $20 million



- 19 -
for the procurement of construction materials and
equipment and vehicles.
b)   Agriculture Sector - This sector benefitted from US$5
million which was used to procure agricultural supplies
and equipment.
c)   Jamaica Public Service - JPS utilized US$5 million in
financing the importation of equipment, tools and
material.
12. Besides providing the loan, the World Bank assisted in the
establishment of a small team ( The Reconstruction Programme
Coordinating Unit) in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). This
unit was financed by the IDB. The World Bank also assisted
in the formulation of a broad reconstruction programme.
13. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDPI
The UNDP was requested by the GOJ to fund local costs
related to the project; namely, the payment of salaries and
financing of the Public Education programme. The low income
housing programme was jointly financed by the World Bank and
the UNDP/UNCHS with the UNDP/UNCHS providing $540,000 on a
cost-sharing basis.    UNDP  financed the preparatory
assistance phase of the project while the technical
assistance phase was funded by UNDP and UNCHS. The major
input for the programme, that is reconstruction material,
was procured with World Bank funds of US$20m.
14. UNDP funds were utilised in the payment of the salaries of
the project co-ordinator, financial planner and field
officers employed to the housing rehabilitation unit in



- 20 -
MOC(H) and to finance activities relating to the unit.   In
addition, during the technical assistance phase of the
programme, the UNDP provided the US$ equivalent of J$200,000
on a bridge financing basis for the procurement of
reconstruction vehicles.
15. Institutional Framework
In the preparation of the Programme the Government relied
on the existing organisational structure of the implementing
units with the expectation that this could adequately meet
reconstruction needs.    However,  this proved to be
inadequate.
16. The Ministry of Development, Planning and Production (MDPP)
assumed responsibility for all recovery operations relating
to the reconstruction programme. To this end a
Rehabilitation Project Co-ordinating Unit was established in
that Ministry and headed by an overall co-ordinator who also
served as chairman of the Rehabilitation and Damage
Assessment Sub-committee.
17. Ministry of Finance (MOP)
The Reconstruction Programme Co-ordinating Unit (RPCU)
established in the Ministry of Finance was responsible to
the Budget Division of that Ministry, the Budget Division
being  responsible  to the  Financial  Secretary.    The
Ministry's co-ordination was from the view point of the
budgetary implications of the project hence it monitored
(1) the flow of loan and grant funds into the island; (ii)
project activities as financing requirements in respect of
Government's inputs had to be met by that Ministry.



- 21 -
The head of the RPCU was a member of the ERIL Co-ordinating
Committee and represented the Ministry at monthly review
meetings of the Low Income Housing Rehabilitation Unit.
18. Bank of Jamaica (BOJM
The Bank of Jamaica disbursed foreign exchange as required
by agencies.   The Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
(JCTC) and private sector importers submitted vouchers for
reconstruction materials to BOJ and, based on these, BOJ
prepared Statements of Expenditure for submission to the
World Bank.   The Bank of Jamaica was  also responsible for
setting up letters of credit with foreign suppliers
following JCTC's identification of commercial credits and
submission of pro forma invoices sent by suppliers.
19. JAmaica Commodity Trading CorRoration (JCTC)
For low income housing, hurricane reconstruction
requirements, the JCTC purchased reconstruction materials
which were sold to wholesalers and retailers throughout the
island.   Retailers then made the materials available to
building stamp recipients in return for stamps which were
redeemable at the Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Sports.
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
THE LOW INCOME HOUSING COMPONENT
20. The Low Income Housing Component was administered by the
Ministry of Construction (Housing) (MOC(H) where a Project
Co-ordinating Unit was established for the purpose of the
imple,rontation and monitoring of the low income
reconstruction programme.   This was a complex programme
involving several implementation agencies, more than one



- 22 -
funding source and large scale reconstruction and therefore
effective monitoring and review of the pace of
reconstruction and speedy resolution of problems made
central co-ordination a necessity.
21.  The co-ordination exercise proved a very arduous task to the
unit, particularly during the early stage of the project
when the institutional capability of all the participating
agencies was weak and there was uncertainty as to how to
carry out certain activities. Recognition must be given to
the fact that many of the procedures for carrying out some
activities had to be refined during the course of
implementation.
22.  The construction category of the project targetted imports
of construction materials and equipment, roofing materials,
electrical, drainage, plumbing and fencing materials and
equipment  to  a value  of  US$  20.Om.    Imports  of
reconstruction vehicles were allocated US$3.Om of the
US$20.0m.
23.  Total imports under the category were slightly above target.
Loan Conditions
24.  For the non-import activities of the component focus was on
rehabilitation of low income housing.  Related conditions
were:
1.  a)   Procure a project coordinator with TOR satisfactory to
the Bank.



- 23 -
b)   Establish and staff implementation teams for carrying
out the low income housing component.
C)   Provide funds, facilities, services etc. for (a) and
(b).
2.   Issue  vouchers to Eligible Beneficiaries to be exchanged
for construction materials according to selection criteria
approved by the Bank
3.   Review mechanisms and schemes of insurance for low income
households.
4.  Continue to authorize importation of building materials by
private importers.   These materials were to be sold without
price controls except in particular circumstances described
in the Agreement (Page 17, paragraph 4).
Fulfilment of Conditions
Employment of a project coordinator
25   This was done according to Bank requirements.
Establishment of Implementation Teams
26. In addition to the project coordinator and financial planner
the Housing Rehabilitation Unit had a complement of 29 field



- 24 -
officers (7 from UDC) who submitted biweekly monitoring
reports to the Programme Manager based on a 10 per cent
sample survey organised by the housing unit. The objective
of the survey was to determine the degree of conformity to
building standards in respect of categories 1 to 3
beneficiaries,
27. Data was provided on broad categories such as:-
-   Number of persons visited
-   Adequacy of material available in hardware
stores
Number of stamps distributed and cashed
Number of persons  requesting technical
assistance
28. The inputs and activities of the following agencies were
co-ordinated: Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Sports; Urban
Development Corporation; Jamaica Commodity Trading
Corporation; Ministry of Construction (Housing).
29.  In addition to carrying out effective coordination of
implementing agencies,  the unit was responsible  for
providing the Government and donor agencies with precise
data on the implementation of the project and expenditure of
funds and for monitoring the effectiveness of the Public
Education Programme to ensure that construction methods
conformed with national building standards.



- 25 -
Issuina of-VoucheXs to Eligible Benefici
30. The target group in the programme was the building stamp
beneficiaries who qualified for assistance on the basis of
an assessment initiated by MLWS. Beneficiaries were chosen
on the basis of their:-
a)   having a household income below the then median level
of J$18,000 p.a. prior to the hurricane;
b)   having occupied the damaged house prior the
hurricane;
c)  not possessing any other house nor savings to
repair the unit without assistance; and
d)   having a unit less than 500 sq. ft.
31. Building stamps for categories 2 to 5 bearing the names of
beneficiaries were refundable at hardware stores and covered
the cost of construction materials. Categories were valued
as follows:
Category Desar92tion                 Duildina OtaMg Value
J$
I.   House totally destroyed                10,000
II.  Roof and Structure severely damaged     4,000
III. Roof totally damaged                    3,000
IV.  Roof and structure - major damage      1,500
V.   Roof and structure - minor damage        650



- 26 -
The above represents the original arrangement which was
later altered with the effect that Category I beneficiaries
received either an ARH or HEXCELL Unit and building
certificates were only issued to Categories III and IV.
This activity has been partially completed. However, the
Ministry responsible expects to complete distribution within
a few months.
Review of Schemes of Insurance
32. This was carried out and comments were submitted to the
Bank.
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGENENT8
Prenaratory Assistance
33. The first phase of the project was the Preparatory
Assistance phase. This was a three month-programme that
facilitated the recruitment of a Project Co-ordinator and
Financial Analyst to carry out preliminary work relating to
the co-ordination of the unit and assist in the formulation
of the project. The preparatory assistance arrangement was
intended to enable the Government to start the work of the
unit without interruption.   It was envisaged that actual
implementation would begin after the three-month preparatory
programme at which time the Government would have also been
able to begin implementation and at the same time finalize
the project elements. Significant outputs were:-
a) Determination of precise Government/UNDP and other inputs
to permit the establishment of a fully functional unit.
b) A signed project document describing the role of UNDP/GOJ
and IBRD.



- 27 -
c) Monthly progress reports on activities.
d) Design of a Public Education Programme
e) Review of the report on low income insurance and
recommended action
f) Review of the report on building stamp recipients to be
included in the survey.
The Public Education (PEI  Programme
34.  A Public Education Programme was establisheC in the effort
to obtain reconstruction work of a high standard and
disseminate the knowledge of disaster resistant construction
techniques to building stamp recipients, tradesmen and
interested individuals in the community.         one of the
objectives of the programme was to address problems
identified during the pilot phase of the project. The PE
programme consisted mainly of 419 demonstration
clinics/workshops which were operated by MOC(H) and UDC
(This exceeded the target of 350). The clinics provided
hands-on experience in correct construction techniques
inclusive of the construction of hurricane straps and bolts
and proper anchorage of buildings. A demonstration clinic
involved a film on disaster-resistant building techniques
and the distribution of educational brochures to those in
attendance.   In addition, UDC mounted a "build it right"
campaign through the clinics organised by them. Assistance
was received from voluntary organisations such as Jamaica
Institute of Architects (JIA) and Association of Development
Agencies (ADA) who conducted clinics, the latter being
involved in community mobilization.
35. The impact of the PE programme is reflected in the level of
compliance with building standards which has been reported



- 28 -
to be about 86 per cent. This was revealed by the 10 per
cent sample survey which was meant to assess the
effectiveness of the programme.
Outputs (a)(b)and (c) were not achieved during the projected
time but instead were carried over into the Technical
Assistance phase of the project.    Output  (f) was not
accomplished.
Technical Assistance Phase
36. The reconstruction Programme was complemented by the
importation of 4,806 prefabricated units of the HEXCELL
design and the fabrication by MOC (H) of 1,000 ARH units.
37.  Actual construction/repairs was carried out by NOC(H) and
UDC, UDC having assumed responsiblity for the three most
westerly parishes; namely, Westmoreland, Hanover and St.
James.
38. The programme is greatly indebted to the UDC for its pioneer
role in construction/repair of housing units. It initiated
and sustained the programme until the MOC(H) programme was
ready for implementation.   Subsequently the UDC  worked
alongside MOC(H) to complete the rehabilitation exercise.
39. It was envisaged that the benefits of the programme would
serve the country in the event of any future disasters and
that the reconstruction activity would have improved the
state of housing to a higher standard than it was before the
hurricane.



- 29 -
Field Officers
40. The Field Officers recruited by MOC(H) and UDC
participated in an orientation programme which focussed on
disaster resistant construction and administrative matters
relating to the project. An attempt was made to help them
to develop an understanding of relationships in communities
and to provide practical experience through field trips to
building sites and practice and demonstration exercises.
41. Field Officers were required to provide on-going feedback
to the rehabilitation unit on specific construction and
other problems experienced by beneficiaries. Data was to be
collected in a format prescribed by the Rehabilitation Unit
and fed into the Emergency Information System (EIS) (Annex
III). Actual experience, however, was that not all agencies
adhered to the guidelines for collecting information with
the result that the EIS could not serve as a co-ordinating
tool as was conceptualised.
42. The recruitment, training and deployment of Field Officers
suffered significant delay which contributed to the late
implementation of the project.    The delay can be mainly
attributed to the fact that recruitment was not carried out
as expected under the preparatory assistance phase of the
project and was further aggravated by the late availability
of reconstruction vehicles which were to facilitate the
mobility of Field Officers.
OUTPUTS



- 30 -
43. The specific outputs of the technical assistance phase of
the low income rehabilitation programme were outlined as
follows: -
1. Approximately 131,538 building stamp recipients
knowledgeable of disaster resistant repair /construction
techniques.
2. Approximately 7,000 small contractors and tradesmen
trained to utilise disaster-resistant construction
techniques.
3. Twenty-nine field officers and ten managers skilled in
disaster-resistant construction techniques and trained to
provide technical assistance to the low income housing
sector.
4. Monthly status reports and work plans which would
indicate the progress of the programme.
5  4,,806 HEXCELL Units and 1,000 prefabricated units
distributed to qualified building stamp recipients.
6. A computerised monitoring system established in the
MOC(H) to track project implementation.
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Distribution of 131,538 Building Stamps
44. Distribution of the building stamps was naturally a
prerequisite for construction but due to several delays in
the printing and distribution of stamps, actual construction
was also retarded.    Stamps did not flow consistently
because:-
a) The system was suspended and reviewed subsequent tc; the
change in administration.
b) The stamps were first issued during the emergency phase
of the programme when there were no carefully worked out



- 31 -
procedures for validation, making the system vulnerable
to exploitation which also resulted in the necessity for
temporarily halting the programme.
c) Funds allocated for the provision of stamps were often
delayed.
At September 30,  1990 68,189 Building Stamps had been
distributed at a value of J$158,154 (Annex IV).
Attendance of 131,538 Building Stamp Beneficiaries at
Demonstration Clinics.
45. As far as the effect of the PE programme on beneficiaries
was concerned public response was less than anticipated as
the attendance at clinics did not meet the projected figure
of 131,538. This was probably related to the unreliable
scheduling of stamp distribution and declining enthusiasm on
the part of communities. All this notwithstanding, the
knowledge of disaster-resistant techniques imparted at the
clinics will prove exceedingly useful in the event of
anotherz disaster.
Training of 7,000 Contraotors/Artisaas
46.  Some 2,514 constractors/artisans were   trained.    The
shortfall could probably be attributed to the absence of a
consistent incentive system.
Training of 29 Fild Offficers and 10 zone Managers
47. The training aspect of the programme was successful with
respect to the 29 Field Officers and 10 Zone Managers.



- 32 -
Preparation of Monthly Status Reports and Work Plans
48. Status reports have been submitted regularly and have been
acceptable to the Bank.
Distribution of 4,806 NUXCELL anfd 1,000 Prefabricated Units
49. The Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Sports received 4,326 of
the 4,806 HEXCELL Unit2s imported, the rest (480) being
unaccounted for. At 31st August, 1990, 3,800 units had been
constructed and it is planned that the remaining 526 will be
dealt with by the Ministry of Construction (Housing).
Establishment of a Computerized Monitoring System
50. The Emergency Information System (EIS) is an interlinked
communication network among 11 government agencies.The EIS
was conceptualised as a co-ordinating tool which could
improve the monitoring and management of the reconstruction
programme.
51. Full establishment of this system has been delayed due to
certain constraints.   However, in a recent review of the
system by a team involving representatives of Government
agencies and the UNDP, its potential for on-going use as a
managQment tool as well as for emergency management was
reiterated.   The assessment emphasised the role of all
Government agencies in the improvement of the country's
emergency management capability in order to maximise the use
of existing human resource, institutional and technological
capacities. It was recognized that the current limited use
of the system inhibits the provision of information in a
timely manner.    Based on the foregoing observations
recommendations were made regarding the decisions to be



- 33 -
taken in respect of the enactment of necessary legislation,
procedures for handling emergencies, and addressing of the
issue of stock inventories, among other matters.
52.  Although currently the system is not interlinked a number of
agencies have consistently utilised their facilities. The
Ministry of Construction (Housing) for instance, has kept up
to date information collected by field officers in the
designed format.The data stored includes information on the
artisans/tradesmen trained at demonstration
clinics/workshops and will prove invaluable in the event of
another disaster.
Issues Relating to Housing Reconstruotion
53.  Construction was problematic to several beneficiaries due to
their inability to provide any measure of self help. This
problem was compounded by the delivery of incomplete kits to
some beneficiaries. Only 50% of the necessary flooring was
provided by the Hexcell company and in a number of cases
other vital components were missing due to their non-arrival
or subsequent loss.
54.  Modification of the original design from 1 to 2 doors
predicated a demand for a large number of doors which proved
problematic  to  implementing  agencies  as   well  as
beneficiaries.
55. During the initial stages of the project there were certain
loopholes that allowed for abuse of the system.    For
instance, the problems of illegal possession of land and



- 34 -
insecurity of tenures were remedied by the institution of
the Landlord's Agreement.  In addition, although sanitary
facilities which were a requirement of national building
standards were included in the housing design for clusters
in many cases houses were constructed without these
facilities. In instances where houses were constructed
without these amenities, later correction of the deficiency
proved more costly than if the requirements had been adhered
to from the outset.
The Role of the Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Oports(NLWV)
56. The Building Stamp Programme administered by MLWS was one of
the most critical factors in the housing reconstruction
programme.   Stamp distribution was based on the survey of
vulnerable groups initially carried out by the JDF and a
random selection of persons from various community groups
and later (subsequent to the change in administration), by
teams from MLWS. To facilitate the survey, building stamp
distribution was temporarily halted resulting in a major
delay in the implementation of the construction aspect of
the programme.   Subsequently,  beneficiaries have been
selected from lists supplied by certain public figures and
welfare organizations with provision being made for
additions from MLWS' and MOC(H)'s field staff.
57. MLWS operating from its head office in Kingston distributed
stamps through the parish offices and in conjunction with
that, notified UDC and MOC(H) of their distribution
schedule.   The data required,  however,  was not always
promptly submitted nor ccnsistently accurate and this



- 35 -
impacted negatively on further stamp distribution, building
schedules, demonstration clinics and preparation of monthly
reports.
58. The Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Sports also distributed
units to rural storage sites and to a greater extent to
beneficiaries.  Delivering houses proved a difficult task
for this Ministry which had no well organised system of
distribution partly due to the dire shortage of
transportation and the difficulty of locating beneficiaries
and notifying them of delivery.   As a response to the
problem of the delivery of houses it was decided late in the
programme that only indigents would have units delivered to
them.
59. MLWS provided financial assistance for beneficiaries who
could not purchase the foundation of the houses.   This
assistance was particularly needed in locations that
required more costly foundations. Tradesmen were employed
to construct houses for needy beneficiaries. However, the
lack of standardised rates of renumeration to tradesmen
posed a problem.
60.  In addition to the responsibilities it already had,  the
Ministry was given additional responsibility for the
security of the units.
61. It was felt that with its islandwide network of offices the
Ministry was strategically placed to respond readily to
the emergency and this was one of the considerations that



- 36 -
led to the complex role it was required to play.. However,
the organisation did not have the institutional capability
to efficiently implement all aspects of the programme with
which it was entrusted, having been equipped to carry out
welfare functions. Hence, there was inadequate supervision
of contractors, unreliable transportation, lack of secure
s1torage and haphazard distribution of units.
(II) AGRICULTU&L COMPONEN_T
Loan Conditions
US$5.0 million was allocated to finance supplies (excluding
chemicals) for the agricultural equipment and tools.
Slightly less than the US$5.0 million of imports were
supported by the loan.
Non-import activities comprised:
a) Review the competitiveness of its poultry industry after
agreeing on the terms of reference with the Bank;
b) Restrict the amount of rehabilitation credit to each
individual to US$2,000 at a discounted rate of interest for
a maximum of six months;
c) Establish maximum amounts of each loan to be granted from
selected People's Cooperative Banks named during
negotiations;
d) Review the feasibility of promoting credit insurance and
crop insurance schemes or establishing a special
hurricane fund after agreeing on the terms of reference
with the Bank;
e) Provide agricultural stamp vouchers to subsistence
farmers (with four acres or less of land and not



- 37 -
commercially farming) to finance farm inputs for
rehabilitation according to specific criteria and
procedures agreed with the Bank.
Review of Broiler Industry
63. The industry was reviewed by a committee comprising public
and private sector representatives.    The report was
submitted to the Bank within a three-month extended deadline
and the recommendations were accepted by the Bank.
64. The Bank's requirement for deregulation has been met.
Deregulation  was intended to create a more competitive
industry.
65. Deregulation involved elimination of all price controls and
import restrictions on raw materials and final consumer
goods and the reduction of tariffs to a level that would
ensure the competitiveness of local producers.
66. The objectives of the programme have been met and there is
satisfaction that the productive capability of the industry
has improved to the extent that almost 100 per cent of
demand is now being locally produced.
Establishment of $200,000,000 credit at agriaultural Credit
Bank (aCB) for six months at a discount rate
67. The credit discount limits extended to farmers was
discontinued as of June 30, 1989.



- Z8 -
Ustablishment of maxisum amounts of loans to Beneficiaries
of Veople-s Co-operatives (PC) Banks
68.  Funds were made available to those farmers who already had
loans from the P.C. Banks and had suffered hurricane damage.
Rehabilitation loans were calculated on the basis of the
amount of crop/livestock/poultry damage in individual areas
taken as a percentage of the previous loan. The Programme
benefitted the projected number of farmers and at this time
steps are being taken to ensure recovery of funds.
Review Feasibility of Promoting Credit Xnsurance
69. This was carried out under the Insurance Study which is
discussed on page 22.
Provide Agricultural Stamps to Subsistence Farmers
70. Because issuing of stamps was considered administratively
difficult to implement over such a wide universe of farmers,
the Ministry of Agriculture's Extension Division coordinated
activities carried out by the Land Authorities and Commodity
Boards to distribute planting materials (seeds and seedlings
for carrots,  planting,  yam,  coc,, cassava),  and baby
chickens, materials and equipment for chicken houses.
71. The Ministry updated its registry of small farmers to
facilitate its usage in the selection of beneficiaries by
Land Authorities and Commodity Boards.   After selection,
distribution of relief items was carried out mainly through
these bodies.



- 39 -
72.  Approximately 20,565 small farmers benefitted from the
programme through grants which enabled them to prepare the
land, and gifts of seeds or seedlings. It is estimated that
8,226.6 acres of land were prepared. Total expenditure for
this aspect of the programme was J$5.3 million.(Annex V
-Table I).
73   Rehabilitation targetted assistance to  840 small poultry
farmers.   This figure was surpassed by 74 per cent, one
thousand four hundred and sixty four (1,464) farmers having
benefitted through the programme, one thousand and thirty
two (1,032) hen houses were established and 72,515 birds
provided.(See Annex V - Table 2)
Achievement of Objectives
74. The fact that the Ministry of Agriculture and its affiliated
agencies had the necessary administrative machinery to
implement the programme contributed to the quick pace of
rehabilitation.
75. It is felt that the programme could have been more speedily
implemented were it not for problems such as that of
accessing information from Land Authorities and cooperating
agencies regarding matters such as materials for
distribution. The shortage of suckers and the unreliable
transportation of materials to farmers also affected the
speed of delivery.
(III) SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE



- 40 -
Loan Conditions
76. The Government was required to:
(a) Review the adequacy of the National Building Code of
Jamaica and the enforcement procedure.
(b) Review the Government's self insurance policy.
(c) Incorporate the programme into the 1989-1991 PSIP and
to submit the revised investment programme to the Bank.
Review of the National Buildina Code
77. A National Building Code Review Committee was named with the
responsibility of examining the National Building Code and
making recommendations for changes. The Code was found to
be adequate but enforcing compliance was identified as one
of the problems faced due to the fact that a large
percentage of construction work is carried out by persons
with no formal training. The committee recommended, among
other things, that the Code be enacted into law, that
compliance be enforced and that various studies be carried
out. These studies should deal with the relationship of the
Caribbean Building Code to the National Building Code, the
system of ensuring compliance and the possible role of
financing institutions in respect of compliance. The Code
is still to be enacted into law.
78.  However,  the Ministry of Development,  Planning and
Production(MDPP) has set up two sub-committees (a Legal
Sub-Committee under MDPP and a Technical Sub-Committee under
the Bureau of Standards) to see to the implementation of the
recommendations.



- 41 -
79. The Legal Sub-Committee is submitting a proposal to the UNDP
for technical  assistance   in amending the relevant
section(s) of associated legislation to make the
specifications of the National Building Code legally
enforceable.
80. The Technical Sub-Committee is carrying out a review of the
Building Code which it intends to publish in eight volumes.
Substantial work has been completed on two volumes.
The Insurance Study
81. A foreign consultant (Gudger) working along with a local
consultant (McDowell) carried out a study with funding from
the UNDP.
82. The Study concluded in the main that while existing
insurance arrangements for large scale agriculture and
upper-income housing were adequate, insurance coverage for
low- income housing and small farmers would be prohibitively
high and difficult to administer, given the informal
characteristics of these sectors. Recommendation was made
for a comprehensive risk management strategy in respect of
low-income housing and critical public sector services.
83. Of the recommendations made, the following were found to be
acceptable:
(i)  Inventory  and   value  replacement cost of reinstating
public sector goods and services.
(ii) Centralisation of administration and purchasing of
insurance thereby increasing the negotiating position



-42-
of the Government of Jamaica and ensuring that vital
sectors are insured and there is better coverage at
lower costs.
(iii) Development of an entitlement programme for low-income
housing and the subsistence farming sector. This would
involve preregistration of these groups and periodic
verification and updating of the data which would be
utilised in relief administration.
84. At the Bank's request, some of the acceptable recommendations
were included in the Five-Year Plan. A Unit at the Ministry
of Development, Planning and Production was recently
assigned responsibility to investigate how to implement
those recommendations accepted by the Government of Jamaica.
Jamaica Public Service Company (JPSCo) CoMDonent
85.  The World Bank targetted US$5.0 million frcz,u the ERIL funds
to finance   the JPSCo's rehabilitation programme.  In
addition, there was the reallocation of US$4 million from
the previously approved 4th Power Project which had a total
allocation  of US$34.0 million.  The loan (ERIL) provided
for the procurement of equipment and materials for the
restoration of the island's transmission and distribution
system.
86.  Operations were carried out through a special Emergency
Operations Centre (EOC) which is activated only during
emergencies. The EOC was headed by the Chief Co-ordinator
who reported to the head office of the JPS. The function of
the unit was to channel assistance to meet those requests.
The programme of rehabilitation was carried out in two



- 43 -
phases:-
i)  Phase I - Quick restoration of electricity service to
all customers which lasted for four months from
September to December, 1988.
ii) Phase II - Reinforcement of the transmission and
distribution system to a level of reliability that
improved on pre-hurricane conditions.
Achievement of Objectives
87.  The JPSCo's programme of rehabilitation was speedily
implemented and electricity was restored to the entire
island by December 1988, that is, within four months after
the hurricane. (Annex VI). The speed at which the JPSCo's
programme was implemented can be attributed to the fact
that the company's organisational structure had the capacity
for emergency work.   Furthermore, the company received a
tremendous amount of external and local assistance in
carrying out physical works.
PERFOMANCE OF FINANCING INSTITUTIONS
World Bank
88. The Bank and Borrower maintained a cordial relationship
throughout the implementation of the loan and this
facilitated on-going dialogue.   The Bank's attitude was
quite flexible and through the supervision missions,
assistance was given in refining certain aspects of the
reconstruction programme which were proving problematic.
Disbursements against claims were prompt with the effect
that all funds were disbursed by June, 1989.



- 44 -
United Nations Develo2ment Programme (UNDPI
89. The UNDP gave consistent guidance in project formulation
which included the development of required documents. Their
general attitude of cooperation greatly facilitated the
effective implementation of the project.
LESSONS LEARNT ZRECONMENDATION
90. Mass importation of prefabricated units creates problems of
storage, clearance, security and transportation which lead
to pilferage of the units (part or whole).
91. The ability to manage an emergency on a national level
depends to a great extent on a pre-planned system which will
reduce bottlenecks and loopholes   and thereby effect an
expeditious programme of implementation.   This system is
dependent on clearly defined roles of organizations within
their actual capabilities or   based on their planned
capabilities. Clarity of roles also avoids duplication of
effort.
92. The original concept of self-help would have effected the
speedy implementation of the housing rehabilitation project.
In any disaster rehabilitation programme, beneficiaries
should be given a distinct role   in their own recovery
rather than expect everything to be provided on a welfare
basis.
93. The issue of adherence to the National Building Code arises



- 45 -
as it was evident that a large percentage of buildings,
particularly in the informal sector, were not constructed
according to the guidelines of the Code. This resulted in
the extensive damage to the sector. The deficiency was
further highlighted by the several instances where there
was a lack of basic infrastructure such as toilets and
water. Enforcing compliance with the National Building Code
is also urgent because it is expected that the region will
experience more and more violent hurricanes and because of
our vulnerability to earthquakes.
94. The transmission of information is critical to the
effectiveness of any emergency system. Moreso, for disaster
preparedness, it is essential that a tested information
system be established.
95.  The Building Stamp system needs to be reviewed  to determine
whether it can be a useful mechanism in future disasters.
Aspects of the system that need attention are   (i)
mechanisms for validation of claim (ii) the adequacy of
institutional capability to manage the system.
96.  The issues of land ownership, titles, property rights etc.
need to be urgently addressed as these have significant
impact on any programme of assistance to this sector.
Conglusion
97.  Most aspects of the project were completed within the
projected time. However, the low-income component was
extended twice, with the final completion date being August



- 46 -
31,1990.   Apart from meeting the immediate objective of
rehabilitation, the project has been catalystic in
influencing serious consideration regarding the
establishment of definite structures for improved disaster
mitigation and management. Importantly too, it has proven
to be a learning experience and as such has had a positive
impact on the country's disaster preparedness. It is hoped
that the necessary steps will be taken to ensure that
continuity is established in all sectors, with the effect
that the benefits of the programme become the basis for
general improvement of the institutions concerned.
98. The Government of Jamaica extends its gratitude to the
financing institutions who responded promptly to the
emergency   and later demonstrated a great deal of
flexibility and understanding in the development and
implementation of the various programmes.



- 47 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
PLED     Vs.  R Sz1T
STATUS AT DUCUB  31, 1989
Uss Ka.Io.C
Total                 Disbursed   Un-
Pledge     Approved  to Date       Disbursed
A.  GRANT5
1. National
Hurricane
Disaster Fund          -          -         -          -
2. EEC                   23.00      19.00      10.05      8.95
Balance of LO'ME     20.00       17.00       9.27     7.73
Regional Funds
to UWI                3.00        2.00       0.78     1.22
3. UNDP                   1.10       1.10       1.10      0.00
4. CIDA                  13.58      13.60      13.60      0.00
5. USAID                80.50       52.80      59.63      0.00
a) Emer. Rehab         20.00      25.00      25.00      0.00
b) Emer Rehab.II        0.00       2.00      10.83      0.00
c) Disaster Rel.        0.00       3.70       3.70      0.00
d) Military Aid         0.00      10.00      11.50      0.00
e) ESF                12.50       12.10      12.10      0.00
f)  Other Grants      48.00        0.00       0.00      0.00
6. Italy                 12.80        5.00      0.00      5.00
7. UK                     5.00       5.00       5.00      0.00
8. Japan/IDB              9.00        5.00      3.43      1.57
9. Germany                0.00      14.27      14.27      0.00
10. Nigeria                0.00        1.00      1.00      0.00
l1.Thomas de la Rue        0.00       0.06       0.06      0.00
TOTAL GRANTS*        144.98      116.83*   111.64    15.52
*Including 5(b), 5(c), 5(d), 9, 10, & 11, not presented to
Parliament as grants.
(a)  Inflows more than value approved.



Annex I
-48 -                    Page 2 of 2
B. LoanS
1.  IDB                121.50       61.00     45.37    15.63
Reallocation        68.00       61.00     45.37    15.63
Loans to come       53.50        0.00      0.00      0.00
2.  IBRD                34.00       34.00     34.00    34.00
ERIL                30.00       30.00     30.00    30.00
JPS.                 4.00        4.00      4.00      0.00
3.  KfW*                55.00       40.73     38.94      0.00
4.  CDB                 31.00    t20*j         3.97    16.03
Reallocation        25.00    1 15.00       0.97    14.03
Loans to come        6.00        5.00      3.00      2.00
5.  JAPAN               30.00       20.00     20.00      0.00
6.  IMF                 47.00       48.02     48.02      0.00
7.  OPEC                 5.00        5.00      2.50    _2.50
8.  EDC                 18.40        0.00      0.00      0.00
9.  Italy               20.80       14.20      0.00    14.20
10.  USAID               20.00       46.00     36.54      9.46
PL 480              10.00       18.00     17.68    -0. 31
HG13                10.00       18.00     18.00      0.00
PL 480 Lumber        0.00       10.00      0.86      9.14
OTHERS                  88.47    1 44.51        5.29    39.22
11.  IFC                20.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
12.  FINLAND             5.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
13.  FRANCE             15.00    ***0.71       0.71      0.00
14.  SWEDEN              3.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
15.  NORWAY              2.00        0.80       0.80     0.00
16.  DENMARK             0.47        0.00      0.00      0.00
17.  Paris Club         43.00       43.00       3.78    39.22
TOTAL LOANS         471.17   t 333.46    234.63    97.04
GRAND TOTAL
ASSISTANCE              616.15   1 450.29   346.27    112.56
*NB Grant of US$14.27m approved, so loan reduced.
**Actual Cash Inflow US$18.97m equivalent in Yen, as Commission fee
deducted.
***Actual amount approved was J$5.0un (US$0.71mn at today's rate of
exchange) Please amend previous totals.
#Please note amendment to figures due to computational errors
1. Source: Total Pledge - MINISTRY PAPER SUBMITTED TO
PARLIAMENT IN NOVEMBER 1988
2. Source: Approved/Disbursed to Date - BOJ EXTERNAL FINANCING
TABLES 1988/89 and 1989/90
UCDNONIC  LOPU ION D           PhRI
narc 1, 1990.



- 49 -
Annex II
Estimates of Damage in Major Sectors
Sector                                   Cost of Damage
Agriculture                              J$710. 56m
Health                                    $   .75m
Education                                 $388m
Tourism                                   $440m
Manufacturing                             $632m
Mining                                    $3m
Construction                              $3.7b
Public Utilities, Communication
and Transport                             $524.63 m



S 5o -
Annex III
Sample Data Sheet Used by Field Officers
Ministry of Labour Welfare and Sports
030                     Parish Name - Town/Village
Location of building Stamp Distribution Centre
0.40                    number of building stamps distributed
0.50                    number in category 1
0.60                    number in category 2
0.70                    number in category 3
0.80                    number in category 4
0.90                    number in category 5
100                     Number of Beneficiaries Requesting Advice
110                     number in category 1
120                     number in category 2
130                     number in category 3
140                     number in cateqory 4
150                     number in category 5
160                     Number of Beneficiaries Requesting Assistance
170                     number in category 1
180                     number in category 2
190                     number in category 3
200                     number in category 4
210                     number in category 5
0.20                    Number of Buildinq Stamps Cashed
0.30                    number in category 1
0.40                    number in category 2
0.50                    number in category 3
0.60                    number in category 4
0.70                    number in category 5
0.80                    Number of Stamps Cashed For Full Amount
0.90                    number in category 1
100                     number in category 2
110                     number in category 3
120                     number in category 4
130                     number in category 5
180                     Amount of cement available
190                     Amount of lumber available
200                     Amount of zinc available
210                     Amount of nails used
220                     Amount of hurricane straps used
230                     Number of stamps cashed for cement
250                     Number of complaints From Small Claims Offices
260                     number in category 1
270-                    number in category 2
280                     number in category 3
300                     Total Population town/Village



- 51 -
Annex IV
-- -j--------ig------                      _ i --a 
a.~~~~~~~~~!
-.   a     a      a         ae           n.   -,
_:-- - ----   -_------   ------,
:-  8        - a-  a              -  -  . :~
_~ - :
o. .
a., 
----- ...... ...........___.........
, .                                                    8
o.         _                           _    a__.   _,
tS        -     -~~ -                                    : -  :
o       . .     t~ .                                   8 =8      _._._..____.           
-- 3       -                    -               8  -,
------------a-a-----------------
S    ~     ~    ~    .......................
oi                  o lb        n       i      i8
... ..... . ....... ...
~~~~~"4<                           3        =s=_=_z _      
-  -        -            -                        _;-- -
-_                       j                                              .j 
8 :!l--:---------.__................................................_
_ P; 0                         a,                          -      8 _ zI 
; o *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  a  *8**  
~~~~~~~t t5 si 5-i.e
--                                   - 5                                5i8
a                       -.--  
|~~~~ a  i                                     s: 8. as i 8
a~~~~~..   ....        .  ..  .. 
i~~~~a-                                         5           _8 
5;~ .                               !                 . a.. -8.-'
-                      a 5     _i      -5 8
!       ;: :::_
a:_
i 8                                          5 5- 8 i
58                                  -      i5    i5



- 52 -
Annex V
Page 1 of 2
TABLE I
SNAIL FARMER REHABILITATION
--    -------   --
NO. OF   TOTAL CROP  TOTAL
BENE-    ACREAGE EST- EXPENDITURE
LAND AUTHORITIES   FICIARIES ABLISH (ACS)     $
ST. MARY              1,199      570.1      390,323
PORTLAND              2,095    1,042.5      635,623
ST. THOMAS            1,442      700.7      347,540
ST. CATHERINE         1,455      575.8       325,851
ST. ANDREW              844      243.7      178,006
ST. ANN               2,003      684.7      502,665
CLARENDON             1,034      632.7      376,436
MANCHESTER            2,964    1,254.4       752,741
ST. ELIZABETH         2,365    1 )110.7      434,949
HANOVER               1,515      400.2       325,108
ST. JAMES               572       84.7        75,862
TRELAWNY              2,040      601.1       620,541
WESTMORELAND          1,037      453.5       334,575
_____________________   _________    __________    ___________
TOTAL               20,565    8,354.8      5,300,220
__ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _   ____ ___   __ _ __ _ _  _ __ _ _



- 53 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 2
TABLE 2
POULTRY PROGRANME
NO. OF   TOTAL CROP                   TOTAL
BENE-     ACREAGE EST-   NO. OF   EXPENDITURE
LAND AUTHORITIES   FICIARIES ABLISH (ACS)    BIRDS               $
_______  -_____ _____   -- -------    ------------  ------   ----------___
ST. ANDREW               92           92          4,600        218,960
ST. CATHERINE            222          91          5,750        197,470
ST. MARY                 133         133          7,000        266,000
CLARENDON                249         151         15,915        141,072
ST. ANN                  111         111          6,400        218,916
WESTMORELAND             130         130          6,500        302,600
ST. JAMES                295          92         14,750        233,680
HANOVER                  132         132          6,600        236,188
TRELAWNY                 100         100          5,000        219,414
__________________     ---------     ------------     -- ---------    -------------
TOTAL                  1,464       1,032          72,515    2,024,300
____________________     ---------    ------------    -----------    -------------



- 54 -
Annex VI
ACHIEVEKENT OF OBJECTIVES BY SECTOR
TARGET   ACTUAL
(A) LOW INCOME HOUSING
- Construction of HEXCELL Units              4,806   3,800
- Demonstration clinics                        350     419
- Attendance of Building Stamp
Beneficiaries/others at clinics          131,538  62,850
- Field Officers/managers trained
in disaster resistant construction
techniques                                   39      39
- Artisans/small contractors/tradesmen
trained in disaster resistant
construction                              7,000   2,514
- Construction of 1,000 prefabricated
units                                     1,000   1,000
- Distribution of Building Stamps          131,538  68,239
(B) AGRICULTURE
- No. of farmers receiving assistance         _     20,565
--Beneficiaries in Broiler Industry            840   1,464
(C) *JAIPCA PUBLIC SERVICE                  _
*There were no quantifiable targets for this sector.
December 15, 1988 was the deadline set for full restoration
of the transmission and distribution systems. This was
achieved about one day before the deadline.



- 55 -
Annex VII
CHRONOGRAM OF MAIN EVENTS RELATED TO THE HURRICANE
DATE                                     EVENT
___________________ ---------------------------------------------------
September 12, 198S   Hurricane Gilbert struck Jamaica
September 16, 1988   Preliminary damage estimates
September 17, 1988   UNDP convened first donor meeting
September 18, 1988   First shipment of rlie-t supplies arrived.
September 19, 1988   Extraordinary general meeting by ADA
September 20, 1988   Caribbean Food and Nutrition Institute (CFNI)
prepared *urv-illance report.
Caribbean Group meeting involving USAID,
IDB and Bilateral donors.
September 22, 1988   Evaluation team for World Bank in
discussion with the Prime Minister.
September 25, 1988   Donor meeting in Berlin
September 27, 1988   Mesting with CDB re tentative lending
programme.
September 28, 1988   Team sponsored by Natural Hazards Projects
(NHF) of the OAS assisted ODP in compiling
damage assessment information; Installed
EIS in ODP.
September 29, 1988   Final donor meeting convened by UNDP
October 17, 1988     World Dank Mission in relation to the
Agricultural sector.
October 19, 1988     Approval of loan from West Germany
October 31, 1988     IBRD Appraisal Mission in relation to
Power sector.
October 31, 1988     Confirmation of Assistance from Canada
November 9, 1988     Government meeting to decide on strategy
for negotiations.
November 11, 1988    Meeting of ODP and other agencies to review
the impact of Gilbert.
November, 1988       Approval of OPEC Loan
December 12, 1988    Approval of IDB loan
January, 1989        Approval of ERIL loan
January 26, 1989     Approval of loan from Japan.
February 8, 1989     Approval of loan from France
May 4, 1989          lst Working Meeting of newly rescuscitated
National Disaster Committee (NOC)
January, 1990        Undor NDC formation of zonal/district
committees.



- 57 -
PART III. STATISTICAL ANNEX



- 58 -
ANNEX Table 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT LOAN (3012.JM)
ESTIMATES OF HURRICANE DAMACGES
(US$ millions)
Apprailsa        Final
SECTOR                                   Estimat      Estimate
Agriculture                                  160           92
Heath                                        N.D.5
Education                                                  so
Tourism                                       80            57
Manufactudng                                 200            82
Construction /1                              260          .481
Public Utlites, Communication
and Transport                               300           68
Mining                                                       3
TOTAL                                     1000           639
/I  Appxs estimate includes housng conatlnly
Firal estmate Includes all c on
N.D. Not done dming appisal.
FVma esates were pronded by th PIOI during January 1991 minL



- 59 -
PN1A1CTCILI3NNW                                          ANNEX Table 2
mw60m   minwrs MS @ Wcauun.w,
lIMO                      35.          35.5    L  EMIL US30  mb    dse.iPW  USW4.0 m
IMF                       47.0        47.0     L    fu mm
COs                       22A          110     L  Ns1        ,0ml npsd
lw @w bmw u_nmmb b U#t6 mIs.
IPO                       20.0         0.0     L
EEC                       20           1M.Y    0  U180 mUm mibodhd AWg *an p_ _.|
OPEC FwW                   t0          t0      L  R*Wm.1sn e 1U38.w wmpsg wid ESIL
10D                      7M0           73.0    L
Fet                       &5.0         5.0    O
IfAD                       4.0         4.0     L           GrowI D u *eaii  VA ID&
UNOP                       1.1         1.1    0  Tam  h                   nm i (
OAS                                     07 
- 235.0      207.0
USAIO                     77.S         0.0     L  r-s_qwy mIk U8   m11  PLdO          t UMOI ndk
10.    0  ESf _.1 sut 1U13l1 mUm.
CIOA                       0.0         13.6    0   h            _mdnu bm    JSU WAIgM   I    105 a 5oo
JISCO U1  EsMEm bla USSA          Lumbw US1.7 m
Fin                                    247     L
Osmy                      5S.0         14.3    0
40.7    L
ism                       30.0         3.0     L
lady                      33.0          5.0    a
14.2    L
UK                         to0          t0    0
N*w'dm                     0.8         0.S     L   _ bRsOgg-'
Niowm                      0.0         1.0    0
t=t               ~~~~210.0    2218
Fr.                       15.0          0.7    0  MRm    , -A JP800.
Fpwd                       t0           0.0    L
8$.dm                      3.0          0.5    0
Nore                       1.0          0.     L
DOin                       0.s          0.0    L
C.fos(EOOSOCL 
GrandU             dm.                                                       . 4



- 60 -
ANNEX Table 3
EROnCVgm   C1 --.1VI PON? WAMNSpu.iu
A. PIMOTTAIM      E C_A
NM -OA-t        -of
_  ITES    oPLNNED            PCTUAI.
ioETnPICATiON                   01214
PRAPARATION                     144
APPRA                           10
NEGOATIONS    2I02.41           124243
EOANOAPPROVAL                   12422.1
SONWAIU                         01-104
EFPECTIVENE     i2."            012104
CLOWNS OATS     124141          124t14
COMPLEnoN DAT  124141           124141
L MON DATA
S fAI OF                                          NO*               IC"Inh
RJlECT CYCLE          DATE             OURI        TAW STAW-3S NEPIE              WMN
kd _kM                ova                    a        5       10.0
Appr                   lO6                   2        S        10.0
SupetWlslOn           00110                 1.0 I              t.0NOUs 5SP d.2.1.I
SUPsaM                06in                  1.5       1     S      Ot 1Sb Sgdd         22t,12
svpswvisIm            02m1                  1.0       11.0 MaOs. Sesddg              2.1.1.2
co;voumn              01191                 1.0       a        t.O MS.   motms
TobI                                      3.L                23.



IXI    X I X X   t i I             ,    ,I Ii    I I         I  Nsl  l'I 3lt



- 62 -
ANNEX Table 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT LOAN (3012EJM)
STATUS OF HEXCELL HOUSING UNITS
PARISH                 ESTIMATED          UNITS    UNITS      NO UNITS
NEED           REC'D   DISTR.       ERECTED
Clarendon                     350           243       242           238
Hanover                       250           268       268          249
Klngston & St Andrew          590           593       593          591
Mancheste                     400           381       381           340
Portland                      250           227       227           193
S Ann                         350           320       290           287
St Catherine                  450           249       249           245
St Elkzabeth                  400           378       378           376
St James                      360           350       344           317
St Mary                       300           245       239           220
St Thomas                     440           406       274           258
Trelawny                      200           190       190           183
Westmoreland                  450           480       460           452
TOTAL                      4.790         4.310     4.135         3.949



_)3    urn au"run           ilm    Hur#    Mis    mrsu   ure           -wg        sir   forma    t' 1 -ewe    an              S     1VOI
V~    wuves    wilt                       arnaiui   Awe   du g    Eli   UU                                                                Aw5L
inui      .wii  SwIwI    an         gfinIi   twi   Usua         it    owes       a      s           K      wU*.U   1111            =w  S
0 8    owe   a"                  on"       m  wo ws          M'   ow,^>        WI                        _e
witWP    IU'Ii  owll        tUs tO                                     UWIM"   UWI    Ul Ct                                        _I  l
1WDO       two   own        Is     owle       n   eosteell    we ecoul'           m      I  n             a                       em"10 is_
UWUWI       W:uN  son      wI oailSehsi                                     s    W      S m ts   _It
fU1  atWl   MM               m      wt  tl   1wre    two   owo'msg   on9 owr                        m     ow                       ag" a 
#UV"      - so's   OVI      ot   faun e130 no                  gt    oww  Sf   Iowa                aw  _wmi    o'                    om
Omni    swi   usrat                one               miWamI    &Ws *ma           awls  swut        as      sewo.          se __
srnvu      Ws c a   s11     tw     sa s              omarvls  l   tma S UitlUS    mi    uswe       S                 Ott *r
sniWuWa    ow auia  IuIVI   sirsi             Nil   sestee      ls a ur O.1  aw          mIN,o wi N       sW'mse   ml                MW S
maw.  e    sWm       em     uamr    ;"Y    selroum    tls;      us.uu                        s     sewmi    a 
swan,    wam    NM                            IS m              owlue  te    amiuvi    in.   sun                     i ipo
slurs  ~sme   uu         u. slW             u     mi                ems       u       se sme  m,    som    seum   ae.-
__       _  _____  ____   _________________ -                                                                    ____
Pin              PVN               PM"              PVN               p V               pin                  VW u
"10MAMIN-mu  _s Om        OR      an        A u OV           Al                       SW" u                                     AmoIve
3                                                                                                                              _
_^___vmw_



- 64 -
ANX  Table 7
PROJCT COSPLEllOn EoT
ENGEO   R          aCOnS'TION I1WT LOAN (3012WM
o1rTAN. OF SMALL AMMNV RIHAULTATION COWONEN
SmALL FMmER REHAuirATIoNTI
PARISH          NO. OF  TOTAL CROF    TOAEL  AV. i o   NOL oF   TOTAL              TOTAL    AVG. EXPEN
CATEGORY       ENEFIC.  ACREAGE  EXPENOgURE PER  ACRE 
Clwamn             1,034         M3        37A.436        Su6      240      151        15.015         1051
Hanavu             1515          400      32S.106         S12      132      132            WS00ol
KhIsn               na.          ML           ML          Q        na       M&            Qa          n.a
MainChWO          2.64          121*4     75L741          600        .      QLL           ML          n.a
Paroan            2,O6          1.043       5.623         610      na.      ILL           nLa         na
St Andrw            644          244       173.006        730       92       92       21S0           2.30
SLtAm              2.AW          665       506.66         734      1tt      III       216.16         1.972
SLCatWhis          1.455         570       325.651        5W       222       91        197.470       2.170
SLEIzbd 2h366                   1.111      434.94          392   Q a.       Ma            na6          na.
St Janm             572           as        75602          m       235       92       23306          2.540
St May             1.100          570      380.323        G5       133      133       20C0           2.000
SL Thmns           1.442         701       347.S40        406      ML       ML            n.           n.
Trawy              2.040          001       205.41       1.033     100     10        219.414        2.194
Wesoraind          1.027          454      334.575         73S     13       130 3IX00                2.328
TOTAL           200           68.354   51.30320          1 624           1.02                        12



- 65 -
ANNEX Table 8
wIENuOGY McoNSTINUCTI@NPONTLOAN M4q1~M
STAiW  PSNU AICDA MAD OSAL ANO CUNICS
To     Ns.   Rda Co    Ne.
CATO                NML  Ou bom CO                                  R
C_v                         375  IN        13.67     106  TcdsWJmI32ao*own.dh1IF
aWOm_  Comtkm*n bnr
_mbimd                       20   24         .40      15  Th rmmbn S fl_ Iwibd
OEm HaupiWs                 n.e    4        0.        4  Iluded in Ode cdug  w -  andY
U_  sa_ nm  li ai  Ibise.
Caimumlw CinEm              383  306        4.50      63v Ti.. fnifl. alnd asndv- duimas
Toad                    73?  Su1        Its



-66 -                           ANJ  Table 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT LOAN (30124JM)
PROJECT RESULTS
Achievements by Setor
ITEM                        TARGET        ACTUAL  Acoompl od
LOW INCOME HOUSING
Construction of Hexceix Units                   4.806        3,949            82%
No. of Damonstrauon Clinics Hold                 350          419            120%
No. field offiers trained In
disastw resistant xnstruedon
techniques.                                      39            39           100%
No. of utlsanusmal contractos
trained in disaster resistant
construction tochniques                        7,000        2.514            36%
No.ofprefabricatedunftsbuilt                    1,000        1.000           100%
No. of Buiding Stanps dibuted                 131,538      125.323            95%
AGRICULTURE
No. of farmers assisted                           n.e.      20.565
No. of beneficiaries In
Broiler Industry                                840         1,484           174%
Source: Govenment d Jamaica, Januay 1991.



