Document of
T1he World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AlJ 3 c0/2$
Repwt o -4949-JM
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
ON AN EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT LOAN TO JAMAICA
DECEMBER 9, 1988
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autnorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
May 1979  - Jan. 1983    US$1.000 = 1.781           J$l.000 - US$0.561
Jan. 1983 - Nov. 1983
Official rate:      US$l.OOO = 1.781           J$2.0OO - US$0.561
Parallel rate:     -US$1.000 - J$2.40-2.80    J$1.000 - US$0.357-0.417
Nov. 1983 - Present      -        Auction System
Dec. 1983                US$1.000 - J$3.278         J$1.00O  - uSS0.305
Dec. 1984                US$1.00   - J$4.930       J$1.000 - US$0.203
Oct. 1985 (Peak rate)    US$1.000 - J$6.400         J$1.000 - UF,SO.156
Nov. 1985 - Present      US$1.OOO - J$5.480         J$1.000 - US$0.182
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRCNYMS
ACB           -        Agricultural Credit Bank
BOJ           -        Bank of Jamaica
BOP           -        Balance of Payments
CGCED         -        Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development
ERIL          -        Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan
GDP           -        Gross Domestic Product
IDB           -        Inter-American Development Bank
IMF           -        International Monetary Futd
JCTC          -        Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
JPSCO         -        Jamaica Public Service Company
HOC           -        Ministry of Construction
MOF           -        Ministry of Finance
MOH           -        Ministry of Construction (Housing)
hTFP          -        Medium Term Economic Framework Program
NDB           -        National Development Bank
NGO's         -        Nongovernmental Organizations
NOAA          -        National Oceanographic and Atmospheric
Administration
NWC           -        National Water Commission
OAS           -        Organization of American States
ODP           -        Office of Disaster Preparedness
PCB           -        People's Community Bank
PIOJ          -        Planning Institute of Jamaica
PSIP          -        Public Sector Investment Program
PU            -        Project Unit
SOE           -        Statement of Expenditures
SDR           -        Special Drawing Rights
TOR           -        Terms of Reference
UDC           -        Urban Development Corporation
UNDP          -        United Nations Development Programme
UNEP          -        United Nations Environment Program
UWS           -        University of the West Indies
WHO           -        World Meteorological Organization



FOR OMFCUL USE ONLY
Technical Annes
to the
Memorandum and Recommendation
of the Presaident
on an Emergency RecoAstruction Import Loan to Jamaica
Table of Contents
Pge-
A.   Background                                                  1
Project Origin and Objectives                          1
Hurricane Gibert Characteristics                        2
Summary of Damages                                     2
Impact on the Environment                              4
Office of Disaster Preparedness                         5
S.  The Macroeconomic Setting                                    5
Background                                             5
Hurricane Impact                                        7
Economic Outlook                                       8
Creditworthiness                                      11
C.   Proposed Reconstruction Program                            11
Overview                                              11
Low Income Housing Program                            14
The Agricultural Program                              18
Economic and Social Infrastructure                    22
D.  Financing Plan                                              25
B.   Bank Assistance Strategy                                   27
F.   Project Description and Loan Arrangements                  29
Description                                           29
Disbursements                                         29
Retroactive Financing                                 30
Procurement                                           31
Implementation Arrangements and Supervision           31
Records and Auditing                                  31
Benefits and Risks                                    32
Summary of Agreements to be Reached                   33
Conditions of Effectiveness                           33
List of Annexes                                            34
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by mtipiejts only in the porformance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be d41scIos.m withc,. tWorld Bank authodzation.



JAMAICA
DKIRGEICY RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT LOAN
A. BACKGROUND
ProJect: Origin and ObJectives
1.       On September 12, 1988, Hurricane Gilbert, one of the most powerful
in this century, struck Jamaica, causing extensive damage to the whole
island. Immediately following the hurricane, the Bank was in contact with
key donor agencies with offices in Jamaica, and with the Government as soon
as communications could be reestablished. At the request of the
Government, an identific&tion/preparation mission was sent to Jamaica on
September 21 to assess the extent of damage and assist the Government in
preparing a reconstruction program. Simultaneously, and in close
coordination with this mission, the Bank also organized a special Donors
Meeting in Berlin, during the Bank's Annual Meetings, to coordinate the
external financing required for the reconstruction effort.
2.       Project appraisal took place in stages over the month of October,
1988. Sector missions focused on the most important aspects of the
reconstruction program, i.e. low income housing; water supply; power; the
social sectors; and agriculture. An economic mission visited Jamaica in
late October, in close coordination with an IMP mission, to assess the
impact of the hurricane on the economy and on the Medium Term Economic
Framework Program (MTFP) of the Government. A wrap up appraisal mission
took place from October 26 to November 5. Project negotiations, led by Mr.
H. Brown, Governor of the Central Bank, took place on December 2, following
two days of technical discussions.
3.       Following immediate relief assistance, urgent clearing of roads,
and restoration of power to priority activities, such as water pumps,
hospitals and airports, the Government has been focusing on a broad
reconstruction program of public infrastructure and targeted assistance for
the low income groups in order to get the economy functioning again as
quickly as possible, and address the needs of the most vulnerable groups of
the population. The Government requested Bank assistance to coordinate the
program and to mobilize the external financing required to support it;
finance part of its most urgent import needs; and assist in designing
appropriate programs for the low income groups.
4.       The proposed Emergency Reconstruction Import 1tan (ERIL) has been
designed with these objectives in mind. It aims at meeting the urgent
import requirements of the Government's overail reconstruction program. It
would finance a positive list of imports to meet part of the urgent
reconstruction needs in low income housing, agriculture, and selected
public infrastructure, i.e. the three priority areas of the Government
program. The loan would also provide needed balance of payments support at
a time of tight foreign exchange cash flow. Finally, the project design,
and the list of mports to be financed under the loan, were developed in
close coordination with the external financing availabla from other sources
and will support further cofinancing on a parallel basis.



-2-
hurricane Cllbert Characteristics
S.       Jamaica is subject to hurricanes, tropical storms and depressions
and all three of these cause loss of life and severe damage to
infrastructure and agriculture. The annual frequency of hurricanes and
tropical cyclones is shown in Annex 1 and the monthly likelihood of
occurrences In Annex 2. There is a 72Z probability that a hurricane or a
tropical storm will occur in the Jamaica area in any one year, with August
and September being the most likely months. From 1871 to date, fifteen
hurricanes have made a landfall on Jamaica but only one has traversed the
entire length of the island - Gilbert in 1988. Prior to Gilbert, the last
hurricane to make a landfall in Jamaica was in August 1951.
6.       Hurricane Gilbert passed directly over Jamaica on September 12,
1988. in daylight hours, classed as a Category 3 hurricane. The eye of the
storm went ashore at Morant Bay in the S.E. and passed along the length of
the island before exiting near Negril in the N.W.  The highest wind speeds
officially recorded at the airports were 114 knots (131.2 mph) in Kingston
and 120 knots (138.3 mph) in Montego Bay but there is ample evidence that
considerably higher wind speeds occurred at higher elevations and also at
the east and west ends of the island.  While still overland and just before
leaving the island, Gilbert went through a remarkable intensification
period with the pressure falling from 960 mb (28.35 ins) to 885 mb (26.13
ins) in 24 hrs - the lowest pressure ever recorded in the Western
Hemisphere. The wind speeds increased to 160 knots at 10,000 ft with gusts
to 173 knots. The track of hurricane Gilbert is attached (Annex 3).
Gilbert ranks as the most powerful storm this century in the Caribbean.
7.       There are several unusual features associated with the stormt  it
had a high forward velocity, 15 to 17 knots, which is very rare for such a
powerful storm; the 'eye was 35 miles across and thus took some two hours
to pass over areas directly in the line of the storm center; for Jamaica,
there was very little storm surge effect (that is, increased sea level due
to low barometric pressure and wind stress) which fortunately resulted in
only limited damage to shorelines and water front infrastructure. Most of
the shoreline damage resulted from the run-up due to high waves and wind
driven spray. It should be noted that 24 hrs prior to the storm's landfall
the US National Hurricane Center was forecasting a storm surge of 3.5 to 5
meters (12 to 16 ft) and as a consequence many people were evacuated or
advised to leave low-lying areas. The rainfall associated with Gilbert was
not particularly intense by Jamaica norms compared with other storms.
Higher intensities were recorded in the mountainous areae with 548 mm (21
ins) being the maximum. In many areas the rainfall averaged 250 mm (10
ins.). Thus, and fortunately, serious flooding was not an issue. Partly
because Gilbert was such a large storm, many small tornadoes also occurred
within the overall wind system; thus the wund damage varied considerably in
any area.
Sumry of Damages
8.       Gilbert was mostly a "wind" hurricane, causing extensive damage to
roofs, trees and electricity poles. Although the storm passed along the
entire length of the island and, because of its large diameter, affected
the whole land area, the extent of the wind, sea and rainfall damage was,
however, far from unif£rm. The wind damage was much more severe in the
south east and north west leaving the central third of the island with much
less damage. The heaviest rainfall occurred on the higher ground.



- 3 -
Shoreline damage was surprisingly small as the forecast storm surge levels
were not realized. The only area of severe shoreline damage occurred at
the eastern end of the island adjacent to where the eye of the storm came
ashore. Damage resulting from intense rainfall and the associated flooding
was relatively limited and generally confined to the eastern mountain
ranges. There were, however, a number of serious landslides in some areas.
9.       Although hurricanes and tropical storms are not infrequent in
Jamaica, no previous storm reached the level of damage caused by Gilbert.
Estimates of total damage are still preliminary; present estimates from the
Government and interviews with the private sector put the amount of total
damage to the capital stock at about US$0.8 - 1.2 billion (see Table 1
below); this is very substantial for an economy the size of Jamaica. In
addition to the lose in capital stock, Jamaica will also face a temporary
loss in income and foreign earnings until its production capacity is fully
restored (see economic chapter). Fortunately, the loss of life was
relatively limited (45 reported deaths) partly because the hurricane hit
during day time and partly because of sound preventive actions by the
Office of Disaster Preparedness (see below).
Table 1
Jamaicat Hurricane Gilbert
Capital Damage Estimate
-JS$ million
1.  Housing                               260.0
(of which low income)                (145.0)
2.  Public Infrastructure                 300.0
3.  Agriculture                           160.0
4. Manufacturing                          200.0
5. Tourism                                 80.0
6.  Other Services                         NIA
Total                         1000.0
10.      The major damaged areas are as followst
Roofs and roofing: the loss and damage of roofs is very
extensive islandwide. It is evident that buildings standards varied. In
general, well built roofs remained intact but there are also examples of
very well constructed roofs being destroyed. The roofs of very simple low
cost self built houses suffered the greatest loss. With rainfall levels
from 250 to 550 mm accompanied by the high winds, the loss of all or part
of a roof inevitably affected the contents of roof damaged buildings. It
is estimated that 55Z of the total housing stock in Jamaica was affected to
some extent, with the most extensive damage occurring to the low income
houses.
Electricity and telephone distribution systems: there was
major destruction to poles and lines, with poles being completely uprooted
and trees and debris collapsing the lines. As is standard in the industry,
the power distribution system was built to withstand winds up to 100 miles
per hour, which were exceeded by Gilbert. Also very little of the system
networks are in buried cables.



-4-
Agriculture: the hurricane damage to agriculture was
widespread although its severity varied greatly throughout the island.
Tree crops were particularly hard hit. The high winds result;d in massive
destruction to coconuts, bananas, horticulture, citrus, coffee and to local
food production, such as yams. The broiler industry was almost completely
wiped out.
Public infrastructure: Public buildings, already in serious
need of rehabilitation prior to the hurricane, suffered serious damage in
some areas, particularly schools --used as shelters in the aftermath of the
hurricane-- health facilities and other public buildings. Water supply was
disrupted due to the lack of electricity and destruction of pipelines
caused by landslides. Ground transport infrastructure was relatively less
affected.
Tourism: while the physical damage to the industry seems to
have been relatively limited and the tourism industry should be back on
track for the winter tourism season, the loss in revenues and foreign
exchange might be substantial depending on the tourism response during the
winter months. Tourism represents the largest foreign exchange earner in
Jamaica (38Z).
Bauxite and manufacturings bauxite mining, the second largest
foreign exchange earner (2O2) was not seriously affected except for a
temporary loss of production. The manufacturing sector, however, suffered
some loss of production and damage to inventories. Immediately following
the hurricane, vandalism and looting were widespread, which forced the
Government to implement a curfew in areas where power cuts were in effect.
A detailed assessment of the economic impact of the hurricane is presented
in Part B of the report; assessments of damage in low income housing,
public infrastructure, and agriculture are presented in Part C, together
with a presentation of the Government reconstruction program.
Impact on the Environment
11.      Hurricane Gilbert impacted on the environment through severe
deforestation in several parishes and the general felling of trees
islandwide; total defoliation due to the high wind speeds resulting in loss
of shade for sensitive ground plants for several weeks; the inundation of
wetlands with sediments; massive quantities of rotting fruits, fish, birds
and dumped foodstuffs islandwide; blocked drainage channels and gulleys;
and beaches piled high with wind blown debris of all kinds. Because of the
trajectory of the hurricane, coastal damage seems to have been light, as
well as the effect of the hurricane on the marine ecology. The long term
effects of the hurricane on the environment are, however, difficult to
establish, as 'amaica already faced severe deforestation leading to
watershed degradation prior to the hurricane, as well as other serious
environmental problems due to waste disposal, use of pesticides,
overfishing and beach erosion. UNDP-FAO is presently preparing a project
to address damage to the forestry sector, and a UNEP-FAO mission is
scheduled in the near future to review other ecological issues. A full
environmental report on Jamaica will also be prepared in FY90.



Office of Disaster Prepfredness
12.      The Government was relatively well prepared for Gilbert.  Over a
number of years Jamaica had developed an Office of Disaster Preparedness
(ODP), with a total permanent staff of 32 of which 13 are professionals.
ODP has set up an excellent radio eomuwication link with each of the
principal towns and parishes. It is responsible for providing advance
information to the population concerning any form of disaster, for making
evacuation or similar arrangements, training staff and parish councils to
react appropriately, and generally creating an awareness program so that
the population is less at risk in the event of earthquakes, hurricanes,
flooding or other emergency situations. In addition, the 04; has been
managing a flood plain mapping project funded through UNDP, and is
developing a flood warning system with the assistance of O40/UNDPINOAA. A
national landslide reduction program is also ongoing with UWI and HOC
assistance. The ODP also assists other agencies, such as the Port
Authority, Tourist Board, etc., to draft and set up disaster plans.
Finally, with OASIUNDP assistance, ODP' is presently developing a
comprehensive emergency computer system covering the whole island.
13.      Throughout the period of activity concerning Hurricane Gilbert,
the ODP was very active and effective. Through close working relationships
with the National Meteorological Service and the US National Hurricane
Center a regular series of information bulletins were prepared and issued
to the radio, television an? newspapers. Meetings were organized 72 hrs.
and 48 hrs. before predicted landfall with all emergency services, NGOs,
utilities, health centers, etc., and their state of readiness reviewed and
eventually placed on full *lert. At 24 hrs. before, all gas stations,
stores and supermarkets were asked to stay open since it was a Sunday.
Bach parish council disaster comittee Was placed on full alert (this
procedure had been previously rehearsed at least twice earlier in the year
and only one council out of 14 had failed to perform to the required
standards). During and following the storm ODP performed relatively well
in a number of functions including the management of the distribution of
emergency foodstuffs. ODP is currently arranging seminars with all key
agencies to review lessons learned by the recent catastrophe with a view to
further improve its operations.
B.  TNB tUC-       IC SITTING
Background
14.      In the two and a half years prior to the hurricane, Jamaica was
enjoying its best sustained period of economic growth in over two decades.
Real economic growth was 5.22 in 1987, compared with 1.91 in 1986. and this
was being sustained at a 5.52 rate in 1988. All sectors of the economy
were contributing to this growth with particularly strong growth in tourism
(a 162 and 112 growth in stopover visitors in 1986 and 1987 respectively),
non traditional export manufacture (4% and 52 in 1986 and 1987
respectively) and stabilization and growth in the bauxite/alumina sector.
A notable achievement of the economy over the past two years has been the
improvement in domestic and national savings performance. Domestic savings
increased to 7S of GDP in 1987, compared to 52 of GDP in 1985, and there
was an even more significant improvement in national savings. The reasons
for this improvement are various, but undoubtedly, the lagged effects of
the 402 real devaluation that occurred in 1984 and 1985, and the
restoration of positive real savings interest rates (real rates of 22 and



8S in 1986 and 1987 respectively, compared to negative real rates of -16.52
and -82 in 1984 and 1985) had a major influence on domestic savings
performance and the return of capital balances from abroad. A further
cause for this improvement has bevn the dramatic improvement in the public
sectors' savings performance, particularly with respect to the Central
Government and the operating balances of the public enterprises. The
overall fiscal deficit declined in 'YO86/87 and in FY87188 to about 6.52 of
GDP. This compares to an overall deficit of 142 of GDP in FY85/86. The
tax to GDP ratio has improved significantly since FY85186 and on the
expenditure side, commendable progress has been achieved in expenditure
control programs. 'n real terms, overall Central Government current
expenditure in FY87188 was no higher than that in FY84/85.
15.      There was a strong rebound in investment in 1987, reversing the
declining trend that had started in 1984. This is indicative of the%
improved investor confidence in the economy. Unemployment declined in both
1986 and 1987, to reach 212 in the latter year, compared to a high of 292
in 1983 (this measure includes non-seekers). Most of the increase in
employment in 1987 occurred in manufacturing, construction and the service
sector. It is notable that public administration employment declined by 5Z
in 1987, and the level in this year was about 32X lower than at the start
of the structural adjustment program in 1980. The job creation performance
up to 1987 suggests that a major objective of the overall structural
adjustment program wis being achieved. The pace of price inflation also
slowed significantly. The pace of price rise was 72 in 1987 compared to
15? in 1986 and 26? in 1985.
16.      Good progress has also been made in restoring viability to the
country's external accounts. The current account balance of payments
deficit declined to -5.1S and -3.8? of GDP in 1986 and 1987, compared to
-152 in 1985. Throughout this period competitiveness of the Jamaican
economy was maintained, and the benefits of the real devaluation in 1984
and 1985 were not eroded. In addition, the terms of trade have
progressively turned in Jamaica's favor, with the decline in oil and other
commodity prices and increased prices for sugar, bauxite and alumina
exports. Export performance in 1987 was strong with all sectors recording
growth. In particular, non traditional exports grew by 382, led by a
doubling of garment/apparel exports. Another favorable development in the
balance of payments was the rapid increase in tourism related earnings.
The level of these earnings in 1987 were almost 502 higher than that
recorded in 1983.
17.      It took about five years to reach this improved performance which
is the result of an ambitious adjustment program, aimed at restoring
economic growth and correcting the structural imbalance in the external
accounts. Between early 1981 and early 1985, a variety of reform measures
were implemented. The bulk of the import licensing system was dismantled,
and over 90S of the quantitative import restrictions were removed. A
foreign exchange auction system was introduced in end 1983. On the fiscal
front, a tax reform program was launched, expenditure control programs
introduced, price and tariff adjustments made in the public enterprise
sector and a divestment/privatization program initiated. In addition, the
Government introduced a variety of reforms and improvements in the areas of
credit delivery, public transport, agricultural pricing and marketing and
industrial policy. However, despite these early measures, overall growth
performance was disappointing, with real output at the end of 1984 still
below levels recorded in 1979. In part this was due to an unforeseen



-7
decline in bauxite/alumina exports, and meaningful progress on a reduction
in the overall fiscal deficit was not achieved. Throughout the first five
years of the adjustment program, the overall deficit ranged from 17.4S of
GDP in PY80/81, to a high of 19.OZ of GDP in FY83/84 and a low of 15.32 of
GDP in FY84185. By mid 1985, it was apparent that the pace of reform
needed to be accelerated.
18.      The Goverament, with assistance from the Bank, has responded to
this challenge. Since early 1986, comprehtensive reforms to the personal
and corporate tax systems have been introduced, together with a revised
property tax system. These reforms were far reaching insofar as a highly
complex system, with high marginal tax rates, was replaced by more simple
systems, that lowered rates, reduced ad hoc exemptions and reduced the
scope for evasion. The Government also embarked upon a tariff reform
program, which, over a period of four to five years, should culminate in a
structure of four rates ranging from 5 to 302, with a very limited range of
exemptions. The early stages of this reform have already been undertaken,
with the maximum tariff reduced to 602 in April 1988 and a significant
reduction in the number of items subject to import duty exemptions. In the
area of monetary and financial policies, the Government has revised bank
and nonbank financial intermediation legislation. Reserve requirements
have been modified which has reduced the cost of financial intermediation
and improved the efficiency of the allocation of credit. In the area of
fiscal policy, much progress has been made in the control of current
expenditures, improvements in the quality of preparation, execution and
monitoring of the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) and the financial
performance of the public enterprises. This latter improvement has been
achieved by further price and tariff adjustments as well as improved
productivity and managerial performance. In addition, the Government's
divestment/privatization program has accelerated, with completed
divestments through public share offerings and direct sale of over J$800
million in public assets since inception.
Hurricane Ilpact
19.      The hurricane which struck the island on September 12, 1988
undoubtedly represents a setback to the improving economic performance of
the country. All of the economic sectors and subsectors have been affected
to some degree or another; however, the agricultural sector has suffered
severely, as has the country's housing stock. Furthermore, there has been
considerable damage to the country's social and economic infrastructure; in
particular, the loss of electrical power represents a serious economic
constraint. 'While estimates of damage to the capital stock are ongoing and
being further refined, preliminary estimates suggest Hurricane Gilbert's
damage at about US$800 million to US$1.2 billion. Sectoral estimates of
the capital stock damage are contained in Part C of this report.
20.      The hurricane has also affected national income flows and export
revenue. While the vast bulk of capital stock damage in the tourism sector
will have been repaired by the start of the next tourism season (December
15, 1988), signifJcant revenue losses have already occurred and
considerable uncertainty surrounds the short term demand from market
countries. In agriculture, there have been major losses in bananas and
other export tree crops. and, because of damage to domestic food
production, food imports will increase significantly over the next six
months.  Non traditional manufactured exports have been affected by the
loss of power and damage to stocks of raw mater'als and finished goods.



Bearing in mind the considerable uncertainties surrounding performance of
Jamaica's tourism sector during the forthcomilng high season (December 15,
1988 to April 15, 1989), early estimates suggest a likely shortfall in
foreign earnings of ebout US$350 million. Further pressure will be placed
on the balance of payments as import demand increases to meet the needs of
the country's reconstruction efforts. Some relief will be afforded by the
reinsurance inflows from abroad, which are estimated at about US$500-4700
million, of which 802 are expected by end March 1989. Nevertheless, the
balance of payments current account deficit is expected to widen to about
102 of GDP, which requires additional donor support if arrears and/or
financing gaps are not to occur. Such support appears forthcoming subject
to confirmation of recent donor pledges.
21.      In the context of the existing IMF Stand-By Arrangement for SDR 82
million (which was approved by the IMF Board in the week following the
hurricane), GDP growth in MY88/89 was expected to be about 5.52; and an
overall fiscal deficit of -4.62 of GDP and a balance of payments current
account deficit of about -4.9S of GDP were targeted. These objectives will
haie been adversely affected by the hurricane and it is unlikely that the
various targets will be achieved. Fiscal revenues will be lower, due to
lost income related taxation, and, given the proposed reconstruction and
relief efforts by the Government, recurrent and capital expenditures will
increase by about J$800 million. As a result, it is expected that the
overall public sector deficit will rise to about -8 or -92 of GDP for the
FY881891 this is a preliminary estimate. It is predicated upon additional
external financing indications (see below) with the possible result that
there should not be a large increase in the public sector's demand for
domestic credit. This doubling of the overall fiscal deficit is considered
to be of a short term nature due to the immediate reconstruction needs, and
could be expected to deoiine in FY89/90 and PY90191 (See Table 2 below).
Discussions are presently ongoing with the IMF with the view to finalizing
the revisions needed in the recently agreed Stand By.
22.      The hurricane has caused widespread short term dislocation in
employment in all sectors. Nevertheless, given the ongoing restoration of
power, and the massive construction and rehabilitation effort already
underway, it is expected that these dislocations will onl, be temporary.
In fact, the demand for labor is expected to increase, because of the
reconstruction effort, with the result that the declining une_ploymert
witnessed prior to the calamity, is expected to continue. There may also
be a significant impact on price inflation. In the first eight months of
1988, price inflation was increasing at about 82 on a yearly basis;
however, the short term shortage of domestic foodstuffs, has already caused
a significant increase In the prices of these items. Given their large
weight in the local consumer price index, inflation in the latter part of
the year is expected to increase to about 122 to 152 on an annualized
basis.
Economic Outlook
23.      In December 1987, the Government presented to a special donor
meeting a Medium Term Economic Framework Program (HTFP) which was prepared
with Bank assistance. It set out the policy reform agenda over the next 3
to 4 years and the necessary financing which included further balance of
1/ See Part D of the report.



-9-
payments support, project financing and rescheduling of debt. This reform
agenda envisaged an overall fiscal deficit target of -1.5S of GDP by
FY91l92, a reduction in the current account balance of payments deficit to
-1.82 of GDP in the same year, and a gradual reduction in the debt service
burden to about 22Z of exports of goods and non factor services by FY95/96.
Undoubtedly, the hurricane represents a setback to this reform agenda, and
at the present moment, the attention of the Government of Jamaica and the
entire donor community is dominated by the short term reconstruction
priorities.
24.      In spite of its immediate concerns for emergency relief and
rehabilitation however, the Government has reiterated its commitment to
structural adjustment and the reform program and the need to consolidate on
the considerable progress already achieved. In this regard, it is the
Government's intent to continue with the Tariff Reform Program, with a
further reduction in the maximum tariff and the number of non tariff
barriers in April 1989; the introduction of a value added based General
Consumption Tax in early 1989, to replace the variety of domestic indirect
taxes; and to continue with further reforms in the financial sector.
Purthermore, in the context of a proposed Bank Agricultural Sector
Adjustment loan, the Government will undertake significant trade, price and
institutional reforms in the agricultural sector. In fact, in light of the
disruptions already caused in this sector, the Government is contemplating
an acceleration in some reform areas already planned, such as
liberalization of tariff and non tariff barriers to the importation of
certain foodstuffs (e.g. poultry and vegetables). Finally, the measures
contemplated by the Government's five year Social Well Being Program (also
to be supported by a Bank Social Sector project) will be implemented sooner
than previously envisaged. In particular, the rehabilitation measures
contemplated for much of the health and education infrastructure will
proceed at a faster pace under the Reconstruction Program. In addition,
the Government has recognized that the present system of Generalized Food
Subsidies, together with the import monopoly trading practices of the
Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation (JCTC) are in need of urgent review.
The terms of reference of a comprehensive study to achieve this objective
have teen agreed between the Government and the Bank, and a consultants
team is presently in the field. Once completed, the Government and the
Bank would agree early in 1989 upon an appropriate action program and
reform agenda based upon the study's conclusions.
25.      Preliminary estimates suggest that real GDP growth for FY88189
should be about 32; however, the outlook in the medium term, based upon a
continuation of the reform program, appears more favorable. Annual growth
should resume at about a 4 to 5% rate in FY89/90, and a continual
improvement in the fiscal and external balances can be expected. This is
predicated upon increased construction activity, a resumption of more
normal tourist inflows, and a resumption of growth in the non traditional
export manufacturing sector (notably apparel). The projected improvements
in the fiscal balances are based upon a return to the prev:ously agreed,
pre Hurricane Gilbert, fiscal reform agenda, and revisions in the
implementation timing of the Public Sector Investment Program. Table 2
below outlines some of the key economic indicators and projections derived
from the above assumptions. The Gverall result is that a slippage of about
two years can be expected compared to the targeted economic parameters as
presented in the HTF?.



- 10 -
Table 2
Selected Economic lIdl¢atoru
MR89/6  FY59190 FY90/U P192  92/11
GOP o?Owth (5)                    8.0    5.5   4.5   4.5    4.5
Co.na_r Prices tX)                11     8      0      6       C
Overall Pubil Deficit/GOP 0,0   -9.0   -4.0   -2.5   -1.5   -1.J
SIP-Current Account/CDP (Y)     -10.0   -5.9  -1.0  -0.7   -0.4
Export. (UStI *Illion)           1206   1470   1540  105   1852
Tourim (US1m elilon)            450    040   700    775    tS0
Bauxlte/Alum1na (t38 mlillon)   420    440    420   455    493
Sugar                            61    70    77    84    91
Bananas                          17    22    24    8%7    29
Other                           2S8    298    $20    848   867
D0D/GOP (3)                       121    110   102   N94 
Debt Servlce/Exporta OFS (5)       43    40    86    84    82
Nabe  World Sank commodity pric, projections ued where appropriate. It
should be further noted, that the decline In beuxlte/oulmine earnings In
FY90/91 Is due to projected alumnin price decbline and not to any
decline. in volum, of output.
26.      In the context of-the MTFP, and the associated donors meeting in
December, 1987, all financing gaps identified over the three year period of
the program were closed by indicated donor support.   Hurricane Gilbert has
disrupted this program and raised the need for additional financial support
in the short term. About 10 days following the hurricane, the Bank
organized a special Donors Meeting during the Annual Meetings in Berlin.
Donor response was quick and positive. Reallocations from ongoing
programs, together with new money pledges, suggest tentative additional
funding of abput US$240 million, which, together with projected reinsurance
inflows of about US$450 million, ought to maintain balance of payments
viability in FY88/89. There are modest gaps identified in FY89/90 and
FY90/91, of US$21 million and US$59 million respectively (see table below),
which are expected to be closed in the context of forthcoming donor
meetings; and no further IMF program is assumed after the expiry of the
existing one in PY89/90. In addition, in October 1988, Jamaica received
assistance from the Paris Club, which recommended all principal and
interest amounts due from June 1, 1988 to November 30, 1989 be rescheduled,
together with all principal repayments due on previously rescheduled
amounts during the same period. The projections assume that further
rescheduling, where possible, will occur throughout PY89/90 and FY90/91.
Table J
Ov r ll Finncin Flow
FYP9/59  FY89/8   fY919!
Flnu a"'  Hemods              1194.0   907.5    681.6
ir ireunt Dewicit           iUrU    IW5U       UW
Amortization                 651.6   578.6    463.6
lIl Repurebos                225.0   168.0    100.0
Change In Reserves            33.0    58.0      80.0
Flowcir Identified            1194.6   907.6    681.6
285.8i   157.0    flfl.
o/ lUND 1/                   71.0    81.0      55.0
B1lateral                    408.8   311.8    250.0
Su"ppliro Credits/Other      129.1   114.5      80.0
Reacheduling                 160.4   126.5      62.6
Tam Purchaes                  78.0    57.0        -
IMF Ewerguncy                 45.0       -
Prive Fl.o                   120.0   120.0    120.0
Gap                             -      20.7     59.0
i?Tbi-~t tludes the propoed Emergency Recontruction ITport
Lo n in FY88/89.



- 11 -
Creditworthlnese
27.      A major factor in Jamaica's economic rehabilitation is the
country's high external debt which stood at US$3.9 billion at the end of
1987, or 1342 of GDP, with a debt service burden after rescheduling of
about 46Z of exports of goods and non factor services. However, there has
been good progress in the external debt management strategy. The rate of
increase of external debt has slowed appreciably. In the first four years
of the structural adjustment program, external debt grew by 93Z where' the
growth in the last four years was only 192. Furthermore, with the
assistance of a major aid coordination effort by the Bank, an increasing
proportion of the external flows has been on more concessional terms, which
should reduce the debt service burden in the future. By FY93/94, the
external debt is expected to be about 832 of GDP with debt service at about
302 of exports of goods and non factor services. At the end of June 1988,
Jamaica's debt outstanding to the Bank stood at US$509 million at book
value, which amounted to about 12.72 of external public medium and long
term debt outstanding and disbursed (including debt owed to the IMF). Debt
service payments to the Bank during 1987 amounted to US$94 million, or
about 132 of total debt service paid, including payments to the IMF and
taking into account debt reschedulings. This situation is expected to
continue over the medium term. While Jamaica's external debt, and the
Bank's exposure in that debt, are high, Jamaica is considered creditworthy
for future Bank lending, based upon the support from the IMF and the donor
community and the Government's continued adherence to the ongoing
adjustment process in the context of a viable medium term economic
framework and financing program.
C. PROPOSED RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Oerview
28.      After focusing on immediate relief assistance in the first few
weeks following the hurricane, the Government moved quickly in preparing an
overall reconstruction program to put the economy back on track as quickly
as possible. The program was coordinated by the Prime Minister, who made
successive statements on (i) assistance for low income housing; (ii) budget
presentation for supplementary estimates to rehabilitate public
infrastructure; and (iii) assistance to the agricultuLe sector, with
particular emphasis on poor farmers.
29.      In general, Government assistance will focus on the restoration of
key public infrastructure and on special programs to address the needs of
the truly needy. In addition, special credit arrangements are being set up
to assist the productive sectors, in close consultation with the private
sector. The present focus of the Governmcnt on public infrastructure and
low income groups is appropriate, as most of the damage incurred by the
private sector seems to have been adequately insured, --with adequate
offshore reinsurance-- except perhaps for some medium size enterprises,
(especially in the agriculture sector), damage to inventories and crops,
and expected losses in revenues. In preparing its specific programs, the
Government focused on: (i) s mple administrative arrangements based on
existing institutional mechanisms and market channels; (ii) simplicity of
eligibility criteria and targeting mechanisms for the assistance programs
to the poor including self help approach to implement the low income
programs; (iii) reliance on existing implementation units, with simple



- 12 -
coordination mechanisms, for rehabilitation of public infrastructure; and
(iv) reliance on credit mechanisms, and reduced interest rates, for the
productive sectors.
30.      The Government aims at implementing its complete reconstruction
program within 18 months, with a large front loading of the program in the
first six monthe. In view of its tight budget and foreign exchange
situation, the Government has been seeking incremental external financing
on highly concessional terms to finance the whole program, over and above
its current budget requirements. A summary of the overall Government
reconstruction program is presented on page 13.  (Table 4).
31.      The Government programs in low income housing, public
infrastructure, and agriculture are discussed in detail in the following
sections. In addition, the Government intends to launch a vigorous
publicity campaign to attract tourists to Jamaica before the winter season.
Assistance to manufacturing and tourism will be mainly channelled through
existing credit mechanisms, in particular through the National Development
Bank (NDB) and commercial banks. The Government also intends to widen the
list of food stamp beneficiaries to poor people affected by the hurricane.
Although not an integral part of the reconstruction program per se,
additional food imports due to the destruction of local food production
(e.g. food crops and broiler industry) have been added to the total
reconstruction needs. These are further discussed in the agriculture
section. Also, imports of vehicles (trucks, four wheel drive, and
motorcycles) are important to assist in the logistics of the reconstruction
program; international transport facilities (ports and airports) are
generally adequate to handle the increased import volumes expected.
Finally, the Government will need further general balance of payments
support due to the expected loss in foreign earnings until Jamaica's
productive capacity is fully reestablished.
32.      In summary, the total cost of the program amounts to about US$650
million, including the incremental food requirements, of which about US$400
million would constitute direct foreign expenditures. The total external
financing required for the program would amount to about US$450-500
million, after netting out the labor costs associated with the low income
housing program (self help), taxes and duties on imported materials, local
financing by Government agencies (including expected insurance inflows),
and the local contribution of the banking system on the Government's
agricultural program (Annex 15).  In view of urgency, the external
financing requirements of the program will need to be met primarily through
import financing; flexible credit facilities; and pro,ect financing for
civil works, including local cost financing. The Government intends to use
proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange provided by external donors to
finance part of the local costs of the Government program, through
appropriate counterpart funding mechanisms. (See Financing chapter).
These figures, however, underestimate the total cost of the program, and
the true contribution of the Government and the Jamaican population to the
reconstruction efforts, as they do not include the substantial amount of
emergency works already carried out since the hurricane.



_ 13 -
Table 4
Janica: Hurricane Oilbert
Reconstructlon Pro LnCot Eutstimt     1/
FY88f89 - 89/90
n Million           USSIilllion
Total Por.ign 21   Tot,el  Foreign 2/
Cost   Expenditures  Cost  Expitires
I.    .Low Income Housing 8/         800.0    412.0    145.0    7t.0
TI.   Public Infrastructure
Central Government           1018.0    619.0    165.0    112.0
Education                  1          1IIT        -         -
H"ith                       189.0    146.0
Roads, Bridge, Drainage    182.0       78.0
Other Gov. Buildiwgs        816.0    209.0
Agriculture Schemes          84.0      10.0
Pulic Enteorriin 4/           698.0    830.0    110.0        60.0
ism. Public Sorv-iBo         U7.      184.0
Not. Water Comieslon        72.0      87.0
Not. Hotels and Properties  112.0      60.0
Petrojem/PCJ                  2.0       -
Jm. Broadcasting             18.0       9.0
Sugar Authority               8.0       8.0
Jm. Rai lways                  .0       4.0
Port Authority               17.0       7.0
Airports Authority            9.0       4.0
Air Jamaic                    4.0       2.0
NIBJ                          6.0       -
Ill.  AUriculture Program 6/         700.0    816.0    126.0        57.0
ovge-A. 5t"           9)        -
Budget-A.C. Board            86.0)    40.0
As. Credit Bank             316.0    140.0
C_mercial Banks            200.0      90.0
Export Marketing Boards     100.0      45.0
IV.   Other Transfere                180.0    118.0       25.0      20.0
Increment l Faoe  Stawp     11         r  i .0
Touriam Promotion            62.0      82.0
Other Transfers              85.0      10.0
V.     mbnu ncturlng 8 Tourism 6/      #/A       N/A       -         _
krnrougli National Dv.B ank
Coamercial Banks)
VI.   Total Reconstruction          8254.0   1789.0      590.0    824.0
VII.  Other SOP Needs                880.0    880.0       60.0      60.0
Increents IO omports
over the next six months
VIII. TOTAL.COST                     84.0   2119.0    660.0        884.0
/ Table updated per MOF estimates as of 11/30/88. All figures rounded due
to approximations.
2/ Excluding estimated taxes and duties.
Ill Total cost including estimate of labor component.
1/ Total cost Including insurance coverage.
5/ Nat of private insurance inflows.
A bout 90% covered by insurence inflows.



- 14 -
33.      Broad assessment and issuest  Overall, the proposed Government
approach to its reconstruction program is appropriate and the most
practical to respond quickly to the disaster created by Hurricane Gilbert.
It therefore deserves strong donor support. In particular, reliance on
simple targeting mechanisms, self help, and existing administrative and
institutional structures, will limit implementation problems and reduce the
burden on the administration. However, care will need to be taken during
program implementation to ensure that the targeted low income programs meet
the needs of the truly needy and avoid excess; that appropriate assistance
and incentives exist to ensure that the specific programs meet their long
term objectives of appropriate reconstruction standards; and to ensure
that appropriate mechanisms are introduced to reduce their budget impact
and to avoid possible similar claims in the future. Existing mechanisms
envisaged by the Government should, however, reduce these risks to
manageable levels, even when taking into account the increased risks
associated with the present election climate (National elections must be
held before April 1989).
34.      Some of the emergency reconstruction measures proposed may also
involve a temporary setback in some aspects of the general reform agenda of
the Government, if not carefully controlled. In particular, while there
may be justification for temporary low interest credit facilities for
reconstruction activities for a limited period of time, care should be
exercised to review alternative mechanisms and follow sound project
analysis criteria to the extent possible, so as to preserve the economic
signal provided by market interest rates and ensure continued incentives
for savings. The devastation caused by the hurricane might, however, also
provide a good opportunity to move faster on some other policy fronts, such
as on trade reforms, to ensure that rebuilt activities take place within a
sound economic framework.
35.      Finally, while the desire to speedily implement the reconstruction
program is understandable, its pace of implementation will depend heavily
on the amount and timing of the external financing available. Moreover, in
view of the high external debt of the country, external financing will need
to be at highly concessional terms. This will require close monitoring of
the overall financing program of the Government; and careful integration of
the reconstruction program within its broad Public Sector Investment
Program, in order to keep the total capital expenditures envisaged within
acceptable budget limits in a medium term perspective. The assessment of
the Government's reconstruction program in priority areas is detailed
further below.
Low Income Housing Program
36.      Damage Assessment.  Jamaica's approximately 2.4 million citizens
are housed in about 544,000 dwelling units. Before Hurricane Gilbert,
estimates by the Ministry of Construction (Housing) (MOH), indicated that
in 1987, about 10,000 units were needed to eliminate overcrowding, 27,000
units to replace those which could not be upgraded, and about 10,000 units
to meet annual population growth and emergency needs.   Approximately half
of the country's housing stock required some type of renovation work at
that time. Activities in the sector are further complicated by the
multitude of institutions devoted to some housing aspects, subsidized
credit schemes, and a complex land tenure system under which half of the
population live in rented houses or on rented land, or are squatters. The



- 1S -
Government is aware of the nature 3nd extent of the housing problem in
Jamaica and has prepared a comprehensive new shelter strategy. However, in
spite of its efforts, over the past decade, the public sector provided an
annual average of only 3,000 units while the formal private sector built
only about 1,000 units annually.   Output from the informal sector was
estimated at about two to three times that of the formal public and private
sector combined.
37.      Hurricane Gilbert damaged approximately 280,000 houses (about 55Z
of the housing stock).   Among the houses damaged, sample surveys indicate
that about 34Z of the houses suffered minor damage (loss of several zinc
sheets)$ about 38Z had major damage (substantial loss of roof); about 231
suffered total loss of roof or substantial structural damage; and about 52
had total destruction of the building.   Of the approximately US$260
million in damage to all housing units in the country, it is estimated that
about US$145 million are to units occupied by low-income groups.
38.      Reconstruction Program.  The Ministry of Social Security has
undertaken a house-to-house survey in low income areas to provide a
detailed profile of those suffering losses.   Based upon these data and
available resources, the Government intends to issue construction vouchers
(bearing the name of beneficiaries) to cover the cost of construction
materials to effect the repairs needed, according to guidelines which have
been reviewed by the Bank. Only those with household income below the
median level (J$18,000 annually) 2 will qualify for the vouchers. In
addition, beneficiaries would have to establish that they: (a) occupied the
damaged house prior to the hurricane, (b) own no other home and have no
savings to repair the unit without assistance, (c) have income below the
median household income level, (d) have a unit less than 500 sq.ft., and
(e) are willing to repair their homes according to hurricane resistant
technical guidelines specified by the reconstruction unit (para. 42).
These criteria will be embodied in a standard acceptance letter
accompanying the construction vouchers. In addition, the letter would
include a statement from eligible tenants that the owner has given his
written consent to effect the repairs needed, and an undertaking that the
owner would reimburse the value of the stamps to the Government, if the
tenancy is terminated by the landlord without any breach on the part of the
tenant of the terms of the tenancy.
39.      Because of the emergency nature of the works and the poor economic
condition of the majority of those affected, the Government has decided to
offer the construction vouchers on a grant basis. A general screening is
being made to ensure that only needy beneficiaries are assisted; however,
the Government considers that it would be time-consuming, very costly and
impractical to establish and develop an appropriate cost recovery system
under emergency conditions, particularly in view of the large dispersion of
damage throughout the island. Similar experience in other countries tends
to validate this point. Once the survey is completed, representatives of
the two major political parties and of the major Church organizations will
tI This amounts corresponds to roughly 2.5 times the salary paid to an
unskilled worker in a free zone, a criteria usually used in other
countries to receive Government assistance in similar circumstances.



- 16 -
be given the list of the qualified beneficiaries to ensure that objectivity
will be maintained in the beneficiary selection process. Final decision
will, however, remain with the Ministry of Social Security after
undertaking the necessary spot checks. The Government will also set up a
small claims office to deal with any complaint.
40.      All beneficiaries will have to provide labor for the
reconstruction work (self help). Construction vouchers will be issued
according to the average costs of units classified along six main
categories, irrespective of the actual cost incurred: loss of mattress
(J$500); minor damage (J$750); partial loss of roof (J$3000); major
structural damage (J$4000); and total loss of building (J$10,000). These
estimates have been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable; they are,
however, based on very conservative assumptions and may underestimate the
actual costs of reconstruction. This approach may be appropriate in view
of the Government's budget constraint, the uncertainty on actual costs in
the informal sector, and the potential availability of additional sources
of financing through NGOs and informal family financing. Based on current
survey data, the actual cost of the program would amount to about US$145
million including estimates for labor, or to about US$100 million based on
the construction voucher values. Excluding taxes and duties on
construction materials, the foreign exchange component of the program would
amount to about US$75 million. Annex 4 provides a detailed cost breakdown
of the program. Detailed bills of quantities and list of import
requirements are in Annex 5 and 6 respectively.
41.      Once the vouchers are issued, the beneficiaries will be advised
via the media and specially targeted audio-visual orientation systems on
how to get their vouchers, materials from suppliers, the sources of
available help, the proper way to effect the repairs on their homes, etc.
Construction materials will be made available through the network of local
hardware stores. To ensure sufficient distribution of supplies, import and
distribution of building materials will be open to any private importer or
distributor. The Government owned Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
(JCTC) (previously the sole importer of specific construction materials
such as lumber) will continue to purchase Government imports under official
assistance programs, and sell them to wholesalers and retailers throughout
the island. The retailers would sell to anyone needing material; and they
will accept the vouchers as cash. The vouchers would be redeemed for
payment at the Central Bank. In order to avoid price increases in case of
temporary shortages, the Government has requested hardware stores to
publish their pre-hurricane prices; no price control will, however, be
established, unless the prices charged exceed the reasonable costs and
distributor margins of materials in specific areas, in which case the
Government could enforce temporary price controls.
42.      Institutional Arrangements.  A Project Unit (PU) has been
established within the Ministry of Construction (Housing) (MOH) with
primary responsibility for overall housing reconstruction works,
irrespective of the source of funding. It is headed by a program
coordinator who, assisted by a financial planner, will manage operations
through the Urban Development Corporation (UDC) and the construction
division of MON, each working separately but with the same set of
guidelines and operational parameters in affected areas throughout the
country. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and non-



- 17 -
governmental organizations (NG09) will provide publicity, technical
assistance and other follow-up help to the implementing units and
beneficiaries involved. UDC and HOH would both have staff who would manage
teams of technical personnel who would in turn work with groups of
beneficiaries to reconstruct their homes on a self-help basis.   The
proposed institutional set up ls given in Annex 7.
43.      In view of the scarcity of qualified personnel, assistance
progra.As will mostly be provided through an intensive information campaign.
Spot checks and assistance will primarily focus on the most damaged areas
and houses having incurred heavy damage. Technical staff will be provided
with vehicles for greater mobility. The Government is also establishing a
comprehensive computer based monitoring system to track and match the
building supplies with the distribution of construction vouchers and the
dispatch of technical assistance. These arrangements were reviewed by the
Bank and found acceptable.
44.      Finally, in order-to protect itself against similar catastrophes
in the future, the Government has agreed to review possible schemes to
establish a Government sponsored low income housing insurance fund.
45.      Bank Assessment.  The proposed reconstruction program for low
income housing is broadly eppropriate and the most practical in the present
emergency situation. Reliance on self help, simple eligibility criteria.
public information campaigns and market mechanisms will, in particular,
limit the administrative burden of the program and speed up the
reconstruction process. Moreover, the Government has sought to minimize
the budget cost to the extent possible, although the final budget impact
will only be known when the actual survey and spot checks are completed.
The proposed program will, however, involve difficult logistical problems
as well as continuing supervision and assistance, beyond the actual
reconstruction phase, if it is to succeed in meeting better construction
standards. In this regard, it is imperative that it be followed quickly
by a more conventional program targeted at vulnerable groups, particularly
squatters, tenants and houses located in highly vulnerable areas. In
addition, because of its simplicity and its emergency nature, the program
may involve disputes among beneficiaries versus non beneficiaries,
especially in the present election climate. The proposed arrangements, as
well as likely community pressures, should however reduce this risk to
acceptable levels.
46.      Agreements Reached:  During negotiations, agreements were reached
on the following: li) selection criteria for beneficiaries (para. 38);
(ii) establishment and maintenance of appropriate implementation
arrangements 'satisfactory to the Bank including full time appointment of
program coordinator (paras. 42-43); (iii) undertaking that the Government
will review possible low income insurance mechanisms andlor schemes by
March 31, 1989 (para. 44); and (iv) undertaking that imports of all
building materials will continue to be opened to private importers
(including lumber) during the reconstruction program; and that no price
control mechanisms will be set up except in limited circumstances (para.
41).
47.      Loan effectiveness conditions are thatt  Ci) the household survey
will have been completed and be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 38); and
(ii) appropriate implementation teams will have been set up, with staff and
terms of reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank (para. 42).



- 18 -
The Agricultural Proarm
48.      Extent of damage.  Although agricultural production only accounts
for 72 of GDP. it provides the livelihood of 252 of the population. mostly
subsistence farmers.  The hurricane hit Jamaica just after major
diversification efforts had taken place in agriculture and exports were
starting to pick up. after a long period of stagnation. The hurricane
damage to the sector was widespread although its severity varied by
enterprise and geographical location; the eastern and western ends of the
island being hardest hit. Probably three quarters of the farm families
suffered significant damage or loss of income. Banana production (domestic
and export) and broiler production were almost totally destroyed. Losses
in commercial egg production were also heavy. Most of the cocoa crop was
damaged, as well as half or more of the coconut, ornamental horticulture
and coffee areas. Around 302 of all other crop areas including sugar were
affected.
49.      It is estimated that loss of farm revenue in 1988189 will exceed
US$110 million declining to US$74 million in 1989190, US$20 million in
1990191 and US$14 million in 1991/92. Loss of foreign exchange earnings
from agricultural exports are estimated at between US$90-120 million
depending on the speed of reconstruction, much of it occurring in the first
two years after the hurricane. Foreign exchange outlay on imported food
will increase by some US$60 million in the six months immediately following
the hurricane to make up for the loss in domestic food production,
particularly in broiler meat, yams and bananas. The cost of reconstruction
in the agricultural industry, having deducted the local and foreign
expenditures provided by insurance and reinsurance, will be of the order of
US$125 million of which some US$55 million will be foreign exchange. None
of the above statistics adequately describe the devastation to many
individual farm families whose normal source of income and food was
decimated by the storm and will not recover for the next two to eight
months depending on their farming system.3
50.      Government Strategy.  The following is a description of the
Government's proposals to deal with the emergency in the agricultural
sector as announced in a special broadcast by the Prime Minister. Apart
from extending the Food Stamp Program to cover rural as well as urban areas
until domestic food production revives over the next two to three months,
the Government will also launch an Agricultural Stamp Program to provide
some 100,000 subsistence farmers with J$500 each to purchase seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides and farm tools (total cost J$50 million).
51.      In addition, the Government plans to support rehabilitation
through favorable agricultural credit terms as follows:
(a)   About J$35 million through the People's Community Banks (PCBs)
controlled by the Agricultural Credit Board, to provide loans of
J$1,000 each to 35,000 small farmers at 82 interest (reduced from
112);
(b)   About J$60 million through the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) to
the 40 PCBs with which it operates to onlend to 15,000 farmers
(average loan size J$4,000 at 8? interest, reduced from 112);
31 Three quarters of Jamaican farms are below five acres in size and
probably two-thirds of the farms (100,000) are subsistence holdings.



- 19 -
(c) About J$300 million through commercial banks (through ACE and the
Bank of Jamaica) at 7 to 7.52 to allow the commercial banks to
provide new loans for rehabilitation at 9 to 9.52;
(d)   All existing rates on outstanding agricultural loans from
commercial banks using ACB funds will be reduced to a common
interest rate of 142 (some were as high as 182 but most of the
outstanding loans are at 152);
(e)   PCBs and commercial banks will where necessary provide grace
p-riods of up to two years on the repayment of principal and will
capitalize interest during that period;
(f)   PCBs and commercial banks will reschedule repayments to ensure
that total repayments on new and existing loans will be no
greater than the present monthly payments;
(g)   Poultry farmers will be allowed to borrow up to J$150,000 each,
at 8 to 92 up to five years from both PCBs and commercial banks
but are expected to prowide one quarter of their capital needs
from their own resources. Any additional capital required would
be borrowed at commercial rates.
overall, excluding insurance payments, the agricultural rehabilitation
program is expected to cost around J$700 million (or about US$125 million).
Some J$350Q450 million is being made available as grants (Agricultural
Stamps) and new agricultural credit through the Agriculture Credit Bank,
the Bank of Jamaica and the Agricultural Credit Board. The remainder will
be provided by the various Commodity Boards (about J$l0O million),
coumercial banks from their own resources (about J$200 million) and farmers
using their own resources especially on the larger enterprises.
52.      Cost of Rehabilitation.  Government officials assisted by the
private sector have striven to provide rapidly, rehabilitation cost
estimates by crop and livestock categories which can be used for planning
purposes. These are given in Annex 8, Table 1. They should be treated as
indicators of magnitude rather than precise data. Shortage of skilled
tradesmen and delays in bringing in the necessary materials would tend to
push costs upwards, while the tendency for subsistence and small farm
operators to improvise and salvage damaged materials would help to keep
costs down.
53.      Balance of Payments Impact.  As a result of the decline in
agricultural export earnings on the one hand and increased foreign exchange
expenditures on imported food on the other, the need to import raw
materials for reconstruction exacerbates even further the shortage of
foreign exchange and highlights an area where bilateral and multilateral
aid agencies may best help the recovery program. Table 2 in Annex 8
provides an estimate of foreign exchange requirements in terms of primary
imported materials needed for rehabilitation (but excludes food).
54.      The heaviest demand for foreign exchange is for the purchase of
building materials needed mainly in the broiler industry. The supplemental
demand for agricultural chemicals including fertilizers is also substantial
as it covers all export crops and some domestic crops. Roughly equal
amounts of foreign exchange will be needed to reconstruct the agricultural
industry and to feed the Jamaican population until food production for the



- 20 -
domestic market has recovered. During a period of 6-8 months following the
hurricane, Jamaica will need to spend around an additional US$60 million on
food imports compared with a normal year. The incremental requirements
will be made up approximately as follows: broiler meat around US$20-25
million, wheat and wheat equivalent to make up for the loss in domestic
starchy foods, US$20 million, fish around US$10 million; condensed milk
US$2 million and canned meats US$2 million. A detailed table on
incremental food import requirements prepared by the JCTC is attached as
Annex 9.
55.      Assessment of the Government's Program.  In view of the
devastation, especially among subsistence farmers, action must be quick and
relevant. The Agricultural Stamps Program generally meets this criterion.
Subsistence farmers who suffered damage will be able to go to the local
suppliers of farm inputs to exchange their Stamps for seeds, agricultural
chemicals and basic tools needed for rehabilitation. Eligible subsistence
farmers are those with holdings of four acres or less who are not engaged
in commercial farming activities and who have submitted a report of storm
damage which has been verified by technical assessment teams already in the
field. Stamps are expected to be issued to all legitimate claimants in
November and December 1988. A fuller description of the program is given
in Annex 10.
56.      The Land Authority officers and Extension Service officers will
play a key role in monitoring the rehabilitation program and the legitimate
use of Agricultural Stamps. Particular attention will need to be paid to
avoiding damage to hillsides in the scramble to reestablish subsistence
food production and in monitoring the legitimate use of Stamps so that both
Government and aid agencies can audit the use of grant funds for Stamps on
a sample basis at a later date.
57.      Another important consideration in implementing the reconstruction
program in agriculture will be to ensure tnat the rebuilding activities
take place within a sound policy framework so that uneconomic investments
can be avoided. This will be important both for rehabilitation and the
reconstruction of totally destroyed activities, such as the broiler
industry. Poultry meat is a major source of animal protein in Jamaica with
consumption rinning at around 100 million lbs. of broiler meat per annum.
Prior to Hurricane Gilbert, Jamaica was self-sufficient in poultry meat
production. To meet the shortfall, the Government is currently importing
broiler meat at the rate of over 2 million lbs. or some US$1.4 million a
week. In order to reduce the drain on foreign exchange, Jamaica wishes to
re-establish an efficient broiler industry as rapidly as possible. Price
controls on the retail price of broilers, together with trade protection
and Government control of import supplies and prices of feedingstuffs
through JCTC makes it extremely difficult to determine the economic
viability of broiler production to individual entrepreneurs. To
reestablish rapidly an efficient industry the Government should consider
liberalizing this section of the economy while decreasing protection to
potential broiler producers by reducing tariffs from 95Z to possibly around
30Z to ensure reasonable competition in the domestic market, which in the
past was dominated by two groups. The Government has agreed to review the
competitiveness of this industry during the reconstruction period, and
together with the ongoing study of the JCTC (para. 24), to review possible
policy implications within the context of the Agriculture Sector Adjustment
operation currently under preparation.



- 21 
58.      Much of the government support for agricultural rehabilitation is
in the form of low interest rates. Provision of credit at low interest
rates is based on the premise that most farms suffered extensive damage,
and most existing loans were relatively new. Thus repayments on existing
loans (some at 14Z and some higher) will need to be added to the new
facilities (at 91) to arrive at the average financial cost to
beneficiaries.  While a special reconstruction facility involving below
market interest rates may be justified for a temporary period, care will
need to be taken to ensure that the economic signals normally provided by
interest rates not be diminished by this facility and that access to
preferential credit be made available to as many farmers as possible, with
particular emphasis on small low income farms. In particular, the facility
should be limited in time and only apply to reconstruction activities;
maximum caps or clear eligibility criteria should be established on the
preferential credit facilities, particulary through the PCBs; flexibility
should exist to review alternative relief approaches; and new loans should
continue to be appraised on the basis of the true economic cost of capital
to tk.e extent feasible. These issues will be thoroughly reviewed within
the context of the proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment loan presently
under preparation. In ,.he meantime, the Government has given an explicit
commitment that the 'soft-window' for rehabilitation loans will only be
held open for si' months. A reassessment of the program by the
Agricultural Credit Bank also indicates that only J$40 million are
earmarked to be onlent by the PCBs at soft terms and J$150 million by the
commercial banks through the ACB soft loan facility. The remaining
financing available will be on-lent as new loans at pre-Gilbert interest
rates. On these premises, the reduction in interest rates for
rehabilitation will cost the Government J$18 million and those on
outstanding loans around J$12.8 million (Annex 11, Table 1); the
Agricultural Credit Bank will also continue to be financially viable,
despite the temporary reduction in interest rates (Annex 10, Table 2).
59.      Jamaica lies in the path of hurricanes and such a catastrophe
could recur. The Government recognizes, however, that it cannot rely
solely on foreign loans and grants to meet such emergencies in the f'ture
and it has asked the Bank to provide ass1istance in locating a consultant to
study credit insurance, crop insurance ard/or the establishment of a
Hurricat.e Emergency Fund to help meet such contingencies in the future.
60.      Agreements Reached.  During negotiations, the Government has
agreed to the following undertakings: (i) eligibility criteria and
institutional mechanisms for the Agricultural Stamps program to be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 55); (ii) the Government will review the
policy framework for the broiler industry and submit its recommendations to
the Bank by March 31. 1989 (para. 57); (iii) the reconstruction credit
facility provided by ACB will be limited to a maximum of J$200 million and
applications to the next six months; and ACB will apply maximum amounts to
be borrowed by farmers under its special facility through the PCBs so as to
spread the facility throughout as many farmers as possible (para. 58): and
(iv) the Government will review possible approaches to credit insurance,
crop insurance and/or establishment of a special hurricane fund by March
31, 1989, with TORs satisfactory to the Bank (para. 59).



- 22 -
Icouomic and Social Infrastructure
61.      Assessment of Damage.  Social and some economic infrastructure
such as roads, are mostly the responsibility of Central Government
agencies, with investment, maintenance and recurrent expenditures being
financed through the Central Government Budget. In addition, the
Government has established a series of public enterprises to maintain and
operate specific economic infrastructure on a self sustaining basis,
although limited budget transfers might be available depending on
circumstances. Public enterprises were created for all public utilities,
revenue earning transport services, such as airports, ports and railways,
telecommunications (recently privatized), and selected financial, holding,
and other services. The Central Government departments and agencies are
mostly self insured; public enterprises follow broadly commercial practices
and carry selected insurance coverage.
62.      In general, Government buildings suffered to the same extent as
private buildings from Hurricane Gilbert. Apart from the massive damage to
&he electrical distribution system through downed lines, poles and
transformers, the major damage losses suffered by all entities consists of
partial or complete roof loss with consequential water damage to materials,
furnishings, goods and equipment (particularly electrical/electronic
equipment). The following entities suffered other damage particular to
their fields of activity:
- Civil Aviation/Airports Authority: Major damage to navigation
aids (VOR DME), and VHF communications equipment.
- Railway: Damage to track ana bridges some of which are also
highway bridges; damaged communications.
- Portss Destroyed navigation beacons and damaged lighthouses;
electronic controls in cranes; some quaywall damage.
- Water Supply: losses of sections of pipelines and damage to
intake structures feeding reservoirs; collapsed treatment
plants and storage tanks; damaged pumps; damaged distribution
lines and communications equipment.
- Roads, Bridges and Flood Control: damage to roads and other
structures through landslides resulting from downed trees, high
seas and seawall failure, and inundation resulting from
drainage systems blocked by debris.
- Meteorological: Loss of synoptic climate equipment at both
airports; loss of radar installation and communications mast.
63.      Proposed Reconstruction Program.   The Government's reconstruction
program for public facilities is only now being assembled as estimates had
to be sent from all parts of the country, followed different guidelines,
and provided wide variations in details in terms of cost estimates.
Information is being assembled by the Ministry of Finance and cross checked
by a small UNDP financed reconstruction team against "standard models'.
Assistance in Education and Health is also being provided by the Ministry
of Construction and UDC.   Public Enterprises made their own estimates of
damage.



_ 23 -
64.      The reconstruction program needed to fully restore public
infrastructure to pre-hurricane levels is given in Table 3 in the Overview
chapter. A more detailed table on the Central Government is available in
Annex 12, Table 1 and on the Public Enterprises in Annex 12, Table 2.
Broad estimates on the related import requirements are in Annex 13. The
reconstruction program in public economic and social infrastructure would
amount to about J$1 billion in Central Government expenditures, and to
about J$600 million for the selected public enterprises surveyed. Very
limited budget transfers are presently being considered for the public
enterprises ast (i) for the most part, they should be able to finance
local costs from their own revenues (although most of them will face
reduced revenues in the near future); and (ii) except in few cases, most of
the costs will be covered by insurance inflows. The Bank fielded specific
sector missions to the National Water Commission (HUC) and Jamaica Public
Service Company (JPSCo); i.e. the two largest public enterprises affected
by the hurricane. Specific estimates of the reconstruction needs and
financing plans of these two entities are presented in Annex 14.
65.      Bank Assessment and Issues.  The main issues concerning the
reconstruction program for public infrastructure are as follows:
(a) Estimated Costs: As already noted, cost estimates vary widely
from agency to agency, although spot checks are being
performed. Full reconstruction costs will however be
difficult to finalize.  On the one hand, agencies may include
long overdue equipment and rehabilitation needs exceeding
direct damage from Gilbert although this is being carefully
reviewed by the reconstruction team in HOF. On the other
hand, however, labor cost estimates may be low. Almost
without exception, the reconstruction estimates have been
based on pre-Gilbert prices for both materials and labor. It
was evident during the appraisal mission that the
compensation being demanded by certain categories of
craftsmen in the building industry was higher than normal due
to scarcity.
(b)  Standards: there is some concern that in order to restore
operations and services, construction and other standards may
be being reduced to save time. Such activities will probably
not become apparent until the next hurricane or earthquake.
With skilled staff stretched thinly, adequate supervision is
difficult to provide. The Government, however, is taking
steps to ensure that adequate standards would be met; in
particular, most reconstruction programs in Central
Government agencies (Health and Education) will be directly
monitored, and works certified, by UDC and the Hinistry of
Construction.
National Building Code: in 1982 the Government endorsed as a
policy document the Caribbean Building Code although the code
was never enacted into a law. The code is constantly under
review and is fully acceptable. Compliance with the code,
however, is limited to major public and private buildings and
structures islandwide - as a consequence of their having been
designed by reputable firms - and, in principle, to all
buildings within the Kingston and St. Andrew Corporate area,
where the Town Planning Department is responsible for



- 24 -
compliance and provides inspectors. In view of the frequent
occurrence of hurricanes and tropical storms in Jamaica. the
Government has agreed to review the adequacy of present
arrangements regarding the application of the building code
and to review effective methods of ensuring compliance in the
future.
(c) Government Policy of Self Insurance: the Government's current
policy is one of not insuring buildings or equipment. While
such a policy may have been fully justified in the 1950's,
with the rapid introduction of electronic office technology,
computers, X-Ray and sonar equipment, etc., it may not be so
applicable today. The Government intends to review its
current insurance policy in order to determine the
appropriateness of selective catastrophic insurance coverage.
66.      A more general and important issue will be the need to closely
integrate the reconstruction program within the Government's overall PSIP
in view of the present strict budget and foreign exchange constraints, the
uncertainty surrounding the timing of foreign flows and the likely
inflationary pressures which may develop by frontloading the program.
Although a large amount of external financing seems to have been secured,
which should be suffiVient to cover the bulk of the reconstruction program
(see following chapter), part of this financing will come from
reallocations within existing donor programs. Thus priorities, within the
existing PSIP will be needed. In addition, care will also need to be
exercised to closely integrate emergency reconstruction needs within their
broad sectoral rehabilitation programs; to carefully review in economic
terms whether heavily damaged infrastructure should be repaired or
abandoned in favor of more economic alternatives; and to provide an
appropriate balance between economic and social infrastructure in view of
the need to strongly support the productive sectors, tourism in particular.
Finally, priorities within the reconstruction program itself might be
justified depending on the timing of foreign flows, and the capacity of
the administration to implement and monitor a large increase in investments
over a short period of time.
67.      While, in view of the time constraint since the hurricane, it is
understandable that a full PSIP review could not yet be done, appropriate
institutional support and mechanisms may need to be developed to
progressively address the issues outlined above as the reconstruction
program is implemented. In particular, the Government is presently
considering Mi) revitalizing the project pre-selection committee; (ii)
additional technical assistance needs in the budget division of MOF to
monitor implementation of the reconstruction program; and (iii) completing
a full PSIP, incorporating reconstruction activities, prior to its next
fiscal year (April 1, 1989). In addition, improved coordination of the
budget division with the other Government agencies involved in monitoring
the donors program, will be crucial if Jamaica is to effectively utilize
the external financing available.4   This is discussed further in the next
chapter.
4/ For a more detailed analysis of the Government PSIP process, see report
No. 7020-JM - Jamaica: Public Sector Investment Program Analysis,
Performance and Prospects, dated 11/5/87.



- 25 -
68.      Agreements Reached.  During loan negotiations, the Government
agreed to the following: (i) review of Government self insurance policy
and building code enforcement by March 31, 1989 (para. 65); and (ii)
incorporation, under institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,
of its reconstruction program within its overall PSIP by March 31, 1989
(para. 67).
D. FINANCING PLAN
69.      At the request of the Government, the Bank organized a special
Donors Meeting and press conference during the Annual Meetings in Berlin on
September 25, 1988, i.e. barely two weeks after the hurricane. The Prime
Minister presented the broad damage estimates, and outlined the
reconstruction program needed and its proposed financing plan. Of the
estimated US$1 billion required to meet the reconstruction needs of the
economy, he expected about half this amount to come from reinsurance
inflows, and was therefore seeking about US$0.5 billion in concessional
external assistance to the extent possible. Further analysis, as detailed
in this report, and discussions in the field with private sector
organizations and the insurance sector have since confirmed these orders of
magnitude. These figures, however, are still tentative as they may not
fully include incremental balance of payments needs to cover the sharp
reduction in export revenues (estimated at about US$350 million over the
next six months), and the additional import requirements (food in
particular) which will have to be met until Jamaica's productive capacity
is fully reestablished.
70.      The donor response during the Berlin meeting was very positive.
Present indications tend to confirm that the Government should be able to
meet the bulk of its reconstruction program from concessional assistance
flows. As detailed in the attached Table 5 on page 26, the total external
financing available is expected to amount to about US$450-500 million when
all pledges are finalized. In addition, Jamaica obtained further debt
relief from the Paris Club and forgiveness of part of its public debt to
Canada. The financing terms of this package are most favorable; grants are
expected to amount to about US$135 million; all the rest of the financing
is on soft credit terms, except for some multilateral financing.
71.      The actual incremental financing flows available to Jamaica from
this package are, however, more difficult to estimate. Firstly, part of
the funds (about US$180 million) come from reallocations within the
existing portfolios of the donors; thus, their incremental portion will
depend on the extent to which their disbursements are accelerated.
Secondly, most of the funds are tied to import purchases and some of the
funds to direct project construction; this also will influence disbursement
levels depending on procurement and implementation arrangements. And
thirdly, some of the pledges still need to be finalized, increasing the
uncertainty on the actual financing package available in the near future.
Moreover, the hurricane, and the priority given to reconstruction
activities, may delay processing of some new projects initiated prior to
the hurricane, as well as implementation of ongoing projects included in
the donors' regular programs. Thus, financing for the reconstruction
program will need to be closely linked to the overall PSIP of the
Government and to the general foreign exchange needs of the country in
order to ensure that an appropriate macroeconomic framework will be
maintained.



Table t: JAMA1%C - IMiCANE GUWl T
Formlgn Flnmneanm Pln
Dleboemsote oexpwbtd In FrV/9-5WIIIOO
#Amoent  IUS I Illo")                                                 Rame_*k
multi ister11                  2.0
IBRD                          85.5                      L          ERIL USS8O million; Re llocation Water US$1.6 million;
Reallocation Power US14.0 mIllion.
IMP                           47.0                      L          Eoergency focility; 265 of quota requested.
CDB                           22.4                      L          Reallocation US$1.4 million; AS. Credit US83.0 million in 1989 and
us11a.0 mIllIon In 1990; NMw loan US$15.0 mi I I on through 8/1990.
IFC                           20.0                      L          Support to the Private Sector.
EEC                           28.0                      a          Balance of Lome US820 million; Rei onal Fund for KW  USl1ss.0
mII lIon.
OPEC FUND                      5.0                      L          Re Ilocation US82 millon; incroemntal US83 million.
IDB                           78.0                      L          Real locations; US861 million; new lines of credit US$22 million.
Special IDB/JAPAN
Facility                     5.0                      a          US84.0 million Grant from Japan for building materials tied to IDs
facility; and US11.0 million for toechnical assistance.
IFAD                           4.0                      L          Ag. credit cofinanced with IDB.
UNDP                           1.1                      a          TechnIcal Assistance.
Biliterai                      210.0
US AID                        77.6                      G/L        Incremental: Emergency rehab. US$20 million; Emorgoncy reconst.
US$35 million; PL 480 USf10 millon for lumber; ESF USS12.5
mllion.
CIDA                           9.0                      0          Incrementrl:  JPSCO US$8 million; Food US$1.8 mellion; Lumber
US$1.7 million; other US$s million.
GERMANY                       65.0                      G/L        Rea ll cation; USS20 million confirmod, of which US$14.0 million in
grants.
JAPAN                         80.0                      L          Inrermont l; expected to he fInalIzed shortly.
ITALY                         $8.0                      0/L        Incremental; of which US813 million grant, including US8$ million
for JPSCO; Loan US$20 million for health equipment. Still to bo
confirmed.
UK                             6.0                      a          Roallocation:  JPSCO assistance.
NETHERLANDS                    0.6                      L          Roallocation.
Total Cmtirmd:                 446.0                      (O:137.6)  Confirmed or in advance stges of negotiations.
Soft Export Credit              42.5
FRANCE                        15.0                      L          To be confirmed.
FINLAND                        5.0                      L          To bo confIrmed.
SWEDEN                         8.0                      L          To beconflrmed.
NORWAY                         1.0                      L          To be confirmed.
DENMARK                        0.5                      L          To be confIrmod.
EDC (CANADA)                  13.0                      L          Roeallocations.
Greed ToOtls                   4881.5                     (0:tJ.0)



- 27 -
72.      A tentative allocation of the use of this external financing, and
of the financing requirements and remaining gaps within the major
expenditure categories of the Government's reconstruction program, is given
in Annex 15. This allocation is however still very tentative, and should
only be used for illustrative purposes at this stage. Some donor pledges
have not yet been fully firmed up; likewise, some of the reconstruction
costs are still tentative (in particular finalization of the low income
housing scheme will need to await completion of the survey being presently
carried out). Flexibility in donor financing, and careful coordination of
the external financing available by the Jamaican Government will be of
crucial importance to ensure that the most important reconstruction
activities are fully met. For instance, donors should consider increased
financing of local costs in addition to direct foreign exchange needs,
and/or general balance of payments support coupled with specific
counterpart funding arrangements to meet the local reconstruction costs
included in the budget. Untied financing would also be most useful to
speed up procurement, as well as retroactive financing to refinance
purchases already made by the Government to address crucial needs following
the hurricane, provided that sound procurement procedures have been
followed.
73.      The final responsibility in properly coordinating and managing the
use of the external flows available rests with the Government. In view of
the large increase expected in these flows over a short period of time and
the complexity of the reconstruction program, the Government is presently
reviewing its coordination mechanisms between the various Government
institutions involved in monitoring foreign aid -- i.e. the Planning
Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ); the Budget Division in the MOF; the bank of
Jamaica (BOJ); and the Office of the Prime Minister --, and is establishing
a coordinating committee to meet on a monthly basis under the chairmanship
of the Governor of the Bank of Jamaica. A permanent secretariat for this
committee is also being set up in HOF to serve as a focal point for donors
on the reconstruction priorities. Such a secretariat would aim at
enhancing overall coordination of donor flows during the reconstruction
period; assessing and reviewing priorities within the Government program on
a continuous basis; providing feedback on remaining financing gaps and
constraints; and at ensuring proper monitoring of disbursements and
implementation on a regular basis so as to provide a basis for further
negotiations with donors on possible reallocation needs, as the
reconstruction program develops and firms up.
74.      Agreements Reached.  During negotiations, the Government has
confirmed that it would formally set up, prior to loan effectiveness, and
maintain throughout the reconstruction period, a committee to improve
coordination of the reconstruction program and the monitoring of foreign
aid for the program (para. 73). The Governor of the BOJ will chair this
committee; MOF (Budget) will serve as its secretariat.
E. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
75.      The Bank's policy dialogue and assistance program have
traditionally been intense in Jamaica. In particular. Bank reports have
been used as central documentation and justification in mobilizing
concessional external assistance for the Government's programs, in view of
the difficult foreign debt situation of the country. Through its
operations, the Bank is involved in most of the economic sectors, and
through its macroeconomic work, has conducted constant dialogue with the



- 28 -
Government on its medium term reform program, in close coordination with
the IMF. Aid coordination has been primarily ensured through regular
consultative group meetings in the context of the Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED). With the assistance of the
Bank, the Government prepared a Medium Term Economic Framework Program
(MTFP) and a full review of the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) in
1987 and undertook a joint financing tour to various capitals towards the
end of that year to secure the financing needed for the MTFP. The program
was broadly endorsed by the donor community, and its financing plan
finalized, at a special CGCED meeting in December 1987.
76.      Since the hurricane, the Bank has sought to continue this role.
While emergency relief assistance was mostly, and very efficiently,
coordinated in the field by the Government, the local UNDP office, and
various bilateral donor agencies immediately following the hurricane, the
Bank sought to complement these efforts by focusing its assistance on the
preparation and coordination of the broad reconstruction program needed
over the short to medium term, and in mobilizing the external financing
required to support it. In addition, the loan documentation is expected to
attract further cofinancing on a parallel basis, and to assist the
Government in coordinating the external flows available.
77.      In view of the emergency import needs of the Government; the
limited room for reallocations within the existing Bank portfolio in view
of both the Government priorities and the size of unallocated amounts; and
the need to prepare a comprehensive program to attract concessional
financing; the Government requested the Bank to prepare a free standing
Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan (ERIL), to address priority import
needs of the reconstruction program and to provide needed balance of
payments support. In view of the crucial need to start procuring key
imports immediately following the hurricane, it also requested retroactive
financing for part of the loan, as well as assistance to arrange a bridging
commercial loan to be linked to estimated disbursements under the ERIL and
the Emergency IDF facility (para. 84). In addition, the Bank provided
guidance in establishing a small reconstruction team within the MOF to
prepare a comprehensive reconstruction program, under UNDP financing.
78.      In addition to the proposed ERIL, the Bank has been carefully
reviewing priorities within the existing portfolio, and recasting its
future lending program to address medium term needs of the reconstruction
program, particularly in housing and agriculture watershed protection. The
ERIL will be complemented by reallocations within the Power IV project with
JPSCo (Loan 2869-JH; US$4 million to be allocated to emergency
reconstruction out of a total of US$18 million); and the Water and Sewerage
project with NWC (Loan 2422-JM; US$1.5 million to be reallocated
representing about 502 of the uncommitted balance). These reallocations
were carefully coordinated with the import needs to be procured under the
ERIL. Furthermore, the Bank has indicated its willingness to reallocate
part of the undisbursed balance under the ongoing Technical Assistance loan
(Loan 2507-JM) to meet priority technical assistance needs and studies for
the reconstruction program. Financing of such needs, however, is presently
contemplated from other bilateral and multilateral sources on a grant
basis. Most of the other Bank loans already focus on priority
rehabilitation needs in their respective sectors.



- 29 -
79.      Despite the setback caused by the hurricane on the MTFP, and
notwithstanding the special effort required in the present circumstances,
the Bank will aim at continuing to support the adjustment process in
Jamaica in view of the fragility of the economy and the difficult external
debt situation. The Government has already indicated that it intended to
pursue the reform agenda included in the MTFP, although, clearly, delays
could be expected and it is still too soon to assess the full effects of
the hurricane on the economy. Moreover, national elections are to be
called within the next few months. In general, however, the underlying
principles of the MTFP remain sound and are widely accepted. Thus,
updating of the HTFP and the processing of key policy based operations
presently under preparation in agriculture, and in trade reform and the
financial sector, will continue to deserve high priority as well as
acceleration of a broad social sector program presented to the donor
community in June 1988.
F. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND LOAN hRRhNGD4KNTS
80.      Description.  The proposed ERIL alms at providing emergency
balance of payments support through the financing of priority import
requirements of the Government's overall reconstruction program. The loan
would disburse against a positive list of imports (financing of 10OZ of
foreign exchange expenditures) as follows:
Category I (US$20 million): (i) Construction materials and
equipment; roofing materials; electrical equipment and
materials; drainage and plumbing materials; and fencing
materials (as detailed in Annex 12(A); and (ii) transport
equipment for public agencies related to the reconstruction
program (trucks, front wheel drive vehicles, motorcycles and
other vehicles related to the reconstruction needs) up to a
maximum amount of US$3 million;
Category II (US$5 million): agricultural supplies (excluding
chemicals) and agricultural equipments and tools; and
Category III (US$5 million): Selected reconstruction import
needs for JPSCo comprising poles, cables and crossarms,
electrical conductors, transformers, insulators, line material
hardware and equipment, street lamps and fittings, electrical
meters and control systems and switchgear.
81.      The loan does not include any provision for the various studies on
future prevention (i.e. low income insurance scheme; crop and credit
insurance; building code and review of Government self insurance policy),
nor for technical assistance needs for the low income housing program.
Financing for these activities is expected to come from multilateral and
bilateral grants already identified. In addition, upon request, the Bank
would be prepared to reallocate part of the ongoing Technical Assistance
Loan (Loan 2507-JM) for this purpose.
82.      Disbursements.  Loan proceeds will be managed by the Bank of
Jamaica, which will make the foreign exchange available to public and
private importers in line with the priorities of the reconstruction
program. The Government will pass on the foreign exchange from the ERIL to
JPSco, which will purchase it in Jamaica dollars from BOJ, out its own



- 30 -
resources. No withdrawals will be made against invoices valued at less
than US$5,000. Withdrawals against contracts valued at less than the
equivalent of US$l million will be made under the Statement of Expenditures
(SOB) procedure. All other expenditures will be accompanied by standard
documentation such as foreign exchange receipts evidencing payment, import
licenses, and customs certificates. In view of the quick disbursing nature
of the loan, it is expected that the loan will be fully disbursed within
the next 6 to 9 months. The loan closing date would be December 31, 1989.
83.      Retroactive Financing.  It is proposed that 302 of the loan amount
(or US$9 million) be made available to the Government on a retroactive
financing basis up to the date of arrival of the first Bank mission
(September 21, 1988). This exception to the normal guideline of 202 is
justified by the specific circumstances of this operation and of Jamaica's
economic situation. Alwayq at this time of the year, Jamaica is faced with
a very tight foreign exchange cash flow; in addition, the country presently
has negative international reserves. Because of the hurricane, the
situation is much worse because of the damage to vital export crops and to
tourism infrastructure, the major foreign exchange earner. In view of the
emergency, aggravated by the ongoing rainy season, the Government urgently
needed to import basic foodstuff, roofing and building material, and
electrical and other equipment to start its reconstruction program as
quickly as possible, and provide minimum supplies to the most affected low
income people.
84.      In view of the time required for most donors and multilateral
agencies to process their pledges (and the associated procurement and
shipping delays), the Government asked a syndicate of commercial banks, led
by the Bank of Nova Scotia, for a US$50 million bridge loan to immediately
import the needed inputs for its reconstruction efforts. Because of the
limited creditworthiness of Jamaica for commercial borrowing, Bank of Nova
Scotia would not have agreed to such a loan without comfort from the IMF
and the Bank that BOP support type resources would be readily available.
In view of the special circumstances, both the Fund and Bank responded by
providing a letter of comfort. The thrust of this letter was that (a)
subject to all needed procedures (including agreement by senior management
and the Board), the Bank management was presently considering an ERIL of
US$30 million, with a retroactive financing facility of up to 302 of the
loan amount; and (b) the Government of Jamaica had advised the Bank that
they would send instructions to deposit reimbursements made under the loan
into Jamaica's account with the Bank of Nova Scotia when the loan becomes
effective. upon presentation of appropriate documentation of import
payments.
85.      The September 21 Identification Mission from the Bank reached
agreement with the Government on procurement guidelines; and participated
to some extent in the design of survey procedures for assessing damage to
low income housing, and to prepare the overall reconstruction program. In
addition, the ippraisal mission reviewed the procurement procedures of both
the Central Government and the selected major public enterprises. As
explained below, Government agencies already have procedures acceptable for
international shopping. In addition, the Bank assisted in establishing a
Reconstruction Unit in the MOF and UNDP financed Crown Agents have been
appointed to coordinate procurement for some Government contracts.



- 31 _
86.      Procurement. Both private and public sector imports would be
eligible for financing under the loan, as most of the construction
materials and agricultural supplies will be purchased from the existing
hardware and retail stores, irrespective of the source of funding.
87.      For all purchases under US$5 million, private firms would follow
normal comuercial practice and public sector importers would follow
standard Government procedures. The Bank reviewed the procurement
procedures of both the Central Government and JCTC, the two largest
importing Government agencies, which follow reasonable international
shopping procedures. The Bank also has ongoing projects with JPSCo, the
beneficiary entity under Category III of the loan, which also follows
acceptable procedures. All purchases exceeding US$5 million would be
through simplified ICB procedures, as is the norm for this type of
operation.
88.      ICB procedures would be simplified in respect of:  (i)
advertising, where the General Procurement Notice would be optional and,
for specific notices, the Borrower may advertise through a local newspaper
and (a) a notice in Development Business or (b) a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circulation or (c) by notifying the
local representatives of eligible countries; and (ii) currency provisions,
for which the bidding documents may require the bidder to state the bid
price in a single convertible currency specified in the bidding documents.
89.      Implementation arrangements and supervision.  The Bank of Jamaica
(BOJ) would be the implementing agency for the Bank loan. Separate units,
however, exist for the various parts of the Government reconstruction
program. A program coordinator has been nominated in the MOH for the low
income housing program. The Budget Division of the HOF is in charge of
monitoring the overall program of the Central Government departments and
agencies. An Agricultural Steering Committee, set up to coordinate the
Agriculture Sector Adjustment loan, is in charge of monitoring all the
agricultural aspects of the program. JPSCo would be the main implementing
agency in its area of responsibility.
90.      BOJ will monitor progress of the loan, process disbursement
applications, follow up on the proposed studies, and coordinate preparation
of the project completion report on the proposed loan. In addition, in
collaboration with the other agencies involved in donor coordination, it
would produce regular reports on the financing plan for the overall
reconstruction program as well as on implementation progress of the major
program components. BOJ would also be responsible for the accounting and
auditing procedures as detailed below. Specific Bank supervision missions
will focus on (i) the low income housing program; (ii) the reconstruction
program in JPSCo through supervision of the ongoing loan; and (iii)
supervision of the agriculture program through the Agriculture Sector
Adjustment operation presently under preparation. Bank economic missions
will supervise finalization and implementation of the PSIP: update the
MTFP; and monitor economic performance on a continuing basis.
91.      Records and Auditing.  The Bank of Jamaica would maintain separate
records and accounts of all transactions under the loan. All such accounts
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
and the auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank not later than four
months after the end of each Jamaican fiscal year. Audit reports would



- 32 -
include a separate opinion with respect to the disbursement requests
submitted to the Bank on the basis of SOEs and state whether such requests
have been effected in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement.
92.      Benefits and Risks.  Quick implementation of the reconstruction
program is paramount if the economy is to get back on track rapidly. The
emphasis on low income groups is also appropriate as these groups were the
most extensively hit by the hurricane and have little protection or savings
to meet their needs. The loan would provide needed balance of payments
support to meet the import requirements of the reconstruction program at a
crucial time when export earnings will decline while import requirements
may increase substantially. The major risks associated with the loan are
(CI adequacy of the Government strategy towards low ipcome groups in the
present emergency and pre-election campaign; (ii) inadequate implementation
of the program in view of the limited capacity of the administration,
possibly compounded by the large increase in construction activities
expected from the private sector; and (iii) timing of the loan to most
adequately meet the foreign exchange needs of the country in view of the
reinsurance inflows expected and the timing of disbursements from other
major donors.
93.      Regarding (i), the proposed arrangements for low income programs
are the most appropriate to deal with the present emergency based on
similar experience in other ccuntries. In addition, the agreements reached
on the survey methodology, eligibility criteria and distribution and
monitoring mechanisms provide a good framework for the implementation of
these programs, even when taking into account the increased risks
associated with an election climate. Regarding (ii), the construction
voucher system and the agricultural stamp program will limit direct public
sector involvement as the distribution of building materials and
agricultural inputs would be done through normal commercial channels and
most reconstruction would be carried out by the beneficiaries themselves.
Traditional public agencies are also being assisted through emergency
technical assistance (i.e. special crews of linesmen from US/UK/Canada and
Caribbean countries to repair power lines and special IDB technical
assistance program for Government agencies), and/or reallocations within
ongoing programs financed externally, including existing technical
assistance loans. Care has also been taken to ensure that reconstruction
activities will take place along hurricane resistant specifications to
mitigate the impact of possible similar occurrences in the future.
Regarding (iii), the economic mission has reviewed the overall financing
plan and BOJ's external cash flow situation; these indicate a crucial need
for continued BOP support operations over at least the next 18 months.
Also, although the financing plan for the reconstruction program tends to
indicate that, overall, sufficient external financing seems to have been
secured, financing gaps still exist due to (i) the uncertainty on some
flows; (ii) practical limitations due to the nature of some of the flows
available; and (iii) the uncertainty of the actual costs of the program.
The proposed Bank loan is particularly timely as the next three months will
constitute a critical period in view of the need for immediate financing to
start the reconstruction process, while traditional financing agencies
process their loans and aid programs, and insurance companies process their
claims.



- 33 -
94.      Summary of Agreements to be reached.  During negotiations,
agreements were reached on the followings
(i)  Low income housing program (para. 46)
- selection criteria for beneficiaries
- implementation arrangements
- study of possible low income insurance schemes
- imports of building materials and price controls
(ii)  Agriculture program (para. 60)
- eligibility criteria for agricultural stamps
- study of policy framework for the broiler industry
- ACB credit facility to be limited to J$200 million and
applications to next 6 months; and maximum lending
amounts to be established for ACB's credit window
through PCBs
- study on crop and credit insurance mechanisms
(iii)  Economic and social infrastructure (para. 68)
- review of Government self insurance policy
- review of building code and enforcement
- integration of reconstruction program within PSIP by
March 31, 1989
(iv)  Financing plan (para. 74)
- establishment of review coamittee to coordinate and
monitor foreign aid.
95.      In order to implement the various studies on possible insurance
schemes for low income housing; agriculture credit and crop insurance;
Government self insurance policy; and the review of the building code, the
Government would first recruit one or two short term experts to review
their feasibility and broad implications by March 31, 1989 and, based on
their findings, prepare detailed terms of reference and action programs as
appropriate for more specific proposals. General terms of reference for
such experts are attached as Annex 16.
96.      Conditions of effectiveness.  Prior to loan effectiveness, the
following conditions shall have been met:
(i) completion of the household survey in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 47);
(ii) establishment of appropriate implementation teams in UDC
and MOH (para. 47); and
(iii)  establishment of a review committee to coordinate the
reconstruction program and monitor the flows of foreign
aid, including the designation of a permanent secretariat
(para. 74).



- 34 _
AN '
.  Annual Frequency of Hurricanes and Cyclones in Jamaica
2. Monthly Likelihood of Occukrances
3. Track of Hurricane Gilbert
4.  Low Income Reconstruction Program: Cost Table
5.  Low Income Reconstruction Program: Unit Cost Estimates
6.  Low Income Reconstruction Program: Import List
7. Low Income Reconstruction Program: Institutional Set Up
8. Tables on Agriculture Damage and Rehabilitation Costs by Sectors: and
on Primary Material Import Needs
9. Incremental Import Requirements by JCTC (including food and building
materials)
10. Agricultural Stamp Program Description
11. Cost of Lower Interest Rates through ACB
12. Public Infrastructure Reconstruction Program; Central Government
(Table 1) and Public tnterprises (Table 2)
13. Estimated Import List for Economic and Social Infrastructure
14. Reconstruction Needs and Financing Plans for Jamaica Public Service
Co., and National Water Commission
15. Detailed Financing Table (preliminary)
16. Tems of Reference for Broad Review of Feasibility of Insurance
Schemes in Low Income Housing; Agricultural Credit and Crop Insurance;
Government Self Insurance Policy; and Review of Buil4ing Code



- 35 -
jamaiu NwHum.. *qwr
Amual Frequency of Hurcanes (172)
,.t     _    _ - -        -       -       *1i
I'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Annual Frequency of Tropical Cyclones
~~~r   s   _.  _.  _mm   una



- 36 -
Mondh  Frequency of Hurricanes
1U                        A    P    M ? .. -
U^                     * e.   .'    -
U1"               ' -'--t        _--
S.                ---- .|-1   - -- -m--
s~~~~~~~~      I.
Mont Fquz of Twpc Cyoe
'U'           A-  - a             *; - 
-        -4    -    - - 41  .Sn
Monhl Freq^uenc of Trpia Cylo



- 37 -
E--
m--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*.   l
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .0.!X 



- 38 -
AIIN 4
ecA _iKni     Or
TOTAL PUAfT CUT
ODellingo U)t        To"al Cost                 Avto  W e   St*M Volvo
Unit Cost Total   Unit Cost   Total   Total          Nt 
Number     x         (is)    i1 UR        (is)      Jin     US$ Mn   F.E. Cost if
1. Ulnor O_mage              77200    (343)        900     09.5       750       7.9      10.6         7.0
2. Partial low of r*oo        4000    (853)       2400    20J.0      1S50     126.9      28.1        17.3
S. Total loeo f "oof/
major structural drsm9e  51100    (28)        0000    806.6       8tOO    176.0      82.5        24.8
4. Total los of building    10600               11) 8lWO  118.6    10000    105.0       19.1        14.3
5. TOTAL b olln*            228400   (100)                 097.7              440.7      65.2        50.7
3. Contlneei_t   (15t3
(price. * physical)                                    104.7               70.8      12.8         9.0
7. TOTAL Coo                                               302.4              53".0      n1.0        73.3
0. Supervision Nd
Adlnistration                                                              30.0       0.5       _._
-. EIquIpnt and Vehleloe                                                                              1.0
10. TO.TALPfOGRAqCOST                                                                                76.0
I/ EIcludin  ta*me  dutles nd retaIles mEfrigt (S2); uptd t  as o f Mmmbw   30, i0. Cost table still
ubj.ct to chane folle.Ing _  l.ol.o of onoing low incem  houng souvey.



l 0t0  4  ' t0                                         !00' 00 0                    -1 - 
~~~~~~wsmo..om                         0   ^ a sase.
I$                           gX|g!I!gow               EEiII1'                8    3S;ERt
a~~~~~ , ..                   -Ri§WR W**PuxF#                          £ii"tUZ



- 40 -
LOW   C  ,szcgmlOUTRm
Pr.eurmm
A. CONTUCTION MATERIALS                                     73.3
1. Gelv. line *iet (290 (13000 tool
2. 0O.v. ridle copping 16o 290 (1000 ton)
S. 0 lv. twisted hurricane stre,
1UUxl-l/4331/V 4 WWr*.,   s*rom
S.9 eilion         0 1.5
4. Gelt,. Hurricane "JO Locke
2,279,Ow          a 2.10
S. Gelv. hurr!clo  *nsl- .bra     2'x2-1/210/16
6. Roofing nails 2-1/ 2
.ne't.m eve        a 1.70
7. Tr ae L        _pr - Pitch pine
-r.0armI. OF       a 1.10
B. VUICLES                                                    0.7
W  torcyoleI            0 2,200
0 trucks, 2 ton        0 30,000
* Jep                  0 20,000
C. E     WqUlPoT
TV  c-mpatem PC       OVS,000                         0.8
audio ,ima  (local)
0. T.A. AND TRAII110                     X
u5 ocaI trenlesp; a0s tofreig T.A.)
E. TOTAL                                                     76.0



- 41 -
JAWACA NSURUA CILIU-T
LOW gmeI UOUSIUG itOCAlE
Project Unit (MOH)
Project Coordinator antd
Financ4al Planner
S~~ot               It
Ministry              Non-             Urban Develpment
of Costsrucion            Got                Corpo ration
Organ.
Technical foremen
OUUODOOU500 1  I  5 I
Beneficiaries
31I I II I  31 11133133313313 1111133 II II 3!1 IIIIIUUIIII I I IIIIIUII IIIII



- 42 -
TAE1
JAMACs A      CANO  IAU
RUMSUITMI 0WNW STUM V
X ForeIp
8ub cftor          Tote I Costs           Exc             Forslon Ect9
(Ji  wIIEloon)           SW)                 m II too)
Poultry                 169.0               70                 111.80
Domestic Crops         149.0                51                  7440.
Coffee                  78.0                25                  13.25
ExporCt beano           49.7                40                  19."
Coconuts                89.0                15                   6.94
Horticulture             87.2               20                  20.04
Livestock (bef)         82.4                se                  21.06
Delrylng                20.5                70                  1t.5t
Citru                   10.0                25                   2.50
Suge                    10.0                25                   2.50
Coco                    10.0                sO                   6.00
Oreeard                  8.9                45                   1.75
Pimntto                  a.9                85                   1.86
Pig                      2.7                70                    1.69
Vise.                    6.0                80                   240
3/ Losss   bichb wer tflly Isured (snd normlly relnsared overses) are
not included in thoe  cots.
TAME 
AUZaLWm. UDJTILATI PIAUo
USP mlillon
Perti s ers                      17,000 tons             W-
IecWildes                          927   *            4.01
Fungleides                          In                7.22
Hrbileld                           229               2.40
PlsinLe me le                        11U. *           1.00
Toole                                               2.61
Horticulture Items                                    8.0
(rooflio m_ee lle, tisbe2
n lle, fndi,,alng, ouIq) t2.00
M.00
(5.18)
Cetlngc * 105



ANNEX 9
JAMAICA HURRICANE GILBERT
INCREMENTAL IMPORT REQUIREMENTS BY JCTC
TABLE I
JAMAICA COMMDDITY TRADING CO. LTD.
INCREMNTAL PURCHASES TO mARCH 1989
J.C.T.C.
Cemoditr         Measure                  Already ftrohased              So be Purcha-sed                    Total
Volume           Value           Volume         Value          Volume       Value
Chicken          lbs.                23,626,400         12.16        16,250.000         8.93      39,876,400       21.09
Flour            100 lb. bags         1,136,750         19.9?             -              -         1,136,750       19-97
Sardines         Case                    78,050           1.44          135,000         3.3          213,050        4.74
D/Salted Fish   MT                          600           1.44            1,400         3.64           2,000        6.08
Milled rice      MT                       6,000           2.00            -               -            6,000         2.00
Cond. milk       Case                    59,800           1.25            -                           59,800        1.2S
38.26                          15.87                      54.13
*Other Bldg.
materials      -                                        1.95            -             2.50             -          4.45
Zinc.            MT                      23,520         24.70            10.000        10.60          33,520       35.20
Lumber           DFN                     33,876          13.21           15,000         5.85          48,874       19.06
39.86                          18.85                      58.71
TOTAL JCTC                                       78.12                          34.72                      112.04
NN J.C.T.C.
Zinc             MT                      20,900         21.94              -             -            20.900       21.94
Lumber           BFM                     11,000           4.29             -             -            11000         4.29
TOTAL OTHER                                      26.23                            _                         I2.2
TOTAL                                           104.35                          34.72                      139.07
3E32 3:                                                   333=S:



ANNEX 9
JAMAICA HVRRICANE GILBERT
INCREMENTAL IMPORT REQUIREMEUTS BY JCTC
TABLE 2
APpROXINATE SCHBDULE OF INCREMENTAL PURCHASE ARRIVAL9
Heas_ure          Otober        November      December         Januarty         February         Harob
Sardines            Cases             78,050            -             -             45,000            45°000        45,000
D.S.F.              MT                                   400          400              400               400           400
Milled Rice         nT                   -             6,000          -                        -        _
Condensed Milk      Cases                -            39,800       20,000                               -             _
Cbicken             lb.            5,029,241       8,597,159  10,000,000         5,416,667         5,416,667    5,416,667
Flour               1001b. bags      292,842         350,000      350,000          143,908              -
Zinc                MT                   117           8,180         9,160           6,063             5,000         5,000
Lumber              BFM                  -            19,606        14,270           5,000             5,000         S,000
Details of other building materials not included.



- 45 -
ANN  9
JAMAICA HURICANE GILBERT
INCaWEUNTAL WIPORT REQUIREMENTS SY JCTC
TABKE 3
SCURDULE OF INCREMENTAL VOLUMES
AND APP-ROXIMATE. ARRIVALS
Inoreuental Volume
Pre Gilbert    Post Gilbert
Measure    _Vumee            Volume   _ InEr3emgg
Sardines         Cases         120,000       333,050        23,050
D.S.F.           MT              1,200          3,200        2,000
Milled Rice      MT               -             6,000        6,000
Cond. Milk       Cases                         59,800       59,800
Chicken          lbs.             -       39,876,400   39,876,400
Flour            100lb. bags      -        1,136,750    1,136,750
Zinc.            MT               -            33,520       33,520
-Lumber          SFM            27,000         75,876        48,876
*Details of other building materials not included.
18th November, 1988.
J.C.T.C.



- 46 -
Page 1 of 3
AM=  10
JAMAICA HUERICAME GILBERT
AGRICULTURAL STAMP PROGU0
1.       To understand the proposed stamp program it is first necessary to
describe briefly the current organization of the Ministry of Agriculture
(10£) at the field level. The country is divided into three regions: the
western region based on Montego, the Central Region based on Mandeville and
the Eastern Region based on Kingston. Each regional office is headed by a
regional director. In turn each region is subdivided into four or five
Land Authority offices centered on parishes.
Regional Director
Land Authority
(1 Parish)
2.       There are in total 13 Land Authority Offices (i.e., agricultural
parishes).
3.       Each Land Authority Office is headed by an Executive Agricultural
Officer. He is responsible for administration and extension at the parish
level. In turn he is served by 3 or 4 deputies who are responsible for
extension in subdivisions of the parish. These deputies are the staff
iamediately responsible for handling the field staff assessing the
hurricane damage.
4.       Data collected on fanm damage is passed back to the parish office
where a panel consisting of the Executive Agricultural Officer along with
the chairman of the Board of the Land Authority (usually an educated
farmer) and the Data Bank Officer (M0A) review the claim and finalize the
list of farmers entitled to receive Agricultural Stamps.
S.       An Agricultural Register completed in 1982 lists each farmer by
name, code number, farm size, export crops, domestic crops and livestock.
Separately from the dmage survey the Agricultural Register is being
updated. In the process of determining the eligibility of individual
farmers to receive Agricultural Stamps the two surveys will be reconciled
and the Data Bank Office will ensure that a record will be placed in the
Data Bank of each farmer receiving Stamps and the ways the Stamps are used
when the vouchers are cashed at the Jamaica Agricultural Society stores,
Jamica Livestock Society stores or general agricultural supply stores.
6.       The Stamp voucher cashed by each farmer will be signed by him and
the supplier will also state the items purchased and their value. Those



- 47 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
vouchers will be sent to the Land Authority Office at the parish level. At
the parish office the items purchased and their value will be aggregated
monthly and a statement of expenditure sent to the Permanent Secretary's
office (MOA) in Kingston. The MOA will open an imprest account at each
Land Office which will be replenished monthly after the Permanent
Secretary's Office has scrutinized their statement of expenditure for the
previous month. Stamp vouchers will be retained at the parish Land
Authority Office and will be available there for supervision and audit
purposes.
7.       Farmers will take their Agricultural Stamps to agricultural supply
stores in the rural areas authorized to exchange them. The Stamps will be
exchanged for seeds, planting material, fertilizers, agricultural
chemicals, small tools and agricultural equipment and other agricultural
materials. The stores will return the Stamps signed by the farmer and a
statement of the items purchased to the parish Land Office. The Land
Office will in turn prepare a statement of expenditure (attached) giving
the names and addresses of the farmers who have 'cashed' their stamps along
with the value and quantLty of item purchased. These stat3mentn of
expenditure will be dispatched to the Agricultural Permanent Secretary's
Office ln Kingston for review and approval. This monitoring system was
orgLSinally establlshed to monitor an USAID program and was reviewed by
Price Waterhouse and found satisfactory. It is aow being expanded to cover
the Stamp Program as well.



ISAWLE: STATEN= OIF 90mmIe FM
MINIISRY OF AGRCULTURE
MwURcRaME GI1A=T RELIEF
seDtember. 1988
WS1H CODE t                                         DIVISIO   CODE s  [Ii I                              xsION  caDe s
MAUE of FARM              ID so    ADDRES  OP FARM            ITCH                      UIT   CODE               AND U LW 
-'-                      ::                    _       _       =      =          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___ _     0
_ , -- .-. -                                                     -
iSSOND 3             __s           _  DA  a       _         APPEOWV8D JYs                         DATE s
'a



ANNEX II
JAMAICA HURRICANE GILBERT
Table 1. Reduction in A.C. Bank's Earnings
(a) Due to Rehabilitation Loans
Loans Made      Yr. 1        Yr. 2         Yr. 3         Yr. 4        Yr. 5
Commercial Banks*       $150.0 K        3.000        6.000         4.500        3.000         1.500
PC Banks**               S40.0 M        0.600        1.200         0.900        0.600         0.300
Total                   S200.0 M        3.600        7.200         5.400        3.600         1.800
(b) Due to Reduction in Inzc:,st Earnings on Outstanding Loans
Loans
Outstanding     Yr. 1        Yr. 2         Yr. 3        Yr. 4         Yr. 5
Conmercial Banks        $158.0 K        2.670        2.136         1.600        1.068         0,534
PC Banks                $121.0 M        1.530        1.216         0.920        0.612         0.306
4.200        3.452        2.520         1.680         0.940
* Interest Loss - 42 on Reducing Balance
** Interest Loss = 32 on Reducing Balance
I> t
F 1
a.IX
-dfY



Table 2.  Agricultural Credit Banks Income Statement
(6 million)
Interest
PC Banks                                  Rate           Yr. I     Yr. 2      Yr. 3     Yr. 4      Yr. 5
Interest on OIS Loans (121 M)           7            8.470     6.776      5.082     3.388      1.694
Interest on New Loans (20 K)            7            0.700     1.400      1.050     0.700      0.350
New Rehabilitation Loans (40 M)         4            0.800     1.600      0.900     0.800      0.400
Interest on Loans After 88-89           7              _       4.116      7.546    10.374    12.362
Total                       9.970    13.892    14.578    15.262    14.806
Commercial Banks
Interest on O/S Loans (158 K)           11         17.431    14.526    11.628       8.716      5.811
Interest on New Loans (50 K)            11          2.750      5.500     4.400      3.300      2.200
Interest on Rehab. Loans (150 K          7          5.250    10.500      8.400      6.300      4.200
Interest on Loans after 88-89           11           -         3.850    14.300    20.900    26.400
25.431    34.376    38.728    39.216    38.611
Interest on Tenm Deposit                            12.350     8.500      8.500     8.500      8.500
Total Income                                        40.151    56.768    61.806    62.978    61.917
Less Interest Expenses                             -14.927   -17.598   -19,253   -19.523   -20.171
GROSS MARGIN                            33.224    39.170    42.553    43.455    41.746
Less Operating Expenses
1, 000    13.500    15.000    16.500    18.000
NET rROFIT                            21.224    25.670    27.553    26.955    23.746



- 51 -
MM    IN AlCLCt
213E..Ui[ 1
Can& SOCx m
M_ 1i.tr1eg/C1artmente
I.   EDUCATION                       114. 6   1,l3.    Wlu.    u116.                ___
Mtn Educatloo  Adinistration      1.5              1.5      6.9      0.9      9.3      0.2
Min Education Basin              19.6   13.6      23.6      *.9     14.1      4.2      2.6
Min Education Pril i.y/All Age    27.4   70.0     9.2    41.9       56.8    17.9    10.2
Min Educatlio Secondary          14.2   49.1      68.3    27.6    110.       11.5      6.6
Min Eductatt, Toeh. A Yoe.        *.5              0.s      i.0      4.9      1.5      0.9
Min Education UW                 25.9   42.1      63.0    26.9      16.1    11.5       6.6
Min Education UKi Equip.         20.0             26.0      1.5     25.8      4.9      4.0
Min Education Tertiary/Ottr       4.7    0.6      13.8      5.4      7.9      2.4      1.4
n.  "mil"                             160.2   ffj,    1  19.     4J     1U4f.0    I44       Vj.
Min Healtb primary ealth Care   11.6   18.4       24.4      9.4      15.0     4.4      2.?
Min Health Vwcor Control          0.9              0.9      t.1      0.0      0.2      *.2
Min Health Primary Equip.        70.1    1.       709.1     4.6     74.0    14.4    12.6
Min Health Secondar/ Trtalry    19.2   40.0       07.2    20.?    3t6.    12.2         7.0
Min Health Se/Th   Equl -79.t                      9.7      0.6      9.1      1.0      1.7
Min Health UWI Hospital Equip.           *0 J0              6.5      7.5      1.5      1.4
U?. 00*65.12.0 oR    AO gaIA         1t2.0    -        10C.0              73.      nj       lJ.0
IV.                   W =             1M.   lfl.I    81.           9      i.4   . l          .
Win Nmt. Scrity (A)              66.0   40.0    16.8    29.6        00.7    21.1    15.0
Win  uth"  a Co_mauty 01.         6.0   19.6      25.0    14J6       15.O     4.7      2.9
11 - Pout A  TeI .g"1           1.6   16.6       25.6      7.7     11.3      3.6      2.2
V.   ARICtJLRU SpE                     2       M        "- -5 ILL 0         A        M       L
Vt. 0Az                               O"L4   M   Zd4  i    l2E.4  HU   ULS
Tonel_                           01.              01.9              01.0    14.0    14.9
Rai ways                          8.0              8.J      *.2      2.0      0.5      0.5
Watewr $W lie                   48.5    U.6      76.5    88.0      30.7    12.0       0.7
Butlding Stw  (W1terials)       412.0            412.0      -      412.0    7n.       756.0
Supplima_  ry Foo SUtan          21.6             21.5      1.2     19.0      8.1      3.6
$Smal Farer Suppot              sf.6             56.6    Is.1      3S.0      9.01     7.8
Slt Start Pun                    16.6             14.0      6.0      9.4      1.0      1.?
Agtricultre Ce dit Bord          #5.0             85.6      ?.1     27.9      6.4      5.1
Sell Eseranacy Worh              25.9             25.6    2.         -        4.6      --
GRONA    T1TAL                 IUU   iEd 4                477.     LEA fULl *a&        L!£
g as  on R e eatimstes by NW as o  11/116/0; costa excluds duti"  ma  tax".  lI figre
_tde.



- 52 -
AX111
,C i     i w as i n
PIWUC USWWZI Micaisiucym NM
(J *i lin)
Total    Femigp   Leoal
cem       coot    CSe
Nationel Hotels A Properthes Ltd.       112.4      60.0      82.4
-Rpir dam_e                         nr         wu14   H,tr-  IuvW
ptwas                                      1.6                 1.5
R pere to buildings                    1.5                1.5
P.C.J.                                    0.5                 0.5
T'lpeire to bulvdings                     CU                 CM
J.S.C.                                   12.7       5.5       4.2
Wipairs to tebuIdingd                 171         V lCU
Replecomnnt of dbsage to r*dlo I Ink
equp I et                           1.0       1.0
Replaceomet of damage radio antRennse  0.6      0.6
Replacement of radio tronmalslon
e"W pment at cooper  Hill, Spur
Tree, Floeer ill, etc.               1.0      1.0
Repacrment of TV trnemiesioen
eoulp   t                           2.7       2.7
Replacemtnt of vitro Wave link
"eqipment                           5.1        1.2      8.9
Jamalc  SUar Heldiro Ltd.                 6.0       2.4       5.2
-.epelr to eymouw suvgsr Factory                171       171
Repairo to Fro"s Factory               8.2       1.1       2.1
Re,pair to Inneved Factory             1.4      0.5       0.9
Jaaica RlWag Corroetion u.0                          8.6      4.2
eaolr se BSuo m d lose"                M5       r
Track Rehabilitation                  8.0        2.6      0.2
JPSco                                    47.0    164.0    168.0
_e_  re to ogemratleg Plant          -___
Repirs to Tra lemleelon Plant         20.0
Ra_lrs to Diltributien Plant         2J9.0
Replie to General Property S Viac.  12.0
NKCtECL  JtSt1 ae.7                                          84.64
M-11wlbotion Sytems_DwANp            W. O_7              I
R plre to 110lidfin"                  4.6       1.8       8.8
tw t R pl lr                          7.8       2.8       5.0
E"       _t                           10.5      9.9       0.6
Port Autheri$E                            17.8     .07       10.0
Repolre tul Wing.                    -V         51       -T21
Rpslira to Lightheuses                 1.9     0.        1.4
Repair to Container Terminal*          5.0       8.0       2.0
Reparls to Pert Antonlo/coke Rleo
Cruise Ship Terimals                 0.5       0.1       0.4
Replrs to Me.1aCy/Kingto Ftre  Zone   5.9       2.0       8.9
Repeir to VeB.4y Ffrpert              0.9       0.2       0.7
Al  rte Autherlt                          6.5        4.6       5.0
R  iec to oiuldtwin                   17                   CI
Air Jaalca                                8.9       2.0       1.9
w palrI to oulinlge                   171       TV        1
NM,                                       5.7                 5.7
.r Daoa                          CT                    ;77
Grand Total                            5IW.       MA so
Nets: fxcept for part of ths d_age in pal lweye, Natliml WtW  Ceaiseiole
and Jamlce Pubile Servic  (only partly covered by lnsurance), all
otht d_am    are    It tlelly cevetr  by eat_ltrope lnmranr_.



- 53 -
-141  is
MILCA UICM CUMW
C    Am SKIM. 
A.  Gners l Inoert legu r     NOtPrec
-  Consructlon Materiales    CelIng ties *nd *ystem
portitioning boards and fitting
door., window , roof Ilght., glae
ololng and weather proofing
Compounds, Special cmnte, nalls,
acreos, other fott nrs, Special
paints, bruheb, rollere, welding
Materials, *teel sections and
platee, eaitary ware.
-  Censtruetion Equip    ts   eartmevingB,ri    trnching,
scraping, bhuling, compacting and
drilling machins. Cranes, hoisting
ad lifting euIP   t.  Concret
mining trs _porting compecting,
vibratig NW dfinishing maehine.
Timobr oewing  thickne  lno
planing, shaping aNd finishing
machie. Stone crushing, orting,
grading and batching     ines.
Pipe  cenduit nd heet metal
*%ending, cutting and threading
machimm.
Roofing Miaterleles:       meta sheeting, prewsur treated
owi _ ft2tre, drainsee
lumber, atnr,dang
materiale, roofinO fitting.
-  Electrical Euipwnt
and  bateriales           lighting ftlure., cables and
conduits, switches, boxe,
- -'sdSo      hangar.  coevrs, *ir
condittion materials and eqvlumet
(including shee matl for ducting,
insulatlon sod V   ing meriaels,
window unite and control upwim._t).
rainage Matweril:           pipe (PVC, gelvanlaud steel, copper,
asbestoe cemet) fitting., be_d,
fencing Mteialrs           wire mash, gelvenized pole h nd
fittinge, barbed vire, gate
fittings.
. Selected Ilert Needt for Iet  Aenlee and nterarie
- MaeIths Clinic and hospital eq"ipment
- Reads, Urldp, flood Control: geeteutilesw; sheet piles
NWd oheW  steer i setions; bitumen/aspalt; geblon heeCts;
eoxy resins
-  Clvil Aviatlon/Arpotsw: s vbigetlon aids VE  Os;
coeeunicatloe  equipment Including radWI meesn/towers; air
tf tles control quipment
Traffic and safety traffic lights, control equipent;
mte lils for road sin  aNd marking
aItso ology: Synoptic cid imetOW eqipmnt; radar
Instrllet5os; tower ed cW muicatione eqWipment
-  JPSCes poles; cable; insletaors el*ctrlcity mntes;
ftres, hafngr, fttinge; sir. re" and fittins;
anchors; trnafermar    olating and Se ling compondts
c    nicatieon  equip ent; towers/masts;
- Port Authority: Electronic componentefor cramn and
equip ent; navigation aids compenate - solar paeles,
ligts, refletor., generator. and *Itcshgear, speclol
point.,   ulpil1- and other Iectis    feners and chain;
cleats and ballerd.
-   Water Suqply: ocee uaisatiens e *quip  prs   _ p e a"nd -W
meters; central equipme; _   ntig coo un dS tank
materialo (steel sheet, *setes, weldins materilsl,
epociel paite)l)  treatment chmicals;1



- 54 -                         Page 1 of 3
ANU 14
JAMAICA MURICANS ZILET?
SUury 3Recanstruction Proaram in JPCO and NtC
Jam_ica Public Serwice Comeany (JiSCO)
1.       The emergency reconstruction program aims at restoring the
power system service to pre-hurricane conditions in a 3 to 6 months
period. This program is divided into four components -- generation,
transmission. distribution and general property. It is being managed
by a JPS team comprising the Chairman, the Managing Director, the
Districts Director, the Engineering Director and the Support Services
Director.   The total cost of the JPS' emergency reconstruction
programme is estimated at US$61.5 million of which US$33.5 million is
foreign cost and US$28.0 million is local cost as detailed below.
This total excludes the estimated loss of revenue equivalent to about
US$27.3 million.
JPSCOz Rehabilitation Costs
Component                     Cost in USS Million
Local      Foreign      Total
Generation             . 4S        1.05        1.50
Transmission          2.84         2.39        5.23
Distribution         22.58        29.95       52.53
General Property      2.18         0.09        2.27
Total               28.05       33.49        61.53
2.       JPs expects to finance its emergency reconstruction programme
with grants from donors countries, proceeds of insurance claims, loans
from the World Bank and JPS' own funds or GOJ funds. Sources of
expected financing are as follows:
JPSCOt Financing Plan
Sources                           Amout in US$ million
Grants from donor countries                     15.0 I/
(US, Uk, Italy and Canada)
Insurance claims:
-Physical losses                           23.3
World Bank:
-Reallocation in Loan 2869-3M               4.0
(fourth power project)
-proposed power sector
component in ERIL                        5.0
JPSIGOJs                                        14.2
Total Financing                             61.5
1/ Although the total financing available from bilateral sources amount to
US$23 million, this total has been discounted to about US$15 million by
JPSCO in view of the inflated cost of foreign crews of lnfesmen and
equipment (and related transportation costs) dispatched to Jamaica by these
countries on an _mrgency basis.



-55 -                      ANNEX 14
Fage z of 3
3.       Taking into consideration the damages caused by hurricane
Gilbert to JPS' electric system, the Bank agreed to JPS' request that
the proceeds of Loan 2869-JM be partially used for JPS' emergency
reconstruction programme (US$4.0 million out of the total Loan amount
of US$18 million) and that the Loan be declared effective without
further delay. The effectiveness of Loan 2869-JM was conditional to
the implementation of a new tariff scheme based on the findings of a
tariff study carried out in 1985/1986. The Bank has agreed to waive
the condition of effectiveness in favor of a dated covenant providing
that JPS will revise the tariff study under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank and to implement its recommendations by no
later than June 30, 1989.
4.       The proposed power sector component in the BRIL would finance
the foreign procurement of equipment and materials up to an aggregated
amount of US$5.0 million.   The proposed procurement list was closely
coordinated with the reallocations proposed in the ongoing loan and
the other financing available. The Government will pass on the
foreign exchange from the EIUL to JPSCO, which will purchase it in
Jamaican dollars from BOJ.
National Water Coumission (NUC)
5.       The reconstruction program to restore the water supply system
in Jamaica to the pre-hurricane level amounts to about US$13.0 million
of which US$6.6 million is in foreign exchange. The reconstruction
program would be implemented over the next 12 months. It would
concentrate on desilting of intakes and impoundments including repairs
to containment structures and flow controllers, refurbishment of river
training works and catchments, realignment or replacement of
transmission lines, and rehabilitation of electro-mechanical eqiZ_pment
i.e. rewiring of motors at pumping stations.   NWC will be responsible
for planning and implementing the reconstruction program assisted by
CECL in the execution of certain rehabilitation works. The proposed
reconstruction program for the water sector is broadly as follows:
NWC: Rehabilitation Costs
(US$ Million)
Item                   Local      Foreign      Total
Damage to distribution
systems                     4.7        4.2         8.9
Repairs to buildings           0.6        0.2          0.8
Other repairs                  0.9        0.4          1.3
Equipment                      0.1        1.8          1.9
Total                    6.3        6.6        12.9
6.       NWC expects to finance its emergency reconstruction program
with grants from donor countries, proceeds of insurance claims, the
World Bank, CDB, and IDB. The proposed financing table is presented
belowt



- 56 -                      ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
NWCt Financing Plan
USS Million
GOJ/NWC/Insurance                          1.4
IDS (Maundeville)                          0.5
CDS                                        5.5
Italy                                      2.0
USAID Grant                                2.0
WB reallocation                            1.5
Total Financing                    12.9
7.       In response to the hurricane reconstruction needs, the Bank
has been requested by NWC to reallocate USS 1.5 million of the
remaining uncommitted balance of US$3.0 million from Loan No. 2422-JM
(Jamaica Water Supply, Sewerage and Technical Assistance
Rehabilitation Project), including US$1 million in retroactive
financing up to the date of the latest Bank mission to NWC. This is
being presently reviewed by Management. NWC recently fulfilled the
remaining conditions to resume disbursements under the Loan, including
presentation of a financial action program. During negotiations on
the BRIL, the Government also confirmed that NWC's reconstruction
program would be fully financed with this reallocation, and that
therefore financing from the ERIL for NWC would not be required.



- 57 -                     Page 1 of 3
ANNEX 15
JAMAICA: URRICANX GILBUT
TEIIATI  VEIINIMUGC PLAN
0F GOVESHNEN 3ZCONSTEUCTIOI PROGUAM
(for illustrative purposes)
1. POUIG  FINCin  NE=DS                                      USE million
1. Low Income Housing Program
-Total cost                                          145.0
-Less labor costs (self help)                        -40.0
-Less taxes and duties on materials                  -30.0
Foreign Financins Needs                               75 0
2. Public Infrastructure
A. Central Government
-Total cost (excluding taxes and duties)             185.0
-(of which foreign exchange cost)                   (112.0)
Foreign Financing Sought                             185 0
B. Public Enterprises
-Total cost                                          110.0
-JPSco total cost                                     61.5
less insurancelown financing                        37.5
Foreign Financing Needs                             24.0
AWC total cost                                        13.0
less insurancelown financing                        -1  -5
Foreign Financing Needs                             11.5
-Other total cost                                     35.5
less insurancelown financing                       -35.5
Foreign Financins Needs                            - .  -
3. Ariculture Program
-Total cost                                          125.0
-(of which foreign exchange costs)                   (57.0)
-Local costs to be fully financed by ACB, BOJ,
Commercial Banks, and Export Marketing organiz-
ations, except for AC Board and Ag. stamps
(budgets J$85 million or US$15.5 million)
-Foreign Financing needed to cover the P/L costs
of the program and local costs of budget contri-
bution                                               65.0
4. Other Transfers
-Total costlForeign Financing Needs                   25.0
5. Manufacturing and Tourism                                NIA
6. Other BOP Food Imports                                   60.0
7. Financing Needs Summary
-Total Cost                                          650.0
-Local financing (beneficiaries; taxes and
duties; insurance; and banking system)              204.5
-Total Foreign Financing Required                    445.5



- 58 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 3
II.1033103G fINANCIN IDUNTIIIED
1. Low Income Housing
-RW                                                  20 0
-Opec Fund                                            5.0
-IDBIJapan facility                                   4.0
-UEC                                                 10.0
-USAID                                                5.0
-CIDA                                                 3.0
-World Bank BRIL                                     15.0
-JapanlKFW                                           13. 0l\
Total                                     75.0
2. Public Infrastructure
A. Central Government
Prolect Support
-CDB                                                 11.0
-EEC (WI)                                             3.0
-1DB                                                 51.0
-Italy                                               26.0
-Netherlands                                          0.5
-Other UWI                                            3.0
Total                                     94 S
Other w6P!e          # s rt -
-VI ERIL                                              5.0
-USAID                                               58.5
-Other counterpart funding and unallocated           IL._102\
Total                                     90.5
Grand Total Central Government                      185.0
S. Public EnterDrises
JISco
USIUKlItaly/Canada                                    15.03\
VI reallocation                                        4.0
VD mL                                                  5.0
Total                                     24.0
NVC
IDS                                                   0.5
CDB                                                   5.5
Italy                                                 2.0
USAID                                                 2.0
VS reallocation                                       1.5
Total                                     11.5
3. Asriculture Progras
Lines of credit
-CDB                                                  6.0
-IDB                                                 22.0
-1UAD                                                 4.0
Total                                     32.0



-59-                      ANU E15
Page 3 of 3
Other BOP support
-EEC                                                  10.0
-W ERIL                                                5.0
-Japan/KFVI\                                           18.0
Total                                      33.0
Grand Total Agriculture                               65 0
4. Other Transfers
-Food and other:  USAIDICIDA                           5.0
-Tourism promotion                                     0.0
5. Manufacturing and Tourism
-IFC                                                  20.0
6. Other BOP Supvort/Unallocated
-KFW/Japan                                            34.0
-IMP                                                  47.0
-Other suppliers credits/to be confirmed              42.5
7. Technical Assistance
-IDBI/Japan grant                                      1.0
Total                                       2.1
S. TOTAL FINANCIMG4\                                        480 S
Notes
A\Jpan/Kvv: US$65 mLllion still to be allocated.
2\Budget counterpart funding from BOP support operations to finance local
budget costs.
3\JPSco: USAID (10 million); UK (5 million); Italy (5 million) and
Canada (3 million); or total of US$23 million, discounted to US$15
million in view of inflated cost of foreign assistance provided.
4\Based on cost value to donors of JPSco assistance.



-60  -                         Page 1 of 5
ANN   16
JAMAICAlk BUR3XCA GILBUT
NEROENCY RNCSTRDCTION IEPRT LOAN
0POOSD TINI Of REFREC  OR INSURANCS SCIUE
AND NATIOPA  BUILIG CODE
At negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
- study of possible low income housing insurance schemes
- study of a catastrophic loss insurance program for agricultural
industries
- review of Government's self insurance policy
- review of the Jamaica National Building code and
enforcementJcompliance
For the first three insurance related items, an individual expert
has been identified and found to be acceptable and who will be recruited to
provide an overview of the present situation, to define the needed
improvements and to present alternative strategies with recommend*tions on
implementation. The individual expert will work with two locally recruited
experts. one in insurance matters and the other an actuary. It is expected
that this task will tak. ghout three weeke   Depending on the-outcomw of
the study, further studies or research may be necessary before
implementation measures are defined.
For the review of the Jmaica National Building Code and how this
code could achieve greater compliance through the lsland, an individual
consultant will be recruited - possibly locally. Steps to identify a
suitable expert have co mi nced.   It is thought that three weeks will be
needed to complete the task.
The Objectives end Tems of Reference for each of the four areas
of study and review are as follovs:
1. Low Income Bousiae Insurance Schemes
Draft TOR for Housina Insurance Scheme
Jamaicans face a high risk of having their homes severely damaged
or destroyed by high winds or earthquakes. Some of these risks could be
mitigated by locating houses in sheltered areas and building in accordance
with minimu. construction standards. Homeowner's insurance is an
additional measure which can be used to reduce the financial effects of
destruction by such forces. Most of the middle-income residents of the
country had such coverage when Gilbert struck, and so they are expected to
reconstruct their homes with less sacrifice than those who were not
similarly covered.
Beneficiaries of the low incoming housing program did not have any
homeowner's insurance, and even with grants for a large share of their
construction material needs, their out-of-pocket expenses are expected to



-61 -                    ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 5
be substantial. The damaged and destroyed houses would be repaired and
rebuilt with the capacity to withstand most of the hurricanes which are
expected to hit Jamica.
Objectives
- there appears to be need to complement the existing measures
with insurance as a precaution against future powerful
hurricanes.
Suggested Procedures
- In order to decide upon the appropriate home insurance scheme
for this group of residents, it is necessary to have an expert
review the current situation and present the government with
the main options available, along with their associated costs.
Since Lnsurance is a device to spread the risks and costs (and
not to provide subsidy), there are several factors which should
be considered. All preferred options should have the
beneficiaries themselves paying for the coverage received,
although the Government itself might also wish to review means
of protecting itself against future claims, particularly for
the very low income groups.
- the review should examine not only the premium required for
various levels of coverage, but also the administrative and
- -- afitical. yst;as for impltonting and operating the system,
given that most of the residents would be living in rented
units or upon rented land and would not have fixed regular
sources of income.
- re-insurance options and costs should also be reviewed ln order
to ascertain the extent to which foreign investors would be
willing to share the risks. It may be that sme type of
existing scheo  (e.g  National Social Insurance Scheme), m y be
the most efficient and practical way to implement and
administer this progrm. On the other hand, the costibenefit
and institutional analyses may indicate that for this income
group, it may be better not to have such Insurance but to focus
more upon better construction standards.
- the government would review the available options and decide
upon the most suitable one. This would then be developed in
greater detail, with the expert preparing an overall plan and
working with the govertment to liplement it in its various
phases.
2. Catastrophic Loss Insurance Proaram for Agricultural Industries
Draft Terms of references
Objective:
- to design and develop a catastrophic insurance program which
would cover periodic widespread agricultural industry
destruction.



-62 -                      ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 5
- to propose methods for the implementation of such a program
Suggstetd Procedures
Government to appoint an expert to be assisted by locally
recrulted consultants to review wits Government. the Jamaican insurance
industry and international re-insurance industries as well as
representatives of the local agricultural industry the followings
- the amount of insurance required by Jamaican agricultural
industries. It will be necessary to carry out, or have access
to, a survey of the principle industries to quantify the
amount.
-  a review of identified sources of funding and/or re-insurance
to meet the quantified needs. Several alternatives will need
to be studied since a mfi  of commercial and other funds will
probably be required for a national program.
- a survey of the international re-insurance industries to
determine terms, conditions and prices since price will be a
major consideration in putting together a workable program.
- design a working arrangement between the Government and the
Jamaica Insurance industries to write insurance for
agriviiurai inaustries since the industry cannot retain more
than a nominal portion of the total catastrophic risk even
though it can issue the policies, administer the insurance and
adjust the losses.
- quantify with the Government the amount required to establish
an agricultural risk fund possibly similar to the existing
export bananas windstorm schema. Consider and recmumend a mix
of potintial funding sources and capital flows.
- the preparation of a re-insurance program for the agricultural
risk fund. This could be baoed on the amount of capacity that
international re-insurers are prepared to make available to
Jamaica and the reserves of the fund.
3. Review of overnment's Self Insurance Policy
Objectives 
Government to review present policy of self insurance with object
of*
- determining if the present policy is still valid
- making revisions to the present policy if recommended through
the review process
- implementing the agreed policy revisions
Suggested Procedures
Government to appoint an individual consultant, probably foreign,
to$



ANNEX 16
- 63-                      fag-e4 of5
- review with the appropriate Government officials the present
Government policy concerning the insurance or non-i 2urance of
Government owned property to include buildings, electronic and
other equipment. vehicles and furnishings. The review would
cover central Government and also some of the public
enterprises which currently are only partly covered by
insurance.
- make an assessmant of the current policy and formulate
recommendations concerning the need to revise the policy for
all or certain categories of Government owned property. These
recounendations would be backed by appropriate actuarial
considerations, practices in other countries, considerations of
the Jamaica context, and other relevant background material.
- prepare a report covering the findings and include
recomuendations on the need for additional studies or research
that might be required.
- make recommendations concerning the implementation of the
policy changes to include as necessary private sector insurance
industry involvement (overseas and local), contracts and forns
of agreement, procureoent procedures, liability limitations,
and other necessary procedures or instruments. Prepare TOR for
any additional consultancy that is reco=tended.
- assess the costsibenefits to the Covernmnat of the proposed -
changes both for central Government property and that of public
enterprises such as the Jamaica Railways Corporation, National
Water Coinission, Port Authority and others.
4. Review of the Jamaica National Buildina Code and
enforcementlcoumliance
Objectives
Government to review existing building code too
- assess adequacy of the present code
^ assess adequacy of present mechanism to ensure compliance
- make recommendations for changes or improvements in code
- make recomendations concerning compliance so that appropriate
coverage of buildings *nd structures is achieved in the future
Suggested Procedures
Government to appoint an individual consultant (either local or
foreign) to I
- review the present building code and through discussion with
the relevant Jamaica professional bodies (Institution of
Engineers, Architects Association, etc.) and with the
appropriate Government departmeats ot agoncies ( UDC. Public
Works, ESAC, etc.) assess the adequacy of the existing code and
determine if additional studies or research are required to



-64 A-=  16
Page 5 of 5
update, expand or revise it to better meet the needs of
Jamaica. Both cyclone and seismic activity would be considered
together with local building practices and the use of locally
obtained construction materials.
review with the same professional and Government bodies stated
above and also with insurance companies, members of the
construction industry, and sample parish councils the present
system of ensuring that buildings and structures are actually
built in accordance with the requirements of the code. Assess
the adequacy of the present system island-wide for all types of
buildings and structures - regardless of ownership, size and
location. Determine if the system requires mprovement and/or
further study to enhance the-enforcement and increase
compliance with the code.
prepare a report covering the findings and include
recomesuadations on further studies, research, and consultancy
that are required.
prepare, as necessary, detailed TOR for additional consultancy
tos
i) improve the existing code
ii) make recomiendations on how to ensure better
compliance through Institutional chan8gs, legislation,
the use of the Insurance Industry and financial
bodies, or other mans.



UIL& ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~U
81430                                                                                                   TI ~o1 
00600*0/ 00j114CA     *
Avr*.AouI Ror,roI6. diO s
-    Mel,. o,toool rood.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
-'--    R0eT0Iw       ip4t7D                                                                                                Rd0I
heInMfo hCnOIAroTrls                                                  -                                                                                                                 Ara  sufferJUingt graet  damaKge tb housing
- --       00,007 800udOrr0                   aIE °o                            is0 1                                                                                                                                                    u--b* s b                   1 F7e
-  -   inhonohonol  MILES                                                                                                                                                               an0i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* O     *0~AMI
--- -   Inlern4onoltoundonet   KILOMETERS            0     1     20     5                                                                                                                                                      _         w        t° -         d      _
o   oo0,                                                      77.,0-                                                         .o                                                           7,0.0
I ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEM1N



