Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3012 JM
              (Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan)
                              between
                              JAMAICA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated January 10, 1989
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  January  10,  1989,  between  JAMAICA (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has  received a letter dated December 6,
1988 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to  achieve the reconstruction and rehabili-
tation of  the  economic  sectors  affected  by  Hurricane Gilbert
(hereinafter  called  the   Program),   declaring  the  Borrower's
commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and  requesting
assistance from  the  Bank  in  the  financing  of urgently needed
imports required during such execution;
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided, in support of the  Program, to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing Date
     or such later date as may  be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and  the  Bank,  the  Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the  Bank  a  report,  of  such  scope and in such
     detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
     of the  program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by  the  Borrower  and the Bank of
     their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
     accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Bank of Jamaica" means  the  Borrower's Bank of Jamaica
established and operating  under  the  Bank  of  Jamaica Act dated
October 1, 1960;
     (b)  "Jamaican Dollars" and  "J$"  mean  the  currency of the
Borrower;
     (c)  "MOH"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Construction
(Housing);
     (d)  "Hurricane Gilbert" or  "Hurricane"  means the hurricane
that struck Jamaica on September 12, 1988;
     (e)  "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture; and
     (f)  "JPS" means Jamaica  Public  Service Company, Limited, a
corporation established and  operating  pursuant to its Memorandum
and Articles of Association dated  May  25, 1923 as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in the Loan  Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
Page  3
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one  percent  (1/2  of  1%)  per  annum  above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a)  Bank  of  Jamaica  is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower  for  the  purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be  taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts Bank  of  Jamaica with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications  under the Loan and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the  Bank  in  support  of  such  applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for  withdrawal  of  aggregate  amounts  of not less than
$250,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the low income
housing,  agriculture,  and  economic  and  social  infrastructure
components of such Program by taking the actions and following the
procedures and criteria set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) promptly establish, and
Page  4
thereafter maintain, with terms  of  reference satisfactory to the
Bank, a committee to improve  the  coordination of the Program and
the monitoring of  the  flows  of  foreign  aid  available to such
Program;  and  (b)  provide,   promptly   as  needed,  the  funds,
facilities, services and other resources  as shall be required for
such purpose.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail  as  the  Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
Page  5
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the survey of damages  made by Hurricane Gilbert to
housing in low income  areas  has  been  completed and the results
thereof furnished to the Bank;
     (b)  that  the  Borrower  has  established  and  staffed  the
implementation teams referred to in Part A.2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  that the Borrower has established the committee referred
to in  Section  3.02  of  this  Agreement  and  has designated the
agency or department which will act as the secretariat thereof.
     Section 5.02. The date April 11, 1989 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of  Finance  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          30 National Heroes Circle
          Kingston
          Jamaica
          Cable address:                      Telex:
          Ministry of Finance                   2447 MINFAN
          Kingston
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        JAMAICA
Page  6
                        By /s/ Jennifer Lester
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  (a)  Construction                  )
          materials and                 )
          equipment,                    )
          roofing                       )
          materials,                    )
          electrical                    )
          equipment and       20,000,000)        100% of foreign
          materials,                    )        expenditures
          drainage and                  )
          plumbing                      )
          materials, and                )
          fencing                       )
          materials                     )
                                        )
     (b)  Reconstruction                )
          Vehicles                      )
(2)  Agricultural               5,000,000        100% of foreign
     supplies (exclud-                           expenditures
     ing chemicals)
     and agricul-
     tural equipment
     and tools
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)  Imports for                5,000,000        100% of foreign
     JPS: poles,                                 expenditures
     cables and
     crossarms,
     electrical
     conductors,
     transformers,
     insulators,
     line material
     hardware
     and equipment,
     street lamps,
Page  7
     fittings,
     electrical
     meters, con-
     trol systems
     and switchgear
                              __________
          TOTAL               30,000,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule  (a)  the  term
"Reconstruction Vehicles" means any trucks, four wheel drive
vehicles, motorcycles and other vehicles imported for any of
the  Borrower's   agencies   or   departments  and  directly
associated with the transportation  needs of the Program but
not exceeding in the aggregate an amount of $3,000,000.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures in the  currency  of  the Borrower or
for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (b)  payments made for  expenditures  prior to the date
of this Agreement, except  that  withdrawals in an aggregate
amount not exceeding  the  equivalent  of  $9,000,000 may be
made on  account  of  payments  made  for  such expenditures
before that date but after September 21, 1988;
     (c)  expenditures for  goods  procured  under contracts
costing less than $5,000 equivalent; and
     (d)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or
agency other than the Bank  shall have financed or agreed to
finance.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
     beginning July 15, 1994
     through January 15, 2005                        1,250,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          .18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          .35
Page  8
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            .65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but                             .88
     not more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                         1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Business; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As  a  further   alternative,   bidding  documents  may
     require the  bidder  to  state  the  bid  price  in  a single
     currency widely used in  international trade and specified in
     the bidding documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in  respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Page  9
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not
apply to contracts on  account  of  which  the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
         Actions to be taken, and criteria and procedures
           to be followed, in the implementation of the
            Low-Income Housing, Agriculture and Social
              and Economic Infrastructure components
                          of the Program
Part A.   Low-Income Housing Component
1.   (a)  MOH  shall  maintain  a   project  coordinator  for  the
low-income  housing  component  of  its  Program  with  terms  of
reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  promptly  establish,  under terms of
reference satisfactory to the  Bank,  and staff, with persons with
qualifications  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  implementation teams
responsible  for  the  carrying  out  of  the  low-income  housing
component of the Program.
     (c)  The Borrower  shall,  promptly  as  needed,  provide the
funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources  required for
purposes of Part A (1) (a) and (b) above.
2.   MOH shall issue vouchers  to  Eligible Beneficiaries to cover
the cost of construction materials according to selection criteria
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     For purposes of this paragraph "Eligible Beneficiary" means a
person who: (i) has suffered damage in his or her household due to
Hurricane Gilbert; (ii) has an  income  per household of less than
J$18,000 per year; (iii)  occupied  the  housing unit prior to the
date of the  Hurricane;  (iv)  owns  no  other  home;  (v) owns or
occupies a unit of less than  500 square feet; (vi) certifies that
he  or  she  will  repair  his  or  her  home  following technical
guidelines specified by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank;
(vii)  in  the  case  of  tenants,  the  Eligible  Beneficiary has
obtained from his or her  landlord's or landlady's: (A) permission
in writing to repair the premises in accordance with the technical
guidelines referred to  in  subparagraph  (vi)  above;  and (B) an
undertaking in writing to refund to  the Borrower the value of the
repairs effected by such  Eligible  Beneficiary  if the tenancy is
terminated by the landlord or  landlady, without the tenant having
breached the terms of  the  tenancy  arrangement, within two years
from the date the repairs are made.
3.   The Borrower shall: (a) not  later than March 31, 1989 review
different  mechanisms  and  schemes  of  insurance  for low-income
households; and (b) promptly  thereafter  furnish  to the Bank for
its comments the results of such review.
4.   The  Borrower  shall  continue  to  authorize  the  import of
building materials (including lumber)  by private importers during
the period of Program implementation and shall not establish price
controls on the  sale  of  such  materials  unless: (a) the prices
charged exceed the reasonable  cost  and margins of such materials
in specific areas; and (b) the price controls are limited in time.
Part B.   Agricultural Component
Page  10
1.   The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 30, 1989 review,
under terms of reference  satisfactory  to  the Bank, the competi-
tiveness of its  poultry  industry,  and  (b) promptly thereafter,
furnish  to  the   Bank   for   its   comments   the  results  and
recommendations of such review.
2.   The reconstruction credit  facility  set  forth in the letter
referred to  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  shall: (a) be
limited  to  an  amount  of  loans  discounted  by  the Borrower's
Agricultural Credit Bank  not  greater  than J$200,000,000; (b) be
restricted in its  application  to  a  maximum  of six months; and
(c) apply, regarding the  loans  made  under  such facility by the
Peoples Cooperative Banks maximum  amounts  to be borrowed by each
farmer benefitting under this  facility,  so  as to distribute the
amounts available  under  such  facility  to  the maximum possible
number  of  farmers.  For  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  Peoples
Cooperative  Banks  means  banks  operating  under  the Borrower's
Industrial and Provident Societies  Act  1903  and included in the
list of authorized banks furnished by  the Borrower to the Bank on
December 5, 1988.
3.   The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  not  later  than  March  31, 1989
review, under terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to the Bank, the
feasibility  of  promoting  credit  insurance  and  crop insurance
schemes or establishing a special  hurricane fund, to mitigate the
cost  of  damages   to   its   agricultural  sector  derived  from
hurricanes.
4.   The Borrower shall  through  MOA,  provide agricultural stamp
vouchers to Subsistance Farmers to finance farm inputs required to
restore  their   agricultural   production   after  the  Hurricane
according to selection criteria and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
     For purposes  of  this  Part  B  "Subsistance  Farmers" means
farmers holding four acres  or  less  of  land  and not engaged in
commercial farming  activities  and  who  suffered  damage  due to
Hurricane Gilbert.
Part C.   Social and Economic Infrastructure Component
1.   The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1989, review
(i) the Borrower's self-insurance policy; and (ii) the adequacy of
the  National  Building  Code  of  Jamaica  approved  as  a Policy
Document by the Borrower  on  March  15,  1982 and the enforcement
procedures related thereto; and (b) promptly thereafter furnish to
the Bank for its comments the results of such reviews.
3.   The Borrower shall not  later  than  March  31, 1989: (a) in-
corporate, under  institutional  arrangements  satisfactory to the
Bank, the  Program  into  its  1989-1991  Public Sector Investment
Program being prepared  by  the  Borrower's Budget Division within
its Ministry of Finance  and  to  be  approved by the Cabinet; and
(b) furnish to the Bank such revised Investment Program.
