Report No. PID9724
Project Name                      Cape Verde-Supplemental Credit for...
the Transport and Infrastructure
Project
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Transport
Project ID                        CVPE73313
Borrower                          Government of Cape Verde
Implementing agency               Lucio Spencer Lopes dos Santos
Program Co-ordinator
Programa das Infraestruturas e
Transportes (P.I.T)
C. P. No. 855, Praia
Republic of Cape Verde
Tel:   (238) 61 48 20/61 76 25
Fax:   (238) 61 69 29
Date the initial PID
prepared                          July 1, 1991
Date the Updated PID
Prepared                          June 18, 1992
Date this PID prepared            November 27, 2000
Projected Appraisal date          December 2000
Projected Board date              January 25, 2001
Country and sector background:
The Cape Verde archipelago, located some 300 n.m. off the coast of Senegal,
comprises 9 inhabited islands totaling 4,000 Sq.km. Located in Santiago, the
largest and most populated one (992 Sq.km and about half of the total
population of less than 400 thousand), Praia is the political and
administrative capital and an active business place organized around its
international port which has been recently rehabilitated under an IDA
project. Unemployment is high. Natural resources are scarce, and besides
fishing (for which the country has obvious comparative advantages) and
nascent tourism, services and export processing constitute the few other
areas that could generate internal economic growth. Despite shortages of mid-
level technicians, the level of education compares favorably with other West
African countries. GNP per capita was US$890 in 1990, the highest of Sahelian
countries, due in part to remittances from the emigrated population of more
than 400,000.This average hides substantial discrepancies between the
islands. About 609'0 of the GDP originates from services. The Government's
development strategy is to move from an inward looking to an outward looking
economy, promote the private sector to accelerate growth and create jobs.
Infrastructure, most important to communications within and between the
islands and with the rest of the world, includes: (i) two major and eight
minor sheltered ports; (ii) two international airports and seven local
airports; (iii) a network of 643 km of paved roads (94w with cobblestone) and
451km of earth and rural roads. Maintenance needs are growing as the road



infrastructure ages, calling for larger funding and more specialized
organizations. Port productivity in Mindelo is constrained by obsolete design
of Porto Grande facilities; a modem terminal is needed. The Fogo island
economy is severely hampered by port constraints following partial collapse
of the breakwater at Vale de Cavaleiros: a cost efficient reconstruction
scheme has yet to be defined. Transport and telecommunications service
delivery is of poor quality. National economic development is hampered by
infrastructure deficiencies.
Background: The Transport and Infrastructure Project
Project Objectives and Description. The Transport and Infrastructure Project
was approved on March 4, 1993 and became effective on March 19, 1993. The
project has been executed under the comprehensive "Programa das
Infraestruturas e Transportes" (PIT) in a multi-donor financed framework
which amounts to a total of US$71 million.
The objectives of the Project are to:(i) promote international
competitiveness through port modernization and reorganization of the shipping
industry and development of offshore information industries; (ii) foster
national economic integration by streamlining transport sector investment
planning, and achieving a more balanced and cost effective allocation of
resources; (iii) prevent further erosion of the capital stock in the road
network; (iv) support promotion of the local contracting industry through
execution of a four-year road maintenance program; and (v) promote economic
growth and alleviate poverty in Fogo Island through rehabilitation of its
only port.
Description of the Proposed Supplemental Credit
The proposed supplemental credit will help meet the objectives of the ongoing
project by completing the rehabilitation of the main road for the population
of the island of Santiago. The specific activity to be financed will be the
execution of the civil works for the reconstruction of the 21 km section, in
the mountainous Sao Domingos-Vila da Assomada section of the ring road and
its supervision.
Project financing
The Transport and Infrastructure Project has been executed under the
comprehensive "Programa das Infraestruturas e Transportes" (PIT) in a multi-
donor financed framework which amounts to a total of US$71 million. The
principal financiers besides IDA (US$8 million) are BAD, BADEA, BEI, CFD,
FAD, FED, KfW, OPEC, UE, Holland, and Switzerland.
Under the Supplemental Credit, IDA will finance an additional US$5 million
bringing the IDA total to US$13 million.
Project implementation:
The proposed supplemental credit does not require additional implementation
capacity beyond what is already in place. The PIT project framework is
executed by a Project Coordination Unit reporting to the office of the Prime
Minister. This unit has performed satisfactorily and will oversee the
execution of the supplemental credit.
Project sustainability :
The sustainability of the Supplemental credit will depend on ensuring that
proper road maintenance is maintained. The Government intends through this
project to improve the underpinning for appropriate road maintenance through
strengthening of the road management institutional framework including the
road fund and the national road management unit. The management of the Road
Fund established under the ongoing Transport and Infrastructure Project will
be monitored, and advice for improvement as necessary will be given during
- 2-



supervision missions to ensure that proper financing is available to maintain
the road network and works execution arrangements are satisfactory.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector:
The Port of Praia Project (Cr. 1322-CV, SDR 6.7 million), completed in 1990
was quite successful on the engineering side but fell short on institution
building. The ongoing Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1954-CV, SDR 3.5 million) has had mixed results in terms of
policy changes. IDA conditionality on tariff increases and audit requirements
have been implemented with delays owing to the weak local bureaucracy and
unfamiliarity with IDA procedures, together with a local emphasis on
"social" pricing. Limited supervision has compounded problems. A project
unit with technical assistance in the early years of project implementation,
together with proper selection of counterpart staff should reduce the risk of
poor project execution.
Poverty category : N/A
Environmental aspects:
The rehabilitation of the Sao Domingos-Vila da Assomada road section in
Santiago island is not expected to generate any significant environmental
problem since the works will be done on an existing road. Disposition
will be taken however through the contractual agreement to comply with the
applicable environmental regulations of the country. Minimal expropriation
in the amount of US$ 45,000 (ECV 6,000,000) may be necessary and the GOCV
has budgeted such an amount.
Program Objective Categories:
By privatizing road maintenance, the project will achieve better conservation
of the capital invested in the road network, and provide small contractors
with opportunities to grow. Public sector management will also be improved
through introduction of modern systems in the project executing agencies,
together with rationalization of transport planning by the central
Government.
Project benefits
The proposed supplemental credit will benefit the economy of the country
as a whole as Vila da Assomada is the largest population center in the
interior of Santiago island, the most populated island of the archipelago,
and is a significant generator of passenger and cargo traffic. It is
located along the important thoroughfare from Praia to the villages on the
northern tip of the island, particularly the tourist town of Tarrafal.
Both commercial and social road users will benefit from improved road
conditions and connections between the urban areas. The works in question
are within the competitive range of local firms, thus potentially offering
an added stimulus for the local economy. The rehabilitation of this
section of the ring road is expected to improve travel time, road safety
and pedestrian traffic and enhance mobility. The estimated ERR for the
rehabilitation work is 15%.
Project risks:
No significant risk, beyond the traditionally inherent risks (physical,
technical and price contingencies) for the execution of civil works is
foreseen. Such risks will be mitigated through the competitive selection of
a qualified bidder and supervision of the works.
- 3-



Contact Point:
Aubert Zohore
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID processed during the week ending December 1, 2000.
- 4 -



