Do_mt of
The World Bank
FOR O0MCIAAL USE ONLY
Rlpt No P-5850-CV
UIWIIAMIW NXOHOTO
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INlERNATIONAL DEVILOPIENT ASSOCIATIOl
TO THE
EKIGUTIVE DIlECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE ANUNT OF SDR 8.9 *MUCK
TO
TlE REPLIC OF CAPE VED
PF  A TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTU  PROJECT
FEBRUARY 2, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
ReprtNo. :p- 5B50 CV    TyPe: (PM4)
Report  TRT,SPORT   INFRASTRUCTURE PR0j.
Author: LOIR.1.
Ext. :3833 RooU ig t19 Dept. :AF5IN
This docnt bs a  eted disibution ad may be used by repel s only tn th  eomance of
their ofial dutw. Its conten may -.Ot othwse be disclosed withwot Wbld Bank autorizatIn



CURRENCY Eo-tm
Currecy un  =  Cap Vedean Escdo (CVesc.)
US$1.0 - 64.89
Special DrawingRights(SDR) - US$1.404
Speca Drawig Rlghts (I SDR) -  CVes 91.11
MM OF a,VMHn AM MEASURES
Metric System
Jamury I -December 31
LJST OF ACRONYMS
(rrnslated In  Engish)
ACP                 Avarag Colecto Period
ANV                 National Travel Agency
ASA                 National Entis for Airports and Air Traffic Safety
BADEA               Arab Bank for African Development
BCV                 Bank of Cap Verde
CENA                Insdtute for Professional Trnin
CECV                Caixa Economica De Cabo Verde
CFN                 Center of Nautical Tning
CORD                Mmagament of Decenalized Resources
OM        --        Shipping MogementComso
CNNAV               Nadonal Shipping Line
CiT                 Telephone and Communiations Company
CVesc               Cape Verdean Escudo
DOAC                General Diectorate of Civil Aviation
DGCPW               Gnral Directorate of Constuction and Public Works
DGLT                General Drectrate of Lad Trasport
DOMP                General Diretoate of Shipping and Ports
DGOTA               General Directorate of Land Use and Environment
DGSP                General Diectoa  of Studies and Plaming
dwt                 Deadweight Tons
EMPA                EMPA Public Supply Company
ENACOL              National Enterprise of Fuels and Lubricants
ENAPOR              National Port erprise
FAD                 Africank Development Fund
FAIMO               Labor ltsive Front
FDN                 Naional Development Fund
GDP                 Gross Dometic Product
ICB                 International Competive Bidding
IFAP                Center for Publc Administrative Training
WH                  Institute for Housing Assistance
KfW                 Krediltnstalt fut Wiederaufr
LEC                 Nadonal Laboratory of CivU Works
MIT                 Minstry of nfatruce and Transport
PPF                 Project Prearton Facility
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SOE                 Staement of Expendleur
TACV                Cape Verde Aines
TPU                 Trapoft Plannuig Unit
UNDP                United Nations Ievelopment Progamme
SNM                 Nationd Weather Service



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CREDiT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Cape Verde
Beneficiwy:               Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport
ENAPOR
Amount:                   US$12.5 million equivalent
erms                     Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:          Loan for US$2.9 million to ENAPOR at an interest rate of 7.5%
repayable over 20 years, including 4 years of grace
Financing Plan:           IDA                 US$12.5 million
Government         US$15.6 million
KFW                US$ 7.0 million
Netherlands        US$ 3.3 million
ADF                US$ 3.9 million
Others             US$36.1 million*
TOTAL              US$78.4 million
Economic R=
Of  Rn:                   The estimated Economic Rates of Return (ERR) average 23.5%
for the first-year road program, and range from 17% for port
modernization (Sao Vicente), to 13% for port rehabilitation
(Fogo). Sensitivity analysis carried out under the assumptions
of lower port trafflc and higher port and highway construction
and maintenance costs showed that the project would remain
economically justified, with the possible exception of Fogo Port,
for which a decision to carry out the investment is contingent
upon verification that final cost estimates based on forthcoming
detailed engineering studies do not invalidate the current
conclusion of economic viability.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report no. 10947-CV
Maps no. IBRD 24092, 24108, 24109
* Japan provided US$0.25 million for preparation studies. At
a recent donor's meeting, pledges were received from BADEA
(about US$10 million equivalent), OPEC-fund (about US$5
million equivalent), the French Caisse Centrale (about US$5
million), EIB (about US$5 million equivalent) and the Swedish
Import Support Program (about US$10 million equivalent per
year), the total of which is sufficient to cover the funding gap.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR A TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1.          I submit for your approval the following report and re--ommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Cape Verde of SDR 8.9 million, the equivalent of US$12.5
million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to help finance a Transport and Infrastructure
project which encompasses most of Cape Verde's medium-term infrastructure development program. The
equivalent of US$2.9 million would be onlent to ENAPOR for 20 years, including 4 years grace, with
interest at 7.5% per annum. At a recent donor's meeting, pledges were received from BADEA (about
US$10 million equivalent), OPEC-FUND (about US$5 million equivalent), the French Caisse Centrale
(about US$5 million), EIB (about US$5 million equivalent) and the Swedish Import Support Program
(about US$10 million equivalent per year), the total of which is sufficiert to cover the funding gap.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.    Backund and recent geRormance
2.           Cape Verde consists of ten islands located 650 kilometers off the coast of Senegal, with
a land area of about 4,000 km2 and an Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of 630,000 km2. Only one-tenth
of the land surface is arable. Nine of the ten islands are inhabited, and half of the resident population of
less than 400,000 live on the island of Santiago, about 50% of them in Praia, the capital. During the
1980s, the natura increase in the population was 2.7%, and per capita GNP is esdmated to have doubled
from US$372 in 1980 to US$750 in 1990.
3.           Services are the backbone of the economy. The service sector accounted for about
threefiths of value added in the 1980s and employed 37% of the active population: commerce alone
accounted for about 22% of value-added; and public services for about 13%. The high share of value
added generated by public services stemmed from the substantial allocation of public resources to social
services, and from the sizeable public administration where 15% of the active population work. Services
rendered to international maritime and air transport accounted for only 10% of the sector's contribution
to value-added. Tourism accounted for less than 2% of value added, reflecting the low investment in this
sector before 1991.
4.          In the 1980s, the primary sector contributed only 13% of value added because of low
agdcultural potential and limited and inefficient exploitaion of a reasonably well endowed fisheries
resource (3% of value added) by an industry dominaed by the public sector. Agricultre employs 24%
of the acdve population. Ihe secondary sector amounted to 18% of value added. Construction, an
activity closely linked to expatriate remitances, was the most important activity (64% of the sector's
value added and 20% of total employment). The contribution of import-substitution industries to value
added remained small, but It grew to 7% in 1988-90 from about 5% in 1980X87.
5.           Economic Peforn    In the 1980s. After independence in 1975, Government took on
the formidable challenge of developing a virtually non-existent economy and chose to play an
entrepreneurial role in agriculture, industry and services. It did so because the domestic private sector
was small and undeveloped, and foreign investment - deterred in any case by Cape Verde's poor



2
infrastructure (no suitable port or airport facilities) - was viewed, at that time, as incompatible with a
newly found sovereignty. Policies were put in place to bolster a government-led development strategy:
they included trade restrictions (quantitative), price controls, administrative allocation of foreign
exchange, extensive public spending, credit provision and allocation with priority to public enterprises,
fixed interest rates, cumbersome administrative procedures for private investment, and job security
without regard to performance.
6.           Until 1988, these policies, combined with prudent rinancial management, bore fruit.
From 1980 to 1988, the economy grew by 6% a year on average in real terms. Growth came from
services and a high level of gross domestic investment dominated by public investment in infrastructure,
social sectors (education, health, and housing), and productive sectors (fisheries, transport, and
manufacturing). The government maintained internal balance by limiting its domestic borrowing (about
1.6% of GDP on average), and controlling monetary expansion (which occasionally exceeded nominal
GDP growth), thus keeping inflation moderate. It also maintained balance of payments' surpluses and
accumulated external reserves of about 7 months of imports, reaching a peak of 9.4 months in 1988. And
it managed the real effective exchange rate well.
7.           Compared to other African countries, Cape Verde's health and basic education
indicators are good. Life expectancy at birth is 65 years, primary school enrollment (ages 7-12) is over
85%, and the literacy rate (over the age of 18) is 52%. These remarkable achievements result from
concerted efforts and substantial resources allocated to social services by government, various national
associations of women, youth and farmers, NGOs, and done'rs.
8.           Recent Developments. The need for economic reforms became urgent, when in 1989-91,
economic growth slowed to an average of 3.7% per year. Four factors contributed to the deterioration:
(i) a decline in investment, in particular public investment, from an average of about 42% of GDP
annually before 1988 to about 18% thereaner as a result of completion of some major projects and the
postponement or cancellation of new ones; (ii) a decline in demand for services to international maritime
(bunkerage) and air traffic (e.g. South African Airways no longer used the Sal airport aftw the
introduction of sanctions against South Africa); (iii) droughts that adversely affected agricultural output;
and (iv) the negative results of public enterprises.
9.           Internal and extemal imbalances emerged.  The poor economic and financial
performance of public enterprises involved in manufacturing, fisheries, and non-social services
(commerce, maritime, and air traffic) forced them to reduce their tax and non-tax contributions and
prevented them from fully servicing their external debt.J/ ITis led the government to Increase domestic
borrowing from the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV) while internal and external debt arrears grew and net
external borrowing declined. These developments triggered inflationary pressures and crowded out
credit to the emerging, albeit small, private sector. Inflation gradually accelerated from 4.5% in 1987 to
10.6% in 1990.
10.          The overall balance of payments, positive through 1988, turned negative in 1989 and 1990
as a result of higher imports and debt service obligations, a lower availability of external resources
because of a reduction in ODA inflows, and stagnation of earnings from exports of goods and services.
The deficits were financed partly by a reduction in external reserves, which dropped to 7.2 months of
I/ There are 22 wholly-owned and 12 mixed entrprins, employing about 6,400 people, Tem wholly-owned
enterprises made a consolidated loss of CVeso 310 milion in 1990.



3
imports at the end of 1990, and partly by the accumulation of additional external arrears of about US$4
million in 1990; settlement of these arrears began in 1991.
11.          Faced with a deteriorating situation, the government began, in 1987, to rethink its
economic development policies and, in 1988, adopted an outward-looking development strategy
("extraversion-). In late 1998, the government prepared five separate statutes designed to attract foreign
private investment and promote export-oriented manufacturing. All five were passed by the legislature
in late 1988 and early 1989, but none was implemented.
12.         The government turned its attention to political reforms, including a move toward multi-
party democracy launched shordy after the adoption of "extraversion". Elections were scheduled for
early 1991, and political campaigns began in earnest in 1990 consuming the govermment's energies, at
the expense of the promised economic reforms. In early 1991, Cape Verde became the first African
country to go through a peaceful election-based transition to multi-party democracy. The opposition party
won, but the outgoing party obtained a signit.cant number of seats (34%) in the National Assembly as
well as in the municipal councils, and the transition was orderly.
13.         The new government that took office in April 1991 adopted the outward-looking strategy
designed by its predecessor and began to implement it in earnest. The program of policy reforms, which
is genuinely homegrown, aims at opening up the economy. In the short term, the stabilization efforts
begun in 1991 need to be shored up and consolidated. In the medium-long term, the aim is to reduce
direct govelnment involvement in the economy by restructuring, privatization, and liquidation of public
enterprises, and to build up the private sector. Public administration is to be streamlined and the
government's policy making and analytical capacity strengthened. Social services are to be improved and
public investment concentrated on these services and on infrastructure. External assistance is to be much
better coordinated to maximize its impact.
14.         Past and Crrent Performance of the IIA Portfolio. The Bank Group is a relative
newcomer to Cape Verde. Lending to Cape Verde began in FY83 with the Port of Praia project (US $7.1
million). Since then, IDA has financed four other projects: Industrial Finance and Promotion (US$4
million; FY85); Primary Education Upgrading (US$4.2 million; FY88); Infsructure Rehabilitation and
Technical Assistance (US$4.7 million; FY88); and the Privatization TA project (US$4.2 million; FY92).
The undisbursed pipeline amounts to US$ 9.3 million. The Port of Praia project, implemented ahead of
schedule, was very successful in its physical aspects but had mixed results in its institution building
aspects due to sub-par consultant and technical services. Under the Industrial Finance and Promotion
project, IDA provided a line of credit to BCV which is now fully disbursed. Some of the funds under
the credit financed background studies which provided the basis for adoption of the outward-looking
development strategy. The credit made financing available to budding private small and medium
enterprises. It also supported insdtution building at the BCV by strengthening and professionalizing its
investment department. The project encountered no problems. Performance under the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation project is discussed later in this report. The Primary Education Upgrading project has
encountered difficuldties (procurement problems delayed civil works) which have been resolved (see
Schedule E). The Privatization TA project, recently effective, has made a promising start: many actions
have been undertaken ahead of schedule.
15.          The Bank made available to the government in 1989 an advance under the Special Project
Preparation Facility (SPPF) of US$180,000 for the study of emigrants, remittances, and options to
mobilize emigrants' savings and investment. Government has been implementing many of Its
recommendations in the context of the policy reforms underway. The studies were completed on



4
schedule. ITe Bank has recently made an advance of US$1SO,O"0 under the Project Preparation Facility
to assist with the preparation of financial sector reforms.
B.    Cape Verde's External Environment
16.          Cape Verde faces severe constraints, particularly a poor natural resource base,
unfavorable climatic conditions with regular and worsening periods of drought, small domestic markets,
costly neal communications owing to the scattered nature of the islands, and weak communications
links to the outside world. But the country also has solid strengths: a tradition in services; largely
unexploited tourist and fisheries potentials; a convenient geographical location and a maritime-related
service tradition; relatively low wage rates and a trainable labor force with a good basic literacy rate (and
high primary school enrollment); a stable exchange rate and sound external policies; negligible export
barriers to other countries; potential for the mobilization of emigrant and domestic savings, provided the
finanil sector is strengthened; improved foreign investnent laws; political and social stability; the
zitrength of the social system and its accomplishments; the readiness of donors to assist development; and
the loyalty of Cape Verdean emigrants.
17.          Cape Verde's balance of payments is characterized by structura imbalances on the trade
account, substntial surplus on the service account, sizeable net private transfers, and considerable net
ODA inflows. Merchandise exports (essentially fish and bananas) cover only about 5% of merchandise
imports. ITe economy is highly dependent on imports of food (mostly in the form of food aid), and
capital and intermediary goods. Traditionally, Cape Verde's most substantial export earnings have come
from non-factor services to international maritime transport. Ihese earnings (equivalent to 24% of
merchandise imports in 1990) have increased recently as a result of rising services to international air
rMaffc. Net factor services were negative until 1989 because of high interest obligations on public and
publicly guaranteed loans. Since 1989, they have turned positive because of subsatial interest earnings
on external reserves. In 1990, private transfers (including remittances) were equivalent to 166% of the
contribution of net services, and to about 44% of merchandise imports.
18.          The economy of Cape Verde is sensitive to a number of factors outside government
control. Droughts have a major impact, but weather patterns are particularly difficult to predict because
of the islands' small and scattered land mass. Drought preparedness plans and close coordination with
other Sahelian countries wUI help manage the situation. The development of fisheries depend on the
country's ability to protect its resource and influence regional policy in the sector. And the important
revenues derived from maritime and air services have depended on extgernal developments (situation in
South Africa, bunkering of Soviet fleets, etc.). Finally, emigration is a longstanding tradition for Cape
Verde. As a result, twice as many Cape Verdeans live abroad as in the islands. Expatriate Cape
Verdeans maintain close ties with the homeland, generation after generation, and the remittances they
send home, which amounted to about 18% of GDP in 1991, have constituted, since 1988, the single most
important source of foreign exchange earnings. The level and amount of remittances depends on the
immigration policies of welcoming countries, and restrictions in Western Europe and the United States,
together with continued difficulties in other traditional destnations such as Angola, Mozambique and
Senegal may reduce the inflow of private transfers in the fuure, underlining the need to reduce
dependency on this revenue source.
19.          The stock and profile of most public and publicly guaranteed debt (PPOD)-US$152
million as of December 31, 1990-reflect prudent debt managruent extnal resources are mobilized
mostly in the form of grants and concessional loans. Some 70% of the PPGD is on concessional terms.
The government guarantees for public enterprises' extemal borrowing accounted for 52% of the stock
of PPGD and about 70% of the stock of non-concessional PPGD in 1990. The stock of PPGD is



5
projected to rise in line with an increase in project financing by multilateral creditors. Debt servicing
will not be a problem given extended repayment and grace periods, and a growing overall export base.
C.    Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
20.          Cape Verde's Development Objectves, Isswes and Polides. Cape Verde faces a tail
development agenda. There are few economies of scale in production, infrastructure or services provided
to the domestic market. The key issues are: (i) building capacity, developing human resources, and
reducing unemployment; (ii) eliminating infratructure botdenecks; (iii) maintaining q  enabling
environirent for private sector activity; (iv) pursuing poverty alleviation; and (v) fostering susinable
development
21.          Human I,esources  2eve,o0ment and Employment.  Slow economic growth, rapid
population increase, and a lack of the essentW skills needed for a private sector led development strategy
have contributed to a severe unemployment problem (over 25%). The major reasons explaining the
increasing pressure in the laor market are numerous. On the supply side: (i) about 3,000 people eter
the labor market each year while the levels of unemployment and underemployment in rural areas and
certain islands are already high and countries to which Cape Verdeans have traditionally emigrated are
restrIcting immigration; and (ii) employment and productivity are frther constrained by the uneven access
and low attainment in basic education (primary) and a generally low sklll level. On the demand side,
employment opportunities and investments that generate new employment are few, in large part due to
the slowdown in public works programs. The difficulties are compounded by the lack of a well
functioning labor market (poor job information and employment services).
22.          The government is currently developing, with IDA and other donot assistance,
comprehensive policies addressing the linkages between population, employment, labor markets and
raining issues. The main targets are: (i) improving toe effectiveness of population programs; (ii)
expanding and improving thfi quality of primary education; (iii) increasing the coverage and efficiency
of public works programs; (iv) improving the efficiency of the labor market through the development of
information systems and job counselling services; (v) expanding and improving training programs and
institutions to develop the skills rea,ired by the economy; and (vi) adopting policies favorable to small
and medium enterp:ises.
23.          In the context of inproving employment and training, two difficult issues bear emphasis.
Flrst, emigration is an important, but sensitive element, in the government's employment strategy:
emigration helps to reduce pressures in the labor market and it adds remittances, but it also depletes
essential and rare skills. Immigration policies and conditions in the welcoming countries are changing
and the government may need to examine possibilities for a more organized system of emigration through
contractual agreements between governments in addition to the ongoing voluntary emigration. Mauritius
used this strategy well in the 1970s and early 80s. Training and certifying emigrants is an option which
would have implications for the labor market and training systems. Second, the government would need
to formulate policies regarding higher education and opportunities for investments aimed at training
middle and higher level professionals in the context of a global strategy for training and employment.
24.          Eliminating Infrastructure Botlenecks. The integration of Cape Verde into the world
economy as an international service center requires the development of an adequate transport and
telecommunications infrastructure, as well as reliable air and maritime transport. Regional integraon
and international cooperation also assume better national, inter-island transport and telecommunications.
The existing infrastructure needs rehabilitation and expansion to provide better access and quality services
at lower cost, which, in turn, could induce and facilitate private sector investment in productive activities,



6
especially for exports. Infrastructure requiremants include port, airport, and road improvemens.
Infrastructure and transport policy design, investment planning, and implementation capacity are some
of the constraints which are central to the government's objectives and are being addressed under the
proposed project.
25.          Updating obsolete telecommunications is of special importance. Advances in satellite
communications offer significant advantag(s for Cape Verde (especially the more remote islands) for
social (e.g. education) as well as economic advancement. Improvement in communications infistructure
could permit the development of innovative distance education and skills upgrading programs. It could
also lead to employment creation through iabor intensive, Information based industries.  The
telecommunications company, CIT, faces a considerable challenge to improve quality and reduce costs
of domestic and international services. CIT has prepared a five-year improvement program and begun
its implementation. The program aims to modernize the networks based on digital switching and fiber
optics for transmissions.  It is well assisted by cxternal agencies:  France is financing the
replacement/upgrading ef the earth station; Austria, more inter-island connections; and Japan, rural
communications. The challenge is to find a role for the private sector and to introduce the competition
necessary to keep services cheap and efficient.
26.          Maintaining an Enablina Environment for the Private Sector. Shifting the government's
role in the economy will imply substantial restructuring and reform of the public sector:
(a)   In the public enterprise subsector the government's policy is to privatize wherever the
market will allow to do so. The government has adopted a public enterprise (PE) reform
program and is designing and implementing actions with IMA assistance under the
Privatization TA project. Public enterprise reform, particularly the privatization and
liquidation processes, will not be easy given the high level of unemployment and limited
job opportunities. In view of the concern not to compound the unemploymeat situation,
the above project includes ways to train redundant workers through xonomically
justified, demand driven programs.
(b)   In the public administration subsector, plans are being drawn up to streamline the
country's large administration (about 11,200 permanent employees) to make it more
responsive and efficient. Public administration lacks the requisite skills to implement
policy reforms and other programs quickly and efficiently. There is a plethora of
support, auxiliary, and temporary personnel (over 45% of the total) and a dearth of well-
trained higher level personnel. As a start, government has frozen hiring at lower levels
and has sought assistance to improve, among other things, personnel and career
management.
27.          The success oi the government's public enterprise estructuring program and the
promotion of the private sector, hinges on reform of the finaial sector. BCV cannot adequately meet
the growing demand for banking services and CECV is performing inefficiently. Financial sector reform
is a logical and necessary complement to reforms in the real sector, both in mobilizing financial resources
and improving the relatively low rate of private savings (emigrant and resident population). The
government is well aware of these issues and has, as a matter of urgency, sought assistance from the
Bank, the IMF and the Central Bank of Portugal to undertake needed actions.
28.         bErsuing Poverty Alleviation. Opening up the economy and private sector development
will be the most effective way to reduce poverty in the long run. Cape Verde has a good record on
poverty alleviation: the country has managed to expand social safety nets, building on a tradition of



7
solidarity and interventionist policies. Positive economic growth per capita in the 1980s, generally sound
social programs, concer.d action by local communities, NMOs, and donors in poverty alleviation
programs, significant food aid, and private transfers In the 1980's have made a difference. As a result,
although levels of consumption vary among the islands, poverty is not prevasnt and striking. The
underlying causes of poverty remain (difficult living conditions in rural and urban areas, limited
employment opportunities, increasing demand for social services because of high natural population
growth not yet mitigated by family planning), but the sustainability of past approaches, without major
reforms, is now in question. Targeting, efficiency concerns, and cost recovery are moving to center stage
and will require significant changes in behavior and expectations. The government is aware of the
importance of making such a transition. A first step is to begin coordinating information about social
indicators which is currentl, dispersed among ministries, donors, and local agencies. Better information
and monitoring will help the government in improving the content and coverage, as well as the quality
and efficiency of social programs, and to target them to disadvantaged groups. The government has
recently prepared terms of reference for the development of action plans to tackle these issues.
29.          Gender equality is guaranteed by the Constitution of 1983 and enforced by legal
documents in Cape Verde. Other than some differences between common practice and legal codes
attributed to traditional cultural and social attitudes and religious beliefs, there have not been legal
impediments to promoting women's role in economic development. Women are emploXed in all sectors,
and have the highest presence in the prinary and tertiary sectors. They dominate commerce and social
services, public administration and the iniormal sector. With the education system promoting equality
in access to formal education, there has been no differenle in gender enrolment in the primary and
secondary schools. One of the main objectives of the government is to ensure public resources for social
services to improve women's capacity to manage child health, nutrition and family planning. A national
consultation will be held in January 1993 with women's and other groups to examine how best to tackle
the issues. Goodwill will be required to overcome the discrepancies between common practice and legal
codes.
30.          Although HIV Sero-prevalence in Cape Verde is relatively low for the time being, public
awareness of it has risen. However, a relatively high incidence of sexually transmitted diseases (STD),
between 10 and 20%, and a high level of migration to and from the islands point to an increasing risk
of HIV sero-prevalence. The risk could be further aggravated by the anticipated development of tourism
and international air and maritime traffic. The government is currently promoting preventive programs
and undertaking public information campaigns.
31.          Good results in improving health and basic education indicators notwithstanding, some
problems require further attention: high natural population growth, not yet mitigated by broadly accepted
family planning programs, a shortage of trained teachers and health workers, a lack of essential supplies,
less than adequate primary school curricula, inadequate infrastructure, and affordability of services. The
provision of better quality and more efficient basic social services will have a positive impact on
improving the quality of life, labor productivity, and poverty alleviation in Cape Verde. In this quest,
it will be essential to build on the satisfactory results of the past fifteen years. The governrent is
committed to continue allocating significant budget resources to the social sectors, nearly 30% in 1992,
but improving the quality and efficiency in the provision of services requires increased attention. The
challenge now is to target social services more effectively to the poor and disadvantaged groups; to equip
municip tlities with the capacity and resources to provide basic social services; to stimulate private sector
provisi )n of selected services; and to promote policies and adequate mechanisms for cost recovery.
32.          Fostering Sustainable Development. Cape Verde is known to environmentalists for
extensive reforestation efforts, a great variety of turde species, excellent wind surfing and sailing



8
conditions, and extensive unpolluted and quiet beaches. The objective of improving Cape Verde's fragile
environment further is compatible with restoring high sustained econom5c growth and opening up the
economy. The fragility of the environment Is related to poor climatic conditions and to an acute shortage
of fresh water. This leads to a continuous decline of soil fertiitv and to deteriorating living conditions
in urban areas. Environmental problems are in general well identified and recognized, and the
government has been addressing some of them throgh reforestation efforts, an increase in development
budgets for improving urban areas, programs launched to raise public awareness of the environment
among school children and farmers, and the establishment of an inter-agency Naticnal Council of the
Environment. Significant results bave been achieved. The objective now is to define a strategy, a policy
and a legislative package to ensure that future economic policies and development contribute to the
improvement of the fragile environment and prevent possible harm. IDA is assisting in this effort.
33.            Bank Country Strategy Objectives and P*rities.  Long-term  poverty alleviation,
consolidating the remarkable achievements in, and improving, social indicators, infrastructure
improvements, development of the financial sector, and helping Cape Verde build capacity are the major
objectives of IDA strategy. This strategy rests on five major building blocks: (i) building public and
private institutio. to promote private sector growth; (ii) addressing bong-term human resources issues;
(iii) removing infrastructure bottlenecks; (iv) helping Cape Verde integrate into the Region and the world
economy; and (v) increasing the efficiency of public resourco management (including better coordination
of foreign aid).
34.            Key economic indicators are shown in the Table below.
TABLE 1: Key Eoom   Irndicaor
(petent except as indicaed)
18          199          1990       1991      ht. 1992
bi Cocmtu Prim.
GDP Oaowdh                                  7.6          s.5         2.2         3.3          4.9
MAU Coomaw" p.c                            10.7         10.1         4.4        -1.2          4.5
rat Oronb                                  .19.2         3.8         2.2         -.           23
p                                           .3.3        *6           6.         4Q3           9.1
In cuarrt pd..
YIle2tIODP                                  33.2        30.7        28S.        25.9         294
Domes. SaVinpaIDP                           -2.7        -3.2         4.6        -2.8         -1.8
Stock of Det (m CV 8SC bWie)                9.3         10.0         10.6        11.2        12.1
cm US .m1ie)                        129.3        122          157.2       57.2        1694
DOwvie (%XGNFS)                            19.5         11.7        16.S        13.8          2.0
Core Ao_atODP 11            S.13                        -.1.4       -112        .10.7       -14.3
GDP (in ust$ sm1m)                         209.6       223.5        237.7       303.1       332.6
GDPOdlat                                    7.4          8.3         7.2         9.5          S.
35.            In the medium-term (1993-96), and assuming that reforms are maintained and deepened,
economic growth Is projected to average 5.5% a year in real terms. Growth is expected to come
from: (J) higher public investment in infrastructure, modernization of telecommunications, and housing
and water supply and sewerage systems in urban areas; (ii) moderate private investment in fisheries,
tourism, services (including banking), and export processing; (iii) an improvement in agricultural output;
(iv) continuous growth in private housing construction; (v) continuous growth of commerce; and (vi)
growth in services to international air and maritime transport.



9
36.          New privatb sector investment in Cape Verde will have a raoderate impact on economic
growth In the initial years given its present low base. Over time Its contribution to growth is likely to
increase, particularly from investment in rehabilitation of industrial fisheries and fish processing (4% in
1992 and 11% by 1995), tourism (8% in 1992 and 13% in 1995), and export processing zones (4.4%
in 1992 and 7.5% in 1995).
37.          Proposed Lending Program. The lending program consists of specific investment
operations, with high policy contents, which provide direct support to the transformation of Cape Ve-rde's
economy. Although Cape Verde is undergoing a major adjustment program in all but n,...e, i: . -s not
sought, and we are not proposing, any quick disbursing adjustment lending. The lending program would
range over FY93-97 from US$27 to US$40 million, depending on the country's performance, and the
speed and effectiveness of implementation.
38.          A Professional Education and Training project would assist government in: (i)
developing institutional capacity for policy formulation, planning and coordination of employment, labor
markets and training programs; (ii) improving the efficiency of labor market operations; (iii) redefining
vocational training (programs, institutions, and delivery); and (iv) developing new professional education
programs using Non-Resident Cape Verdeans and distance education. A Second Education project
would continue support for improvement of primary education begun under the first project, and assi.
with the development of post-primary education including the expansion and enhancement of quality of
secondary education.
39.          To address the host of issues related to the redefinition of the roles of the public and
private sectors in economic development, one or two operations will be proposed. They will focus on:
(1) public institutional development and capacity building (civil service reform, building policy
capabilities, decentralization, and streamlining various public institons and the adminitration); (ii)
completing the second phase of the public enterprise reform program begun under the Privatization TA
project; (iii) supporting improved planning and implementation of public investments iucluding the
development of institutional and human capacity given the role that public investments will play in the
future; and (iv) deepening and improving the financial sector (prudential regulatory framework for both
insurance and banking, links between formal and informal financial sectors, privatization of commercial
banking, training of professionals in banking and insurance, and financing of various private sector
ventures).
40.          Portfolio Management Peojrmance. The current portfolio is on the whole satisfactorily
managed but several lessons have l'een drawn and will be reflected in our future operations. First, intra-
agency coordination in Cape Ve,de, although now improving, is weak. This became evident in the
manageme<-4 of the Infrastructure Rehabilitation project which involved several agencies. The fact that
the project had a number of unrelated objectives did not help. Reporting on project progress for example,
became problematic for lack of a central project coordinator. Drawing from these lessons, a central
coordinator has been appointed for the proposed project, and responsibility for coordination has been
assigned to one agency in the case of the proposed Professional Education and Training project. Second,
the difficulties in procurement and other delays encountered under the Primary Education project were
in part the result of inexperience and unfamiliarity with Bank procedures by project management, and
in part due to infrequent supervision by the Bank of a relatively complex project. As a result, we are
now, and in all future projects, dedicating at least two days during each supervision mission to reviewing
Bank procedures with project management, whether a problem e.ists or not. A supervision plan is
prepared at project appraisal and strictly adhered to.



1o
41.          Economic and Sector Work. The ESW program for FY93-95 is designed to: improve
IDA's analytical base and consequently the underpinning of the country strategy; and provide to the
government sound analytical instruments for proper macroeconomic and sectoral management. An
Updating Economic Note has just been completed, discussed with government and shared with other
donors. It was the first comprehensive report on the Cape Verdean economy since 1985. Following up
on the economic note, a series of reviews designed to focus government and donor efforts on such issues
as transport policy, human resource development options, cross-cutting issues including poverty
alleviation, institutional development and capacity building, the legal/business environment, etc. are
underway or planned.  A draft paper has been prepared outlining Elements for a Country
Environmental Strategy. A review of the Employment and Training semtor has provided the
underpinning for the Professional Education and Training project and Government's recently adopted
strategy on employment and training. Work on the Legal/Business Environment is underway. An
Institutional Development Note is planned, as is a Poverty/Cross-Cutting Issues Note.
42.         Internatonal Finance Corporation. Cape Verde has not benefitted so far from IFC
operations. With the opening up of the Cape Verdean economy and the privatization process being set
in motion under the IDA financed Privatization TA project, significant IFC involvement could emerge.
Discussions are advanced on IFC participation in a shoe factory which was privatized. Discussions over
IFC participation in a pharmaceutical company (sold by the State to employees) are ongoing. Other
possibilities are being explored (see Schedule D, page 2). The sectors seen as having the most potential
for IFC investment are tourism, banking, light manufacturing, and teleport development.
43.          Collaboration with MF and Donors. The IMF undertakes Article IV consultations every
two years. These consultations have usually been timed to coincide with Bank missions to Cape Verde
so that reviews are undertaken jointly. In addition, the IMF and the Bank have been collaborating closely
in providing assistance to Cape Verde for financial sector restructring.
44.          Aid Coordination. Public investment requirements are projected at over 30% of GDP
in the 1990s and will be almost fully financed by external assistance. Two aspects of aid coordination
are important: introducing a multi-year Public Investment Program and modifying and broadening current
practices in aid coordination. At present, Round Table meetings organized by the UNDP, about every
18 to 24 months, are a formal forum for consultations on policy and sectoral issues, and on public
investment requirements between Government and the donors' community. The latest Round Table was
held in October/November 1992 and the Bank provided substantial support to the preparation of that
conference as well as a number of background documents. Government intends to establish regular
informal consultations and exchange of information with its partners in development, including NGOs,
in addition to the present practice of bilateral dealings with donors. Both Government and donors are
calling on the Bank to play a more prominent role in aid coordination, and a number of donors have
expressed interest in cofinancing investment projects with the Bank. The Transport Infrastructure Project
is a case in point.
D.    Summarv Assessment
45.          Cape Verde is a country in transition. Since April 1991, a new government is actively
striving to transform the economy, shifting from an inward-looking approach relying on the public sector
to an outward-looking, market-based strategy. The policy shift was made to correct mounting difficulties
at the end of the 1980's. It coincided with a period of political change and its success will require the
combination of prudence and determination which has been the country's hallmark in the past.



11
46.          The overall reform program is sound, adequately sequenced, and on-track. On the
economic and financial fronts, stabilization measures have included limiting credit to public enterprises,
keeping interest rates positive, increasing tax revenues by enlarging the tax base and reducing the overall
level of tax rates, and controlling budgetary expenditures. Structural reforms al'iady or being
implemented include trade liberalization, improving and simplifying the tax system, the removal of state
monopolies in commerce, services and manufacturing, price liberalization, and legal and regulatory
reforms with USAID and IDA assistance. Sectoral policy reforms are underway in infrastructure,
transport, education and health, the former three with IDA support. Preparation of financial sector
reform has been initiated with IMF and IDA technical assistance. The first private insurance company,
a joint venture between Cape Verdeans and a European partner, was set up in late 1991 and it is engaged
in free and fair competitiena with the previous public monopoly whose efficiency and profitability has
dramatically increased since competition was induced. The next step in the financial sector is to split the
BCV, the country's all-purpose bank, into a central bank and a commercial/investment bank. This is
planned for early 1993. Foreign investors and Cape Verdean emigres are being encouraged to invest
directly or to set up joint ventures with the domestic private sector. The legislative package 1 ulating
private investment and the Labor Code are being further improved.
47.          Government's determination to integrate Cape Verde into the world econt-ny and to
cooperate more actively at the regional level hoids the promise of viable long-term development. If
successful, it can bring about sustainable growth, create new jobs, and improve export earning capacity,
reducing, in turn, the high dependence on foreign savings. In this quest, the constraints are many: a
small island economy, poor natural resources, and the need for adequate infrastructure, trained human
resources, and a change in mind sets towards entrepreneurship. But endurance in pursuing appropriate
policies could help replicate the success stories of Mauritius, some Caribbean countries, Malta, or perhaps
even the Asian "tigers". The Bank's assistance strategy is designed to support Government's efforts, by
helping to eliminate bottlenecks (human resources and physical infrastructure), advising on public sector
restructuring and private sector promotion, and providing assistance to address long-term issues such as
population and environment.
II. THE TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
48.          SectorBackground. Infrastructure, mostimportantto communicationswithinandbetween
the islands and with the rest of the world, includes: (i) two major and eight minor sheltered ports; Cii)
two international airports and seven local airports; (iii) a network of 680 km of paved roads (94% with
cobblestones) and 416 km of earth and rural roads. Maintenance needs are growing as the road
infrastructure ages, calling for larger funding and more specialized organizations. Port productivity in
Mindelo is constrained by obsolete design of Porto Grande facilities; a modern terminal is needed. The
Fogo island economy is increasingly strangled by port constraints; the breakwater at Vale De Cavaleiros,
damaged in 1977, has already collapsed on half it6 length and total destruction is likely within the next
3 to 4 years; sand accumulation in the port basin adds to the difficulty of lighterage. Transport and
telecommunications delivery is of poor quality, and the national merchant marine struggles with over-aged
ships and mounting financial strains. The economic development of Cape Verde is clearly hindered by
infrastructure problems.
49.          Project Objeaives. The objectives of the Project are to: (i) promote international
competitiveness of Cape Verde through port modernization, reorganization of the shipping industry, and
development of offshore information industries, or "teleports"; (ii) foster national economic integration
by streamlining sector investment planning to achieve a more balanced and cost-effective allocation of
resources across the territory; (iii) prevent further erosion of the capital stock in the road network by



12
setting up a road maintenance organization and providing for adequate funding of road works; (iv)
support promotion of the local contracting industry through execution of a 4-year road maintenance
program; (v) alleviate poverty in Fogo island through rehabilitation of Vale De Cavaleiros port.
50.          Project Description. Under a sector lending approach, the Project (US$78.4 million)
comprises four components: (i) a four-year time slice of the port sector investment program which
includes two major sub-projects: modernization of Porto Grande in the island of Sao Vicente to cater for
national traffic needs and attract international transshipment, and rehabilitation of Vale De Cavaleiros in
Fogo island (46%); (ii) implementation of an action plan for reorganization of shipping services within
a revamped regulatory environment (1%); (iii) a four-year time slice of the road construction and
maintenance program (52%); (iv) creation of an institutional framework conducive to development of
satellite earth station 'teleports' by private investors (.5%). Technical assistance focused on capacity
building will be provided under each of the four components. Schedule A presents the Project Cost
Summary as well as the financial plan.
51.          Project Implementation.  Government commitment to project objectives has been
confirmed in the Letter of Transport Sector Policy and the Letter of Teleport Policy submitted to IDA.
Qualified staff in key positions at the Ministry of infrastructure (MIT) have been appointed and a
Transport Planning Unit has been established in MIT which will be in charge of project coordination.
Nomination of a Project Coordinator acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness. Annual
Implementation Reviews and a Mid-Term Review will take place to assess performance and decide on
future actions; the content and scheduling of these reviews are specified in the Development Credit
Agreement.
52.          ENAPOR will be the implementing agency for modernization of Porto Grande, technical
assistance and training under the port component; development of the operational, financial, personnel
management, and marketing functions will be supported with technical assistance. A Contract-Plan to
give ENAPCR real autonomy in pricing and personnel management decisions as well as tightened
discipline to achieve productivity and financial targets, has been signed between the Government and
ENAPOR. The IDA credit allocated to the port component will be onlent to ENAPOR at 7.5%. Two
special accounts, one for IDA funds and the other for counterpart funds, will be opened at the Banco de
Cabo Verde to facilitate financing of the other three components.
53.         Institutional development under the road component will include setting-up of a road
management unit with responsibilities for programming and supervision of major road works, and
coordination and monitoring of the 14 municipalities entrusted with planning and execution of other types
of road works in the new decentralized organization. Special emphasis will be placed on building the
expertise required to supervise the private contractors, who will take over execution of road works from
the FAIMOs (Portuguese equivalent of Labor Intensive Force Account) to be phased out within the next
five years. Two pilot operations will be conducted under expert advice in order to identify more cost-
effective techniques: (i) some works will be used to assess respective economic performance of an asphalt
and the traditional and costly cobblestone cover, and to test physical performance of low volume earth
roads strengthened with cobblestones only on high gradient strtches. Training under the project will
make extensive use of local institutions.
54.          Project Susta&nabity. Road and port sector management capacities built up with
technical assistance and training will ensure lssting effect of project benefits. The Road Management
Unit, the Road Safety Unit, and the Transport Planning Unit are key elements of Project institution
building. Furthermore, enhancing local funding capabilities will be sought through: (i) greater pricing
freedom for ENAPOR within provisions of the Contract-Plan; (ii) deregulation of inter-island shipping



13
freight rates, essential to restore profitability of the national merchant marine, which is part of the Action
Plan for Reorganization of Shipping; (iii) the mechanisms to ensure adequacy of road user charges to
generate enough funds to maintain the road network. More generally, cost effective road spending will
be achieved under the new planning and road management organization at the MIT, developed under the
project.
55.          Lessons Learnedfrom Previous IDA Involvement. The Port of Praia Project (Cr. 1322-
CV, SvR 6.7 million), completed in 1990 was quite successful on the engineering side but fell short on
institution building. The ongoing Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
1954-CV, SDR 3.5 million) has had mixed results in terms of policy changes. IDA conditionality on
tariff increases and audit requirements have been implemented with delays owing to the weak local
administration and unfamiliarity with IDA procedures, and to local emphasis on 'social' pricing for
transport services. More front loaded conditionality might have produced better results. Limited
supervision has compounded problems; therefore a detailed supervision plan including annual
implementation reviews and a mid-term review has been prepared for the Transport and Infrastructure
Project. Some implementation problems experienced under the earlier projects can be traced to
insufficient definiton of roles and responsibilities of institutions involved: for the proposed project, an
implementation manual describing procedures and assigning responsibilides and reporting duties has been
prepared by the Borrower.
56.          Rationale for IDA Involvement. The new Government has launched a program of
sweeping reforms towards liberalization of the economy. It faces a difficult transition, given the world
recession and shifting focus of donor assistance towards Eastern European countries. To gain full local
acceptance of its policies, the Government must strike early successes and needs extemal support. IDA
is well positioned to provide support to policies which are in complete harmony with its own strategy for
development. In addition, infrastructure is at the core of the Government investment strategy; praised
locally for the success of its previous port project, and with the experience accumulated in transport and
road management, IDA could make a real contribution to achievement of growth objectives through the
proposed program. As IDA leadership is well acknowledged by other donors present in Cape Verde, this
program would also serve to improve hitherto inadequate aid coordination, which has sometimes led to
investments in non -priority sub-projects.
57.          Agreed Actions. The following actions have already been carried out: (a) signing of the
Contract-Plan for ENAPOR (b) signing of the Action Plan for Reorganization of Shipping; (c)
appointment of key staff at the MIT; (d) setting up a road safety unit in DGLT and appointment of key
staff; (e) preparation of tender documents for the port and road (first-year) investments; (f) finaization
of the Implementation Manual and Letter of Transport Sector Policy. The following are conditionsf
effectiveness: (a) issuance of Executive order establishing a framework for public passenger transport
operation; (b) signature of contract of consultants needed to launch the technical assistance program; (c)
appointment of a Program Coordinator; (d) opening of project account and initial deposit of counterpart
funds; (e) enactment of new port tariffs; (f) implementation of a computerized project accounting system;
(g) selection of an auditor; (h) appointment of a qualified Chief of Accounts at ENAPOR; and (i)
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and ENAPOR. The following are
conditions of disbursements: (a) IDA will not disburse for modernization of Porto Grande before the
financing plan is completely secured; (b) IDA will not disburse for rehabilitation of Vale de Cavaleiros
unless the following conditions have been met: i) the Borrower has secured the additional funds required
to complete the financing; ii) IDA has reviewed the results of the modelling studies required for the
preparation of detailed engineering; iii) all corrective environmental measures that may be required have
been incorporated in the final design; iv) the updated economic study, on the basis of revised cost
estimates in the final detailed engineering, confirms the economic viability of the investment; and (c) IWA



14
will not finance training under the highway component, until a training program is submitted by the
Government to IDA and found acceptable.
58.          Enviromnental Aspects. An enviromnental assessment has been completed for the
proposed port modernization at Mindelo as an integral part of the feasibility study. Port development
impacts with regard to hydrodynamic changes, sea water quality changes during and after construction,
and marine life inside the Mindelo Bay were carefully reviewed. The proposed design poses no threat
to the environment. Detailed engineering studies for port rehabilitation at Fogo will consider several
alternatives to restore natural sand flows and minimize the need for dredging; execution of further
environmental investigations will be included in the contract for preparation of detailed engineering
studies. Road construction and maintenance raises few environmental concerns in view of the nature of
the rehabilitation and maintenance works that are essentially limited to existing rights of way and will be
executed using non intrusive labor-intensive methods. Terms of reference for preparation of tender
documents will include provisions for looking into ways to mitigate potential damages or enhance the
environment. Road safety is a major issue in Cape Verde; it will be tackled under the project by: (i)
setting up an organization at the land transport department to prepare and execute road safety programs;
(ii) carrying out design improvements on project roads which will enhance road safety.
59.          Program Objective Categories. By privatizing road maintenance, the project will achieve
better conservation of the capital invested in the road network, provide small contractors with
opportunities to grow and create employment, thus reducing poverty. Provision of a legal framework
and an Action Plan for streamlining Cape Verde's shipping industries will reduce transport costs and
increase the country's competitiveness as a player in the trans-shipment business. The Fogo port
component has a poverty alleviation focus. Public sector management will be improved through
introduction of modem systems in the project executing agencies, together with rationalization of
transport planning by the central Government.
60.          Project Benefits. Port modernization at Porto Grande will reduce transit costs and create
opportunities for transshipment that could earn Cape Verde needed foreign exchange. Reorganization
of shipping works toward the same goal. Rehabilitation of Vale De Cavaleiros will spur economic
growth in the Fogo island. Road maintenance will translate into reduced vehicle operating costs, and
promotion of small contractors may eventually lead to a larger representation of Cape Verdean firms on
the !nternational market in West Africa and expand foreign exchange earnings. The estimated Economic
Rates of Return (ERR) average 23.5% for the first-year road program, and range from 17% for port
modernization (Sao Vicente), to 13% for port rehabilitation (Fogo). Sensitivity analysis carried out under
the assumptions of lower port traffic and higher port and highway construction and maintenance costs that
showed that the project would remain economically justified, with the possible exception of Fogo Port,
for which a decision to carry out the investment is contingent upon verification that final cost estimates
based on forthcoming detailed engineering studies do not invalidate the current conclusion of economic
viability.
61.          Risks. The major risk relates to the relative project complexity and the current limited
"absorptive capacity" of the Administration in charge of infrastructure and transport; the institutional
development components and adequate phasing of Project actions will minimize these risks. For port civil
works, risks appear moderate and manageable through proper design and good construction practices;
a feasible engineering solution for reconstruction of Vale De Cavaleiros, however, is more difficult to
reach in view of seasonal movements of sand bars which currently prevent berthing of ships; test
modelling will be carried out before preparation of tender documents to opumize port design and avoid
the need for frequent dredging. Development of the multi-purpose berth in Porto Grande may fail to
attract foreign transshipment; to maximize chances of success, ENAPOR marketing capabilities will be



15
developed under the Project as a follow-up to the market survey carried out during project preparation;
dimensioning of the berth has been kept within modest proportion and the investment is still economically
justified by benefits generated for Cape Verde's own traffic alone.
62.          Recommend4don. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 2, 1993



16
Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
TRANSPORT and INFRASTRUCIURE PROJECT
PROJECT CO SUMMARY
CV &audo am                         us$ 14                            T
1,i1         I 5    ToW     Il     |  Fipw         Tabl  |FCW          B
A. POzRT
1. MODOfW. OF PORITO GRANDE          188.7      56.1        754.8        2.9        8.7        11.6       75.0      17.7
2. REHAB. VALE DE CAVALEHIOS          111.0     444.1       555.1        1.7        6.8         8.6       80O        13.0
3. O0E  PORT WP1e)VEMIS              130.8       505.2      636.0        2.0        7.8         9.8       79.4       14.9
SUE TOTAL                            430.5       515.4     1945.9        6.6       23.4        30.0       77.9      45.7
a. sNIPPa                            _         11.4       33.9       45.3        0.2         0.5        0.7        74.8       1.1
C. MIG AY                                     847.0     1314.2      2161.2       13.1       20.3       33.3        60.8      50.8
D. ELEORT                                       2.6       234        26.0        00          0.4        0.4        90.0       0.6
I. PioJectPIMPudc PooW' (PaM                   22.8       533        71           0.4        0.8        1.2        70.0       1.8
TOTAL BASEUN COSTS                           1314A4      2940.3     4254.7       20.3       45.3        65.6       69.1      100.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCES                113.7       2674       381.2        1.8        4.1         5.9       70.2       9.0
MRCB CONINGENCMS                     1626        291.S      4S4.1        2.5        4.5         7.0       64.2    I17
i TALPRO)=COS          _                      1590.S     3499.2     50900|       24.5        53.9|      78.4       68.7      119.6
FINANCING PLAN (US$ MILLION)
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL    % OF
TOTAL
PROJECT
COSTS
Government                        10.7              4.9            15.6             20%
IDA                                2.3             10.2            12.5             16%
Germany (W)                        0.6              6.4             7.0              9%
Netherlands                        0.1              3.2             3.3              4%
ADF                                1.4              2.5             3.9              5%
Others                             9.4             26.7            36.1             46%
78.4
Total Project Costs               24.5             53.9                            100%
* At a recent donor's meeting, pledges wer received from BADEA (about US$10 milion equivaleat, OPEBcfund (about
US$5 million equivalent), the Prench Caisse Centrale (about US$5 milion), EIB (about US$5 million equivalent) and the
Swedish Import Support Program (about US$10 million equivalent per year), the total of which is suffloicit to cover the
fimding gap.



17
Schedule B
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
(US$ million)
Procurement Method              Total
Project Element           IBNFCs
ICB         NBF          Other         Cost
Port civil works              19.5 (5.1)*    11.4                    30.9 (5.1)
Port equipment                 1.0 (0.3)      1.0          .          2.0 (0.3)
Highway civil works            2.8(1.0)      32.3                    35.1 (1.0)
Highway:vehicles, office equip    0.25 (0.25)           0.1 (0.1)    0.35 (0.35)
Technical assistance                         3.6       3.95 (3.95)   7.55 (3.95)
Recurrent costs                                          1.3 (0.6)    1.3 (0.6)
Refincing PPF                                            1.2 (1.2)    1.2 (1.2)
TOTAL              23.55 (6.65)    48.3      6.55 (5.85)   78.4 (12.5)
:     Amounts in parentheses correspond to IDA financed items.



18
Scedulp B
Page 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
DISBIJRSEMENlTS
Amount of Credit             Disbursemont
(US$ minion)                pertanta
1. Civil Works
Porto Grande                                        1.8   100% of foreign expenditures and
Vale de Cavaloros                                   2.4          80% of local expenditures
Highway                                             0.9
2. Equipment                                                0.5     100 of foreign expenditures and
80% of local expenditures
2. Technical Assstanee, asuiing                             4.1                           100%
3. Reimbursment of PPP                                      1.2                            n.a.
4. Inoremental Recurrent cost                               0.5         declining % over the years,
D____________________________________  ___________________                        average of 45%
S. Unalocated                                               1.1  _
TOTAL                                     12.5
Estimaed Schedule of Disbu ts
Disbursemns per         Cuaive
FY and semester               semeter                                       %
_____________ ____________U S$   m         ilion                _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
m3    2nd semester                       0.8                  0.8                    6
1994   1st semestr                       2.0                  2.8                   22
2nd semester                     2.0                   4.8                   38
1995    1st semester                     1.5                  6.3                   50
2nd semoder                      1.5                   7.8                   62
1996   1st semesr                        2.0                  9.8                   78
2nd semester                     2.0                  11.8                   94
1997   1st semester                      0.2                  12.0                  96
2nd semester                     0.2                  12.2                   97
1998    1st samester                     0.2                  12.4                  99
2nd semester                     0.1                  12.5                  100



19
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project PrQcesing Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare:               6 months
(b) Prepared by 1/:                      Government with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA mission:                   February 1992
(d) Appraisal mission departure:         June 30, 1992
(e) Negotiations:                        November 9, 1992
(ft) Planned date of effectiveness:      July 1993
j/ This project was prepared by Mr. Michel Loir, with support from Mr. Michel Audige (AFTIN).



20
Schedule D
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAPE VERDE
CAPE VERE
Status Of Sk Grroup  peraticns In CAPE VERDE
PFDBR25 - Summry Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 12/30/92 - HIS data as of 01/21/93)
By Country
Country:   CAPE VERDE
Anount in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                              Urdis- Closing
Credit No.     Year  Borrouer                      Purpose                    uank        IDA    bursed  Date
.. .  ..     .. ..   .. .. .                       -- - -                     ...         --.. . .        . . .
Credits
1 Credits(s) closed                                                                      5.04
C1579CFCAP    1985   CAPE VERDE                     IDF                                  4.00        .32 12/31/92(R)
C18530-CAP    1988   CAPE VERDE                    PRIMARY EDUC UPGRADI                  4.20      3.43 06/30/94
C1950-CP    199   CAPE VERDE                        INFRAS REOB                          4.70        .60 12/31/92CR)
C23770-CAP    1992   CE VERDE                      PRIVATIZATION P.E.                    4.20      4.26 06/30/97
TOTAL nuber Credits u   4                                                                 17.10      8.61
TOTAL***                                                                  22.14
of idich repaid
TOTAL held by Bark & IDA                                                  22.14
Aint sold
of which repaid
TOTAL uidisbursed                                                                    8.61
Notes:
... ........... .. ...
* Not yet effective
** Not yet sined
*** Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and irective Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates fomlly revised Closing Date.
CS) indicates SAL/SECAL Loom and Credits.
The Net Aproved aid Baic Repyments are historical vatue, atl others are mrket value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
fram the Task Buxlet file.



21
Schedule D
Page 2
RERPUBLIC OF CMP yERD
STATUS OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of July 30, I=2
(Amounts in US$ million)
African Enterprise Fbnd Projects:
Fiscal             Obligor      Tpe of Business                  L
FY91               INFARMA    Pharmaceutical products            US$0.7 million
FY92               IBC          Construction materials           US$0.6 million
FY92               GROWELA   Shoe manufacuring                   US$1.0 million
The above mentioned loans have not yet been signed.



22
Schedule D
Page 3
STATUS OF DISBURSEMENTS IN CAPE VERDE
Nl;Yl  ON EQRTFLIO IMPLZEbMA=AT            ISSIJE
1.    Overall, IDA's Cape Verde portfolio of projects is in good health: overall status is curreatly
rated at 2 (and improving); the developmental impact is rated at 1.67 (and also improving). A generic
implementation issue such as the lack of counterpart funds that affect projects in many countries of
the Department has not been a problem; counterpart funds are made available in a timely fashion.
2.    However, during FY91 and part of FY92, the Primary Education Upjrading Proiect (Cr,
1853-) experienced significant lags in disbursements due to: (i) delays in the construction of the
Pedagogical Institute; (ii) delays in the preparation/testing of new textbooks; and (iii) unfamiliarity
of the new project manager with Bank procedures (withdrawal applications, SOEs, special account
operations, etc.).
3.    In response to the above difficulties, Bank supervision missions were fielded in February and
May 1992. Tle February mission identified the problems and agreed with the govenment on a
corrective course of actions. The government is implementing the actions. The contract for the
Pedagogical Institutue was signed on April 29, 1992, and construction started soon after. The May
mission noted other major improvements: project management had become more familiar with Bank
procedures; and work was underway on the preparation and testing of the text books. Terms of
reference for all studies had also beon prepared and agreed upon, and contracting of consultants
underway.
4.    A letter was sent to Government in July noting these improvements and preliminary
indications from a midterm project review currently underway confirm these improvements which
would result in significantly improved ratings for the project Disbursements are expected to pick up
significantly in the coming months.



24                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23
/r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~            a                                                   n .''  't s g
17' (h'r;. 17'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
. O , S r<ancO                                                      a
.4,,
CAPE VERDE                            -                           A f / a n tWi c OK1.MU
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE 
-   R WWWOMM  CASS ROADS
KILOMEfT     ip                                     e so                                         - 0    I
_-- ESONAW   RADIES          .     l      '0                  -3                    -      S                af/<              1
A~~~~~~~
EEMAU-ITANIA                                                      
NREPLCOF                   MALI
-                                                                                                                                                      Is.NwoRasa55',\ /
~~~~ LeSoX-w 7, A _ boA
GUNEA lO N-EtF:5lr m 
OC1oaER 1992



D - I |~~~~~~~~ I xZ/Z__-  \-s\z_/
F  .14   .13       42       -11      .10      .9           .         .7          46             5     4
CAPE V E RD t E
TRANSPORT INFRSTRUCTURE
PORT OF PORTO GRANDE,                                                        st, 
$40 VICENTE ISLAND                           (
EXTENSIONf/X/ PHf'zL 0/0ASE I
PROJCCT COWJON
WSIInNG PORT FAC-.                                                                            Coniner
o     JitDINoS            'jr         G         xt             e       ,., .F. -  F S   //            Storage           CZ 
V~~~2-  ISOWHFS [N ME5  aJ        /oiie \ 
Shops
/ t y  Accep WharFi
.7       Ouoy No. 8   ol      Adns   n
t  o  _ ; -1818 - -|*li 1 ' 9'1'' 1n~~~~~~~~~~Co 
~~~~~~~~>~~~~~(
wy5e ArTANTFC   7    T < f        MAUAiA L1 T
OCIAN                      1ON    ATUANric      vDI
OCIAN                            s                                                                        .
8                             A                                                                                           tou B v C . . T .... _ _ .  o0



2
receive a higher share of the world market price than state-administered crops. The number of fruit
and vegetable exporters has increased from 5 to 15 in the last three years. However, these emerging
businesses continue to face serious obstacles to achieve international competitiveness. Many obstacles
result from internal and regulatory constraints, including lack of narketing skills and poor knowledge
of foreign markets, while others stem from the geographical location of th-a country and its low level
of development. In recognition of these constraints, the government is pursuing its reform program
to improve the private sector's legal and regulatory framework and overall operating environment,
as well as shifting the role of the State from production and processing to that of a regulator and
promoter of private sector development.
5.   The Bank intends to support the government's strategy with three operations. The recently
approved Third Structural Adjustunent Credit (SAC IIl), building on the lessons learned from the
implementation of the first two SACs, supports a full deregulation in the agricultural sector and the
removal of remaining policy constraints to private sector development. The also recently approved
P-ivate Sector Development operation is to provide an APFX line of credit for private entrepreneurs,
together with additional reforms in the regulatory and legal framework as well as in the financial
sector. In parallel to these two operations, the proposed Agribusiness Promotion Project would
support: (a) the break up of monopolies and accelerated privatization of agricultural PT7s; and (b)
the development of small private agribusinesses.
6.   Proiect Obieatives and Description. The project would help to diversify the production and
marketing of agricultural produce (including exports) and stimulate efficiency improvements by
expanding the role of the private sector and actively supporting competition. To this end, the project
would have two components: (i) assistance to government in privatizing publicly held agro-industries;
(ii) assistance to private entrepreneurs in developing agribusinesses.
(a)   Privatizationof Public Agro-lndustries. In supportingthe government'splantoprivatize
agricultural PEs, the project would give special attention to the largest of these agro-industries,
namely: the Burundi Tea Company (OTB); the Cotton Management Company (COGERCO); the
Mosso Sugar Company (SOSUMO), and the Imbo Regional Development Company (SRDI), a rice
producer. It would fund technical assistance to provide specialized services (e.g. socio-economic
evaluation, assets valuation; bidding documents for management contracts, leasing and sale of assets;
and organization of public offerings) to facilitate the privatization process. Technical assistance
would be provided to the Interministerial Committee for privatization (ICP) and to the Technical
Evaluation Commissions (rEC). The project would also finance training activities to prepare
employees for privatization and complement management reforms implemented through on-going
projects funded by Belgium, France and the European Communities (EC).
(b)  Development of Private Agribusiness. An Agribusiness Development Fund designed to
motivate and assist private firms and their professional associations in the expansion of their business
would provide financing for commercial services to improve their marketing, product development
and technological development. The fund would finance up to 50 percent of related expenses through
a matching fund mechanism which has been successfully introduced in India and Indonesia with Bank
support as an alternative to supply-driven public exports promotion schemes. Eligible expenses for
commercial services to individual firms would be recovered over a period of five years, but local
training organized by professional associations would be financed on a 50:50 basis. Jligible firms
include an estimated 300 firms in agribusiness and other resource based industries. Beneficiaries
would typically be small enterprises seeking to develop export markets and diversify the range of
goods produced. Eligible activities would include any activity within a properly formulated export
expansion or import-substitution plan covering: market prospection, product development and



o ~~~o  40    40    ac  oc                                           M~~~~~~~~~~AURITANA
g - -- --- 40 Z Z loI                                        I      I     /       Iv                                            ArTANTIC tU
NEJ IEv                                                     OCEAN
Cliffs                                      /        /t                                 E 
1~~~~~~~~~~E ~ ~ '1
IQLOMETER
ATLANTIC
OCEAN
24'w         2160
)                                                                                                                                           ///////(SR INFRASTRUCTURE
2 t v / N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P RT  OF  VALE  DE  CA AEIO
\ v _ _ 7,2                                                                                             0 12 BUILDINGS0tSebhb4 O
_ BRATER 5 27 j9 -2-  15O3WHS IN METERS                                                                                                                                               A
K                                                                                                                                   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-



