                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                          Report No: 31006

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (COFN-03460 TF-27975 IDA-24660 IDA-24661)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.9 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                                                 FOR A

                          TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                                          DECEMBER 23, 2004




Transport Sector
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                   Currency Unit = Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
                           CVE 64.89 (appraisal) = US$ 1
                         CVE 85.11 (Nov. 2004)
                            US$ 1.404 (appraisal) = SDR 1
                          US$ 1.511 (Nov. 2004)

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1    December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARE         Economic Regulatory Administration
BADEA       Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFD         Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CPU         Coordination Project Unit
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
DGI         Directorate General of Infrastructure
DGMP Directorate General of Shipping and Ports
DGTR        Directorate General of Road Transport
EIB         European Investment Bank
ENAPOR      National Port Authority
GoCV        Government of Cape Verde
IDA         International Development Association
IMP         Institute of Maritime and Ports
IRR         Internal Rate of Return
ISPS        International Ship and Port Facility Security Code
KFW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MIT         Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PIT         Infrastructure and Transport Project
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
RF          Road Fund
RI          Road Institute
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SLA         Subsidiary Loan Agreement
STCW 98     Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers
UCP         Project Coordination Unit

                                  Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                                Country Director      Madani M. Tall
                                Sector Manager        Sanjivi Rajasingham
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Gylfi Palsson

                                        CAPE VERDE
                             Transport and Infrastructure Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P000435                                                  Project Name: Transport and Infrastructure Project
Team Leader: Gylfi Palsson                                           TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Transport and Infrastructure Project                     L/C/TF Number: COFN-03460; TF-27975;
                                                                                                     IDA-24660; IDA-24661
   Country/Department: CAPE VERDE                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Ports, waterways and shipping (53%); Roads and highways (44%);
                            Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Other financial and
                            private sector development (P); Other trade and integration (P);
                            Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/15/1991                                     Effective: 06/17/1993                07/22/1993
     Appraisal: 06/25/1992                                         MTR: 11/15/1995                  06/26/1996
      Approval: 03/04/1993                                      Closing: 06/30/1998                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T, ENAPOR,/MIT/PIT; ENAPOR
                      Other Partners:      OPEC, BADEA, AfDB, FCC, SDC, EDF, EU, FAD, KFW, Portugal, Netherlands

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Madani Tall                                    Katheleen Marshall
Sector Manager:                 Sanjivi Rajasingham                            Peter Watson
Team Leader at ICR:             Gylfi Palsson                                  Michel Loir
ICR Primary Author:             James Wright; Gylfi Palsson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives, as listed in the Staff Appraisal Report of February 1993 and the
Development Credit Agreement of March 2003, were:

(i) To promote international competitiveness through port modernization, reorganization of the
shipping industry and development of offshore information industries.
(ii) To foster national economic integration by streamlining transport sector investment planning
and achieving a more balanced and cost effective allocation of resources.
(iii) To prevent further erosion of the capital stock in the road network by setting up a road
maintenance organization.
(iv) To support the promotion of the local contracting industry through the execution of a four
year road maintenance program.
(v) To promote economic growth and alleviate poverty in Fogo Island through rehabilitation of its
only port.
(vi) A longer-term objective was to build capacity in the Ministry of Transport and
Communications.

The objectives were important for Cape Verde's development. The 1980s had seen a deceleration
of economic growth, but by the end of the decade the country was beginning to reform its
economy to attract foreign capital, develop the private sector and adopt a more outward-looking
development strategy. However, the country lacked adequate port and road infrastructure, and
direct government management of ports, roads and shipping constrained economic growth. In
particular, roads and ports were poorly maintained. Bureaucratic management and inefficient
labor policies hampered port and shipping services. Inter-island shipping involved sixteen vessels,
many very old, and thirteen companies, many of which were barely solvent. Maintenance of the
roads was directly by force account, which was inefficient and unable to keep up with the need.
Funding for road maintenance was inadequate.

This project followed the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1954-CV) which had supported the adoption of new legislation liberalizing the transport sector.
The Government's strategy was developed in discussions with the Bank and other donors. A
donors' round-table meeting was held in 1991 where donors made commitments to finance
different components. The strategy was to support the structural change of the economy to be
more outward looking by streamlining transport policies and modernizing transport infrastructure.
The strategy supported: (i) creation of new port facilities at Porto Grande (Mindelo) which was to
be the center for international and inter-island transshipment; (ii) reorganization of shipping to
restore profitability, improve service and create opportunities for joint ventures as feeders of
transshipped cargo; and (iii) development of private sector led information processing activities.
The strategy also aimed at reducing development imbalances among the nine inhabited islands.

The World Bank served as the catalyst to mobilize other donors to fund a transport sector
program with the intention of financing components that other donors would not. The project
objectives as well as the text of the SAR and Schedule 2 of the DCA detail a transport sector



                                                  - 2 -

program, identified in the SAR as costing US$ 78.4 million, while the IDA credit was for a
project of SDR 8.9 million. By this, success of the program became integral to the success of the
IDA funded project and required the Bank to be an active partner in all sector discussions.

A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and a Japanese grant financed project preparation. Other
donors financed most port components. The Bank financed mostly roads and capacity building,
but also cofinanced some activities with other donors.

The Bank's Country Strategy at the time called for, inter alia, the elimination of infrastructure
bottlenecks and improving public administration. The project objectives were consistent with the
country's economic needs and the Bank's country strategy.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Concerning objective (i), a study concluded that offshore information industries would not have
the foreseen outcome due to technology changes in the world. At the mid-term review this part
of the objective was dropped, but the DCA was not amended accordingly.

IDA and other donors had committed to financing various sections of the Santiago island ring
road and it was expected that Government would secure assistance in financing the Sao
Domingos-Vila da Assomada section. However, during the course of project implementation,
unforeseen climatic conditions necessitating emergency rehabilitation, execution difficulties in
road construction in Fogo and port rehabilitation in Mindelo among other occurances, required
that Government redirect resources. This situation, combined with limited resources of the
country and competing priorities, made it impossible for Cape Verde to secure the necessary
resources prior to project completion. Therefore, and consistent with objectives (ii) and (iii), a
Supplemental Credit Agreement for US$5 million was approved on January 3, 2001 to finance the
rehabilitation of the Sao Domingos-Vila da Assomada section of the Santiago Island ring road.

3.3 Original Components:
Port Investments. (Program: US$30.0 million). GoCV wanted to improve port infrastructure
and management, in part to enable transshipment activity in Cape Verde. Components included:

l Porto Grande modernization (Mindelo)
l Vale de Cavaleiros port rehabilitation (Fogo)
l A 35 ton mobile crane in Porto Grande

Reorganization of Shipping. (Program: US$0.7 million). A framework for private sector led
modernization of shipping services:

l Technical assistance for an Action Plan to Reorganize Shipping. (There was a concern that a
    full market approach to shipping may not be in the best interest of a country of nine islands.)
l Promotion of capacity for a consortium of private ship owners in charge of international
    inter-island services.




                                               - 3 -

Highway Sector Improvements. (Program: US$ 33.3 million). A program for roads and
highways was prepared under the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project,
which established a road inventory and a work program for each island. The new project aimed to
rely on the private sector for works execution and supervision.

During project preparation further road studies were carried out, and a master plan for the road
network was set out with economic priorities for a four year maintenance program. It included:

l Spot improvements of 247 km of roads.
l Improvements in road safety.
l Periodic and routine maintenance of the whole road network.
l Road Construction: only small road sections were contemplated. Pilot schemes were to be
    carried out to assess best ways to introduce private contracting.

Teleport Development. (Program: US$0.4 million)

l Draft legislation for private operations.
l Technical assistance to Government for pre-investment studies.
l Develop an "Opportunity Profile" for potential overseas investors.

Total base costs of the original program, which included US$ 1.2 million for the PPF, were
estimated at US$65.6 million. Including physical contingencies of US$5.9 million and price
contingencies of US$ 7.0 million, the program cost was US$78.4 million. The portion of the
credit related to ports was to be on- lent by the Government to ENAPOR, which would bear the
foreign exchange risk. The IDA credit amount was equivalent to US$12.5 million (16%) and the
Government's contribution was US$15.6 million (20%). Co-financing was to be provided by, the
Netherlands (US$3.3 million - 4%), Germany/KFW (US$7.0 million ­ 9%) the Africa
Development Fund (US$3.9 million ­ 5%). A funding gap of US$36.1 million (46%) remained
at appraisal which was closed by additional donors over the next several years. Funds from the
Netherlands and the OPEC Fund were administered by IDA.

3.4 Revised Components:
Several activities were added to the overall program in the first years of implementation. The
airport in Sao Vicente (S. Pedro airport) was added to the program in 1994, to be financed by
CFD. Ports in Boa Vista and Maio were added to the program, to be financed by a Portuguese
commercial bank. Port works were added at Porto de Furna (Brava) to be financed by KFW.
Rehabilitation works for Porto Novo (St. Antao) were added, to be financed by IDA. Teleport
development was dropped when it was determined not to be feasible.

Under a supplemental credit of US$5.0 million and for a total cost of US$6.4 million including
Government counterpart funding, the rehabilitation of the Sao Domingos -Vila da Assomada road
was added to the program in January 2001 and the closing date was extended to December 31
2003 and later to June 30, 2004.




                                                 - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The thrust of the program and the project was to introduce market forces into a transport system
that was constrained by direct public sector involvement. Publicly owned companies were
bankrupt and a private sector orientation was necessary. The project involved large civil works
components focused mainly on ports and roads, including private supervision consultants and
contractors for some road maintenance, institution building at ENAPOR and improvement of the
shipping industry.

The objectives and components were stated similarly. This made it difficult to assess progress and
enabled each task manager to redefine the objectives somewhat based on his/her own perception
and professional background.

Conditions of effectiveness included inter alia a Maritime Action Plan (regulatory frameworks
and maritime legislation) and a Contract-Plan for ENAPOR (targets for port management, review
of the tariff system, stevedores' conditions, productivity indicators). There was a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and ENAPOR.

Quality at entry is rated satisfactory, but marginally so.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The development objectives of the project have been largely achieved and in some cases
surpassed:

(i) International competitiveness has improved. Five ports have been modernized for international
shipping as well as for inter-island transport, including major port renovations in Porto Grande
(Mindelo) and Vale de Cavaleiros (Fogo). The overseas and inter-island shipping agency was
analyzed and new regulations and maritime legislation were enacted to liberalize overseas
shipping. The government ceased direct involvement in international shipping in 1996, and private
operators have developed for long distance shipping. Port management improvements were
sought initially through a contract-plan between ENAPOR and Government that was not
successful. By the end of the project, private participation in port operations had been accepted in
principal. The details of this are still being considered; private concessions for port management
are the most likely outcome (see section 4.5). When this is accomplished, the original objective
for port management will have been exceeded. The options for development of an offshore
information industry were assessed near the beginning of the project period. The planned teleport
development was dropped at the mid-term review (see section 4.2).
(ii) National integration has been strengthened, especially with the improvement of ports and
inter-island shipping. Inter-island shipping, which had been inefficient and costly to government,
was mainly under private sector management at the end of the project. The government
corporation, Arca Verde, which had been crowding out private operations, was in the months
following the closing of the project liquidated and its remaining four boats are being sold and
chartered.
(iii) The objective of preventing the erosion of the capital stock of the road network by improving
the institutional framework has been largely achieved. Road rehabilitation and maintenance has


                                                  - 5 -

been carried out throughout the country. A new Road Institute has been established to manage
the road network. A Road Fund was established during the project period. Although it does not
yet have the financial resources to maintain the entire road network, an agreement has been
reached to convert it into a second-generation road fund under a follow-on project, which will
improve its effectiveness.
(iv) The objective of creating a local contracting industry and local supervision consulting
capacity has been achieved. Private contractors and independent length men now carry out most
road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance. At the beginning of the project there was only
one Cape Verdian contractor with significant capacity. Three more large contractors have
developed with experience and heavy equipment, and about twelve more small and medium
contractors are involved in road rehabilitation and maintenance. There are also a number of
engineering consultants now who work in association with foreign firms. The work of private
contractors will be further expanded when the Road Institute and the improved Road Fund are
fully operational with more assured sources of financing for road maintenance.
(v) The port of Vale de Cavalerios has been rehabilitated and now contributes to economic
growth and poverty alleviation in Fogo Island. Cargo handling at Vale de Cavaleiros has
increased by 50% since the beginning of the project.
(vi) Improvements in the system for transport planning did not occur as intended. The intention
was to create planning capacity within MIT, but a separate planning and project management unit
was established (UCP) staffed by non-civil servants with higher salaries, which has been involved
in planning. However, transport planning capacity has been created within ENAPOR and in the
Road Institute where it will be more directly useful for infrastructure programming and
maintenance (see Section 4.5).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Port Investments. (Program US$42.8 million, whereof IDA US$1.8 million)

Porto Grande modernization (Mindelo). This was financed by the Netherlands, the OPEC Fund,
EIB and IDA. The contract was not signed until early 1995. Due to problems in the design of
earth fill works, extra work was necessary to avoid erosion of dredged sand placed in the earth
fill. By early 1997 there was a 44% cost overrun on contract value. The crane was not bought due
to a lack of funds. The IDA credit financed 80 % of the construction cost of a passenger terminal
building in Porto Grande, finished in 2001. Porto Grande is used for transshipment to the other
islands. Porto Grande also has the potential to be a transshipment port for West Africa that
ENAPOR is discussing with potential partners.

Vale de Cavaleiros port rehabilitation (Fogo): Difficult technical issues involving reconstruction
of the breakwater required extensive study, which led to delays. Construction began at the end of
1996 and was finished in June 1999. The wharf is only 75 meters long, which limits the size of
ships that can be served by the port. The work was financed by KFW and involved cost overruns
that were financed by a supplemental contribution by KFW.

Porto de Furna (Brava): These works were financed by KFW under the same contract as Vale de
Cavaleiros. It has a 30-meter wharf. These works also involved cost overruns.



                                                 - 6 -

Porto Novo (Sto. Antao): These works entailed repair of pavement, walls and fenders and were
financed by IDA.

Port works in Maio and Boa Vista: These works, financed by a Portuguese commercial bank,
were added to the project during implementation and were completed in 1997.

Reorganization of Shipping. (US$1.1 million, whereof IDA US$1.1 million).

Technical Assistance to Reorganize Shipping. The Directorate General of Shipping and Ports
(DGMP) received equipment, and with IDA support it analyzed maritime legislation which was
revised in three phases over a four year period (see Section 4.5).

Capacity building for Maritime Transport. Originally this component was intended to support the
creation of an association of private maritime operators with technical assistance and eventually to
facilitate the acquisition of a ship to transport bananas. This did not happen. Instead, an
Inter-island Transport Study, financed by the Netherlands, began in March 1994. It provided
statistical data on the movement of goods and people and provided information about what was
being transported and by what routes. The main result was a move to liquidate the government
inter-island operator, Arca Verde, and to initiate private service. Implementation was delayed due
to concern about how unprofitable routes would be served, and an IDA-assisted Privatization
Project became involved. The first bidding for private sector involvement in 2000/2001 was
annulled because the winner was not considered financially viable. Arca Verde continued to
operate which crowded out private operators. In 2003, under the Privatization Project,
Government decided to sell or lease the remaining four Arca Verde ships (now being executed).
Inter-island service is now in private hands. Government will decide whether subsidies are
necessary and an auction will determine the amount. Roll on ­ Roll Off (RoRo) facilities are being
provided in inter-island ports to facilitate freight handling, and RoRo ships are being purchased
from abroad by private operators.

Port management. IDA financed the improvement of ENAPOR management information systems,
a study on improving the competitiveness of Cape Verde ports, a study of transshipment potential
in Porto Grande and a Master Plan for Porto Grande.

Highway Sector Improvements. (Program US$38.4 million, whereof IDA US$13.9 million
including Supplement Credit)

Cape Verde has a reasonably extensive main road network, but roads are difficult to build because
of the mountainous terrain and hard to maintain because of rare, but heavy rains. The network
was in poor condition because of a lack of maintenance. The project supported the General
Directorate of Infrastructure (DGI), which is responsible for heavy road works, and the General
Directorate of Road Transport (DGTR). From 1994 some road maintenance (routine and
periodic) was undertaken by contract on the larger islands, such as the Santiago Ring Road. In the
smaller islands such as Fogo routine maintenance was undertaken using linemen for 7 to 8 km
lengths of road. Routine maintenance was financed through protocols signed by government and
municipalities whereby municipalities would maintain the road networks.



                                                   - 7 -

Road spot improvements were financed by IDA and the government, as counterpart funds, under
the project. Road maintenance is still a problem, but it is expected to improve when the new Road
Institute and reformed Road Fund become fully operational (see Section 4.5). The project was
extended with supplemental financing to support the rehabilitation of the S. Domingos-Assomada
Road. There was a delay due to the rebidding of the supervision contract which required a further
one-year extension.

The DGTR was restructured during the project period and it received assistance to improve road
safety (see Section 4.5).

Teleport Development. (US$0.2 million. whereof IDA US$0.2 million)

This initiative was managed by the Ministry of Tourism, Industry and Commerce. The result of a
study undertaken was that Cape Verde did not have a competitive advantage in this field. At the
mid-term review it was agreed that this component was not feasible. Recently a type of teleport
development has been initiated by private entrepreneurs to service needs in Portugal.

Figures in this section do no include PPF costs of US$0.4 million or the US$5.6 million cost of S.
Pedro Airport in S. Vicente, for an actual program cost of US$88.5 million.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
For civil works in the road sector, the internal rate of return for 7 road segments was estimated at
the beginning of the project and ex-post evaluation undertaken at the end of the project. In 5 of
these, reevaluated IRR exceeded original estimates. The reevaluated IRR for the 7 roads ranged
from 15.8% to 65.8%. This compares to IRR estimates in the SAR which ranged from 16% to
35%.

The premises for the original estimates for civil works in the port sector were difficult to decipher
and therefore it was deemed infeasible to do ex-post economic evaluation on same basis. Other
ways of fairly linking investment made to consequent port activity (as opposed to organic growth
independent of investment) were explored, but a reasonable approach was not found.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return are not relevant in this type of non-revenue generating project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Project Management: A Project Coordination Unit (UCP) was developed under the project with
responsibility for the program at large and donor dialogue. UCP initially had a National
Coordinator and four international technical assistants. The international technical consultants
were phased out during the project, and UCP by the end of the project had three professionals at
different levels and also managed a World Bank-assisted HIV-AIDS project. Its personnel were
paid at levels above government civil servants and commensurate with private sector. These
arrangements were necessary for a project involving policy change and requiring a high level of
engineering expertise that was not available in government. While its existence reduced the
incentive of MIT to develop its own planning capacity, the UCP, with largely intact capacity, has
now been absorbed and integrated into the MIT in anticipation of a follow-on project.



                                                  - 8 -

Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (MIT): The MIT was responsible for project
implementation through the UCP. It has a General Directorate of Infrastructure (DGI) and a
General Directorate of Road Transport (DGTR). During the project and after a change in cabinet
structure, the responsibility for transport and transport infrastructure management were moved
from MIT to a newly created Ministry of Tourism, Transport and Sea. After general elections in
2001, the responsibility for transport and transport infrastructure management was moved back to
MIT. MIT and MTTS received technical assistance on project management, management
information systems and procurement, and received vehicles and computer equipment. During the
early 1990s MIT did not outsource supervision services for its project. It was legally empowered
to collect funds from contractors to pay for supervision by its own employees. The funds were
also used to provide extra remuneration of professionals involved in managing studies, tender
evaluation and supervision under the project. When supervision started to be outsourced, this
separate budget no longer was available, and without these incentives and with increasing
employment competition from the private sector, it was difficult for the ministry to retain staff.

Directorate General of Road Transportation (DGTR): Development of this agency was quite
successful. The Road Code was revised. Technical assistance involved computerizing services and
creating a database for vehicles, titles, drivers' licenses, vehicles and rental vehicles. Municipal
authorities were helped to assume the licensing of taxis and rental vehicles. Road safety
campaigns were initiated. The first was IDA financed. Subsequent campaigns were financed by
stakeholders benefiting from improved safety, such as insurance companies and driving schools.
Legislation was passed on alcohol use and safety belts. Technical assistance was provided to
revise road legislation. A vehicle inspection law was introduced, and a fully equipped inspection
center was financed. It is being used for trucks and busses but is not yet used for private vehicles.

ENAPOR: ENAPOR was to be the implementing agency for port investments under the project in
accordance with a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA). However, the SLA was not signed or used.
Funds for ENAPOR were passed directly from Government. Consultants designed financial
management systems and assessed the potential for transshipment through Cape Verde.
Strengthening of ENAPOR was originally to be sought through a Contract-Plan. Early missions
helped draft an improved contract-plan, but compliance was disappointing. Costs were rising too
fast and IDA proposed new labor policies. There was a need to change the payment of port
workers from an hourly to a tonnage basis. There has been some retrenchment but there are still
too many port workers and administrative staff. In 1995 IDA suggested restructuring tariff
structures, but this was not done. A new contract-plan with improved performance indicators was
drafted, but beginning in 1997, under the IDA-supported Privatization Project, a new strategy of
port concessioning has been pursued. The solution now being considered would have ENAPOR
acting as port administrator, with an Institute of Maritime and Ports (IMP) for technical
evaluations (instead of DGMP) and the Economic Regulatory Administration (ARE) regulating
concession terms.




                                                    - 9 -

Directorate General of Maritime and Ports (DGMP). Assistance to DGMP included a
reorganization, computers and equipment. An international lawyer reviewed maritime legislation
with three Cape Verdian lawyers to bring it up to date with international conventions. The legal
framework for maritime law was thoroughly modernized. This has enabled Cape Verde to adopt
the most important maritime conventions, including STWC ­ 98 (governing crew qualifications),
and to implement the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS).

Road Maintenance Financing: In 1997 AfDB recommended the creation of a Road Fund (RF) that
was made an effectiveness condition for an ADB credit agreement. The RF was created in the
same year. The Decree provided that up to 50% of the proceeds from an existing fuel tax
collected by MOF (not a separate user fee) would be used for RF road maintenance activity. In
one year only 7% of the RF's budget was allocated for maintenance, most of which was used for
administration. This is now being changed. In preparation for a proposed follow-on project, a
more robust "second generation" road fund is being established to collect fees from users and
finance road maintenance on a commercial basis.

Road Institute: During the project the MIT set up a task force to propose organizational changes
for road management. A Road Institute has now been established. It is responsible for
establishing a road database and management and maintenance of road assets using funds from the
Road Fund.
Institutional development impact is substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A sole and exorbitantly high cost bid came for consultant supervision of the S. Domingos -
Assomada road section during the initial tender. Government had no choice but to rebid. Time
lost because of this and subsequent complaint by bidder contributed largely to the need for the
fourth extension.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There was a suspension by BADEA of its lending under the program because of arrears by
Government on other loans by BADEA.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were cost overruns on contract value in the construction of port infrastructure, especially in
Porto Grande, although only marginally so compared to appraisal estimate of cost. This was due
to insufficient soil investigation prior to the construction of the quay, and incidentally the cost
overrun resulted from a contractor's claim as he had to stop the works for about six months until
the soil investigation was completed. Some road designs were also not costed accurately.

The original closing date of the project was June 30, 1998. There were delays, especially on port
studies and the implementation of port works and some road rehabilitation activities. The project
was extended twice to December 31, 2000 so that these activities could be completed. However,
at that time four IDA financed activities were still ongoing and only completed in 2001: the
passenger terminal in Porto Grande, port rehabilitation in Porto Novo, rehabilitation of the Chao
Bom-Ribeira da Prata Road and the road safety campaigns.


                                                     - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
Of the program appraisal estimate of US$ 84.8 million (amended for the Supplement Credit),
which included funding from IDA, from co-financiers and counterpart funding, US$ 88.5 million
(104.3% of the estimate) were spent under the program (see Annex 2). The largest amounts were
for port rehabilitation and road works: US$ 81.2 million, US$ 15.7 by IDA, US$ 9.8 million by
the Government and US$ 55.7 million by co-financiers, representing about 91.7% of the funds
spent under the program.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Capacity building within the MIT was not as effective as originally intended, in part because the
project was implemented by a separate entity. However, the project has developed capacity
within several semi-independent entities that are now capable of maintaining the new assets and
carrying out future development initiatives.

Operation and maintenance of ports will be financed by ENAPOR from their own revenues (user
fees). The planned concessioning of port operations should make expertise available for this
purpose. Likewise, a Civil Aviation Authority has been created which is mobilizing expertise
from abroad. Inter-island maritime transport is being provided by private operators as the
government withdraws from this activity. Long distance shipping has been privatized.

Road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance will be entrusted to private contractors. A
number of local contractors, some in partnership with international contractors, developed
capacity in Cape Verde during the project. This should contribute to the country's ability to
maintain the road network. The Road Institute is responsible for road planning, management and
contracting of road works. It has specialized expertise and will receive funds for maintenance
from the RF, and from government and donors for construction and rehabilitation.

Sustainability is rated likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Road maintenance will be managed by the Road Institute and financed by a second-generation
road fund. Technical support and capacity building for these will be provided under a follow-on
project.

ENAPOR will be the port administrator responsible for the ports. Port operation will be
concessioned to the private sector through public bidding (see section 4.5).

International shipping is provided by the private sector and private operators are now providing
inter-island shipping.

Economic regulation (setting of tariffs for private entities operating under public concession
contracts) will be managed by the independent Multi-Sector Regulatory Agency (ARE), which
has been created and developed under the IDA-assisted Privatization Project.



                                                  - 11 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Preparation began under a previous Bank-assisted infrastructure project that was followed by a
Transport Sector Review. The Bank took advantage of changes in government economic policy
that were opening the country to market solutions. The Bank suggested a sector program. It
then helped government to hold a round table meeting to mobilize bilateral funding and support
for studies of ports, maritime transport, road rehabilitation and maintenance, road safety, airport,
and teleport development. Most international partners preferred to finance specific physical
components, mainly ports and roads. The Bank therefore agreed to finance most capacity
building and technical assistance. Although airports were not included in the program (the Sao
Vicente airport was later reintroduced) and the teleport component was dropped, the preparation
of the other components provided a good basis for the program and the project. Bank lending
instruments of the time did not have the same flexibility that is now available, but integration of
IDA credit and project objectives to a sector program was proxy programmatic approach.

Although the objectives and components were rightly selected, there are factors of project design
that should have received more attention, such as the funding gap, the number of donors which
led to divergence of views and the program complexity which strained the Government and its
capacity, and sub-obtimal implementationn arrangement which led to creation of a PCU.

On balance, Bank performance during lending is rated satisfactory, but marginally so.

7.2 Supervision:
There were 25 supervision missions from April 1993 to February 2004. Most of the missions
were staffed by a transport economist and a transport engineer or specialist. Many included port
specialists and highway engineers. The missions worked closely with Government to overcome
problems. They focused on policy issues, especially port management, inter-island shipping and
road rehabilitation and maintenance. In the end more was achieved in these areas than originally
intended, particularly institutional development, infrastructure management and inter-island
shipping. Bank missions took advantage of changing government policy, which enabled profound
changes in the transport sector and more broadly in the country' economic policy (see Section
7.5).

Two extensions were granted on the original credit. At the end of the second extension, a
Supplement Credit was given, including a concomitant extension. A fourth and final extension
was given due to delays because of need for rebidding (see Sections 4.2 and 5.1). Had the project
had been closed at that point, implementation period would have been 8 years instead of the 5
years originally planned or the 12 years actually realized. Byproduct of the long implementation
period was that it allowed for an intense Government and Bank sector policy dialogue that is
resulting in comprehensive Government owned institutional reforms.

The impact of supervision by the Bank was constrained at times by six changes in task team
leaders. Bank supervision is rated satisfactory.




                                                - 12 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank played a key role in initiating policy dialogue and in organizing the project and
mobilizing support from other donors. This dialogue was particularly important in developing
private sector participation in road maintenance and rehabilitation, improvements in road
management and maintenance financing and a maritime strategy. Overall Bank performance is
rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government worked with the Bank and other donors to undertake the studies that formed the
basis for the project. It organized a donors' meeting and began to identify a transport sector
program. Government performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government supported the creation of a strong project implementation agency, the UCP, initially
under the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which became autonomous after 1996. It
authorized a performance based incentive system to be able to retain qualified staff to manage the
project. During long implementation period, the Government significantly improved its
infrastructure capital stock and dramatically restructured the institutional structure of the
transport sector. Additionally, a significant shift took place from public provision of transport
service to private provision.

Project implementation took much longer than it should have, although it is recognized that the
originally forseen implementation period may have been optimistic given the size of the program
vis a vis the size of the economy and Government capacity. Implementation period was especially
long due to slippage in the design and implementation of some port works and slow
implementation of some road works, especially the Chao Bom-Ribeira da Prata Road where a
contractor went bankrupt. During the implementation of the supplemental credit, problems with
the contract of the supervision consultant also led to delays. However, these delays came at a
time when Government receptivity to outward looking, market-oriented development strategies
was growing. Though not originally intended, the lengthened implementation period provided an
opportunity for the Government to continue policy development. The privatization of inter-island
shipping was brought about during the extended project period as was the creation of the Road
Institute and a second generation Road Fund.

Balancing the long implementation period with Government largely achieving the program and
project objectives and the considerable effort in institutional development and restructuring of the
sector (which may not have been possible within a shorter time frame), Government performance
is on balance rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The UCP was directed by a National Coordinator and four technical assistants. This unit worked
efficiently during the entire project. It skillfully acted as an intermediary between the Bank and
other donors and government agencies. The UCP was a good technical performer during
implementation and facilitated policy dialogue. Its capacity at the end of the project has largely
been absorbed into the MIT. Performance by the implementing agency is rated satisfactory.



                                                   - 13 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower supported a strong implementation unit that implemented a wide-ranging
investment program in ports and roads. It made difficult choices to privatize international and
inter-island shipping. Further policy choices made more recently to concession port services, to
implement a second generation road fund and to create a Road Institute to manage the road
system on a commercial basis demonstrate the government's intention to continue with an
important policy agenda. Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l Continuity in dialogue. When a Government is receptive to in depth discussion on
    development and sector policies, a long implementation period of a project may promote
    continuity and trust in Borrower and Bank relationship and prevent disruption in dialogue.
    While an APL was not available as a lending instrument at the time of the preparation of this
    project, its design had many of the characteristics of an APL and would in later times likely
    have been design as one. A careful program approach preparation (APL) can capture the
    continuity benefits long implementation periods offer.

l Transition in team leadership. Changes in Bank team leadership during project implementation
    require careful management of transition to ensure evolution rather than shift in dialogue.
    While not more pronounced in this project than in many others, change in team leadership
    inevitably causes some temporary disruption during transitions.

l Public sector crowding out. The full impact of subsidized government agencies crowding out
    the private sector development is difficult to appreciate at the beginning of a privatization
    program. Inter-island maritime transport turned out to be more feasible than expected
    originally as the government subsidized company began to withdraw from the market. Fears
    that the private sector would not provide inter-island transport to the least developed islands
    such as Brava and Maio were exaggerated. Several private operators began to provide service
    to all the islands as Arca Verde reduced service.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower has completed its own full ICR, which is on file. The Borroer asked that the
following text be part of the Bank's ICR:

Overall, the development objectives of the project were largely achieved and in some cases
surpassed, regardless the natural and expected difficulties encountered along the way. An
overall assessment of the objectives set in the Credit Agreement reveals the following:

l Cape Verde's competitiveness has improved in effect through the modernization of ports.
    During the life of the PIT, five ports were constructed in the islands of S. Vicente, Boavista,
    Maio, Fogo and Brava, thus achieving the long-time objective of having one port in every
    island. The Porto Grande, in the island of São Vicente, now has the minimum infrastructures
    to launch transhipment activities of goods, thus strengthening the possibility of the flow of



                                                 - 14 -

    local products at lower transportation costs. The existence of one port in every island has
    improved the regularity of inter-island connections and has provided for better planning of
    activities in the national shipping sector, with positive results in the management dynamics
    of national operators while also generating greater competitiveness.

l National economic integration has definitively been strengthened and fostered with the
    provision of docking infrastructures in all islands, creating investment potentials in different
    sectors, with the possibility of improving resource allocation and reducing poverty and, thus,
    strengthening the settlement of local populations.

l Increased competitiveness among local ship-owners, providing for the State's withdrawal
    from the maritime transportation sector, brought new organization to national shipping with
    advantages for users of the maritime and port sector.

l PIT contributed largely to «foster intra-island economic integration» through the
    rehabilitation of important road stretches, particularly those exposed to greater traffic
    pressure. This intervention was also important for the efforts to unlock isolated areas and,
    consequently, in alleviating poverty.

l With the execution of an important road maintenance program, PIT has valued the capital
    stock that the road network represents. Likewise, important steps were taken to implement a
    current road network maintenance system as a way of preventing the future erosion of the
    capital stock through the recent establishment of a Road Institute and a Road Fund.

l The objective of creating local contracting capacity was achieved. In fact, the road
    rehabilitation and maintenance program is also at the basis of the increase in the number of
    local contractors from 8 in 1991 to 73 in 2004.

l Although it was not originally foreseen, the Modernization of the São Pedro Airport, in the
    island of São Vicente, was accepted by IDA as it was in line with the sector strategy. With
    financing from the CFD and ASA, the works were concluded in October 2000 and consisted
    in the construction of a new 1500 meter runway with 30 meters in width, parking, a control
    tower, localizer and lighting of runways and obstacles.

(b) Cofinanciers:
African Development Bank:
I found the report well written, providing a lot of information on the Cape Verde transport and
road sector. However, I have a few comments concerning page 9:

l Road maintenance financing: Whilst awaiting the creation of a second generation Roads
    Fund, the Government should ensure maintenance of constructed and rehabilitated roads.

l I believe that the report should recommend to Government that it takes the necessary steps to
    replenish the existing fund with 50% of the fuel levy as it had been planned.




                                                - 15 -

l 5.1 Factors outside the control of Government or implementing agency : The refusal of the
    ADB to finance certain roads (in particular the Praia - Trinidade Road) is not due to
    insufficient resources but rather due to the non compliance to Bank procedures. (ICR has
    been amended accordingly.)

OPEC Fund for International Development:
We have reviewed the excellent Completion Report and have no objection to it.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable in this project.

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                               - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Port Rehabilitation and Rationalization of   Porto Grande rehabilitation completed in    Porto Grande rehabilitated by 1997; others by
Shipping Industry                            1997 and other ports in 2001.               2001
                                                                                         International shipping under provate
                                                                                         management
                                                                                         Most inter-island shipping will soon be fully
                                                                                         under private mgnt.
Economic Integration                         Notable improvement of road network and     Roads, ports and inter-island shipping
                                             multimodal systems                          improved
Prevent erosion of road network              Rehabilitation of 368 km                    247 km. rehabilitated
Develop local contracting industry           Increase capacity and recruitment of local  3 large contractors and 12 small and medium
                                             companies in the road sector                have developed
Rehabilitate Fogo Island Port                Renovation by 2001                          Vale de Cavaleiros Port has developed;
                                                                                         freight increased by 50%


Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Porto Grande: Lengthening of central pier    Completed in 1997                           Finished in 1997
Porto Grande: Strengthening of seward berth Completed in 1997                            Finished in 1997
Porto Grande: Construction of RoRop ramp     Completed in 1997                           Finished in 1997
Porto Grande:Reclaimation of 20,000 m2 for Completed in 1997                             Finished in 1997
cargo storage
Porto Grande: Construction of passenger      Completed in 2001                           Finished in 2001
terminal bldg.
Porto Grande: Provision of 35 ton crane      Dropped due to resource shortage            Dropped in 1996 due to resource shortage
Vale de Cavaleiros: Reconst. of 270 m.       Completed in 2000                           Finished in 2000
breakwater
Valle de Cavaleiros: Reconstruction of 120   Completed in 2000                           Finished in 2000
m. breakwater
Vale de Cavaleiros: Const. of 2 secondary    Completed in 2000                           Finished in 2000
breakwaters
Vale de Cavleiros: Provision of 15 ton crane Dropped due to lack of funds                Dropped due to lack of funds
Highways: Const of 2 road links in Fogo and Completed by 2001                            Finished in 2001 and 1995
Praia
Highways: Rehab. of 247 km; upgrading of     Completed in 2000                           Finished in 2000
64 km.
Highways: Road safety improvements on 234 Completed in 2000                              Finished in 1999/2000
km.
Highways: Periodic and routine maintenance On-going                                      Currently maintenance done through
of whole network                                                                         protocols with municipalities
                                                                                         National Road Institute (RI) is soon to be
                                                                                         operational to manage road network
Reconst, rehab, widening of 21 km. Sao       To be completed by 06/15/04                 Finished in 06/30/04
Domingos - Vila da Assomada Rd.
Shipping: action to reorganize shipping      Identify an efficient operational mechanism Institute for Maritime and Ports being created
services                                                                                 for this purpose

Development of offshore informantion         Dropped                                     Dropped in 1996
agencies
Capacity Building: development of transport  Achieved in 1997                            General Directorate of Planning in MIT
planning unit in MIT                                                                     received equipment; some capacity
                                                                                         developed
Development of central and local road        Achieved in 1997                            Central capacity developed. Capacity will be




                                                                 - 17 -

management capacity                                                 developed in RI.

Establishment of Road Mgnt. Unit for                                Capacity building in 1995/96; will be
assistance to TPU                                                   integrated into RI

Road Safety Program                       Implemented               Carried out in 1999/2000

Strengthening of ENAPOR operations,       Achieved in 1999          Done in 1999
human resource mgnt, financial mgnt.

Training of MIT personnel and private and Achieved in 2000          Training in road management provided in
municipal personnel                                                 2000

1End of project




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate         Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
A. Ports
- modernization of Porto Grande                             11.60          13.54               117
- rehabilitation of Furna                                    8.60          14.65               170
Other Ports                                                  9.80          14.58               149
B. Shipping                                                  0.70            1.10              157
C. Highway
- original program                                          33.30          32.13                96
- supplement                                                 6.27            6.27              100
D. Teleport                                                  0.40            0.20               50
E. Airport S. Pedro                                          0.00            5.61
PPF                                                          1.20            0.37               31

Total Baseline Cost                                         71.87          88.45
 Physical Contingencies                                      5.90
 Price Contingencies                                         7.00
                          Total Project Costs               84.77          88.45
                    Total Financing Required                84.77          88.45
Appraisal amount amended for Supplement Credit

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           22.30           43.70         0.00         0.00          66.00
                                   (6.10)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (6.10)
2. Goods                            1.25            1.00         0.10         0.00          2.35
                                   (0.55)          (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.65)
3. Services                         0.00            3.60         3.95         0.00          7.55
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.95)         (0.00)       (3.95)
4. Operating Expenditures           0.00            0.00         1.30         0.00          1.30
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.60)         (0.00)       (0.60)
5. PPF                              0.00            0.00         1.20         0.00          1.20
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.20)         (0.00)       (1.20)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           23.55           48.30         6.55         0.00          78.40
                                   (6.65)          (0.00)      (5.85)         (0.00)       (12.50)
Without Supplement Credit

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method



                                                - 19 -

        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                16.14              0.35              0.00             59.41            75.90
                                          (7.70)             (0.29)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (7.99)
   2. Goods                                0.92               0.01              0.18             0.00              1.11
                                          (0.92)             (0.01)            (0.18)            (0.00)           (1.11)
   3. Services                             6.36               0.06              1.27             2.57             10.26
                                          (6.36)             (0.06)            (1.27)            (0.00)           (7.69)
   4. Operating Expenditures               0.00               0.00              0.81             0.00              0.81
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.20)
   5. PPF                                  0.00               0.00              0.37             0.00              0.37
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.37)            (0.00)           (0.37)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               23.42              0.42              2.63             61.98            88.45
                                          (14.98)            (0.36)            (2.02)            (0.00)           (17.36)
   Including Supplement Credit
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Ports
- Port Grande                  2.50         2.39         8.51        1.52         0.24      11.78       60.8      10.0    138.4
Modernization
- Furna Rehabilitation         2.90         1.74         6.11        0.00         1.31      13.34        0.0      75.3    218.3
- Other ports                  0.00         1.96        10.08        0.26         0.00      14.32        0.0      0.0     142.1
Shipping                       0.50         0.20         0.00        1.10         0.00       0.00       220.0     0.0       0.0
Highway                        8.90        10.48        26.80       13.92         8.21      16.27       156.4     78.3     60.7
- Original Program             3.90         9.21         0.00                                            0.0      0.0       0.0
- Supplement                   5.00         1.27         0.00                                            0.0      0.0       0.0
Teleport                       0.40         0.00         0.00        0.20         0.00       0.00       50.0      0.0       0.0
PPF                            1.20         0.10         0.00        0.37         0.00       0.00       30.8      0.0       0.0
Airport S. Pedro               0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       5.61        0.0      0.0       0.0
Not Allocated                  1.10         0.00        -1.10                                            0.0      0.0       0.0
Total                         17.50        16.87        50.39       17.37         9.76      61.32       99.3      57.9    121.7

   Including Supplement Credit. As figures presented in main text are shown with one decimal point, slight
   difference may be found with the tables above.




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Ports.
The premises for the original estimates for civil works in the port sector were difficult to decipher
and therefore it was deemed infeasible to do ex-post economic evaluation on same basis. Other
ways of fairly linking investment made to consequent port activity (as opposed to organic growth
independent of investment) were explored, but a reasonable approach was not found. However,
for information purposes traffic growth for two of the ports benefiting from investments are
presented here below.

                 PortoValedosCavaleiros
             Year          1997      1998       1999        2000      2001        2002      2003
        Loaded,T          1,364      2,396     2,405       2,707     2,442       2,297      2,450
      Unloaded,T         25,093    26,204     28,226      25,217    27,953      34,529    35,042
     TotalCargo,T        28,454    30,598     32,630      29,924    32,396      38,828    39,495
            Paxin         3,379      5,143     6,811       9,621     9,259      10,163      9,413
           Paxout         4,115      6,220     7,362       9,561     9,386       9,835    10,174
         TotalPax         7,494    11,363     14,173      19,182    18,645      19,998    19,587

                             PortoGrande
             Year          1995      1996       1997        1998      1999        2000      2001       2002    2003
        Loaded,T          3,373      4,891     4,662       5,050     6,191       8,724      8,913    11,325   12,728
      Unloaded,T        354,036   346,170     358,026    349,972   346,850     355,508   361,739     459,525 450,834
     TotalCargo,T       357,409   351,061     362,688    355,022   353,041     364,232   370,652     470,850 463,562
            Paxin        54,455    45,635     50,125      61,647    78,826      61,108    93,666     87,574   96,850
           Paxout        56,033    48,474     48,177      57,118    69,014      85,934    84,399     77,387   86,540
         TotalPax       110,488    94,109     98,302     118,765   147,840     147,042   178,065     164,961 183,390
     TEU'sloaded          1,609      1,842     1,971       2,270     2,732       3,540      3,436     5,659   6,152
   TEU'sunloaded.         1,978      1,835     2,166       2,334     2,890       3,349      3,716     6,266   6,092
       TotalTEU's         3,587      3,677     4,137       4,604     5,622       6,889      7,152    11,925   12,244



Roads.
The economic analysis for selected roads shown here rely on consultant report the borrower commissioned.
Following extract from that report (full report in file) compares the initial evaluation with the ex-post
findings (for clarification purposes, the language of the exerpt has been amended and condensed):



Comparison of the initial evaluation
In the case of the rehabilitation, return on invetsment is favorable, except for road no3 between
Nazare and Praia Baixo, where the increase in the traffic was only 5% per annum since 1993
(alternatively, it is possible that the traffic count of 1993 was over-estimated).

Traffic comparison
For the needs for the initial evaluation of 1993, traffic volumes on the project roads were
estimated in dialogue with the persons in charge for public works at the local level.
The comparison between its estimates and the count results of September 2004 presented in the
following table.



                                                      - 21 -

Table A: Traffic comparison


          ROADS                   Traffic     Traffic    Growth 1993 - 2004           Start-up SU
                                estimated in  medium

 N             Heading              1993        2004       Growth    Average annualYear of SU Medium
                                                          promoter     increase               trafic SU

  1    Praia-Trinidade                 207        1 797         8,7       21,7%         1 998        553

  2    Campanas-Atalaya                 65          107         1,7        4,7%         2 003        102

  3    Nazare-Praia Baixo              149          249         1,7        4,8%         1 994        156

  4    Mindelo - Sao Pedro             269        2 096         7,8       20,5%         2 002      1 443

  5    Ribeira G - PontaSol            162          552         3,4       11,8%         1 997        253

       Ribeira G - Oporto Novo         149          317         2,1        7,1%         1 997        196


  6    Praia - Cidade Velha            465        3 992         8,6       21,6%         1 998      1 236


During the period 1993-2004, the traffic multiplied by 8 on roads N 1, 4 and 6 of Santiago and
Sao Vicente, giving an average increase of more than 20% per annum This accelerated increase,
corresponds certainly to the growth usually observed at the first years following installation.

In the case of the road no 2 of Fogo, the noted increase is just average 5% per annum. It would
correspond rather to the growth of the situation without project, since this new road is of recent
start-up (April 2003). It is thus awaited a stronger growth during the next years with the
appearance of the induced traffic.

The roads no 5 of Santa Antao were rehabilitated and brought into service in 1997, the increase
noted in 1993 to 2004 reached 7% per annum for the road Ribeira Grande - Porto Novo and 12%
per annum for the road connecting Ribira Grande to bridged ground where the local traffic share
significant, is characterized by frequent rotations of the freight vehicles of passengers.

The increase in the traffic on the road no. 3 Nazare Praia Baixo did not exceed 5% per annum
since its rehabilitation in 1994.

Costs comparison
The real construction costs evolved much compared to the envisaged costs in the initial
evaluation.The comparison is presented in the following table:

Table B: Costs comparison




                                                 - 22 -

            ROADS                  Length     Estimated Cost         Real cost
                                                  million USD         million USD
                                     km                                              Variation

  N             Heading                       Total        / km   Total        / km

  1     Praia-Trinidade                8,0    3,400         0,43    2,35        0,29   -31%

  2     Campanas-Atalaya               3,5    1,600         0,46    2,85        0,81    78%

  3     Nazare-Praia Baixo             7,0    0,500         0,07    0,59        0,08    18%

  4     Mindelo - Sao Pedro          11,0     0,200         0,02    0,69        0,06   245%

  5     Ribeira G - PontaSol           3,6    0,200         0,06
                                                                    0,35        0,01   -30%

        Ribeira G - Porto Novo       31,6     0,300         0,01

6       Praia - Cidade Velha         10,8       0,40        0,04    1,20        0,11   200%


The comparison emphasizes on the one hand, the reality costs lower by 30% at the planned costs
for the construction of the road no.1 Praia Trinidade and the rehabilitation of the roads no. 5 of
Santo Antao. In addition, a consequent increase in the costs reality for construction and the
rehabilitation of the other roads. This increase, about 18 and 78 % for roads no. 3 and 2 and more
than 200 % for roads no. 4 and 6, due primarily to additional work not envisaged in the initial
study.

Re-estimation of economic return
The ex-port return on investment indicators were thus calculated starting from the effective
construction costs and the advantages produced for the measured traffics.

Table C: Return on Investment

              ROADS                  Year of                      R.R.I

     N             Heading          Start-up     Initial evaluation     Post-project
                                                          1993        evaluation 2004
     1      Praia-Trinidade           1998                      18%                22,3%
     2      Campanas-Atalaya          2003                      31%                27,8%
     3      Nazare-Praia Baixo        1994                      27%                15,8%
     4      Mindelo - Sao Pedro       2002                      35%                65,8%

     5      Ribeira G - PontaSol      1997                      16%                17,0%
            Ribeira G - Oporto        1997                      33%                40,6%
     6      Praia - Cidade Velha      1998                      27%                48,3%

Compared to the ex ante return on investment determined, the IRR obtained by the ex post
project evaluation are higher, except for the roads no. 2 and 3 where the costs increased and the
traffics increased during the 10 years of exploitation by only 5% per annum. It is probable that



                                                - 23 -

the forecasts of growth retained by the initial study were more optimistic, so that rentability
reaches stronger rates. Conversely, the strong rate of rentability recorded by the road no. 4 is
explained by the increase noted in traffic since 1993 with on average 20% per annum.




                                                - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1991              1    Transport Economist
              December 1991             1    Transport Economist
              February 1992             1    Transport Economist
              June 1992                 3    Transport Economist, Port
                                             Engineer, Hihgway Engineer

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              July 1992                 5    Transport Economists (2),
                                             Highway Engineers (2), Port
                                             Engineer
              November 1992                  Country Delegation and Bank
                                             Team

 Supervision
              November 1993             2    Transport Economist, Port
                                             Engineer
              June 1994                 2    Transport Economist, Highway         S              HS
                                             Engineer
              February 1995             4    Transport Economist, Highway         S              HS
                                             Engineer, Economist, Port
                                             Engineer
              June 1995                 4    Transport Economist, Highway         S              HS
                                             Engineer, Economist, Port
                                             Engineer
              October 1995              3    Transport Economist, Economist,      S              HS
                                             Port Engineer
              March 1996                2    Economist, Port Engineer             S              HS
              September 1996 -          3    Road Engineer, Economist, Port       S              HS
              MTR                            Engineer
              March 1997                2    Road Engineer, Port Engineer         S               S
              June 1997                 2    Road Engineer, Port Engineer         S               S
              November 1997             1    Transport Engineer                   S               S
              October 1998              4    Operations Officer, Maritime         S               S
                                             Officer, Projects Officer,
                                             Economist
              May 1999                  3    Maritime Transport Specialist,       S               S
                                             Financial Analyst, Transport
                                             Economist
              October 1999              2    Transport Specialist, Economist      S               S
              May 2000                  2    Transport Specialist, Transport      S               S
                                             Economist
              July 2000                 5    Financial Analyst, Transport         S               S
                                             Specialist, Operations Analyst,
                                             Program Assistant, Transport
                                             Economist



                                              - 25 -

               May 2001                       3   Financial Analyst, Transport            S             S
                                                  Specialist, Transport Economist
               July 2001                      2   Transport Specialist, Transport         S             S
                                                  Economist
               October 2001                   2   Transport Specialist, Transport         S             S
                                                  Economist
               Mission 2001                   2   Transport Specialist, Transport         S             S
                                                  Economist
               June 2002                      5   Transport Specialist, Transport         S             S
                                                  Economist, Procurement
                                                  Specialist, Financial Specialist,
                                                  Highway Engineer
               November 2002                  3   Transport Specialist, Social            S             S
                                                  Scientist, Transport Economist
               April 2003                     4   Transport Specialist, Social            S             S
                                                  Scientist, Transport Economist,
                                                  Road Engineer
               September 2003                 2   Transport Specialist, Transport         S             S
                                                  Economist
               November 2003                  1   Highway Engineer                        S             S

 ICR
               April 2004                    3     Transport Specialist,                  S             S
                                                   Transport Economist,
                                                   Highway Engineer

PSR/591 does not indicate any rating for the November 1993 supervision mission. Also, following
establishment of the positions of Procurement Specialist and later Financial Management Specialist in the
Dakar Country Office, these relevant fiduciary aspects of the project were often supervised by them in
between regular project supervision missions.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   39.5                            108.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        38.3                            119.7
  Supervision                                 216.1                            943.9
  ICR
  Total                                       293.9                          1,172.2
Supervision includes ICR




                                                   - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

For the preparation of this ICR, appraisal and other preparatory aide memoire were studied as well as
relevant legal documents, including minutes of negotiations. The SAR for the project was reviewed and all
supervision reports as well as PSR/590s. Prior to a Supplement Credit Agreement being introduced, the
borrower drafted a technical ICR and this documented was drawn on.




                                                    - 29 -

- 30 -

