Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2466 CV
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Transport and Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
Provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated December 7, 1994
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2466 CV
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the Grantee) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) 
of the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister for Development 
Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and the Minister in the financing of a 
project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement No. 
2466 CV dated March 19, 1993 between the Grantee and the Association (the Development 
Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a grant in the 
total amount of six million Dutch Guilders (Dfls. 6,000,000) (the Dutch Grant) to 
assist the Grantee in carrying out the Project on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
WHEREAS, by an exchange of letters dated June 23, 1994, September 7, 1994, 
October 21, 1994, October 25, 1994 and November 1, 1994, respectively, between the 
Page  2
Minister and the Association, the Minister has requested the Association, and the 
Association has agreed, to administer, inter alia, the Dutch Grant in accordance with 
the provisions of the arrangements between the Association and the Minister, dated 
December 11, 1986 (the Arrangements); and
WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Grantee under this agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) shall be considered part of 
the bilateral development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the 
Grantee;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the 
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, 
dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions), with the same force and effect as if 
they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications 
thereof:
(a)
the term "Association," whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant 
pursuant to the Arrangements;
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit," whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Dutch Grant extended hereunder;
(d)
the term "Credit Account," whenever used in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement, means the Account opened by the Association in its books in the name 
of the Recipient to which the amount of the Dutch Grant is credited;
(e)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 
4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 of the General 
Conditions are deleted; and
(f)
in Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, the term "Association" shall 
include also the International Development Association acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the following additional term has the following meaning:
"Dutch Guilders" and "Dfls" mean the currency of The Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in a total amount of six 
million Dutch Guilders (Dfls. 6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch 
Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services required for the 
Project.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts 
for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, which is hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and 
effect as if it were fully set forth herein.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the 
Page  3
proceeds of the Dutch Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way restricting 
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this 
Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Dutch Grant as, in the 
Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch 
Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Article III and 
Schedules 2 and 3 of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into 
this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein. 
It is understood that all references to the "Association" in said Sections are 
references to the Association acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this 
Agreement, and all references to the Credit and the Credit Account are references to 
the Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively, and all references to the 
Borrower shall be deemed to be references to the Grantee.
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the Grantee shall be the 
representative of the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Minister of Finance and Planning
C.P. 30
Praía
Cabo Verde
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANÇAS
6058 MCECV
Cabo Verde
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister of Finance 
and Planning. The Grantee accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to 
the Grantee to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in 
such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under 
this Agreement as if the Minister of Finance and Planning had been an original party 
to this Agreement, without any further action or formality being required on the part 
of any party and, from such date, the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or 
obligations as a party under this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ José E. Barbosa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Administrator of Dutch Funds
   Provided by The
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
By /s/ Stephen Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Dutch Grant
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Dutch Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Dutch Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dutch Guilders)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   5,400,000
100% of foreign
under Part A.1
expenditures and
of the Project
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Technical Assistance
600,000
100%
except for Part E.5
of the Project
TOTAL          6,000,000
