Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2466-1-CV
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Transport and Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  February 23, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 2466-1-CV
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  February 23, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Transport and Infrastructure Project) dated March 19, 1993 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) as amended from time to time for the purpose of 
assisting in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of Part B of the Project, including  civil works and 
consultants’ services for supervision of the works for the reconstruction of the 21 km 
road section between the villages of São Domingos and Vila da Assomada in Santiago 
Island, by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement 
by an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 4,000,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
a new Subsection (j) is added to read: 
“(j)
“Amending Agreement” means this agreement amending the Development 
Credit Agreement.”
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in the Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,900,000), being the sum of withdrawals 
of the proceeds of the Credit, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Association as 
of the date of such withdrawal.  The Credit shall be in two tranches, the first 
tranche being an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 8,900,000) (the First Tranche) and 
the second tranche being an amount in various currencies equivalent to  four 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000) (the Second Tranche).”
Section 1.04. In Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement paragraphs (b) 
and (c) are renumbered paragraphs (c) and (d) respectively, and the following new 
paragraph (b) is added:
“(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
all amounts withdrawn from the Credit 
Account, or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially be 
Page  3
charged against the First Tranche until that tranche has been exhausted, and 
shall thereafter be charged against the 
Second Tranche.”
Section 1.05. In Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Closing 
Date is amended to read December 31, 2003.
Section 1.06. A proviso is added at the end of subsection 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
“; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Second Tranche 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days 
after the date of the Amending 
Agreement.”
Section 1.08. Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read a follows:
“Section 3.02. In order to carry out Part B of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ contractors, entrepreneurs, 
engineers, consultants and experts whose 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment 
shall 
be satisfactory to the Association.  Such entrepreneurs, engineers, consultants and 
experts shall be selected: (a) 
with respect to contractors, entrepreneurs, 
engineers, experts and consultants to be financed under the First Tranche, in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the “Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981; and 
(b) 
with respect to contractors, entrepreneurs, engineers, experts and consultants to be 
financed under the Second 
Tranche, in accordance with principles and procedures 
consistent with those set forth in the “Guidelines: Selection and  Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 
and January 1999”, and the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 
1996, September 1997 and January 1999”. 
Section 1.09. Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted in its entirety and replaced with paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 set forth in Annex 
1 to this Amending Agreement. 
Section 1.10. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is deleted and 
replaced with Schedule 2 set forth in Annex 2 to this Amending Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action, and this Amending 
Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of Counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower, and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
Page  4
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ Amilcar Spencer Lopes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
ANNEX 1
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Civil Works under:
the First Tranche:
100% of foreign
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(a)  Part A.1 of  the Project  
    590,000
(b)  Part A.2 of the Project      
0
Page  5
(c)  Parts  B1 to B4 of the        2,313,606
Projecr
(d) the Second Tranche
 3,200,000
80%
(Part B.5 of the Project)
(2)   Equipment under:                         
100% of foreign
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
         (a)  Part A.2 of the Project    
0          
 
         (b)  other                 
   575,000
(3)   Technical  assistance
 under:
       (a)  the First Tranche
 1,075,000
100%
       (b)  the First Tranche
 3,850,000
100%
       (c)  the Second Tranche
   770,000
80% 
(Part B.5 of the Project)
(4)
Training under Part E.6 
   150,000
100%
of the Project
(5)
Operating costs under:
(a)  ENAPOR
0
100% up to June 30,1994;
60% up to June 30, 1995; 
(b)  other
    80,247
25% up to June 30, 1996;                                                               
and 0% thereafter
(c)  the Second Tranche
    30,000
80%
(Part B.5 of the Project)
(6)
Refunding of Project 
   266,147      
Amounts due
 
Preparation Advance
pursuant to Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated               
0
        TOTAL               
12,900,000 
ANNEX 2
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to promote international competitiveness 
through port modernization, reorganization of the shipping industry and development of 
offshore information industries; (ii) to foster national economic integration by 
streamlining transport sector investment planning, and achieving a more balanced and 
cost effective allocation of resources; (iii) to prevent further erosion of the 
capital stock in the road network by setting up a road maintenance organization; (iv) 
to support promotion of the local contracting industry through execution of a 
four-year road maintenance program; and (v) to promote economic growth and alleviate 
poverty in Fogo island through rehabilitation of its only port.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  6
Part A:
Port Development
 
1.
Porto Grande
 
(a)
Lengthening and widening of central finger pier, through construction of 
a quay wall of concrete gravity blocks on landward side of central pier.
(b)
Strengthening of seaward berth.
 
(c)
Construction of roll-on/roll-off ramp at root of new pier to allow 
handling of future island cargo flows.
(d)
Reclamation of 20,000 sq. meters north of port for cargo storage.
 
(e)
Construction of new passenger terminal on east side of fishing port.
 
(f)
Provision of a 35-ton crane for container handling.
 
2.
Vale de Cavaleiros
 
(a)
Reconstruction of 270 m long breakwater in its initial location.
 
(b)
Reconstruction of 120 m long berth located in inward face of breakwater.
 
(c)
Construction of two secondary breakwaters to minimize negative impact of 
sand transit in and outside the port, and protect main breakwater.
(d)
Provision of a 15-ton mobile crane for cargo handling and periodic 
maintenance works.
Part B:
Highway Investment and Maintenance Program
 
1.
Construction of two stretches of roads totalling 7 km to establish important 
links in Fogo and Praia, respectively.
2.
Rehabilitation of a total length of 247 km, and upgrading of 64 km, of the road 
network.
3.
Measures to improve road safety on 234 km of the road network.
 
4.
Periodic and routine maintenance of the entire network.
5.
Reconstruction, rehabilitation and widening of a 21 km road section and road 
platform between the villages of São Domingos and Vila da Assomada in Santiago Island.
Part C:
Shipping Services
 
Implementation of an action plan for the reorganization of shipping services 
within a proper enabling regulatory environment.
Part D:
Development of Offshore Information Industries
 
Creation of an institutional framework conducive to development of satellite 
earth station "teleports" by private investors.
Part E:
Capacity Building
 
1.
Development of a Transport Planning Unit within MIT to centralize information 
through a network of correspondents within and outside MIT, build up a data base and 
carry out an analysis of
investment projects.
2.
Development of central and local road management capabilities.
 
3.
Establishment of a Road Management Unit to assist in data collection, analysis, 
assistance to TPU for major road works programming and evaluation of maintenance 
requirements, and contract
Page  7
monitoring of works.
4.
Development and implementation of a road safety program.
 
5.
Strengthening the capability of ENAPOR in the following areas: operations, human 
resources' management, financial management systems and marketing.
6.
Training of: (i) the personnel of MIT engaged in, or in charge of, highway 
operations; and (ii) of members of the construction industry in the private sector, or 
employed by local government or municipal entities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
