CREDIT NUMBER 2466 CV
Development Credit Agreement
(Transport and Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2466 CV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      )40o,"I                , 1993, between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received from the Borrower
one letter, dated September 11, 1992, describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve an adjustment
of the Borrower's transport zector, and another letter, dated
September 8, 1992, describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve an adjustment of the Borrower's
teleport sub-sector (hereinafter referred to collectively as "the
Program");
(B)   the Borrower   has declared   its  commitment to the
execution of the Program, and has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Federal
Republic of Germany (Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau or KfW) a grant
(the KfW Grant) in an amount equivalent to ten million one hundred
thousand deutsche marks (DM10,100,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
KfW Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
KfW;
(D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands (Netherlands) a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an
amount equivalent to six million guilders (f.6,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and Netherlands;
(E)   the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (ADF) a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent
to four million dollars ($4,000,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF;
(F)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (ABEDA) a loan (the ABEDA T,oan) in an
amount equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an


﻿-2-
agreement (the ABEDA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and ABEDA;
(G)   the Borrower intends to contract from OPEC Fund for
International Development (OPEC Fund) a loan (the OPEC Fund Loan) in
an amount equivalent to two million five hundred thousand dollars
($2,500,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and OPEC Fund;
(H)   the Borrower intends to contract other loans and/or
grants to assist in financing the Project;
(I)   Parts A.1 and E.5 of the Project will be carried out by
the Borrower's Empresa Nacional de Administragao dos Portos (ENAPOR)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ENAPOR a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(J)   the Borrower and ENAPOR have concluded a contract plan
for the period from January 1993 to December 1995 (the Contract
Plan), designed to grant ENAPOR more autonomy in pricing and
personnel management decisions coupled with increased accountability
in the achievement of productivity and financial profitability
targets;
(K)   for the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower
has adopted an action plan for the reorganization of shipping
services in the Borrower's territory (the Action Plan), which it has
duly communicatei to the Association; and
(L)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association an
Implementation Manual (the Implementation Manual), in which it
defines the roles and functions of the various persons and entities
involved in the implementation of the Project, their reporting
obligations, conflict resolution mechanisms, and communication and
other procedures under the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and ENAPOR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Crl'dit  Agreements"  of  the   Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "DGLT" means the Land Transport General Directorate of
MIT;
(b)   "MIT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Infrastructure
and Transport;
(c)   "Project Acccunt" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ENAuR, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)   "Program Coordinator" means the Program Coordinator
designated under paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)   "Project  Prepai.tion  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated January 10 and January 17,
1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
(g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EKAPOR pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and


﻿-4-
(i)   "TPU" means the Trar'sport Planning Unit referred to
under Part E.1 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and. conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Bank
of Cape Verde on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of , the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall open and maintain a Project account
in the Bank of Cape Verde, into which it shall deposit from time to
time, and in accordance with the work program and disbursement
schedule agreqd upon with the Association, the counterpart funds
that it has undertaken to contribute under the Project.
(d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a 7ate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2003 an4d ending February 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the


﻿-6-
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. ENAPOR is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Parts A.1 and E.5 of the Project for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
(i)   shall carry out the Project (other than Parts A.1
and E.5 thereof) through MIT with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices and shall
provide,   promptly  as   needed,   the   funds,


﻿-7-
facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project; and
(ii) without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ENAPOR to
perform all its obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ENAPOR to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Manual and the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit equivalent to the amount allocated thereunder to Parts
A.1 and E.5 of the Project to ENAPOR under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ENAPOR, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, which shall.
include: (i) an annual interest rate of 7.5 per cent and a repayment
period of 20 years, including a grace period of 4 years; and (ii)
provisions requiring ENAPOR to bear the foreign exchange risks
involved in the transaction.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Contract Plan in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the
Contract Plan, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall carry out its investment program in accordance
with the guidelines specified to that effect under the Program.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the


﻿-8-
Project (other than Parts A.1 and E.5 thereof) and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts
A.1 and E.5 of the Project shall be carried out by ENAPOR pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project (other than Parts A.1 and E.5
thereof) of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable-to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at     least one year    after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)o enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such   records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors  as   to  whether   the  statements  of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a s4gnificant part thereof, will be carried
out.
(b)   ENAPOR  shall have   failed  to perform   any  of  its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation


﻿- 10 -
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ENAPOR will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Decree establishing ENAPOR (Decree No. 58 of June
19, 1982, as amended by Decree No. 20/1992) shall have been amend9d,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of ENAPOR to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ENAPOR or for the suspension of its operations.
(f)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have. been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms thereof, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply  if   the  Borrower  establishes  to  the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,    cancellation,   termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
days after notice thereof shall have bean given by the Association
to the Borrower;


﻿- 11 -
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (d) and (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ENAPOR.
(b)   The Borrower has introduced new port tariffs based on
the findings and recommendations of the port pricing study, and
satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower has designated the Program Coordinator, and
recruited the consultants required to launch the technical
assistance program under Part E of the Project, all of whom shall
have qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
(d)   Pursuant to its public transport legislation     (Law
No. 93/1989),  the   Borrower  has  issued   an  Executive  Order
establishing an adequate licensing scheme to regulate and control
the provision of bus transport services by private operators.
(e)   The-Project Account has been duly opened and an initial
deposit of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent made
therein.
(f)   The Borrower has established a computerized accounting
system and recruited an independent auditor, acceptable to the
Association, to audit the Project accounts in accordance with the
requirements of Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
(g)   the chief accountant referred to in Section 4.02 of the
Project Agreement has been duly recruited.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ENAPOR, and is legally binding upon ENAPOR in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Contract Plan
have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ENAPOR,
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and ENAPOR in accordance
with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Planning
C. P. 30
Praia
Cabo Verde
Cable address:          Telex:
FINANqAS            6058 MCECV
CABO VERDE


﻿- 13 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By f-)   Cx"      d'hkOJ     4'&AZ
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /4I   kA eYUt           L zkwa4
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:                              100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a) under Part A.1       1,300,000        80% of local
of the Project                       expenditures
(b) under Part A.2       1,700,000
of the Project
(c) under Part B           640,000
of the Project
(2)   Equipment:                                100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a) under Part A.2         210,000        80% of local
of the Project                       expenditures
(b) other                  150,000


﻿-15-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)   Technical                                100%
assistance:
(a) under Part E.5        290,000
of the Project
(b) other               2,300,000
(4)   Training                 290,000         100%
under Part E.6
of the Project
(5)   Operating costs:                         100% up to June
30, 1994; 60% up
(a) ENAPOR                290,000        to June 30, 1995;
and 25% up to
(b) other                  80,000        June 30, 1996, and
0% thereafter
(6)   Refunding of               860,000       Amounts due
Project                                  pursuant to
Preparation                              Section 2.02 (d)
Advance                                   of this Agreement
(7)   Unallocated                790,000
TOTAL               8,900,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means the expenditures
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided however that, if the currency of


﻿- 16 -
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(c)   the term   "operating costs" means    the  incremental
operating costs arising under the Project on account of salaries and
allowances of local contractual staff, maintenance of vehicles and
fuel, and office rent, supplies and utilities.
3.    The percentages of expenditures to be financed under Category
(5) of the table in paragraph 1 above shall be determinad as of the
date of each payment in respect of which disbursement is sought.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
(b)   under Category (1) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, unless the Borrower has satisfied the Association
that it has secured the additional funds required to finance Part
A.1 of the Project;
(c)   under Categories (1) (b) and (2) (a) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless: (i) the Borrower has concluded
an agteement with KfW, or otherwise satisfied the Association that
it has secured the additional funds required to finance Part A.2 of
the Project, (ii) the Association has reviewed the results of
modelling studies required for the preparation of detailed
engineering under Part A.2 of the Project, and all corrective
environmental measures that may be required in this regard have been
incorporated in the final design, and (iii) based on the detailed
engineering, it has been demonstrated that the component is
economically justified; and
(d)   under Category (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, unless the Borrower has submitted a training program,
acceptable to the Association, giving details of all training
proposals under the Project.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The  objectives   of  the  Project   are:  (i)  to   promote
international   competitiveness   through   port    modernization,
reorganization of the shipping industry and development of offshore
information industries; (ii) to foster national economic integration
by streamlining transport sector investment planning, and achieving
a more balanced and cost effective allocation of resources; (iii) to
prevent further erosion of the capital stock in the road network by
setting up a road maintenance organization; (iv) to support
promotion of the local contracting industry through execution of a
four-year road maintenance program; and (v) to promote economic
growth and alleviate poverty in Fogo island through rehabilitation
of its only port.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Port Development
1.    Porto Grande
(a)   Lengthening and widening of central finger pier, through
construction of a quay wall of concrete gravity blocks on landward
side of central pier.
(b)   Strengthening of seaward berth.
(c)   Construction of roll-on/roll-off ramp at root of new
pier to allow handling of future island cargo flows.
(d)   Reclamation of 20,000 sq. meters north of port for cargo
storage.
(e)   Construction of new passenger terminal on east side of
fishing port.
(f)   Provision of a 35-ton crane for container handling.


﻿- 18 -
2.    Vale de Cavaleiros
(a)   Reconstruction of 270 m long breakwater in its initial
location.
(b)   Reconstruction of 120 m long berth located in inward
face of breakwater.
(c)   Construction of two secondary breakwaters to minimize
negative impact of sand transit in and outside the port, and protect
main breakwater.
(d)   Provision of a 15-ton mobile crane for cargo handling
and periodic maintenance works.
Part B:     Highwav Investment and Maintenance Program
1.    Construction of two stretches of roads totalling 7 km to
establish important links in Fogo and Praia, respectively.
2.    Rehabilitation of a total length of 247 km, and upgrading of
64 km, of the road network.
3.    Measures to improve road safety on 234 km of the road network.
4.    Periodic and routine maintenance of the entire network.
Part C:     Shippinz Services
Implementation of an action plan for the reorganization of
shipping services within a proper enabling regulatory environment.
Part D:     Development of Offshore Information Industries
Creation   of  an  institutional   framework  conducive   to
development of satellite earth station "teleports" by private
investors.
Part E:     Capacity Building
1.    Development of a Transport Planning Unit within MIT to
centralize information through a network of correspondents within
and outside MIT, build up a data base and carry out an analysis of
investment projects.


﻿- 19 -
2.    Development of central and local road management capabilities.
3.    Establishment of a Road Management Unit to assist in data
collection, analysis, assistance to TPU for major road works
programming and evaluation of maintenance requirements, and contract
monitoring of works.
4.    Development and implementation of a road safety program.
5.    Strengthening the capability of ENAPOR in the following areas:
operations, human resources' management, financial management
systems and marketing.
6.    Training of: (i) the personnel of MIT engaged in, or in charge
of, highway operations; and (ii) of members of the construction
industry in the private sector, or employed by local government or
municipal entities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Office  equipment  and materials   estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.    Office equipment and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent
of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of pricG quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure


﻿- 21 -
that the two conformed copies of the contract, required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
.     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project
(other than Parts A.1 and E.5 thereof), the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall designate the head of TPU, or any other
suitably qualified and experienced official acceptable to the
Association, to be the Program Coordinator. The Program Coordinator
shall be responsible for the overall coordination of the
implementation of the Project and, in particular, for liaison with
the Association and other co-financiers, submission of disbursement
requests, and compliance with auditing and other reporting
requirements; to this end, he shall be assisted by a suitably
qualified and experienced expert, having the requisite accounting
and computer skills.
2.    (a)   Not later than November 15, 1993 and, thereafter, not
later than November 15 of each subsequent year during the
implementation period of the Project, the Borrower       and  the
Association shall undertake, in conjunction with ENAPOR, a joint
annual review of the Project or, in the case of the review to be
undertaken not later than November 15, 1995, a mid-term review,
during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters
relating to the progress of the Project, and the performance by the
Borrower and ENAPOR of their respective obligations under this
Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
the Contract Plan; including, but not limited to: (i) the level of
planned investments in the transport sector for the forthcoming
year, and actual investments for the current year, having regard to
the guidelines specified to that effect under the Program; (ii) the
level of road user charges and, in particular, their adequacy for
purposes of road maintenance; and (iii) the progress achieved in the
implementation of the training program, and of the Project in
general, having regard to the key monitoring indicators agreed upon
to that effect between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its conments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in
particular, of the specific issues due to be addressed during such
review.
(c)   Following each such review, the Borrower shall act
promptly and diligently, in order to take, or assist ENAPOR in
taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any


﻿- 23 -
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to
implement, or assist ENAPOR in implementing, such other measures as
may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to implement the
recommendations of the Action Plan, in accordance with the time-
table and implementation schedule set forth in the Action Plan.
4.    DGLT shall be required, with effect from December 31, 1993, to
be responsible for the collection and analysis of data on road user
charges and, using methodologies agreed upon to that effect with the
Association,   to  ensure   that  such  charges   are   reasonably
proportionate with road recurrent costs.
5.    Upon the completion of reconstruction works under Part A.2 of
the Project, the Borrower shall conclude a concession contract with
ENAPOR, on terms and conditions which shall be acceptable to the
Association, or make other arrangements acceptable to the
Association, for the transfer to ENAPOR of the entire fixed assets
of the Port of Vale de Cavaleiros.
6.    The Borrower   shall implement a program     of merit-based
financial incentives, which shall have been agreed upon with the
Association, for the retention of key MIT staff involved in the
implementation of the Project.
7.    Prior to the commencement of any technical assistance activity
under the Project, the Borrower shall take necessary steps to have
in place the requisite number of suitably qualified and experienced
local personnel to be the local counterparts of any expatriate
technical assistance staff.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 (one million) to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 25 -
(ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule. for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount  of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special comitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the


﻿- 26 -
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit into the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may requiest; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


