CREDIT NUMBER 2466 CV
Project Agreement
(Transport and Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ADMINISTRACAO DOS PORTOS
Dated       oA        /9       , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2466 CV
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     VaXCA     /,?          , 1993, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and EMPRESA
NACIONAL DE ADMINISTRAqAO DOS PORTOS (ENAPOR).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Cape Verde (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,900,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that ENAPOR agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ENAPOR, a portion of the proceeds. of the
Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
relent to ENAPOR on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ENAPOR, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ENAPOR declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1 and E.5 of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Parts A.1 and E.5 of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A.1 and E.5 of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ENAPOR shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts
A.1 and E.5 of the Project.
Section 2.04. ENAPOR shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Contract Plan. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, ENAPOR shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
the Contract Plan, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ENAPOR shall participate fully in the annual
review referred to in Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement
and, to this end, shall: (i) furnish to the Borrower and the
Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in
such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably
request, on the progress and status of the Project; and (ii) follow-
ing each such review, act promptly and diligently, in order to take,
or assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of
the Project, or to implement, or assist the Borrower in implement-
ing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
(b)   Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing,
ENAPOR shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with
the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A.1 and E.5 of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Contract Plan, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(c)   ENAPOR shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A.1 and E.5 of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ENAPOR of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENAPOR
Section 3.01. ENAPOR shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
technical practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. ENAPOR shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property and, from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
technical practices.
Section 3.03. ENAPOR shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ENAPOR shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   ENAPOR shall:
(i)   have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year   audited,  in   accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;


﻿-4-
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. ENAPOR shall: (a) at all times employ a chief
accountant to be responsible for the management of its accounts and
records, and (b) not later than June 30, 1994, introduce a cost
accounting system.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ENAPOR thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i)   the  date   on  which  the  Development   Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii) the date seven years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify ENAPOR
of this event.


﻿-5-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For ENAPOR:
Managing Director, ENAPOR
P.O. Box 82
Sao Vicente
Cabo Verde
Fax:                         Telex:
238 31 46 61             993 3049


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ENAPOR, or by ENAPOR on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the Managing Director, ENAPOR, or such other person or
persons as Managing Director, ENAPOR, shall designate in writing,
and ENAPOR shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           ex/A-eo-Af7ouu
'     Regional Vice President
Africa
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ADMINISTRA9AO DOS PORTOS
By /J/  6XAthor Jizbedere dse
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit
Agreement.


﻿-8-
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Empoyment of Consultants
In order to assist ENAPOR in carrying out Parts A.1 and E.5 of
the Project, ENAPOR shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


