Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22053
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28657)
ONA
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR
BIODIVERSITY COLLECTIONS PROJECT
09/17/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTIS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp. 1,000,000 = US$ 103.82
US$ 1.00 = Rp.9,632
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARCBC                      ASEAN Regional Centre for Biological Conservation
BAPPENAS                  Badan Perencaan Pembangunan Nasional (Agency for
National Development Planning)
BCP                        Biodiversity Collections Project
CGI                        Consultative Group for Indonesia
GEF                        Global Environmental Facility
GOI                        Govenmment of Indonesia
HB                         Herbarium Bogoriense
IBIS                      Indonesian Biodiversity Information System
ICR                        Implementation Completion Report
IT                        Information Technology
IMF                        Intemational Monetary Fund
IPM                        Integrated Pest Management
IST                       Information System Team
JICA                       Japan Intemational Cooperation Agency
LIPI                       Lembaga Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesia (Indonesian Institute
of Sciences)
MS                         Management System
MZB                        Museum Zoologicum Bogoriense
NBIN                       National Biodiversity Information Network
PIU                        Project Implementation Unit
PMC                        Project Management Committee
PPPB-LIPI                  Pusat Penelitian dan Pengembangan Biologi (Research and
Development Centre for Biology)-LIPI
PPPO-LIPI                 Pusat Penelitian dan Pengembangan Oseanologi (Research
and Development Centre for Oceanology)LIPI
TAG                        Technical Advisory Group
UAG                        User Advisory Group
WB                         World Bank
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird
Sector Manager/Director:    Mark D. Wilson
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Dely P. Gapasin



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
BIODIVERSITY COLLECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                       12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     16
10. Additional Information                                                             16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  30
Annex 8. GOI Implementation Completion Report                                          31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P034080                                        Project Name: BIODIVERSITY COLLECTIONS
PROJECT
Team Leader: Dely P. Gapasin                               TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: September 17, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: BIODIVERSITY COLLECTIONS PROJECT                L/C/TF Number: TF-28657
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: VI - Environmental Institutions
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/01/1992                               Effective: 07/25/1994
Appraisal:  12/01/1993                                 MTR: 06/09/1997
Approval:  06/29/1994                               Closing:  10/31/2000          03/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  GOI/LIPI
Other Partners: NGOs
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                  Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                              Antony Cole
Team Leader at ICR:   Dely P. Gapasin                            Ms. Jessica Mott
ICR Primary Author:   Henrik Balslev & Maurice
Kottelat
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the GEF-supported Biodiversity Collections Project (GEF-BCP) was to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Research and Development Centre for Biology (PPPB) of the Indonesian
Institute of Sciences (LIPI) to support systematic biological collections, a basic reference tool for
biodiversity inventory and monitoring. The Project would also make the information from the collections
available to extemal clients. The Project would establish the foundation required for PPPB to meet the
expanding needs for biodiversity information over the long-term, and provide high priority information
during the Project period.
The Project objective was clearly stated and was consistent with the country's priorities and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time of Project preparation, appraisal, and grant approval
(1993-1994). It was also consistent with the Government's strategy to implement the country's Biodiversity
Action Plan. The GEF-BCP was designed as an innovative pilot project to demonstrate the feasibility of
investing on biological collections in developing countries. The Project's design was directly consistent with
achieving this objective.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective remained unchanged throughout the Project life.
3.3 Original Components:
(a) Project Management and Coordination (Component 1). In this component, the following
units were established to facilitate Project implementation: a Steering Committee (SC), a Project
Management Committee (PMC), a Project Implementation Unit (PUJ) including locally contracted
specialists in project and financial management, a Technical Advisory Group (TAG) consisting of
international advisors with institutional and technical expertise, and a Users' Advisory Group (UAG) with
representatives of extemal clients. The Project contracted short-term advisors and trainers (in
environmental health and safety, document restoration, data field design, and specialized systematic
biology) and mentors who were specialists in their fields. It also implemented a grant program for
systematic research and carried out a special sustainability study including financial and institutional
sustainability.
(b) Systematic Collections and Research in Botany and Zoology (Component 2). This
component supported the restoration and management of systematic biological collections and associated
research in the Botany and Zoology Divisions of PPPB through:
(i) Human Resource Development: Provision of 18 graduate-level scholarships in systematic biology
and 11 recruits who had newly graduated from university, plus advice and extensive on-the-job training
for PPPB managers, scientists, interns, and technicians in curation, taxa identification, field collecting,
and user product development;
(ii) Collections Restoration and Development: Provision of building renovations, furniture, archival
supplies, 40 temporary employees, and redeployment of 20 permanent staff to work as curatorial
assistants to improve and expand specimen storage, improve the scientific organization of the
collections, restore deteriorating specimens, and stabilize the specimens, as necessary, before moving
them to new cabinets, and/or buildings. These activities included the integration of the marine reference
collections belonging to LIPI's Research and Development Centre for Oceanology with PPPB's
terrestrial and freshwater-based reference collections;
-2 -



(iii) Research Facilities: Building renovations and provision of essential scientific literature and
equipment to improve systematic biology research facilities; and
(iv) Publications and Products: Development of an illustrated technical glossary, a computerized
bibliography of published reference materials, a computerized gazetteer, a database and handbooks
covering specific taxa, field guides, and a specimen identification service.
(c) Information Systems Management (Component 3). In this component, the Project set up a
computer database and a local area network capable of basic specimen data entry, automated label
production, collection management functions, and information dissemination. This system complemented
and comprised a node of a wider network, which the Government planned to develop. This component
provided inputs of technical assistance, software development and support, and the establishment of a new
sub-division with re-deployed and newly recruited staff.
(d) Scientific Collaborations and Services (Component 4). This component provided technical
assistance and office equipment to strengthen PPPB's capacity to carry out collaborative research, provide
client services, including a publication program, and manage the degree and non-degree training program.
3.4 Revised Components:
The four components remained essentially unchanged throughout the life of the Project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was judged to have been "Satisfactory'" Project preparation was thorough and
comprehensive. The design of the Project considered the conditions and basic requirements of PPPB in
terms of strengthening the capacity of staff in taxonomy research, facilities improvements, collections
management, and the development of information technology innovations. However, some aspects were
planned in such detail that it appeared to have intimidated execution (especially after the departure of the
Technical Advisory Group), although attempts were made during the supervisions to overcome this.
The Project started by rehabilitating only the specimens at highest risk, based on the original design, but it
became apparent quickly that when the hazardous preservatives were removed from the collections, there
was risk of further deterioration of the rest of the specimens. All specimens would then have to be
processed and stored in large numbers of cabinets. It was not anticipated that the large volume of specimen
restoration and reorganization would require many of the taxonomists to stay in Bogor longer before
starting their degree programs, and this caused delays. The target to restore less than 10 percent of about
two million Herbarium specimens was not significant for the collection overall and it is felt that it could
have been more ambitious, although it was recognized that a much larger goal would have been unrealistic
in terms of the implementation capacity of PPPB.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project has substantially achieved its original objective and expected outputs and was rated as
"Satisfactory". It has restored and developed the collections in the Herbarium and Museum to world-class
standards. It has designed functional software and established core databases in Botany and Zoology
comprising information from the existing collections. PPPB has strengthened the capacity of staff to
coordinate and foster collaborative biological research. The Project was managed with flexibility to handle
the differences between the conditions and human resources in the Herbarium and Museum. A change in
work culture was obvious and, especially in the Museum, there was great satisfaction among staff and
-3 -



managers with the team work achieved.
The Project has made a major contribution to global biodiversity because well-managed collections, and the
taxonomy based on them, are at the core of good conservation and resource management. They provide the
physical means by which organisms can be identified, and the human resources to undertake the work. Like
libraries, the values of biological collections accrue over the long-term. The Project has helped to make the
Bogor collections the finest in Asia and among the best in the developing world. But more important than
this is the pride and enthusiasm it has produced among its staff.
The newly-secured and organized Bogor biological collections benefit not only Indonesia's biodiversity but
also now support and encourage regional and other specialists to compare their specimens from outside
Indonesia with those collected within Indonesia to ascertain whether the species are the same. The
immediate utility of the collections is demonstrated by the growing number (in thousands) of specimens sent
out on loan to other institutions each year and on the growing number of specialists coming to work in the
Museum and Herbarium. It takes forward thinking to commit long-term support for taxonomic institutions;
the GEF has provided that and as a result, the biological collections in Bogor are now reinvigorated for
long-term benefit.
The human resources of PPPB have been significantly improved through degree and non-degree training
such that the important collections are now in the hands of competent, well-networked staff whose horizons
have been expanded and whose services for training, advice, and collaborative research are now sought.
The targets in human resources development were exceeded with 20 scholars (II recruits) sent for graduate
studies (19 completed their degrees, 6 with Ph.D. and 13 with M.Sc.), 27 completed overseas work studies
for coordinators and collection managers, 28 interns from universities, 17 specialists mentors, and 63
trained technicians.
The botanical and zoological collections are now organized, catalogued and thus useable, and the working
environments have improved so that research is encouraged. The targets in restoration have been reached in
the Herbarium and largely exceeded in the Museum where the target quickly shifted from partial to total
restoration (creating needs for additional equipment beyond the original projections).
The Project facilitated the development of a solid, tailor-made software for managing the collections and
for generating products. The targets in databasing specimen-based information were not reached in the
Herbarium but were largely exceeded in the Museum. Through the publication program, not only were
many Indonesian-language books produced, but the staff and management leamed a great deal about
publishing and distribution, and about peer review and quality control. The commitment of the Government
for the Project and for future funding, the establishment of a foundation for distribution and funding of
publications, and the quality of the scientific staff provide certainty that these achievements are sustainable,
given continued intellectual stimuli and incentives.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Project Management and Coordination (Component 1)
Overall, the perfonmance on project management and coordination has been rated as "Marginally
Satisfactory". These activities were guided by an inter-agency Steering Committee, chaired by the Vice
Chairman of LIPI, a Project Management Committee consisting mainly of the PPPB management team and
chaired by the PPPB Director, a User Advisory Group that linked the Project to users, a Technical
Advisory Group that provided consultants' services, and a Project Implementation Unit headed by a Project
Manager. PPPB management has, at times, shown great support for the Project, but at others it has not
been sufficiently engaged to assist the PIU in solving some critical problems. The combined support
- 4 -



provided by these groups had been mixed resulting in inconsistencies and sometimes strained relationships
among implementers and managers. Some groups that were hoped to facilitate smooth implementation of
Project activities did not consistently deliver.
The Steering Committee, comprising individuals sympathetic to the Project, provided sustained and critical
support. Through the commnittee's facilitation, the Govemment was able to maintain its counterpart funding
level even during the economic crises. LIPI and PPPB were able to obtain new positions for the new
recruits who have returned with advanced degrees despite the Govemment's "zero growth" policy (no
recruitments). The SC periodically discussed Project progress and provided guidance to the PMU on key
issues. The PMC, the Project's management team, was not consistent in fulfilling its executive
responsibility, but has improved through the Project life. The UAG was expected to facilitate a two-way
communication between the Project and end-users. The initial consultations with representatives of actual
and potential users gave directions and priorities and established a diverse 'core group'. However, beyond
discussion of issues and planning, there were no substantive results. There were few incentives for the
UAG to function well and this was felt to be indicative of user participation generally.
Initially, the PIU comprised 115 staff from various PPPB units, a Project Manager, and two long-tern
consultants (financial specialist and management specialist). When the technical staff were integrated back
in their regular units, the PIU was reduced to a core management team, and two additional short-term,
consultants (editor and training specialist) were added at rnid-term. The PIU was responsible for the
coordination of Project activities, procurement of goods, preparing work plans and progress reports, and
financial management. The PIU established a poor record in adhering to Bank procurement procedures
resulting in delays in obtaining scientific and curatorial equipment, materials, taxonomic references, and
book printing. Despite concems expressed over procurement, the public audit office (BPKP), expressed
"unqualified opinion" on the annual financial reports. The short-term consultants who facilitated the
training program and the publication of books, manuals and brochure were efficient and provided a major
support to the Project's success.
Overall, the provision of technical services was "Satisfactory". The TAG provided periodic technical
advice and guidance on training, curation, health and safety, equipment specifications, database
development, and information systems, and Project management. The TAG comprised three core advisors
and short-term consultants under a contract between PPPB and Harvard University. At mid-term (in July
1998), the Harvard University contract was terminated due to the consultants claiming force majeure
during Indonesia's political and social upheavals. The TAG's technical advice was much valued and had
major impacts on the Project. The TAG established the critical scientific basis for most of the Project
activities.
The TAG organized important inputs from many short-term consultants including those who carried out the
health and safety study, archival and restoration study, collections database study, and support for
development of an information system. They managed the degree training and overseas work studies of
staff. The financial and institutional sustainability study was very much delayed and was managed by the
PIU later. The style of work delivery by some TAG members caused strained relationships. The TAG was
replaced by experienced scientific advisors, contracted as individual consultants, who visited Indonesia
twice a year but were available to give advice between visits through electronic links.
(bl) Systematic Botany Collections and Research (Component 2)
The outputs of this component have been rated as "Satisfactory" overall. The original targets in human
resource development were reached and, with 16 interns, has exceeded the target of eight. Ten degree
- 5 -



trainees were selected for graduate studies after a competitive selection process involving new university
graduates. The trainees included nine recruits who all studied overseas and one staff who studied at a local
university. Ten scholars, including one in Microbiology, completed their degrees (4 Ph.D. and 6 M.Sc.);
nine were recruits. These newly trained taxonomists make up an impressive 43 percent of the 23 plant
taxonomists currently employed by PPPB.
The short-term overseas training of the Botany Coordinator and Collection Managers in many foreign
herbaria, and on-the-job training of staff and technicians improved the capacity and quality of staff and
increased work morale. Seven overseas mentors provided technical and scientific advise and training of
staff focusing on the priority taxa. The mentors contributed to global exposure of staff and provided expert
knowledge which improved the curation of most priority taxa. Sixteen intems from 15 universities were
trained by Herbarium staff for up to six months on collection management and other topics. Some intems
have started their own biological collections. Together, the staff, intems, and overseas mentors now form a
network that enhances scientific collaboration and extends PPPB's biodiversity services, not only abroad
but most importantly, to Indonesia's regions.
The restoration of botanical collections was successful in spite of initial problems. A total of 255,000 dried
specimens were remounted on acid free paper and stabilized, which is far beyond the revised target at
mid-term of 150,000 specimens and the original target of 200,000. New specimen covers, alphabetic
arrangement, and rebottling of 8,000 collections in alcohol ("wet collections") enormously improved the
quality of specimen storage. Particularly important are the 25,000 type-specimens that were remounted and
stored separately in an air conditioned type room. Although the restoration target was exceeded, this
number still represents only about 12 percent of the estimated two million specimens in the Herbarium,
leaving 88 percent still to be restored. There is a large backlog of possibly 200,000 unmounted specimens
that are kept under unsatisfactory conditions in the fourth floor and drying room. Other herbaria, even in
developed countries, also have large backlogs of unmounted specimens. Nevertheless, the situation at PPPB
calls for serious consideration of the rates of specimen restoration and mounting after the completion of the
Project.
The use of toxic chemicals for preserving specimens has been replaced by an Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) Program to reduce health hazards to staff and visitors handling the collections. The original plan of
keeping only specimens of highest risk in new air-tight cabinets was changed to putting all the collections in
cabinets to reduce the risk of further deterioration due to the removal of chemical preservatives. About
1,033 new air-tight steel cabinets (target was 785) were procured. Windows and doors in the Herbarium
were screened and regular monitoring of insect infestations in the storage rooms was carried out using
sticky traps. Freezing of specimens and putting them in zipped plastic bags before placing them in the
cabinets became a standard practice in the Herbarium. IPM implementation also encouraged staff,
technicians, and users to keep their work areas clean and ensured that the cabinets were locked after use
and checked at the end of each work day.
Research facilities in the Herbarium were improved. Three research laboratories and a type room were
upgraded and air-conditioned. Rearrangement of the processing and pressing area, renovation of a supply
storage, mounting, and database rooms, installation of an electric plant specirnen drier, and a walk-in
freezer, including improved electric installations, were completed. There were problems with operating the
freezer, mainly due to fluctuations in electrical voltage, but this was solved by rewiring the entire building.
Five long-armed and three dissecting microscopes were procured, but more microscopes are needed.
The provision of essential scientific literature reached only 50 percent of the potential acquisitions
- 6 -



identified. Additional specialized literature was provided by mentors. Production targets for publications
were nearly met. Preparation of a technical bilingual glossary and a computerized bibliography of key
systematic references was completed. Four original field guides, authored by staff, were produced on rare
plants, wild bananas, and bamboos (two). Staff also produced a curatorial manual, a management policy of
the Herbarium, and five intemational publications by the graduates.
(b2) Systematic Zoology Collections and Research (Component 2)
Overall, the outputs of this component have been rated as "Highly Satisfactory" and often exceeded the
targets. Seven staff and three recruits were selected to receive degree training, seven M.Sc. and three Ph.D.
(including one in Oceanology); one M.Sc. graduate (recruit) continued for a Ph.D., and one M.Sc.
candidate (recruit) failed. These nine graduates represent 39 percent of the 23 animal taxonomists currently
employed by PPPB and will enhance its scientific capacity significantly. Ten staff went on overseas
work-study and ten overseas mentors visited the Museum. Linked with the new facilities, this resulted in a
radical upgrading of curatorial practices which are now in line with international standards.
Staff, technicians, university interns, and high school students received on-the-job training (about 100
persons). Twelve university staff received intemships in the Museum. There are numerous requests for
more training and some intems are now funding their own programs. The status of one recruit will be
formalized as a civil servant on his return. The graduate students authored 10 international-standard
publications. The Museum benefited from efficient and dynamic leadership; this, combined with the new
facilities, the training program, and new responsibilities, has had a profound impact on the work culture
and team building in the Museum.
The Museum successfully moved its collections in 1998 to the new JICA-funded building equipped with
modem facilities with health and security conditions meeting international standards. The entire collection
(more than two million specimens) have been stabilized and moved, and new materials has been integrated.
The original target was a partial restoration, but because of the move it became apparent that a full
restoration was necessary, thus creating the need for equipment in addition to the original projections. The
Project procured 1,135 air-tight steel cabinets of various types (original target was 310 cabinets) and three
sets of compactus (sliding shelf units). The JICA-funded Biodiversity Conservation Project (JICA-BCP)
procured 100 additional insect cabinets in FY2001. The collection is now almost completely reorganized
(except for some insect taxa). An IPM Program was established with freezing of specimens in lieu of using
toxic chemical preservatives that was withdrawn early in the Project.
The collections are now accessible and useable, although there remain unidentified collections which have
not yet been stabilized or attended to (a common problem in museums around the world). There is still a
shortage of some supplies and shelving. It is noteworthy that all these achievements and the databasing
(mentioned under Component 3) has been achieved in a short period as a result of the staff first having to
handle the move of the Museum; it also partly explains the low publication output and some delays in the
degree training. The integration of the marine reference collection of the Research and Development Centre
for Oceanology has not been completed as planned although part of the collection has been transferred to
the Museum. Oceanology research and technical staff have been trained and curatorial supplies provided.
Loans of specimens to requesting foreign museums have increased over the last few years after a hiatus.
Equipment (11 microscopes, 2 computers, 1 server) were procured and were complemented well by the
JICA-BCP. Only 83 reference book titles and no journals were bought, although ample funding was
available. Additional references were provided by mentors. This delay seriously compromnised the efficiency
and quality of future curation and research. Production targets for publications were reached in partnership
- 7 -



with four NGOs working on biodiversity. A management and curation handbook and a Museum brochure
were published. Two volumes of the small field guide series were written by staff. A technical glossary was
not completed.
(c) Information Systems Management (Component 3)
The outputs of this component have been rated as "Satisfactory". The Project has developed a fully
functional software for collection management called the Indonesian Biodiversity Information System
(IBIS). The revised target at mid-term was for an IBIS pilot for Botany. A similar Zoology version was
also developed by the Information Technology (IT) Team and is also now fully functional. The
development of databases is a significant achievement, especially given past delays caused by contractor
and technical assistance differences. The IT Team has developed the databases on their own and showcased
it in an international meeting in Germany in 2000. Short-term training and study visits abroad provided to
the IT Team facilitated software development. They were supported periodically by short-term IT
consultants. Early problems arising from differences between the IT team and some consultants were
resolved when the team took responsibility for the product. The Team has also established a website -
http://bio.lipi.ro.id - for PPPB within which information related to the Project and its products can be
accessed.
The Herbarium staff has databased 240,000 specimen records with about 1,000 validated records and
3,000 awaiting data entry. The Museum staff has databased 144,000 specimen records with 27,300
validated records. The mentors' reports noted problems with erroneous validations in the priority taxa
which are being corrected. The entries for type specimens demonstrate a lack of basic knowledge of
nomenclature rules among the IT staff. These problems appear to result from insufficient coordination and
collaboration among the IT Team  and taxonomic staff. Several taxonomists demonstrated limited
understanding of the IBIS and its potential use. The Project has worked through issues relating to the
utilization of the Herbarium and Museum databases, and although there are no products for public
distribution at the close of the Project, some are imminent. The bamboo databases were used in the
preparation of the two bamboo field guides authored by a member of the Herbarium staff.
Computers and accessories have been procured by the Project for the Herbarium and Museum. Some
problems arose because of timely upgrades and maintenance contracts. However, in the Museum, the
JICA-BCP provided additional computers, Oracle platform and software, and other accessories. In the
Herbarium, upgrades were provided by the Project but a similar support from JICA-BCP has allowed the
migration of the databases into Oracle platform. The recent migration was necessary because the large
sizes of the databases were causing slow systems response and crashes in the Herbarium databases. The
expectation was to have all staff online, with internal and external e-mail available. In the Herbariurn,
seven computers utilized for entering specimen data are linked by a LAN. In the Museum, LAN
infrastructure is in place but there is no software. Thus, there is no intranet or internet access in either
institution.
(d) Scientific Collaboration and Services (Component 4)
The outputs of this component has been rated as "Marginally Satisfactory". Seventeen field guides were
published by the Project, four in Botany (all original titles and by staff), and 11 in Zoology (three original
titles and by staff, one original title by a partner). In addition, two collection manuals and a Museum
brochure were printed. The field guides are in three distinct series based on users' needs. At mid-term, there
was a minimal pipeline of manuscripts so part of the budget for publications was reallocated to partially
cover the cabinet shortfall. An editor was then contracted and her input was critical in working with staff,
printers, partners, and ensuring high quality in the publications.
- 8 -



PPPB staff and local conservation NGOs were encouraged to prepare manuscripts for consideration. Four
field guides were published in collaboration with partners (BirdLife International, Wetlands International,
Darwin Initiative, and Wallacea Foundation). Writing disciplines, such as adherence to deadlines,
originality, appropriate style, and acceptance of peer review, developed staff expertise in widely-accepted
standards. A new initiative introduced by the Project was the establishment of a foundation (Yayasan
Hayati) tasked with distributing PPPB publications and of using income for the production of additional
biodiversity books. The foundation contracted a commercial book distributor for wider distribution of the
products within the country but other mechanisms are needed to ensure the widest possible readership.
Before the Project, PPPB researchers were engaged in collaborative taxonomic research with some
Indonesian and foreign universities. To enhance this, competitive research grants were made available
under the Project. Twenty two research Projects were completed. However, at mid-term, it was found that
the quality of the proposals and utility and quality of the reports did not justify further use of GEF funds,
although the Government continued to support research. The funds allocated for these grants were
reallocated at mid-terrn to partially cover the cabinet shortfalls.
As part of the effort to expose the Indonesian public to the work and benefits of the Herbarium and
Museum, staff have held 'open house' events and training. In the Museum, these recent events have been
attended by over 6,000 school children and teachers. These events contributed significantly to team
building among the staff. Prior to the Project, both the Herbarium and Museum staff helped to identify
specimens collected by others and this service continued during implementation, as did responding to
queries from the general public and other government agencies.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Considering it's final rating as "Substantial", the Project has significantly improved PPPB's capacity to
manage its biological collections following intemational standards and increased the staff's capacity to
carry out taxonomic research and build databases in both the Herbarium and Museum using tailored-made
software developed within the institution. Beginning FY2001, a new PPPB structure will be implemented
but it will not reflect the needs, demonstrated by the Project, requiring integration and coordination of core
activities. To counter any negative effect, PPPB management has prepared detailed job descriptions for
staff positions to ensure that the right individuals are matched with key jobs to be carried out.
The work culture in the Herbarium and Museum has improved, such as teamwork, partnering, and
networking within and outside Indonesia. The staff has improved its understanding of the need to improve
further to ensure quality work and products. PPPB management has, at times, shown great support for the
Project, but at others it has not been sufficiently engaged to assist the PIU in solving critical problems. The
broad exposure of the Herbarium and Museum has created awareness among senior officials in government
agencies of the significance and use of biodiversity collections and they are now willing to provide
resources for the maintenance of the collections from government routine budget.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
-9-



The economic crisis of mid-1997 that affected Indonesia and other Asian countries had both negative and
positive impacts on the Project. The decrease in the value of the Rupiah meant that the dollar grant could
buy more in the country. The negotiated Government contribution in dollar terms was, by the end of the
Project, USD 2.77 million compared to the original estimated amount of USD 4.2 million. Nevertheless, the
Government committed the necessary counterpart funds and additional budget to cover the shortfall of
cabinets.
The Technical Advisory Group that provided consultants for the Project broke their contract citingforce
majeure following the violence of the civil unrest in 1998. This necessitated PIU taking more responsibility
for Project implementation. Although there was a delay in some activities, it resulted in a stronger
ownership of the Project by the staff and the clearing of tensions between the TAG and the implementing
agency.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Initially, the Project design required that the Herbarium and Museum staff involved in the Project form a
new working arrangement intended to facilitate implementation. Early in implementation, however, it was
evident that sustainability would be better served by integrating the Project and regular staff into the
Botany and Zoology Divisions of PPPB. This resulted in a better working arrangement. However, the new
PPPB structure that is scheduled to be implemented in FY2001 is expected to have some negative impacts
on tius working arrangement.
The recruitment of ten new staff who have completed their advanced degrees as part of the Project has been
achieved despite the "zero growth" policy of the government. One recruit did not complete his degree and
cannot be hired as a regular staff. The first seven new recruits who have returned from their studies abroad
in 1999 and 2000 have been provided with structural positions, The three remaining recruits are expected
to get their regular positions in FY2002.
The transfer of the oceanology reference collections from PPPO, another LIPI research center, to the
Museum has been started. About 300 specimens have been moved - the Museum has sent 3,000 bottles to
the PPPO, and more collections are ready for transfer. One staff has completed an M.Sc. degree and other
staff have undergone non-degree training with support from the Project. However, the total transfer, as
originally envisaged, will not be achieved because of a change in PPPO policy.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The process of selecting staff and new university graduates for degree training was competitive and
transparent. Achievement was very successful with 95 percent of the students completing their advanced
degrees.
There have been inconsistencies in Project management that affected the implementation and coordination
of activities. Staff changes to improve Project management have been dealt with sporadically and with
difficulty resulting in long delays. The knowledge and proactivity of staff to seek assistance to deal with
financial and procurement matters remained low.
Although the Project sought to strengthen the routine activities in the Herbarium and Museum, some staff
who were not directly involved thought that the Project was a distinct activity. They did not accept that it
was a capacity development process that should have positively influenced the institution as a whole. This
has affected the work culture in the Herbarium more than in the Museum. The situation was much
improved at the end of the Project.
- 10 -



The development of an information system has been worst affected by a tendency to isolate the IT Team
from the researchers, which in tum had negative effects on the Herbarium and Museum activities. The
opportunity to develop an institution-wide system of information sharing has been missed. The utilization
of the databases remained the generally isolated effort of individuals and no products have resulted. There
is limited data sharing internally because particular groups tried to control the databases rather than
ensuring their validity. Many researchers do not have access to data outside their research area yet the data
are public goods having been generated using public funds, including the GEF grant funds. With a change
in policy, the Herbarium and Museum could have a good information system shared by its staff and their
partners.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
(a) Project disbursements:
Based on Bank disbursement figures as of June 30, 2001, USD 6.89 million had been disbursed from the
GEF grant and is likely to reach USD 7.11 million by July 31, 2001, or 99 percent of the appraisal
estimate of USD 7.20 million (equivalent to SDR 5.1 million). The total Project expenditure was USD 9.88
million, including the Government's counterpart of USD 2.77 million. The Government's counterpart
funding was 66 percent of the appraisal estimate of USD 4.20 million. Although the Government's total
contribution was reduced in dollar terms because of the exchange rate fluctuations, it has provided
sufficient counterpart funds as scheduled, and in addition procured more cabinets to meet the shortfall of
curatorial equipment.
The actual Project costs of various components (Annex 2a) were different from those estimated at
appraisal. In the Project Management and Coordination component, the appraisal estimate of USD 1.64
mnillion was lower by 58 percent compared to the actual costs of USD 2.59 million. In Systematic Botany
Collections and Research sub-component, the appraisal estimate of USD 2.86 million was lower compared
to the actual costs of USD 3.60 million, with significant increase of 26 percent, indicating an emphasis on
the development of the Herbarium. In Systematic Zoology Collections and Research sub-component, the
appraisal estimate of USD 2.59 million was higher by 43 percent compared to the actual costs of USD 1.47
million.
In Infonnation Systems Management component, the appraisal estimate of USD 0.76 million was higher
compared to the actual costs of USD 0.16 million, or a decrease of 79 percent, due to the downgrading of
IBIS into a pilot effort at mid-term. In the Scientific Collaboration and Services component, the appraisal
estimate of USD 1.77 million was lower compared to actual costs of USD 2.06 million, or an increase of
16 percent. Part of the funds from the third and fourth components were reallocated at mid-term to cover
part of the cost of the shortfall in curatorial equipment (mainly cabinets). The increased costs in some
components were due to a combined effect of the increase in unit costs of cabinets caused by different
specifications and special designs (Annex 2e compares the cost of cabinets for Botany and Zoology), an
increase in the number of cabinets needed, and an increased number of staff who went for overseas degree
programs and work study.
(b) Financial audit and follow-up actions on audit findings:
In FY1998/99 and FY1999/00, the public audit office (BPKP) expressed "unqualified opinion" on the
Project's annual financial reports. In the FY1998/99 PA audit report, the auditor noted that there was a
contract awarded to an unqualified contractor but this was followed up accordingly by the PIU. The audit
report of the SA/SOEs for FY2000 was submitted to the Bank by BPKP on July 11, 2001.
- 11 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the rating for sustainability is "Likely". About 37 percent of the Project's investment has been for
curatorial equipment and materials needed for the efficient long-term management and curation of the
collections. These are expected to have long lasting impacts. Maintenance and continuation of the reached
level of restoration of the collections is partly attained by the establishment of a new budget line for
curatorial supplies in the government's routine budget, but this funding is likely to remain insufficient to
meet all the aspirations of the staff. However, there are enough basic curatorial supplies procured by the
Project to last for 3-4 years. Maintenance and upgrading of research and IT equipment remain highly
dependent on international collaboration.
IBIS is now functional and its sustainability depends of its coverage and scientific credibility. The
validation process, as defined by the workflow, needs rethinking. Issues on intellectual property rights have
not been addressed and this threatens the availability of the data to the public (contradicting the Project
objectives). PPPB has to review the legal issues and compatibility with using public funds (GEF grant). If
the databases are not made available to the scientific community and the public, and PPPB does not receive
outside feed-back, it will have missed the opportunity and the intention to become a useful, dynamic
research and management tool. Without policy changes, the utilization within PPPB would be limited.
There are, of course, valid arguments for witholding certain data (such as the precise locations of
collections of rare and sought-after orchids), as mentioned in the Project Document, but these are relevant
for only a small number of specimens.
About 25 percent of the investment was for training of staff who are expected to contribute to the long-term
human resource needs of supporting biodiversity effort in Indonesia. Only one staff was recruited in the
Museum, while nine staff were recruited in the Herbarium. This is noteworthy considering the "zero
growth" environment of the Indonesian civil service. The technicians in the Herbarium are insufficient to
maintain the yearly increase of the collections, thus they will have limited effect on the remaining
unrestored collections or the large backlog of unsorted material. The same applies to the insect collections
in the Museum. The collection management scientific staff in both institutions is sufficient. About one-third
of the highly skilled and well-trained technicians and data entry operators will be employed through other
projects and the government's routine budget.
The scientific staff in both institutions is sufficient to provide identification services and to conduct
valuable taxonomic research for which Indonesian biodiversity provides ample topics. The 19 staff who
have completed their degrees have strongly enhanced the human resource capacity of both institutions.
However, taxonomy is a field in which long experience is a key factor. Therefore, opportunities of
continued exposure to the global scientific community is vital to strengthen the researchers' productivity.
Continued efforts in training, education, mentoring could be achieved by international collaboration at both
institutional and individual levels. The global biodiversity conmmunity has demonstrated a basic goodwill
which could be increased if the present policy environment was relaxed, and institution and management
effectiveness was increased to meet the staff's expectations. The remaining gaps in scientific references
would make it difficult to conduct competitive research at international standards.
There are of course, valid arguments for withholding certain data (such as the precise locations of
collections of rare and sought-after orchids), as mentioned in the Project Document, but these are relevant
for only a very small number of specimens.
- 12 -



As has already been noted, the vastly improved state of the collections and facilities has increased the
number of specimens being returned to the Herbarium and Museum by outside scientists and institutions
abroad.
The continued operation of the Yayasan Hayati foundation would allow the Herbarium and Museum to
publish books in the Indonesian language at affordable prices at zero cost for these institutions. If managed
properly and with a minimnum of outside input (co-publication, cost-sharing, etc.), this should be
self-sustainable in the future.
A financial and institutional sustainability study was carried out after long delays due to problems in
procurement and selection of a consulting firm. The recommendations to PPPB management have not been
adopted and the structural changes to commercialize products and services of researchers have not been
considered in the recent PPPB reorganization. The Yayasan Hayati foundation established to publish and
distribute PPPB's publications is the main mechanism for mnanaging funds outside the government.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
(a) Actions to be taken by the Government:
A draft "Transition Arrangement Plan" was prepared by PPPB, including both short-term and long-term
actions, to ensure smooth interfacing of the Project initiatives into PPPB's regular operations. The plan
includes critical follow-up activities to be funded by PPPB up to December 31, 2001. The PPPB
management is in the process of preparing detailed descriptions of the functions of the new units and clear
job description of the positions within them. Structural positions for the remaining three recruits who will
be returning from their studies abroad in FY2001 will be requested by LIPI in FY2002.
To keep restoration of specimens at an acceptable level, especially in the Herbarium, the contracts of 10-20
project-trained technicians and data operators will be continued using government budgets, funds from
other projects. Further development of the information system is needed especially testing of the software
by collaborating individuals who will provide feedback. Additional basic curatorial materials will be
procured, like alcohol and bottles, through government routine budget.
The long-term plan addresses critical organizational and staffing issues. PPPB will have to monitor
emerging problems arising from the misfit of the new structure to the work flow and procedures in
collection management and staffing arrangements introduced by the Project. Management of the collections
will be the responsibility of the Research Facilities and Collections Management Division of PPPB but
there are no direct linkages to the research units where the taxonomists and technicians in the Herbarium
and Museum are located. The recruitment of young staff, especially in the Museum, will be continued
because of the serious aging profile of the scientific staff.
(b) Follow-up by the Bank
The Bank will follow-up on the long-term actions taken by the Government to ensure the sustainability of
the innovations introduced by the Project in the Herbarium and Museum.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.  Lending:
The Bank lending has been rated as "Satisfactoy"'. The Bank provided comprehensive support to the
Government and LIPI in identifying key Project activities. The objective of the Project was fully in
agreement with the Government's strategy for biodiversity conservation and information as expressed in the
- 13 -



1993 Biodiversity Action Plan for Indonesia. The Project was consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy and it was a logical continuation of a number of initiatives on biodiversity promotion
and awareness building. The Project was well structured and the Bank's assistance to the Borrower for
Project preparation was "Satisfactory". The appraisal of the Project was also "Satisfactory" and had
secured the full commitment of the Government to the implementation. The capacity of the implementing
agency had been sufficiently evaluated and the financial package was appropriate and adequate in its
amounts.
7.2 Supervision.
A Quality of Supervision Assessment rated the Bank's supervision of the Project as "Highly Satisfactory"
in FY2000. The authors of this report agree with this rating. The Project implementation was adequately
and timely reviewed and reported. There was a very detailed mid-term review in 1998. In addition to the
ICR mission in February 2001, there have been 11 supervision missions during which the Project's
progress was evaluated. Following an "Unsatisfactory" rating for implementation progress just before
mid-term, the Bank's task team monitored the Project progress with monthly reporting for six months until
appropriate corrections were made.
Throughout implementation, project-related problems were identified and acted on in a timely manner. The
skills and quality of the Bank staff and consultants who periodically reviewed the progress of Project
implementation reflected well the complexity of the project design and its contents. The missions' time in
the field, the timing of supervision, and the support of the Bank and GEF managements to staff at critical
points were adequate. The Bank's mid-term review and subsequent supervision reports maintained
"Satisfactory" and "Highly Satisfactory" ratings of the Project's achievement of global objective.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance in this Project has been rated as "Satisfactory". The Bank has provided
significant support to the Government and the implementing agency and its responses to implementation
problems were timely and efficient. The Bank staff complied with the Bank's policies and procedures
including its fiduciary responsibilities.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance during the preparation of the Project has been rated as "Satisfactory".
Most needs were met in preparing the Project and inputs were sought from outside stakeholders. The
Project documents clearly described the activities that were carried out, sometimes in great detail. The
design considered the strategies to ensure successful achievement of the Project objective. However,
planning for the information technology component underestimated the needs of the final system
considering that PPPB started from a very low IT base. The design did not anticipate the major advances in
technology throughout the Project life.
The Project was designed to achieve coverage of only limited taxa in the electronic database while
establishing the foundation to enable full and functional entry, maintenance (including quality control), and
use of specimen data in a computerized system "within the next twenty-five years". The Project Managers,
Coordinators and Collection Managers were research staff of PPPB. These staff were Ph.D. level
scientists, but not trained managers. At the beginning, some designated staff-cum-managers found a
mismatch between their skills and desires and what their new tasks demanded. Among the original Project
staff and their replacements, there has been a learning curve in management and leadership that, in some
cases, is still limited.
- 14 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance has been rated as "Satisfactory". Despite the economic
crisis that occurred during the Project implementation period, the Government had given priority to
providing sufficient counterpart funds and sometimes it exceeded expectations. The Government provided
budget to cover most of the shortfall of curatorial equipment (cabinets). BAPPENAS and LIPI
management have consistently supported the Project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency has been rated as "Satisfactory". The collections are
stable or are being stabilized, the IBIS software and databases are in place and functional, and staff,
including new recruits, have been trained both in degree and non-degree programs. What is required for the
future is for the institutions to recognize how far they have come and develop a management vision and
maintain a strong capacity to ensure long-term sustainability of the new initiatives.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower's performance has been rated as "Satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
The key lessons that can be drawn from this Project are grouped as follows based on its application.
(a) General:
*      Even if the GEF had not previously invested in this type of project, which was seen as innovative
and risky when it was approved by the GEF Council, this Project has clearly demonstrated that it is feasible
and worthwhile to invest in similar projects in developing countries. Biological collections have an
important role in management and monitoring of the countries' diverse plant and animal resources.
*      Both individuals and institutions in the global biodiversity community are prepared to support the
intellectual and financial development of biodiversity collections in developing countries. International
exposure may be obtained through mentorship programs that would link researchers and administrators to
the global research community in open networks that can be extended to regional centers.
*      It was confirmed that within the life of a project it was possible to establish adequate storage
facilities, of world-class standard, for a major biodiversity collection of high international importance.
(b) Country:
*      The Project has shown that despite going through economic and political crises, the Government of
Indonesia has fulfilled its commitment to co-finance and implement the development of modern biodiversity
collections as part of its response to the implementation of the country's Biodiversity Action Plan and
concern for biodiversity in general.
*      Extension of the benefits of a similar biodiversity collections project to regional locations can be
obtained through internship programs that connect smaller centers to a national biodiversity node through
individual and institutional contacts.
(c) Institutional:
*      A prerequisite for success of such undertaking is that staff is prepared to change established
traditions that may hamper implementation. The management needs to support the staff in changing the
work culture. Both groups should stay focused on the Project's objective. Individuals and the institution
must have a common desire to develop a status as independent and equal partners in the international
research community.
- 15 -



*     Many of the adjustments needed during implementation were related to underestimation of the time
needed to carry out a particular element, or to underestimation of the number of specimens present in the
collections.
*     For a Project such as the GEF-BCP that was implemented by a single agency, the provision of
technical assistance by scientific advisors who would regularly interact with Project implementers for short
periods based on need, was sufficient. It was more flexible, and cost effective compared to contracting
full-time consultants who would be on-post for long periods. In the interim, open communication to the PIU
by email and phone was maintained.
*     Development of database facilities to handle biodiversity collections require an open and flexible
project design with room for development. The institution has to accept IT as the backbone of collections
management and information dissemination. The success of the undertaking would require   effective
teamwork between technical and IT staff.
*     A project must work within and fully respect the implementing institution's organizational
structure.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Refer to the GOI implementation completion report in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
There was no co-financier for this Project.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Although NGOs participated in various stakeholders consultations and workshops, there has been limited
input in the implementation of specific activities. The NGO community was previously identified as an
important stakeholder group. The Project gave opportunity for international conservation NGOs, and an
internationally known Indonesian biodiversity specialist outside LIPI to publish four field guides under the
LIPI publication program imprint. They have been grateful for the opportunity, but have shared enormous
frustrations with PPPB's apparent disinterest in encouraging the distribution of these books. Two
international publishers, Oxford University Press and Princeton University Press, have been satisfied with
the quality of the work in translating and publishing four of their English-language field guides.
The Internship and Mentorship Programs have provided the basis for partnerships with Indonesian and
foreign institutions and individuals. The impact of both activities has been regarded, from all sides, as
satisfactory. In addition, major partnerships are in the offing through the regional technical cooperation
network for capacity-building a taxonomy known as ASEANET, a major meeting of which has been hosted
by the Museum recently.
10. Additional Information
Amendment to Grant Agreement in April 1998
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Perfornuce
Indicators
Objective                                                                    Project Outputs
Project Global         Outcome/lmpact             Appraisal Estimate                 Mid-Term                      End-of Project
Objective              Indicator
Actual                          Actual
The Project will strengthen *Capacity of PPPB to  *18 staff (incl. 11 recruits) will   *15 staff (inc. 11 recruits) started  * 19 staff completed degrees; I 1
the institutional capacity  manage biological  undergo graduate studies;   graduate degree programs;      recruits, 7 with positions/others in
of PPPB of LIPI to suppor collections                                                                    process;
systematic biological    strengthened.      *2 Coordinators and 9 Collection  * 15 staff completed work-study
collections, a basic                        Managers undergo work study    abroad                         *27 staffcompleted work-study
reference tool for                          abroad; * 16 intems from                                      abroad;
biodiversity inventory and                  universities;                  * 10 interns completed 6-months
monitoring.                                                                study.                         *28 interns completed program;
* 16 specialist mentors.
* 17 mentors visited Herbarium and
*Overall achievement of                                                    _____________Museum.
global objective    t bo   *Herbarium and   * Facilities developed to world    * Part of Herbarium and Museum  *New Museum facilities provided by
rated as "Satisfactory"    Museum collections   class standards;           collections restored, stabilized, and JICA and Herbarium facilities and
brought up to world                                placed in new cabinets;        collections management of
class standards.    * 200,000 Herbarium specimens  rehabilitation of specimens    world-class standards.
remounted (target was 150,000 at continuing.
mid-term); all specimens at risk                             *Procured 2,168 new cabinets,
placed in new cabinets;                                      microscopes, other equipment and
supplies.
* Museum specimens at risk
restored before transfer to new                              * 255,000 specimens, or 12% of
Museum; placed in new cabinets                               Botany collections remounted, most
and reorganized by taxa in new                               specimens stabilized and stored in
location.                                                    new cabinets.
*All Museum specimens restored,
stabilized, moved to new Museum,
_______________________reorganized and placed in new rooms.
*Specimen-based     *Information system software   * Botany IBIS partly developed,   * IBIS software functional for both
information databases  developed; down graded to pilot foi downgraded to pilot scale for  Botany and Zoology; 384,300
developed.          Botany at mid-term; specimens in  Botany, data entries not yet  specimen records for priority taxa
priority taxa databased, partially  validated.               databased, 28,300 records validated.
__________________                        validated.
Component 1:           *Project management  *Steering Committee, Project   * Project committees and technical *Project Steering and Project
committees established. Management Committee and Users support groups, including  Management Committees and Users
Project management                          Advisory Group established.   technical advisors under a Harvard Advisory Group functional early in
and coordination                                                           University contract, established an project implementation.
functional.
Project             *PIU established with Project    *P[U is functional with Project    *PIU managed and coordinated
*Project management and Implementation Unit  Manager and staff designated by   Manager and full staff complement project activities effectively. Project
coordination has been    (PIU) established.  PPPB Director.                in place.                      Manager, Coordinators and staff
rated as "Marginally                                                                                      supported by 2 long-term and 2
Satisfactory",                                                                                           short-term consultants.
*Technical Advisory   *TAG organized througb a     *TAG organized through Harvard *Harvard University TA contract
Group (TAG)         consultancy contract           University contract; advisors and  terminated in 1998; two technical
established.                                       short-term consultants provided   advisors contracted as individual
periodic support to project   consultants; short-term consultants
.____________    .______   implementers.        managed by PIU.
- 17 -



ProjectOutputs              Output Indicators                  Appraisl Esdimate                     Mid-Term  Actual                     End-of Project Actual
Component 2a:               "Botany staffand parmers  "9 Botany staffundergo degree training; *10 Botany staff(incl. 9 recruits) started *10 Botany staff (9 recruits) completed
capacity increased.                                            their degree programs abroad.        degrees (4 Ph.D., 6 M.Sc.).
Systematic Botany                                    1* coordinator and 2 collection
collections and research                              managers go for work-study abroad;   'Botany Coordinator and 3 Collection   *Additional 2 Collection Managers
Managers completed work-study abroad. completed work-study abroad.
*8 university intems;
Outputsa fec Component 2a                                                                  I 6 inters have completed internships; " 16 intems from universities; "7 mentors
(Botany) has been rated as                            *6 mentors visit Herbarium.           3 men,on                             visited the Herbarium.
"Saisfactory".              'Herbarium collections    I 200,000 specimens remounted        I Part of Herbarium collections       I 12o% of Herbarium collections stabilized,
better managed; Hebarinum (reduced at mid-tern to 150,000).   stabilized, placed in new cabinets.  placed in new cabinets.
conditions less risky to
staff and specimens.                                          100,000 specimens remounted and      *255,000 specimens remounted (target was
stored.                              150,000);
*All type specimens stored in separate  *Priority taxa partly curated;
Type mom.
*Toxic preservatives replaced by 1PM and
*Toxic preservatives withdrawn early in freezing regime.
project.
*Cabinets, equipment and  "785 cabinets, microscopes, computers  *Procurement of new cabinets, curatoria * 1,033 new cabinets (785 target),
curatorial supplies      and accessories and curatorial supplies  supplies, microscopes, computers and   microscopes, computers and accessories,
provided.                procured.                             accessories started.                 curatorial supplies, and books procured;
some supplies are sufficient for next 34
years.
'Facilities in Herbarium    -Some rooms renovated for specialized  'Some rooms renovated for specimen   *3 research laboratories, preparation,
renovated.               laboratory.                           preparation and databasing.          database, and type rooms rehabilitated and
air conditioned.
Component 2b: Systematic  *Zoology staff and          I10 Zoology staff and recruits undergo   *10 Zoology staff (incl. 3 recruits)  *9 Zoology staff(2 recruits) completed
Zoology collections and     partners' capacity in     degree training.                     started their degree programs abroad.   degrees (3 Ph.D., 6 M.Sc.); I recruit failed.
researcb                    taxonomic fields increased.
*I coordinator and 7 collection      'Zoology Coordinator and 7 CoDlection *2 Additional Collection Managers
managers go for work-study abroad.   Managers completed work-study abroad. completed work-study abroad.
'Outputs hae Component 2b                             * 12 university intens trained.        Internship program not started.     * 12 interns from universities completed
(Zoology) has been rated as                                                                                                      suy
"Highly Satisfactory".                                 9 mentors visit Museum.             "none (0) mentors visited the Museum.
"10 mentors visited the Museum.
*Museum collections      'Most Zoology specimens rehabilitated, *All Zoology collections stabilized,    *Most Zoology collections stabilized, and
better managed; Museum   cleaned of toxic preservations, bagged o placed in new cabinets and move to new placed in new cabinets.
conditions less risky to    boxed before transferring to new   Museum.
staffand specimens.      Museum. Wet collections transferred to                                      Priority taxa partly curated;
new bottles.                          'All type specimens stored in separate
Type room.                           "Toxic preservatives replaced by IPM and
freezing regime.
Toxic preservatives withdrawn early in
project.
"Cabinets, equipment and  310 cabinets, microscopes and                                             "1,135 new cabinets (310 target),
curatorial supplies      accessories and supplies procured.                                         microscopes, computers and accessories,
provided.                                                                                           curatorial supplies and books procured;
some supplies are sufficient for next 34
years.
"Collection transferred to  "New Museum facilities of world-class "Collections moved in 1998 to new  *Museum facilities are excellent;
new Museum facilities.   standard built with JICA supporn      world-class Museum facilities with   collections occupy 7 new collection rooms;
collection rooms, preparation rooms and with sufficient room for specimen
storage facilities.                  preparation and storage. "Facilities meet
_global health and security standards.
- 18 -



Project Outputs        Output Indicators          Appraisal Estimate                 Mid-Term                      End-of Project
Actual                         Actual
Component 3:           * Specimen-based       D Databases and LAN to support  * IBIS partially developed.  * IBIS software fully functional.
information system   Herbarium and Museum; down
Information systems    (IBIS) developed and  graded at mid-term to Botany only. * Botany databases still being  * Botany and Zoology IBIS databases
management             operational; data in                                developed; data entry of records on developed;
databases validatedproiytxwacniung
* Enter specimnen records and data piorittaxa was continung.  *240,000 plant records entered, 1,000
validated by taxonomists.                                    validated; *144,000 animal records
*Outputs for Component 3                                                                                 entered, 27,300 validated.
has been rated as
"Satisfactory".        *Equipment and       * Procure computers, servers, and  * Computers, servers and  *Computers, servers and accessories
accessories procured.  accessories.                accessories produced for       procured; LAN in Herbarium but
Herbarium and Museum.         none in Museum.
Information technology * Train staffon IT management,  * IT team trained locally and  *IT Coordinator and team members
(IT) staff trained; IT   computer skills and maintenance of abroad on computer skills and IT  trained locally and abroad; 10 skiled
Team organized.      databases; data entry operators    management.               data operators trained.
trained.
Component 4:          *Taxonomic research  * 15 collaborative research grants  * 13 collaborative research grants  *22 collaborative research grants
completed.           awarded.                      awarded, 4 completed.          completed.
Scientific collaboration  *Relevant products    *Publish checklists, field guides   *4 field guides manuscripts  * 17 field guides published (7 original
and services           published and        and other products.            prepared.                     work by staff), also curatorial
distributed.                                                                      manuals, brochure.
*Outputs for Component                                                                                    *Published 4 field guides with
has been rated as                                                                                        biodiversity NGOs partners.
"Marginally Satisfactory".                                                                               *Yayasan Hayati Foundation establish
to distribute books.
*Better aware clients.  *Canry out periodic consultations  *2 stakeholders' consultation  *Conducted "open house" events for
with users and stakeholders.  workshops carried out          public especially school children.
*Conducted periodic stakeholders'
__________________   ________________                                   _________________________        consultations  and  workshops.
19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a. Project Cost by Component
(US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal
Project Cost By Component          US$ million       US$ million            /
1. General Project Management and        1.64              2.59             157.92
Coordination
2a. Systematic Botany Collections and      2.86              3.60            125.87
Research
2b. Systematic Zoology Collections and     2.59              1.47             56.75
Research
3. Information Systems Management         0.76              0.16             21.05
4. Scientific Collaboration and Services   1.77              2.06             116.38
Total Baseline Cost                9.62
Total Project Costs               11.39              9.88             86.74
Total Financing Required             11.39              9.88             86.74
-20 -



Annex 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procuremeni Methodl
Expenditure Category     ICB            NCB            Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Civil works           0.00            0.09           0.00           0.00        0.09
(0.00)         (0.08)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.08)
2. Equipment             0.00            1.21           0.81           0.00         2.02
furniture and
materials
(0.00)         (1.03)         (0.69)         (0.00)       (1.72)
3. Research grants       0.00            0.00           0.08           0.41         0.49
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.08)         (0.00)       (0.08)
4. Technical             0.00            0.00           4.06           0.44         4.50
assistance and training
I________________ T      (0.00)         (0.00)          (3.82)        (0.00)       (3.82)
5. Allowances,           0.00            0.00           0.94           2.54         3.48
honoraria and wages
of contracted
employees
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.80)         (0.00)       (0.80)
6. Consulants'           0.00            0.00           0.81           0.00         0.81
services and             (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.70)         (0.00)       (0.70)
publications
Total                   0.00            1.30           6.70           3.39        11.39
(0.00)         (1.11)         (6.09)         (0.00)       (7.20)
- 21 -



Annex 2c. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methodl
Expenditure Category           ICB                NCB               Other2            N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Civil works                 0.00               0.08               0.00              0.19            0.27
(0.00)             (0.08)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.08)
2. Equipment,                  0.26                1.60               1.10             1.86            4.82
furniture and
materials
(0.26)             (1.60)             (0.84)           (0.00)          (2.70)
3. Research grants             0.00                0.00               0.07             0.07            0.14
(0.00)             (0.00)             (0.07)           (0.00)          (0.07)
4. Technical                   0.00                0.00               3.31             0.39            3.70
assistance and training
(0.00)             (0.00)             (3.31)           (0.00)          (3.31)
5. Allowances,                 0.00               0.00                0.37             0.00            0.37
honoraria and wages
of contracted
employees
Miscellaneous                           _
(0.00)             (0.00)             (0.37)           (0.00)          (0.37)
6. Consultants'                0.00               0.00                0.58             0.00            0.58
services and
publications
l________________ l           (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.58)           (0.00)          (0.58)
Total                         0.26               1.68               5.43              2.51            9.88
r____ _   (0.26)          (1.68)             (5.17)           (0.00)          (7.11)
1/ Figures in parenthesis were the amounts financed by GEF Grant funds. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the
project
management office, training, technical assistance servcies, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the
project.
- 22 -



Annex2d. Project Financing by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
Component      Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
Bank    Govt.   CoF    Bank  Govt.   CoF        Bank    Govt.   CoF
I              1.04     0.60     0     2.41   0.18      0      231.73   30.00     0
Ila            1.81     1.05     0     2.15   1.45      0      118.78   138.09    0
IIb            1.64     0.95     0     0.82   0.65      0      50.00    68.42     0
III            0.48     0.28     0     0.08   0.08      0      16.66    28.57     0
IV             1.12     0.65     0      1.65   0.41     0      147.32   63.07     0
Total base cost  6.09   3.53     0                      0                         0
Physical       0.40     0.24     0       0      0       0        0       0        0
contingencies
Price          0.71     0.42     0       0      0       0        0        0       0
contingencies                                I                        I       I
Total Project    7.20   4.19     0     7.11   2.77      0      98.75    66.10     0
Costs
Grant Total           11.39                    9.88                    86.74
-23 -



Annex 2e: Unit Costs of Cabinets
Item          Target at  Revised   Unit Cost at Appraisal     Actual Unit Cost
Appraisal   Target     USD          IDR        USD        IDR
No.       No.
Botany Cabinets Type I    750        998       425.06     894,745      1,077    8,526,700
Botany Cabinets Type II    35        35        503.36    1,059,566     1,077    8,526,700
Entomology Cabinets       170        570       570.47    1,200,841    454.43    1,037,000
Other Cabinets            140        565       548.10    1,153,750    507.01    1,157,000
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
Preparation                    4    1 TTL (see footnote 2)
(05/05-05/21/93)
Appraisal/Negotiation
Pre-Appraisal/                 3    1 TTL, 1 Proc., I Bot.
Appraisal
(11/09-12/01/93)
Negotiation    4                    1 TTL, I Law., I Biodiv., 1 Proc.
(04/04-04/08/94)
Supervision
03/13-03/17/95                 4   1 TTL, I Oper., I Bot., I              S               S
FMS
10/16-10/20/95                 3   1 TTL, I Bot., I FMS                  HS              S
04/01-04/04/96                 3   1 TTL, I Oper., I Proc.                S              S
11/18-11/22/96                 2   1 TTL, I Proc.                         U              S
06/09-06/17/97                 5   1 TTL, 1 Biodiv., I Zool., I           S               S
(MTR)                               Oper., I FMS
12/03-12/11/97                 5   1 TTL, I Biodiv., I Bot., 1 Oper.,     S              S
I FMS
08/02-08/09/98                 2   1 TTL, I proc.                         S               S
11/30-12/09/98                 5   1 TTL, I Biodiv., I Bot., I Oper.,     S             HS
I Proc.
08/12-08/19/99                 4   1 TTL, I Biodiv., I Oper., I           S              HS
Proc.
12/01-12/13/99                 3   1 Biodiv., 1 Oper., 1 Proc.            S             HS
08/17-08/22/00                 5   1 TTL, 1 Biodiv., I Oper., I           S              HS
Zool., I Proc.
ICR
02/5-02/15/01                  8    1 TTL, I Bot., I Zool., 1 IT,         S               S
I FMS, I Proc., I Oper.
Note: Biodiv-Biodiversity Specialist, Bot.-Botany/Herbarium Specialist, Disb. -Disbursement Analyst, Env.-Environmental
Specialist, IT-Information Technolog Specialist, FMS-Financial Management Systems Specialist, Law. - Lawyer,
Oper. -Operations Officer, Proc.-Procurement Specialist, Soc.- Social Development Specialist, TTL-Task Team Leader,
Zool. -Zoology/Museum Specialist
Bank records indicate four mission members but three others (2 Environmentalists, I Sociologist) were actually working on
the associated Kerinci-Seblat project.
-26 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle  [               Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             17.10                      $57.10
Appraisal/Negotiation                  20.20                       78.10
Supervision                            88.41                      331.62
ICR                                     3.39                       44.43
Total                                 129.10                     $511.75
Note: ICR staff weeks and the corresponding USD amount are included in the quoted estimates under
Supervision.
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3 Physical                                O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
3 Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
3 Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
3Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
3 Gender                           OH  * SUOM  O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)           OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
I Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                   Rating
F Lending                                              OHS OS OU O HU
 Supervision                                          *HS Os   O u   O HU
Z Overall                                              OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                                Rating
I Preparation                                          OHS * S   O  U  C HU
F  Government implementation performance               O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
* Implementation agencyperformance                     O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                              OHS OS O U 0 HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A. Bank and Project Documents:
Indonesia Biodiversity Collections: Project, Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director,
June 22, 1994
Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Biodiversity Collections Project) between
Republic
Indonesia and IBRD, July 25, 1994
Amendments to Grant Agreement
World Bank Guidelines for Preparing Implementation Completion Reports, June 1999
Operational Policies (OP 13.55) for Implementation Completion Reporting
Operational Directive (OD 13.05) for Project Supervision
B. Bank Supervision Mission Reports:
First Supervision Mission Report, May 11, 1995
Second Supervision Mission Report, November 29, 1995
Third Supervision Mission Report, May 1, 1996
Fourth Supervision Mission Report, January 27, 1997
Fifth Supervision Mission Report, July 11, 1997
Sixth Supervision Mission Report, December 30, 1997
Seventh Supervision Mission Report, August 5, 1998
Eight Supervision Mission Report, December 17, 1998
Ninth Supervision Mission Report, September 9, 1999
Tenth Supervision Mission Report, February 1, 2000
Eleventh Supervision Mission Report, August 1, 2000
Final Supervision Mission Report, February 15, 2001
C. Project Reports:
First Annual Progress Report, September 1995
Second Annual Progress Report, September 1996
Third Annual Progress Report, September 1997
Fourth Annual Progress Report, September 1998
Fifth Annual Progress Report, September 1999
Sixth Annual Progress Report, September 2000
Draft Project Final Report, February 2001
Financial and Institutional Sustainability Study, November 2000
Project Impact Study of IT Component, Biodiversity Collections Project, February 2001
Project Impact Study of Botany and Zoology Components, Biodiversity Collections Project,
December 2000
Various Mentors' Reports
Various Technical Advisors' and Consultants' Reports
Government's Draft Implementation Completion Report, January 2001
Draft Transition Arrangement Plan, January 2001
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8.GOI Implementation Completion Report
Research and Development Center for Biology Indonesian Institute of Science
Republic of Indonesia
PREFACE
Based on the request of the Director of Pusat Penelitian dan Pengembangan Biologi
(PPPB) of the Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI), an Indonesian Team of Experts has made
an evaluation on the completion of the implementation of the GEF-BCP (Global Environment
Facility Grant No. TF 028657). The GOI-ICR Team consisted of Prof. Dr. Aprilani Soegiarto,
Senior Researcher of LIPI, Dr. Kuswata Kartawinata, Forest Ecologist of CIFOR (Center for
International Forest Research), and Dr. Sri Suharni Siwi, Senior Researcher of the Central
Research Institute for Food Crops (CRIFC) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Republic of Indonesia.
This is the Final Report of the ICR - Team.
The ICR Team expressed its appreciation to the Director of PPPB, Project Management
Committee, and the Project Implementation Unit for their support and assistance, without which
the Team could not complete its tasks. The assistance and critical comments of the World Bank
Task Team Leader is also greatly acknowledged.
Bogor, June 30, 2001
The GOI- ICR Team
- 31 -



3.     Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1    Original Objective:
The Project would have strengthened the institutional capacity of the Research and Development
Center for Biology (PPPB) to support systematic biological collections, a basic reference tool for
biodiversity inventory and monitoring. The project would also have made the information from the
collections available to external clients. The project would have established the foundation required for
PPPB to meet the expanding needs for biodiversity information over the long term, and would provide high
priority information during the project period.
The project objectives were consistent with Indonesia's priorities and the World Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time of project preparation, appraisal and grant approval (1993-1994).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective remained unchanged throughout the project life.
3.3 Original Components:
(a) Project Management and Coordination (Component 1). The component would (1) establish the
following committees and working units: a steering committee (SC); a project management committee
(PMC); a project implementation unit (PIU); a technical advisory group (TAG), and a user advisory group
(UAG), (2) appoint short-term advisors and trainers on environmental health and safety, document
restoration, data field design, and specialized systematic biologist; and (3) provide a grant program for
systematic research and genetic resource conservation, and a financing strategy study.
(b) Systematic Collections and Research in Botany and Zoology (Component 2). This component have
developed systematic collections and related research activities in botany and zoology through:
(i)    Human Resource Development: 18 graduate-level scholarships in systematic biology and 11
recruits from Universities; extensive on-the-job training for managers, scientists, interns, and technicians in
curation, taxa identification, field collecting, and user product development;
Collection Restoration and Development: Provision of building renovations, furniture, archival supplies,
40 temporary employees and redeployment of 20 permanent staff to work as curatorial assistants in order
to improve and expand specimen storage, to improve the scientific organization of the collections, to restore
deteriorating specimens, and to stabilize the specimens as necessary before moving to the new cabinets or
buildings (these activities included the integration of the marine reference collections belonging to the
Research and Development Centre for Oceanology ("Pusat Penelitian dan Pengembangan Oseanologi
"-PPPO) with PPPB's terrestrial reference collections;
(ii)    Research facilities: Renovation of buildings, provision of scientific literature and equipment for
improving research facilities on systematic biology.
(iii)    Publications and Products: Preparation and publication of an illustrated technical glossary, a
computerized bibliography of written reference materials, a computerized gazetteer, a database and
handbooks covering specific taxa, field guides and a specimen identification service.
(c) Information System Management (Component 3). This component has set up a computer
database and a local area network capable of basic specimen data entry, automated label production,
collections management function, and information dissemination. This system will complement and
comprise a node of wider network, which GOI is planning to develop. This component has
comprised inputs of technical assistance, software development and support, and establishment of a
new sub-division with re-deployed and newly recruited staff.
- 32 -



(d) Scientific Collaboration and Services (Component 4). This component provided a small amount of
technical assistance and office equipment to strengthen PPPB's capacity to manage collaborative research,
client services, training program, mentors and intemship programs.
3.4 Revised Components:
Essentially there was no change during the project's life span
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was judged to have been "satisfactory". The project was design to strengthen the
capacity of staff in research on systematics, improvement of facilities, collections management, and the
development of information technology at PPPB. It was excellently designed, and some parts were little too
detailed. Despite a thorough and comprehensive and comprehensive preparation. The staff had to work very
hard and encountered some problems at the beginning that needed some adjustment on the detail
requirement set forth in the project docurnent particularly those regarding with the discontinuation of the
use of hazardous preservatives. It necessitated that the herbarium specimen (targeted at 200,000
specimens), had to be reprocessed and stored in insect proof metal cabinets.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the Project produced "satisfactory" results, despite a tremendous political upheaval and
economic downturn that Indonesia underwent during the course of the project implementation. Despite
these pressing problems GOI was still able to provide adequate counterpart budget throughout the duration
of the Project. After experiencing some problems, such as conflicts in staff assignment, inappropriate
project structure, procurement of curatorial equipment, etc., with the assistance and guidance of the WB
Team and consultants, most activities were carried out in accordance with the principles outlined in the
Project Document. The Project's closing date was extended for five months up to March 31, 2001 from the
original closing date of October 31, 2000.
4.2    Outputs by components:
(a) Project Management and Coordination (Component 1)
The Project Management and Coordination (PMC) can be rated as "satisfactory" due in most part to the
better guidance and support from the PPPB management. The PMC, PIU (Project Implementation Unit)
and Collection Coordinators have run the Project "satisfactorily", despite a number of changes in their
staffing. It is expected that there would be no change in the remaining period of the Project. It is understood
that the PITJ staff will return to their original work unit at the completion of the Project. The ICR Team is
of the opinion that the unit should still be maintained for a period of time to foresee and supervise a smooth
transition process according to the agreed plan. All the degree and non-degree training programs as well as
the mentors and in-house training schemes have been completed "satisfactorily". As required the Project
has also established Project Steering Committee (PSC), Technical Advisory Group (TAG), and User's
Advisory Group (UAG). The guidance of PSC was "highly satisfactory", and that of the TAG was "
satisfactory" whereas that UAG was "unsatisfactory ". Part of the problems with UAG seemed to be the
lack of communication with PIU and PMC as well as budgetary constraints. Although concrete plans of
action have been submitted, no implementation had been canied out. Most members of the UAG were
from outside of PPPB and LIPI. Constraints in procurement procedure were encountered by the
management as there some conflicting requirement by the Bank's procedure versus that of the government.
The management managed to take the necessary steps so that it satisfied the Bank and always obtained
"unqualified opinion" from the official Indonesian public audit (BPKP) in its annual audit reports. Despite
the project involved many scientists from different backgrounds the management has successfully
motivated the team to produce their best that many targets were exceeded.
- 33 -



(bl) Systematic Botany Collection and Research (Component 2)
The achievement of the HB Collection has been "satisfactory". Through the degree and non-degree
programs of the project, the number of qualified staff have increased and it is the largest number of
taxonomist attached to one institution in South East Asia. The Herbarium has regained its status as the
global significant center for research in taxonornic botany. The research staff, technicians, and other
supporting staff members are highly dedicated personnel. The rehabilitation of the systematic collections,
the digitization of specimen information, training program, and improvement of facilities and working
atmnosphere, have strongly enhanced their motivation and commnitments. Improvement in the HB has been
widely acknowledged by visiting taxonomists, graduate students, government officials, and private
company staff. Foreign taxonomists recognized that the systematic collection is the most important
reference collection of South East Asian plants.
Few problems remain, such as the installation of an air-conditioning system in the specimens
collection floors to make them closed at all time, thus preventing or at least minimizing the opportunities
for insect entry, and providing comfortable and conducive working space for researchers and technicians to
work more effectively. It should be done now and not to wait until a new herbarium building is constructed
otherwise a large number of specimens may be destroyed by then. Restoration, remounting and registration
of the remaining 88% of the collection should continue beyond the completion of the GEF project and be
given high priority and receive special attention. The management should make serious and special efforts
in any way possible to seek funds from GOI, private sectors and various donors in order to be able to
continue the above undertaking. PPPB should explore the possibilities of securing a financial support to
enable it to hire professional fundraiser.
(b2) Systematic Zoology Collection and Research (Component 2)
The progress of work in the MZB collection can be rated as "highly satisfactory ". The MZB has
now qualified staff members and can be recognized as a globally important center for taxonomic zoological
research. The research staff and technicians are highly dedicated. The construction of the new building,
improved facilities, better working atmosphere, rehabilitation of the systematic collections, the digitization
of specimen information, and training program have strongly enhanced their motivation and commitments.
Through concerted efforts the MZB is now able to attract public attention, in particular school children,
students, hobbyists, and have been recognized nationally (universities, consultative Group on Indonesian
Museums), regionally (through ASEANET-CABI) and intemationally with other musea in the world
through the mentors. The newly designed and locally produced insect collection cabinets were praised and
received attention by participants of ASEANET Meeting. They were interested to purchase the cabinets for
their musea. The new designed is now being patented. The training and mentorship programs have
successfully enhanced work culture at the MZB.
The transfer of the marine collection from PPPO to the MZB and HB was initiated and provision
of the transfer was prepared by the project. Unfortunately, the policy was under review as some members
of PPPO showed some reluctance and planned to develop its own museum.
(c) Information system management (Component 3)
During the earlier stage of the project implementation, delays occurred in the development of
Information Technology (IT). However, at the later stages of the project, IT team has developed the
database on their own and the output of this component has been rated as "satisfactory ". The project has
developed fully functional software for collection management called the Indonesian Biodiversity
Information System (IBIS), version 2.02 in MZB and 2.0 in HB, respectively. Both versions, together with
the gazetteer, can be opened in MZB, Cibinong. Labels can be produced for all zoological and botanical
taxa. Several constrained of IBIS have been encountered due to limited capacity of software access,
resulted in frequent computer system crashes. Additional support to improve the program has been
- 34 -



provided by the JICA, that allowed the migration of IBIS data from MS Access format into ORACLE
platform and provided to MZB more computers. In the 11B computer upgrades were provided by GEF, and
LAN links seven computers utilized for entering data. In the MZB, LAN infrastructure is in place,
unfortunately there was no software. Optical disk is used to back-up data from HB to be copied at UNIX in
MZB, because both versions have not been linked due to the high cost. Short-term training and study visits
abroad that provided to IT Team facilitated software development. IT team has been regrouped, and it now
consists of a Coordinator of Information, Botany and Zoology Network Managers, Botany and Zoology
Database Managers and Computer Technicians. They were also supported by short-term IT consultants.
Local training courses for DEO's improved their ability in entering data.
In HB, the total number of specimen data entry stands at 240,000 records (about 10%). As a whole the
percentage of progress in data validation is very low. The botanical validation should make use the
available 120 taxonomists collaborating in the Flora Malesiana program to provide assistance. In MZB, the
entry of zoological data accounts for about 142,000 records (6%) with only a small fraction (27, 300) of
the data has been validated. Serious steps should be made to improve the speed of data entry while
increasing the basic knowledge of nomenclature to decrease fault validation efforts.
PPPB Web site is http://biolipi.bogor.net or http://bio.lipi.go.id, represents the joint efforts of the JICA
Biodiversity Project, the GEF project and resources of PPPB itself. It is available for searching information
of validated types with many species records are complemented with photographs. However, information
dissemination should be stepped up in the utilization of IBIS databases and some shortcomings need to be
verified to make IBIS more accessible to a wider network.
(d). Scientific Collaboration and Services
This component was rated "marginally satisfactory" by the last World Bank Supervision Mission.
This rating was questionable in view of GOI-ICR as almost all of the tasks of this component such as small
research grants, scholarship, non-degree training, internship, mentorship and publication of fields guides
were integrated with the other components. This component facilitated these programs which in each
component were rated satisfactory. Without the excellent performance of this component in organizing
these activities the high degree of success would not be achieved. This component also succeeded in
fostering collaboration with partners such as Birdlife International, Wetland International, and Wallacea
Foundation publishing the field guides. Collaboration was also fostered with intemational institution and
individuals as reflected by the availability of mentors, both individually or provided by herbaria and musea
around the world. This has enhanced the recognition of PPPB's biological collections world wide.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return: Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return: Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The biological collections of PPPB area very valuable national and international asset. They are
the largest taxonomic reference collections in the whole Southeast Asian region. The GOI, LIPI and PPPB
commitments and concerted efforts on the upgrading of physical facilities, the collections and the training
of staff as well as the recruitment of new staff and technicians, have developed the MZB and HIB with their
qualified staff into globally significant centers of taxonomic and biodiversity research. GEF-Biodiversity
Collection Project has played a paramount role in the overall success of upgrading the collections and
human resources development. It should also be noted the important role of JICA in the reorganization of
the zoological collection, the construction of the new "Widyaloka" building with its excellent working
facilities and in the development of a well arranged accessible collection of world class at MZB. The PPPB
could capitalize this excellent progress and capacity for enhancing its role in the further development of the
- 35 -



collections and in supporting the biodiversity conservation efforts nationally, regionally and internationally.
The reorganization of LIPI should provide an excellent opportunity for this purpose. The institutional
development impact can be rated as substantial.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
In 1997, Indonesia experienced a multi-dimensional crises. At the same time the rupiah value
spiraled down from Rp.2.400,- to as low as Rp. 17.000,- to a US dollar. Although eventually the exchange
rate stabilized to about Rp.7.000/dollar. Economic and monetary crises hit the Southeast Asian 'tigers",
such as South Korea, Thailand, Malaysia and even Singapore and Taiwan. But Indonesia suffered the most
and even until now the economy has not yet recovered. At this writing the exchange rate is down again to
Rp. 10. 400/UJS dollar. These multi-dimensional crisis gave no effect to the implementation of the project.
The government stuck to the policy that this project was a priority, and accordingly kept up the level of
counterpart budget at respectable level. In terms of the foreign budget, the project had profited from the
high USD exchange rate thereby enabled to pay out more in rupiah terms. This resulted in more cabinets
could be purchased hence reducing the short-fall, more technicians to be hired adding to the achievement of
specimen restoration, and more field guides were published.
5.2    Factors generally subject to government control:
Despite severe economic and monetary crises, GOI was still able to maintain the necessary
counterpart budget allocation. The change of dollar exchange rate was positively utilized to purchase
materials and equipment at better price domestically. Although GOI has implemented the "zero-growth"
policy on public servant, the Project has successfully recruited all returning degree program trainees as well
as hiring a number of new technicians. However, the "zero-growth" policy will affect the overall
sustainability of the PPPB programs, in particular those at the MZB and HB.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
These include staff assignment for the Project, Project structure that links with PPPB organization,
staff training schedules, procurements of curatorial equipment and materials, schedule of restoration and
curation of the collection, etc. Despite slow learning process, eventually the staff assignment to the Project
was improved by integrating them with the Botany and Zoology divisions. Selection of staff to be trained
was carried out in good order and transparent. Therefore, alnost 95% of the advanced degree training were
able to complete their degree programs. The management of PPPB has guided the project to satisfactory
completion. The work culture has slowly improved with the guidance of mentors and partners. The
information system was at first not quiet yet developed, but at the later stages it has been improving
steadily.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Based on Bank disbursement figures as of June 30, 2001, USD 6.89 million has been disbursed
from the GEF grant and is likely to reach USD 7.11 million by July 31, 2001, or 99% of the appraisal
estimate of USD 7.20 million (equivalent to SDR 5.1 million). The total project expenditures of USD 9.88
million, including the Government's counterpart of USD 2.77 million. The Government's counterpart was
66% of the appraisal estimate of USD 4.20. Although the Government's total contribution was reduced in
dollar terms because of exchange rate fluctuations, it has provided sufficient counterpart funds as
scheduled, procured additional cabinets to meet the shortfall of the curatorial equipment, and continued the
research grants. The actual total GOI fund for this project was IDR 13,653 million or 154% of the
appraisal estimate of IDR 8,841 mnillion. Despite the economic crisis and in US dollar term contribution of
GOI was short of the expectation, the government has done very well during the crisis.
- 36 -



Financial audit and follow-up actions on audit findings:
In the last two fiscal years (FY 1998/99 and FY 1999/00), the public audit office (BPKP)
expressed "unqualified opinion" on the project's annual financial reports. In the FY 1998/99 PA audit
report, the auditor noted that there was a contract awarded to an unqualified contractor but this was
followed up accordingly by the PIU. The audit reports for FY 2000 (the last PA and SA/SOE reports) are
due for submission to the Bank by BPKP on June 30, 2001.
6. Sustainability
6.1    Rationale for sustainability rating:
The real measure of the sustainability of the Project is whether the momentum of activities carried
out by the Project can be sustained or even expanded many years after the completion of the Project. The
sustainability of the project to be considered as "likely". The Project has been successfully implemented.
The institutional capacity building program resulted in that PPPB, in particular through the improved
botanical and zoological collections and qualified staff, has been recognized as globally significant center
for taxonomy and biodiversity research. Most of the targeted efforts in the framework of the BCP have
been achieved. LIPI and PPPB management has assured the sustainability of the project once it was
completed, including provision of the operational budget and recruitment of badly needed trained and
skilled human resources. It is, however, not so sure that the new organization structure of LIPI, inaugurated
on March 22, 2001, will reinforce this commitment.
The progress in Zoological and Botanical Collection Management was rated as highly satisfactory
and satisfactory, respectively. Validation efforts need to be increased and can be done routinely by
taxonomists or visited experts. Botanical validation should make use the availability of 120 taxonomists
collaborating in the Flora Malesiana program to provide assistance. HB has developed linkages over a
century with large herbaria interested in the Flora of Malesia and Indonesia in particular, such as Kew,
Leiden, and Arnold Arboretum and should make use such close networking in solving validation problem.
In cooperation with JICA the IBIS is currently migrated data from MS ACCESS format to
ORACLE to improve data entry interface. As it was suggested by the impact study tearn, the functioning
IBIS should meet the requirements of taxonornic community, become more visible and user friendly
providing services for inventory and biodiversity assessments, and should support publications in different
format. In this regard, publication of field manuals, revision of taxa, and monographs, should be
strengthened. Although dissemination can be in the form of printed material, electronic publication can be
made available through PPPB web site at Cibinong. Web site: http:// biolipi.bogor.net or http//
bio.lipi .o. id.
Significant progress has been made in human resources capacity building both through degree as
well as non-degree training programs. In addition, intermship programs in botany and zoology have been
completed to strengthen the capacity of taxonomists in a number of universities in Indonesia. It is a
potential asset for developing a national networking in the field of taxonomy in Indonesia.
The Mentors program is a very successful project initiative. Besides producing helpful a brief
report, each mentor collaborated with the collection staff and in many cases also continued to assist them.
In addition, they are a potential resource that could be utilized, for developing partnership. The new
zoology building, laboratories and other facilities constructed by JICA have created a better working
atmosphere. Existing cooperation and excellent interaction with JICA, in particular for the zoological
collection, support the sustainability of the project.
Although LIPI and PPPB management have assured the sustainability of the project once it was
completed, it is uncertain and questionable, however, whether a new reorganized structure of LIPI, which
was inaugurated on March 22, 2001, will be strongly supportive of BCP. One of the changes is that the
Deputy for Natural Sciences will be split into two Deputies: Biological Sciences and Earth Sciences. There
is a possibility that PPPB will be the core institution under the Deputy for Biological Sciences. Thus, it is
expected that stronger support will be given to the biological collection organization, i.e., MZB and HB.
- 37 -



But it still remains to be seen how the new organization structure plans to support the maintenance and
expansion of the biological collection.
It is essential that in the framework of the new organization, a number of weaknesses and unresolved
problems should be given serious consideration. Long term planning for recruitment of trained and skilled
of research staff / technicians and strategy for increased funding, from government budget, research grants
and other potential funding sources should be given consideration. PPPB should strengthen the potential of
non-budgetary funding sources, such as marketing books and other products, consultancy, laboratories
fees, specimen photographing fees, etc. Botanical field guides, manuals and monographs have not been
produced, hence should be given serious attention. IBIS could further be developed to include mapping of
the biodiversity as well as coverage on ecological, phyto-chemical, ethno-botanical infornnation.
Communication between research staff and ISM staff should be improved, especially solid linked between
IST and database managers to ensure the highest quality infornation entered into database.
6.2 Transiton arrangement to regular operations:
During the life span of the GEF-BCP, the project has improved and set up international standard of
work practices on collection, such as on inproving collection management, health and safety requirement,
development of IBIS, etc. Since the project will be closed by March 31, 2001, the responsibility of
managing the project has been in coordination with PPPB leadership for ensuring a smooth transition. It
would be desirable that the PIU could oversee the smooth transition so that the function and responsibility
of mnanaging the biodiversity collection are completely merged with the new organizational structure of
PPPB.
In order to ensure that specimen restoration will continue in botany, the head of botany division
together with botany coordinator has assigned two permanent technicians fully in charge of the specimen
restoration assisted by other technicians whenever other duties allow. In zoology, most of the technicians
are attached to collection maintenance and all of the specimens have been restored by the project. The
ongoing BCP sponsored by JICA will support zoology division in hiring two technicians. Short-term
technicians may also be hired through collaborative projects such as the upcoming project financed by
ASEAN Regional Conmnittee for Biodiversity Conservation (ARCBC). There is a possibility that National
Biodiversity Infornation Network (NBIN) will hire some DEO to continue entering data. In the year of
2000, five new recruits were induced as permanent staff, four after completing the master degrees and one
of Ph.D. program. One M.Sc and one Ph.D. new recruits were provided with positions in January 2001.
PPPB management has agreed to continue recruiting the rest once they have finished their studies.
Therefore, the safety of the collections will be in good hands.
"Yayasan Hayati" will continue to contribute field -guide books published by the project and will
also finance publication of more field -guides with the fund generated from the book sale. Efforts to
generate money through business development as recommended in the financial sustainability report will be
followed up by Scientific Collaboration and Service Section. JICA-BCP and the upcoming NBIN will
continue the IBIS development under supervision of this section.
7. Banks and Borrower Performance
Bank
Lending: The Bank lending has been rated as "satisfactory". The Bank provided comprehensive support
to the Government and LIPI in identifying key project activities. The objective of the project was fully in
agreement with the government's strategy for biodiversity conservation and information as expressed in the
1993 Biodiversity Action Plan for Indonesia. The project was consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy and it was a logical continuation of a number of initiatives of biodiversity. The project
was well structured and the Bank's assistance to the Borrower with project preparation was satisfactory.
The appraisal of the project was also satisfactory and had secured the full commitment of the Govermment
to the implementation. The capacity of the implementing agency had been sufficiently evaluated and the
- 38 -



financial package was appropriate and adequate in its amounts.
7.1    Supervision:
The Bank's supervision was considered "highly satisfactory ". During the life span of the Project, the
Bank staff and consultants who provided the most and urgently needed assistance intensively supervised it.
Conmmunication between the Bank and Recipient was very intensive. After each supervision mission there
was a long list of items, both technical and operational, that have to be carried out and completed by the
Recipient by certain dates. It was noted also that on occasion delay was observed in response to the Bank,
in particular when decision or approval was required. The Bank also provided the urgently needed training
in financial, disbursement and accounting. Although there were changes in the responsibility of the Project
management as well as the Collection coordinators, however the Bank's core team remained essentially the
same.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's performance was rated as "satisfactory" throughout the preparation and
implementation. In the course of the implementation, in particular in the early part, the Bank has provided
the urgently needed assistance and guidance with procurement contract preparation and several other
technical issues. The Recipient highly appreciated this assistance's.
Borrower
7.4 Preparaion:
The Government's performance during the preparation of the project has been rated as "satisfactory".
For number of years relevant of the GOI, in particular LIPI and PPPB, have expressed a growing concern
on the urgent need to renovate and safeguard the scientifically invaluable collections of MZB and IB. The
national and international importance of these collections as the principal reference source of information
on the fauna and flora of Indonesia, was clearly recognized in the "Biodiversity Plan for Indonesia"
(BAPPENAS, 1991), Which called to further investment in biodiversity collection restoration, maintenance
and development. Through a number of intensive consultations, workshops and interactions, finally in
1994, GOI and WB approved the project for the implementation of GEF-BCP. LIPI and PPPB have been
assigned to manage the GEF-BCP with a total financing plan of US$ 7.2 million (GET Grant No. TF
028657). Subsequently they established the PMC and PIU from the existing staff of PPPB, in particular
from MZB and HB.
7.5    Government implementation performance:
Despite facing multi-dimensional crisis since 1997 on economy, monetary, social and political as well
as environment, the GOI performance was rated as "satisfactory ". It was fully realized that the ability of
GOI to provide financial contribution was hindered by the economy and monetary crisis. However, with a
concerted efforts and excellent coordination by PPPB, LIPI and BAPPENAS, the GOI always gave high
priority to the project. Therefore, sufficient counterpart fund can always be made available in some case
event beyond expectations. Despite the economic crisis the government had been able to cover all the
short-fall in the cabinet procurements totaling to 495 units or equivalent to USD 506,328.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
PPPB of LIPI has been designated as the implementing agency of the project. With the strong support
of LIPI and GOI and the assistance of WB staff, consultants and mentors, PPPB could implement the
project in a satisfactory manner. The PMC and PLU have successfully implemented the overall project
components and the biological collection have been stabilized, databases is in function, almost all trainees
have returned, recruited and contributed to the work.
- 39 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performtance:
Although at early stage of the implementation there was problems associated with much needed
learning curve on the part of PPPB and the severe multi-dimensional crisis, faced by Indonesia, in general
the Borrower's performance has been rated as "satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
Indonesia is recognized as the center of mega-biodiversity, both in the terrestrial as well as marine
environment. Unfortunately, however, the rate of losses and ecosystem degradation has increased
substantially in the last decades. Therefore, the "Biodiversity Action Plan" for Indonesia has clearly
recognized the problems and called for further investment in biodiversity collection relocation, maintenance
and development. The GEF-BCP was desired to strengthen institution and develop capacity in the country
to alleviate those pressing problems. The lessen learned from the GEF-BCP can be grouped as follows:
For Indonesia
1.    It takes strong commitments, concerted efforts and time to manage biological resources for national
development. Institutional strengthening and developing a network of partnership, both nationally and
internationally, is a major step toward achieving the goal of developing and conserving the biological
resources.
2.     The GOI strong conmnitment throughout the life span of the project was reflected by the strong
support to the GEF-BCP, despite political, economic, social and even environmental crisis faced by the
country since 1997. The GOI has provided adequate counter fund budget. Despite the "zero-growth"
policy, GOI concerted to recruited the returning research staff from their Ph.D. and M. Sc. training abroad.
These supports in part will ensure the sustainability of the project.
3.     Despite various problems encountered and rather slow learning curve in the early stage, Indonesia
with the strong support and commitment by the Bank, was able to implement the project satisfactorily, a
load achievement for a developing country in strengthening institution with the purpose of managing
biodiversity collections. The success could be used as an example by Indonesia especially the Bank to
develop similar program activities in the region or in other developing countries worldwide.
For LIPI and PPPB and Institutions
i.    From the onset LIPI has provided strong support, guidance and advice to PPPB to implement the
project. The strong coordination and understanding with BAPPENAS made it possible that LIPI and PPPB
secured counter budget fund for the project and even putting budget for purchasing alcohol, collection
materials and increased electricity bills to the routine budget. Almost all the returning Ph.D. and M. Sc.
degree program trainees have been successfully recruited and become civil servants. This by itself was a
major achievement due to the "zero-growth" policy implemented by the govermnent.
2.    It took a concerted efforts and coordination in order to implement GEF-BCP. It was clearly
indicated by the slow learning curve at the beginning of the project irnplementation. Only with the
assistance and continued guidance from the Bank and mentors, the PMC and PIU could implement the
project satisfactorily.
3.    The slow and tedious learning was experienced by PfU and PMC in the preparation and
implementation of almost all components of the project, in particular on the Project Management
Coordination (Component 1) and Human Resources Development of the component 2. Slowly with change
of work culture, guidance from steering committee, mentors and partners, PIU and PMC acquired the
experience and the needed expertise in managing the project.
The HB and MZB, along with their valuable botanical and zoological collections, trained qualified staff
and technicians, have become globally significant research centers for taxonomy and biodiversity. PPPB in
co-operation with its national and international partners should capitalize this achievement to sustain or if
- 40 -



possible to expand further. It should be promoted in particular within the conceptual framework of the
newly established Deputy for Life Sciences in the new organizational structure of LIPL inaugurated
officially March 22, 2001.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(b) Cofinanciers: No co-financier
(c) Otherpartners (NVGOs/private sector):
In the course of project implementation, there were some partners contributed to the success of the
project. JICA has constructed a new building with modem facilities and excellent working atmosphere for
MZB. It also provided ORACLE software in order to improve the capacity of the IBIS, and funds for
publications, organizing workshops, and purchase of badly needed cabinets.
Some NGO's and organizations should be acknowledges for their assistance and contributions, such
as the Birdlife International, Wallacea Foundation, Harvard, Ryksherbarium Leiden, Kew Herbarium,
Bishop Museum, CSIRO and BAPPENAS. PPPB has established "Yayasan Hayati" which will strengthen
the efforts of publishing and marketing books and manuals. Potential partners can be further developed
through interactions with the former mentors and in association with the ASEANNET, whose a major
meeting was hosted by MZB in 2000.
10.   Additional Information: None
-41 -



