Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11348-MAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Operations Department III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Mauritian Rupee (Mau. Rs.)/US$1 = 16 Mau. Rs.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 m. = 1.09 yd.
1 sq. m. = 10.76 sq. ft.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR                                         SCHOOL YEAR
July 1- June 30                                                October 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP       Africa, Caribbean and Pacific
CARE    Continual Assessment and Remedial Education
CCE       Continuous Comprehension Evaluation
CDC       Curriculum Development Center
CEO       Chief Education Officer
Cl        Central Inspectorate
CPE       Certificate of Primary Education
CSC       Cambridge School Certificate
CTO       Central Training Office
EC        European Community
EMIS      Education Management Information System
ESMP    Education Sector Master Plan
EPZ       Export Processing Zone
FAC       French Ministry of Cooperation and Development
GRE       Gross Rate of Enrollment
HEA       Hindu Education Authority
HSC       Cambridge Higher School Certificate
IA       Implementing Agencies
IAEP      International Assessment of Educational Progress
IVTB      Industrial and Vocational Training Board
MCA       Mauritius College of the Air
MIMS    Management Information and Monitoring System
MOES    Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture (until September 1991)
MES       Mauritius Examinations Syndicate
MGI       Mahatma Gandhi Institute
MIE       Mauritius Institute of Education
MOE       Ministry of Education and Science (October 1991)
MPCU    Master Plan Coordination Unit
NCB       National Curriculum Board
NCCRD   National Center for Curriculum Research and Development
NEC       National Education Council
NRE       Net Rate of Enrollment
PAP       Policy Action Plan
PAS       Principal Assistant Secretary
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PGCE      Post-Graduate Certificate in Education
PS        Permanent Secretary
PSC       Public Service Commission
PSSA      Private Secondary Schools Authority
PTA       Parent-Teacher Association
RCEA      Roman Catholic Education Authority
REC       Regional Education Center
TEC       Tertiary Education Commission
TEDP    Tertiary Education Development Plan
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UoM       University of Mauritius



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, jointly fielded by AF2PH and AF3PH, which visited
Mauritius in June 1992. The mission comprised Mcssrs. Abdun Noor, Mission Leader and Task Manager (AF2PH);
Djamalddine Rouag, Educator (AF5PH); Frederick Walker, Architect/lmplementation Specialist (AF2PH); and Manuel
Zymelman, Economist (AFTED). The Mission was joined part of the time by Messrs./Mmes. Jacob van Lutsenberg
Maas, Division Chief (AF2PH); Alain Colliou, Division Chief (AF3PH); and Young Kimaro, Country Officer
(AF2CO). Comments were received from Mr. Adriaan Verspoor, Lead Advisor (PHREE); from Ms. Francoise
Delannoy (EAIPH) and Mr. Donald Holsinger (PHREE), Peer Reviewers. A pre-negotiation mission took place in
December 1992 composed of Messrs. Abdun Noor (mission leader and Task Manager, AF2PH), Frederick Walker,
Jamil Salmi, Abdelwahed Zhiri, alU Bank Staff, and were assisted by Messrs. Wllm Cooper, Jose Dominguez and
Edward Greene, as Consultants. Ms. B. P. Pang (AF2PH), Mrs. Silvia Marquina-Leon, Ms. Hilda Emeruwa (AF3PH)
assisted in processing the report which was finalized by Messrs. Abdun Noor, William Cooper and Abdelwahed Zhiri
(present Task Manager, AF3PH). Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa and Mr. Alain Colliou are the Department Director
and the Division Chief respectively of this operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



R



MAURITIUS
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page N°
BASIC COUNTRY DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
I.        ECONOMIC AND POLICY ENVIRONMENT .............................................  1
A.        Surplus Labor, The Past Source of Growth ...........................................    1
B.        The Changing Economic Enviromnent and Challenges Ahead ........                                 ...........    2
C.    A Key Role for Education ........................                                      .           .........  2
II.       SECTORAL  CONTEXT ...................................................................    3
A.    Overview .......................................................                                                3
B.        Main Sector Issues .......................................................                                  4
C.        The Government's Strategy .......................................................                           9
D.        The Bank Group's Role .......................................................                               12
III.  THE PROJECT.................................. 14
A.        Project Scope and Objectives .............................................                                  14
B.        The Policy Framework .............................................                                          14
C.        The Core Investment Program .............................................                                   16
D.        Increasing Access and Promoting Equity .............................................    16
E.        Improving the Quality of Education .............................................                            19
F.        Strengthening Sector Management and Institutional Development ................  21
G.        Project Costs and Financing .............................................                                  23
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....                                             ..         ............ ............. 26
A.        Status of Project Preparation and Readiness ..............................                                 26
B.    Project Management and Coordination ..............................                                             26
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................                                                       28
D.   Procurement ..............................                                                                      28
E.   Disbursements ..............................                                                                    31
F.        Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting ..............................                                          32
V.        PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS ..                             . ...............................................        32
A.        Benefits ..................................................            .                                   32
B.    Risks ..................................................                                                       33
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................. 33
A.        Agreements to be Reached ..................................................                                 33
B.  Recommendations ...........                                                                                       35



ANNEXES
1.    Basic Education Data
1.1   Enrollments, 1991
1.2   Physical Facilities, 1991
1.3   Efficiency of Present Education System
2.    Government Letter of Sectoral Policy
3.    Policy Action Plan
4.    Key Monitoring Indicators
5.    Education Sector Investment Program (ESIP) 1992-2000
6.    Core Investment Program (CIP) July 1993-June 1998
7.    Implementation Schedule - Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
8.    Supervision Plan
9.    Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
10.   Schedule of Disbursements and Disbursements Profile
11.   Guidelines for Allocation of Loan Proceeds
12.   Indicative Budget Provisions FY93-94
13.   Private Secondary Schools - Program for Improvements
14.   Education Expenditures
(14.1) Actual 1984-1992
(14.2) Projected 1993-2000
15.   Operational Plan for Tertiary Education
16.   Description of the Education and Training System
17.   List of Documents in Project File
C(HARTS:
1.    Structure of the Education System
2.    Enrollment Pyramid
3.    Organigram MOES (existing, to be revised following negotiations)
4.    Enrollment Projection
5.    Estimate/Country Disbursement Profile
MAP: Under preparation



BASIC COUNTRY DATA
General Country Data                                                      Year
Area (km2)                                         1,870
Total Population (thousands)                       1,066           1991
GNP Per Capita (US$)                               2,800           1991
Urban Population as Percent of Total                40.7           1991
Population Density (per km2)                         560           1991
Population Data
Rate of Population Growth (%)                        1.0           1980-90
Rate of Natural Increase (%)                         1.5           1991
Total Fertility Rate                                 2.3           1990
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                        21.2           1991
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                         6.6           1991
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                   18.3          1991
Percentage of Women of Childbearing
Age Using Contraceptives                           38.7           1990
Dependency Ratio (%)
Percentage under 15 years                           29.6           1991
Life Expectancy at Birth                              68           1990
Education Data
Adult Literacy Rate (%)                               85           1991
Primary School Enrollment Rate (')                    97           1991
Secondary School Enrollment Rate (')                48.0           1991
o/w Male (%)                                       48.9           1991
Female (')                                     49.6          1991
Higher Education Enrollment                        1,800           1991
Higher Education Enrollment Rate (%)                 1.5
National Budget
Total Budget (Rs. Million)                         13,430          1991/92
o/w Health                                          934           1991/92
Education                                     1,480          1991/92
Health Expenditure as % of Total Budget              7.0           1991/92
Education Expenditure as ' of Total                 11.0           1991/92
Health Expenditure as ' of GDP                       2.1           1991/92
Education Expenditure as % of GDP                    3.3           1991/92






MAURIIlUS
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELODPMENT PROlECT
OAN AND PROJECT SUMMAR
Borrower:                    Republic of Mauritius
Beneficiary:                 Ministry of Education and Science
Loan Amount:                 US$20.0 million
Terms:                       Repayable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
project Objectives and Description: The proposed project will assist the Government of
Mauritius in implementing its education development program for the period 1993-1998, as
described in its Education Sector Master Plan (ESMP). The main objective of the ESMP is to
reinforce the international competitiveness of Mauritius' labor force, and transform the country
into a technologically more sophisticated economy. The ESMP plans to increase access to and
improve the quality of secondary education, with the specific target of increasing secondary
enrollments by 15,000 students (17.5%) over the five-year period 1993-98. Other objectives
include improving the quality and efficiency of education at all levels, expanding tertiary
education, and strengthening education sector planning and management. To achieve these
objectives, the project supports ESMP policy measures which are to: (a) extend basic education
from six to nine years by the year 2000; (b) increase instructional time for science and
mathematics in primary and secondary schools; (c) upgrade under-qualified primary and
secondary teachers; (d) reform student assessment, examination and testing procedures; (e)
decentralize educational administration and supervision to the regional levels; (f) rationalize the
development of tertiary education; and (g) develop the capacity of the Ministry of Education and
Science (MOES) for policy formulation, planning and programming. The project would support
these policy initiatives by financing investments designed to:
Increase Access to and Promote Equity of Education by: (a) providing for the
rehabilitation of 25 dilapidated primary schools and construction of 13 new
primary schools in underserved regions; (b) renovating 21 state secondary schools
and constructing 5 new secondary schools, providing for 8,000 additional student
places; (c) providing financial support to upgrade up to 55 private secondary
schools and expand enrollment capacity by 7,000 student places; and (d)
expanding enrollment capacity at the University of Mauritius to about 5,000
student places
Improve the Ouality of Education by: (a) funding the design and implementation
of a renewed national system to assess student achievement; (b) supporting pre-
service and in-service teacher training; and (c) providing library materials and
teaching aids; and



Strengthen Education Sector Management by: (a) assisting the tertiary education
commission (TEC) to prepare institutional development plans for higher education
institutions; (b) establishing an education management information system (EMIS);
(c) supporting research to explore alternative approaches for more effective,
efficient and flexible delivery of education; (d) developing a viable institutional
framework for a national schools inspectorate; and (e) establishing a network of
regional education centers to provide educational support to schools at the regional
level.
Benefits:  Project benefits will be widespread. By establishing nine years of basic education, the
project will provide a larger and better-educated pool of secondary school graduates, improve the
quality and sophistication of the future labor force, and facilitate the transition of the Mauritian
economy to a higher level of productivity. Policy measures supported by the project will
strengthen Government's capacity for policy formulation, planning, and program management,
enhance the development of private sector education, and provide better opportunities for training
in science and technology.
Rislc There are two main risks. Firs, owners and managers of private secondary schools may
not be willing to borrow Government funds to improve and expand their facilities. This would
jeopardize the policy objectives of improved quality and enlarged capacity and force the
Government to consider alternative ways of expanding enrollment capacity at the secondary level.
This risk is being addressed by providing owners of secondary schools with instructional
equipment and supplies free of charge under the project, provided that their facilities are
expanded and improved in a satisfactory way, based on mutually accepted criteria. Second, while
the four tertiary education institutions have reached consensus on a comprehensive development
plan for higher education, there is still a risk of continued duplication of certain programs and
inefficiencies in resource use. In recognition of this risk, it has been agreed that a major outcome
of the rationalization of tertiary education should be the integration of Mauritius Institute of
Education (MIE) into an enlarged university, either by transforming MIE into a full-fledged
Faculty of Education or by creating a School/Department of Education as a joint venture between
MIE and the University of Mauritius. The two minor institutions (Mauritius College of the Air
and the Mahatma Gandhi Institute) which have very limited undergraduate programs could remain
as independent entities.
No environmental risks are foreseen. The Government of Mauritius is
particularly sensitive to environmental concerns, as evidenced by its Environmental Management
Project, financed in part by the Bank (Environmental Monitoring and Development Project, Loan
3277-MAS, US$12.4 million, signed in 1991).



PROJECT COST SUMMARY
in US S million)
Project Component and         Foreign  Local  Total   FE    Total Base
Sub-Components                                      (%)    Cost (%)
A. INCREASING ACCESS &
1. Primary
Rehabilitation & Renovation     1.6    0.6    2.2   72.7           3.3
New Construction                2.8    1.1    3.9   71.8           5.8
2. State Secondary
Rehabilitation & Renovation     3.2    1.2    4.4   72.7           6.6
New Construction               13.1    6.3   19.4   67.5          29.1
3. Private Secondary
Rehabilitation & Renovation     3.4    1.3    4.7   72.3           7.0
Equipment                       5.0    0.0    5.0  100.0           7.5
4. Tertiary
UoM/MIE                        12.6    2.9   15.5   81.3          23.2
SUB-TOTAL                  41.7   13.4   55.1   75.7          82.6
B. IMPROVING QUALIrY
1. Reform Assessment/Tests          1.6    0.3    1.9   84.2           2.8
2. Teacher Training                 1.6    0.9    2.5   64.0           3.7
3. Teaching Aids/Libraries          1.6    1.6    3.1   51.6           4.6
SUB-TOTAL                   4.8    2.7    7.5   64.0           11.2
C. STRENGTHENING SECTOR
MANAGEMENT
1. Management                       1.3    0.0    1.3  100.0           1.9
2. National Inspectorate            0.9    0.0    0.9  100.0           1.3
3. Regional Educational Centers     1.4    0.5    1.9   73.6           2.8
4. TEC                              0.1    0.0    0.1  100.0           0.2
SUB-TOTAL                   3.6    0.5    4.1   87.8           6.2
D. TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS              50.1   16.6   66.7   75.1          100.0
a.  Physical Contingencies          3.0    1.0    4.0   75.0           6.0
b. Price Contingencies              6.0    2.0    8.0   75.0           12.0
E. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                59.1   19.6   78.7   75.1          118.0
A.cAM



ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS
rin US S million)
IBRD FY        94            95           96           97            98        99
Annual         3.1           4.0         4.0           4.0           4.0        0.9
Cumulative     3.1           7.1         11.1         15.1          19.1       20.0
.C4



MAURnUS
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER 1. ECONOMIC AND POLICY ENVIRONMENT
1.1    Mauritius, a small island nation of about 1.1 million inhabitants, has shed its quasi-total
economic dependence on sugar and has rapidly transformed itself from a predominantly agrarian
economy into an urbanized, industrial one within the last two decades. Mauritius' real annual GDP
growth averaged about 7 percent throughout the 1980s, and within one decade its per capita income
more than doubled, reaching US$2,250 in 1990.
1.2   In the 1960s, the country's limited production of food, its rapid population growth, and
periodic devastation by cyclones led to popular predictions of a pending Malthusian crisis. However,
an improved preventive care system that reduced infant mortality rates, rigorous family planning
campaigns, and increased education and job opportunities for women have brought about a dramatic
decline in fertility rates. The population growth rate has fallen to 1.0 percent per annum and the
population has stabilized at around 1.1 million. Mauritius has attained the standard of living of a
lower middle-income country: its adult literacy rate is approximately 85 percent, life expectancy at
birth is 68 years, and the infant mortality rate has fallen to 18.3 per thousand live births.
1.3   The Republic of Mauritius comprises a group of four islands in the Indian Ocean, with a total
area of about 1,870 square kilometers. The main island of Mauritius, located some 800 km east of
Madagascar, accounts for about 91 percent of the land area and for 97 percent of the population. The
other islands are Rodriguez (population 38,000) and the north and south islands of Agalega
(population 400 for the two).
1.4   There are no indigenous inhabitants of Mauritius. The population has descended from the
French, the first settlers on the island; from Africans brought over by the French as laborers to work
on the sugar plantations; from Indian indentured laborers who were brought to the isle by the British;
and more recently, from Chinese traders. It is an open, parliamentary democracy fashioned in the
British Westminster style, but with a unicameral system. No single party dominates the political
scene. Elections are held periodically, and governments are formed through coalitions. Political
stability and continuity of policies, and a pool of literate but cheap labor, have helped attract direct
foreign investments to the country.
A.    SURPLUS LABOR, THE PAST SOURCE OF GROWTH
1.5    Mauritius owes its economic success of the 1980s to several factors. In the early 1980s,
Mauritius pursued with tenacity structural reforms to eliminate severe domestic and external
imbalances, creating a favorable macroeconomic environment for the private sector. Strong fiscal
incentives for investments in non-traditional exports enabled the private sector to take full advantage
of the economic upturn in the industrial countries in the mid-1980s and to reap full benefits from the
preferential trade arrangements Mauritius, as an African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) country, has
with the European Community (EC) for its sugar and garment exports.



- 2 -
1.6   The impetus for growth primarily came from the rapid expansion of employment in the
Export Processing Zone (EPZ) industries - mostly in garments and textiles, which utilized labor-
intensive technologies. Growth in employment grew rapidly, outpacing the number of new entrants
to the labor market. Most notable in this period has been the dramatic increase in women's
participation in the labor force, which more than doubled within one decade, to 46 percent in 1990.
Thus, within the same decade, the economy was able to completely absorb the surplus labor and was
transformed into a full-employment economy. Currently, there is only a frictional unemployment of
2.1 percent. As a result of rapid absorption of labor into gainful employment, the rate of growth of
the EPZ industries' output averaged 10 percent per annum in the 1980s, while overall GDP grew at
an average 7 percent per annum.
B.  THE CHANGING ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CHALLENGES AHEAD
1.7    However, the economic environment at home and abroad is changing rapidly. The EC has
been under considerable pressure at home to reduce the budgetary burden of the EC's agricultural
subsidies. This threatens to reduce the favorable prices Mauritius and other ACP countries obtain
for their sugar exports to the EC, under the Sugar Protocol of the Lome Convention. The EC is also
facing pressures, especially in the context of the Uruguay Round, to reduce protectionism and open
its markets to non-ACP trading partners. Any concession in this regard would have important
ramifications for Mauritius. Should the EC eliminate the trade preferences to ACP countries,
Mauritius' textile and garment exports to the EC could lose a considerable tariff advantage over its
Far Eastern competitors such as Hong Kong, Korea, and Taiwan. On the domestic front, the pool
of surplus labor, which had been the primary impetus for economic growth in the 1980s, has been
practically exhausted.
1.8    Mauritius' heavy dependence on the preferential trade arrangements with the EC, its major
market, underscores the fragility of its success. Its exports are overly concentrated in garment
products and in the EC markets, and a high proportion of its exports is in the low end of the market,
in which Mauritius' competitiveness has been eroding due to wage hikes that have outpaced increases
in productivity. The foremost challenge for Mauritius is to achieve productivity increases that will
put it on an equal footing vis-a-vis other trading partners of the EC. This growth in productivity
must be achieved through technology and skills enhancement, for which sound basic education is a
prerequisite. Upgraded technology and skills will enable Mauritius to shift to high-valued, quality
exports - in short, by breaking into the up-end of the market. In this market, low-cost labor is no
longer as important a factor as the quality of product, speed and dependability of delivery, and
responsiveness to the changing preferences of customers. The determining factor, in this regard, is
the quality of the labor force, its education level (which affects its adaptability), and the level of
technology.
C.    A KEY ROLE FOR EDUCATION
1.9    Although Mauritius enjoys a high literacy rate and relatively skilled labor, the quality of the
labor force falls short of what it would take to enable Mauritius to become a higher-technology- and
skills-intensive economy and to sustain its growth in an increasingly competitive international
environment. As much as half of Mauritius' labor force has no more than primary school education.



-3 -
Comparable figures in Singapore and Korea are much lower, about 30 percent and 10 percent
respectively. This puts the Mauritian labor force at a disadvantage. With less education, its labor
is less prepared for training in sophisticated skills and less adaptable to changes in technology and
market preferences.
1.10   Science and engineering orientation is weak in Mauritius. Only 15 percent of Mauritian
students at universities at home or abroad specialize in science and engineering fields, compared with
27 percent in Korea and 57 percent in Singapore. The Industrial and Vocational Training Board
(IVTB) has found that many applicants for its vocational training courses are inadequately prepared
academically even for vocational training. It has therefore been forced to offer pre-training courses
for the candidates, thus underscoring a need for quality improvement in education. In short, more
of better-quality education with a stronger emphasis on science and engineering will need to be
provided to a greater number so that human capital can continue to be an asset for, rather than a
constraint to, Mauritius' future growth.
CHAPTER II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.    OVERVIEW
2.1    Over the past decade, Mauritius has made impressive progress in developing its education
system, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Today, for example, universal primary education has
for all practical purposes been achieved, with 97% of the 6-11 year age group enrolled; education
is free at all levels, including university; teaching and learning materials are available to all teachers
and students; and curricula are regularly updated to take the needs of a changing economy into
account. Parents actively contribute to the educational process, through parent-teacher associations
(PTAs) and community involvement, and by financing private tuition. Mauritius has also sought, at
each critical juncture of its educational progress, the advice and guidance of its intelligentsia by
constituting study groups and advisory committees. For example, a 1984 White Paper on Education
reviewed issues of access and quality; in 1987, the "Visitor's Report" advised Government on the
development of university education; in 1988 another select group analyzed the implications of private
tuition; and in 1990 proposals for developing a plan for structural reform of the education system
were advanced. These efforts confirm that Mauritius has a vibrant intellectual capacity and a genuine
political will to make its education system responsive to the country's social and economic needs
(Annex 16 provides a summary description of the education and training system).
2.2    Despite such progress, the education system has not kept pace with the human resource
requirements of the country's expanding economy. Contributing factors are the system's inability
to provide increased access to secondary and higher education, in particular scientific and
technological education, and the relatively low quality of educational inputs.
2.3    Concerning access to education, it is important to note that the Mauritius workforce has a
mean educational attainment of only 6.9 years of schooling, compared with about 9.0 years in
Taiwan, Korea or Hong Kong. Six years of primary education is still the terminal point for about
one-third of children. Secondary enrollment is at 48 percent of the 12-17 age group, again relatively



- 4 -
low compared with Korea (83 percent) or Singapore (80 percent), and has remained stagnant because
of high repeater and dropout rates and capacity constraints. Higher education enrolls only 1 percent
of the age group in undergraduate programs, compared with 12 and 6 percent in Korea and
Singapore, respectively.
2.4   Several factors adversely affect the quality of education. In primary and secondary schools,
three-fourths of the teachers have inadequate teaching skills and urgently require upgrading. The
curriculum pays insufficient attention to the acquisition of basic cognitive skills, science, and
mathematics, while a rigid examination system encourages memorization of facts rather than ability
to analyze and solve problems. At the post-secondary level, programs in mathematics, science,
engineering and technology are not sufficiently developed and students tend to favor liberal education
programs. The situation is exacerbated by cutbacks of private sector investments in secondary
education (which enrolls about 80 percent of secondary students) because of inadequate financial
incentives offered by the Ministry of Education and better returns on alternative investments. The
centralized system of education management, constrained by complex and multiple decision making,
has led to poor communications, weakened accountability, and impediments to attaining stated policy
goals.
2.5    Realizing that shortcomings in educational development impede the country's economic
development, the Government embarked, in March 1990, on the preparation of an Education Sector
Master Plan (ESMP) to guide sector development to the year 2000. The main objective of the ESMP
is to reinforce the international competitiveness of Mauritius' labor force, and transform the country
into a technologically more sophisticated economy.
B.    MAIN SECTOR ISSUES
(a)    Limited and Inequitable Access to Education
2.6    Although universal primary education has been achieved, further growth of the education
system is constrained by limited enrollment capacities of secondary and post-secondary institutions,
and by inequities in access to education between urban and rural areas and between elite public and
impoverished private schools.
2.7    Limited Access to Secondary Education. Enrollments in primary schools (135,000 in 1991)
has decreased over the last five years, due to declining birth rates, efficiency improvement, and a
stabilizing population (para. 1.2). However, the number of primary school leavers with a CPE
(Certificate of Primary Education), qualifying them for admission to junior secondary school, has
increased from 14,000 in 1985 to 22,000 in 1991. Over the same period, total enrollment in
secondary schools increased from 69,700 to 81,000 (an average growth rate of 3.1 % per annum).
The transition rate between primary Standard 6 and secondary Form I has improved slowly to a low
rate of 63 percent. There is a shortage of secondary school places.
2.8   The Government's 1992 decision to extend the compulsory basic education cycle from six
years to nine years (primary Standards 1 to 6, plus junior secondary Forms I to III), within the
present structure (Annex Chart 1), exacerbates the access problem. To accommodate the resulting
influx of primary school leavers, about 10,000 additional junior secondary school places would be



needed, putting additional pressure on an already constrained system. Further, it is anticipated that
most of those who enter junior secondary school will attempt to complete the secondary cycle (Forms
IV and V), requiring Government to provide for an enrollment increase of about 5,000 student places
at upper-secondary level.
2.9   Inequitable Access to Ouality Education.   There are currently about 30 primary schools
(mostly rural schools in the Black River area and in Rodrigues), previously operated by the private
sector in rented buildings, which are in very poor physical shape. The low social environment in
which these schools operate and their precarious physical condition contribute to their consistently
low performance on the CPE examination. At the secondary level, a 1990 survey showed substantial
differences in physical conditions both among public schools and between public and private schools.
About one-third of the private schools lack libraries, science laboratories and multipurpose facilities,
and many do not have provision for recreational activities. Moreover, while most of the secondary
schools are located in urban areas, the few that are located in rural areas are mostly in poor physical
condition, thus further accentuating urban-rural differences.
(b)    Poor Quality and Low Efrldency
2.10   Four factors adversely affect the quality of learning of students in the Mauritian school
system: excessive emphasis on national examinations, under-qualified and unmotivated teachers,
inadequacies in the curricula, and low internal efficiency of the system.
2.11   Excessive Emphasis on Examinations.  The fiercely competitive and stressful national
examinations (the CPE, the Cambridge School Certificate or CSC, and the Cambridge Higher School
Certificate or HSC), have a negative impact on learning and on the quality of teaching. The CPE
is particularly stressful as CPE results determine access to secondary education and, if results are
exceptionally good, acceptance by prestigious schools. Cramming to pass the examinations is
commonplace; however, it dilutes the educational process and places undue emphasis on norm-
referenced scores instead of measurement of learning achievement. Eventually, however, about two-
thirds of students succeed on the CPE and proceed to higher studies; some 4,000 to 5,000 students
each year, unable to pass the CPE, leave the school system. Although the numbers are smaller,
similar conditions prevail for the CSC and HSC examinations.
2.12   Undergualified and Unmotivated Teachers.  The profile of qualifications of teachers has
deteriorated significantly over the last 15 to 20 years. For example, in 1978 about 95 percent of the
6,200 primary teachers in service were considered qualified (having a teaching diploma or certificate);
in 1991, this percentage had dropped to about 35 percent of the 6,500 practicing primary teachers.
The situation is similar for secondary teachers: in 1991, about 35 percent of the 3,700 practicing
secondary teachers were professionally qualified (diploma or degree in education). The remainder,
about 2,000 teachers, were found to have been recruited directly into the teaching force, without any
formal teacher training. Of those that were qualified, about 1,000 diploma holders had inadequate or
outdated qualifications and require upgrading. Unfortunately, the Mauritius Institute of Education
(MIE) has not adequately responded to the need for teacher upgrading or retraining, focusing instead
on full-time pre-service teacher training programs. As a consequence, there is a considerable backlog
of practicing teachers requiring training.



- 6 -
2.13   Recruitment and assigmnent procedures for teachers, and their professional career structure,
also need to be improved. For recruitment to the teaching profession, there is neither a central
agency nor a standardized set of criteria. Each of the four major education employers (the Ministry
of Education and Science, MOES; the Roman Catholic Education Authority, RCEA; the Hindu
Education Authority, HEA; and the Private Secondary Schools Authority, PSSA) follows its own
standards and procedures. As a result, the quality and experience of teaching staff differ significantly
across agencies, and the progression of their careers also varies. In addition, the limited access of
lower-qualified teachers to professional upgrading programs often results in a lack of commitment
and high levels of absenteeism.  Clearly, structured teacher upgrading programs need to be
developed, within a unified career stream, utilizing the capacities of the inspectorates and regional
education centers in the process.
2.14   Inadeguacies in the Curricula.  Over the last 15 years, the Ministry of Education has carried
out systematic reforms of its school curricula. A reform of the primary curriculum was completed
in 1988. A curriculum renewal program for junior secondary school, initiated in 1989, is nearing
completion; that for upper-secondary education has not yet begun. The revised primary curriculum
has integrated the content of learning, but is still largely academic. It provides for teaching three
languages concurrently (English, French, and an ancestral language), accounting for about 60 percent
of total instructional time. Science and mathematics account for about 20 percent of the curriculum.
2.15   The secondary curriculum offers a broad range of subject options. It aims to attain better
articulation between schooling and work, and prepare students for the reality of employment.
However, science options have proved unpopular with students: the number of students taking two
or more science subjects at the CSC and HSC levels (about 20 percent) is declining due to a lack of
qualified science teachers and the absence of adequate science teaching facilities, particularly in
private secondary schools.
2.16   Low Internal Efficiency.  The average teacher-pupil ratio (1:26 at primary, and 1:23 at
secondary), an acceptable level, allows for a comfortable teaching load and adequate time for lesson
and class preparation. However, the ratio of non-teaching staff to teaching staff is high. The average
primary school, with 460 pupils and 20 teachers, has 2 managerial and 6 support staff. The average
secondary school, with 650 students and 32 teachers, has 6 administrative and 12 support staff.
2.17   The number of student-years required to graduate a primary school student averages 6.8 years
instead of the ideal 6 years, for an efficiency factor of 88 percent. The overall efficiency in
secondary school, for the first five years (to the CSC) is only 62.5 percent, representing an
investment of about 8 student-years per certificate holder instead of the ideal 5 years. As students
climb the educational ladder, their rates of repetition rise. One out of three students repeats Forms
IV, V and Upper VI. The incidence of dropouts is also high. About half of those who repeat
Primary Standard six after failing the CPE, and half of those in Form V, after either succeeding or
failing the CSC, eventually drop out. Surprisingly, another 17 percent of students in Form IV, where
there is no examination, also leave the school system.
(c)    Ineffective Sector Management
2.18   Private versus Public Education.    Private sector schools have traditionally played an
important role in education in Mauritius. In 1970, the private sector accounted for 43.5 percent of
overall enrollments, 30 percent at primary and 92 percent at secondary level. However, as a result



of Government's decision to establish good-quality public schools and phase out low-performing,
poor-quality private schools, the coverage of the private sector has declined so that, in 1991, private
schools accounted for 24 percent of primary and 80 percent of secondary enrollments. Since 1970,
the number of private sector primary schools has decreased from 78 to 60, and the number of
secondary schools from 143 to 100.
2.19   The quality of education provided by private secondary schools is considerably lower than
that provided by state secondary schools, due to lower levels of funding, poor physical conditions,
lower-qualified teachers, and lack of specialized facilities such as laboratories and libraries. Per-
student expenditure in private schools is about half that in state schools. Many of these schools
operate in rented quarters, where owners are unwilling or unable to upgrade the physical conditions
or expand enrollment capacity. About half of all teachers in private secondary schools (48 percent)
are category C teachers (the lowest class of teachers, without teaching diploma), compared with none
in this category in state schools. About 57 percent of teachers in state schools are graduates,
compared with 19 percent in private. State schools have relatively more teachers, more pedagogical
support staff, and more non-teaching support staff.
2.20   To bring about a greater balance in the quality of secondary schooling, a three-point plan was
designed by an inter-ministerial committee, known as ORSEC, in 1989. It focused on the elimination
of disparities in academic intake, physical infrastructure, and teacher quality. It introduced a
comprehensive grant formula for the schools under PSSA (para. 2.18), developed a subsidized loan
program for upgrading and expanding private school facilities, and allowed more professional support
from the MIE to improve the skills of the teaching force. These measures have begun to improve
the quality of weaker private schools. However, the elimination of disparities will require a greater
effort by the Government to give private school owners and managers more incentives to improve
the quality of private sector education.
2.21   Uncoordinated Tertiary Education.  The performance of the higher education system as a
whole has been unsatisfactory, reflecting the limitations of each of the four existing tertiary level
institutions (University of Mauritius, UoM; Mauritius Institute of Education, MIE; Mauritius College
of the Air, MCA; and Mahatma Gandhi Institute, MGI). The fundamental problem has been the
absence of a coherent policy framework and a well-defined development strategy to coordinate and
rationalize the various tertiary education programs.
2.22   Development of the Mauritius higher education system is constrained by several factors.
First, until 1988, there was no coordinating body to set key policy principles to guide the
development of tertiary education. Remaining unclear on the broad goals of tertiary education and
their respective roles in meeting the goals, the four academic institutions competed among themselves,
were unable to coordinate their related training and research programs, and set up programs in
response to ad-hoc needs. In particular, each of the four institutions developed its own distance
education program. A clear definition of the contribution that each institution is expected to make
to national development is still wanting: specifically, the number and mix of graduates that must be
produced to meet manpower needs, the types of research that should be pursued, the leadership roles
that the tertiary institutions themselves should take in terms of development strategies, and the
contribution they could make to the broader cultural and intellectual life of the country.



- 8 -
2.23   Second, Mauritian higher education institutions carry a low image among both students and
parents. One reason is that the majority of programs offered are at the certificate and diploma level,
and many of them are vocational in nature. Degree-level programs represent only 40 percent of the
courses at UoM, 35 percent at MIE, 15 percent at MGI, and less than 5 percent at MCA. In
addition, it is difficult for the tertiary institutions to attract and retain well-qualified and experienced
professionals as teachers on civil service salaries. As a consequence, local institutions find it difficult
to provide good-quality undergraduate and post-graduate programs. As a result, many Mauritian
students attend post-secondary institutions abroad, with a scholarship or at their own cost. The flight
to off-shore higher education is reinforced by continued reliance on the Cambridge examination
system and the imposition of excessive achievement criteria for access to government- or donor-
sponsored scholarships.
2.24   Third, the distribution of enrollments by fields of study is relatively skewed. Studies in
science, engineering, and technology account for 44% of total enrollments. Development in these
fields is constrained by the low proportion of secondary students taking science subjects in Forms IV
and V (30%). The number of students taking physics, chemistry and biology as principal subject for
the Higher School Certificate has been steadily declining, from 3,457 in 1987 to 2,702 in 1991. At
the same time, the number of students choosing economics or accounting has almost doubled.
2.25   Fourth, the gender distribution of higher education enrollments shows a strong bias against
females. Even though the gender distribution of enrollments in primary and secondary education is
perfectly equal, girls are seriously under-represented in higher education (31% of total enrollment
at UoM). One contributing factor is the low proportion of girls taking science subjects in secondary
education (only 20% in Forms IV and V as opposed to 40% for boys). Not surprisingly, female
students represent only 12% of the overall enrollment of the School of Engineering.
2.26   Fifth, the UoM has operated mainly as a teaching institution and its research performance has
been very modest. The salary scale imposed by the Pay Research Bureau has made it extremely
difficult for the UoM to attract and retain top level researchers. As a result, whatever little research
which is carried out is usually undertaken on an ad-hoc basis by a few enterprising faculty members.
Another major constraint to research, and consequently to analytical work for national policy
formulation, is the absence of institutional linkages between higher education institutions and the
productive sectors. In addition, there is a lack of books, journals, information technology for
libraries, and a lack of appropriate laboratory equipment.
2.27   Highly Centralized Management.  In recent years, the MOES has taken a number of steps
to reduce its centralized control of the education system and delegate responsibility for managing the
educational process to the level of schools and institutions. However, the efficiency of educational
management remains constrained because of complex and multiple fora for decision-making and a
lack of real accountability on the part of institutions supposedly empowered to implement policies and
programs. At the central level, there is no focal point for policy formulation and planning. Although
educational data are regularly collected and made available, lack of analytical work leads to
formulation of policies on an ad hoc basis. The devolution of responsibility to the institutional level
has been slow and uncoordinated, without clearly specified duties and responsibilities. The lack of
delegation of responsibilities to school principals illustrates the problem: school principals do not have



-9-
a say in the admission of students to their schools; do not administratively control or evaluate the
performance of their teachers; are unable to adapt the curriculum to meet specific needs; and have
very limited access to funds to purchase instructional materials and supplies, or authorize maintenance
of school properties.
2.28   Inspection and supervisory functions are diffused over a number of agencies and lack
coherence. Inspection of primary schools and state secondary schools is carried out by MOES
inspectors based in Port Louis and the educational zones. The cadre of public inspectors -
comprising about 80 staff (45 for primary inspection, 15 for secondary, and 18 for Asian languages) -
- is small relative to need. For example, 15 inspectors are expected to supervise the work of 1,100
teachers in 45 subjects at 24 state secondary schools. On the other hand, inspection of the 100
private secondary schools is carried out by private inspectors under the control of the PSSA. In
addition, teachers of ancestral languages are supervised by a separate group of 18 inspectors. About
three-fourths of the inspectors have no training in supervisory practices, lack competence to guide
their teachers, and therefore confine their tasks to administrative chores.
C.  THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY
(a)    Education Sector Master Plan
2.29   The Education Sector Master Plan (ESMP), developed in partnership with and advice from
the IBRD, UNDP, ILO, and UNESCO, and completed in June 1991, articulates a package of long-
term policies designed to strengthen and modernize the Mauritian education system. The ESMP
policy measures are designed to attain three key objectives: (a) to increase access to and promote
equity of education at all levels; (b) to improve the quality and efficiency of education; and (c) to
strengthen sector management and foster institutional development. They are summarized in a Letter
of Education Development Policy (Annex 2) and elaborated in the following paragraphs.
(b)    Increasing Access to and Promoting Equity of Education
2.30   Central to the Government's policy of increasing access to education is the Plan to extend
compulsory basic education from the current six years of primary school to nine years, either by
providing primary school leavers with an additional three years of lower-secondary education (Forms
I to III) or by offering them pre-vocational training through the services of the Industrial Vocational
Training Board (IVTB). To accommodate the increased flow of students through the system, the
enrollment capacity of secondary schools will be significantly increased, while the IVTB will develop
and offer additional vocational programs.
2.31   To reflect the changing occupational needs of the economy (para. 1.10), the capacity of
technical and vocational training institutions will be gradually expanded. The content of training
programs will be updated and emphasis will be placed on the development of practical skills.
Throughout this process, employers will be closely involved in the design and delivery of training
programs, as well as in contributing financially to the training. Particular attention will be paid to
the adult work force through the provision of continuing education courses by technical and higher
education institutions, including the University of Mauritius which will establish a Department for
Extramural Studies.



- 10-
(c)    Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Education
2.32   Qualitative improvements will be applied by revising and updating the curriculum, reforming
the national assessment and examination process, restructuring teacher training, and improving
efficiency at the school level. Curriculum revision will affect secondary schools in particular, by
placing emphasis on the teaching of mathematics, science and technology. A National Center for
Curriculum Research and Development (NCCRD) will be established. It will assume responsibility
for determining the essential learning competencies expected from the educational process, balancing
curriculum content, and standardizing textbooks to promote uniformity in teaching.
2.33   Student assessment techniques and evaluation processes will be reformed. The competitive
aspects of examinations, especially the CPE, will be significantly reduced; instead, teachers will be
required to assess the performance of their students on a continuous basis. For this, the experimental
Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) program will be gradually introduced from Standard
1 through Standard 6, and complemented by two new and distinct national assessments, one in
Standard 3 to help diagnose children in need of remedial teaching, and one in Form III to help
determine the future academic or vocational orientation of students. The certification role of the CPE
will be eliminated. At the HSC level (Form VI), new examinations, designed to test competence in
a core group of subjects will facilitate the transition to tertiary education.
2.34   To obtain higher productivity from the existing teaching force, a career motivation package
will be designed for primary and secondary teachers, and a program of systematic upgrading of
teacher qualifications established. Teacher training programs will be restructured to orient all
teachers gradually to the CCE program, provide in-service upgrading for all primary teachers, and
enhance the professional qualifications of science and mathematics teachers.  All category-C
secondary school teachers will be upgraded, and all secondary school teachers will eventually hold
a university degree.
(d)    Strengthening Sector Management and Institutional Development
2.35   Ministry of Education and Science.   The ESMP has made far-reaching proposals for
strengthening educational management and administration, some of which are beginning to be
implemented. First, the MOES has begun to share policy making and planning with a newly-created
National Education Council, drawing representation from all walks of Mauritian life, and with a
mandate to monitor and advise the Government on the growth and performance of the education
sector. Second, the MOES would be reorganized to provide for more effective policy formulation,
planning, evaluation and monitoring, and for coordinated development of human resources. Third,
authority would be delegated to Regional Education Centers (RECs) for delivering appropriate
services such as curriculum development, teacher upgrading, inspection and supervision, to schools
in their respective regions. Regional Advisory Committees would be constituted to advise and assist
each regional center. Fourth, heads of schools at all levels would be empowered with greater
authority. Fifth, a National Inspectorate would be established, responsible for supervising all primary
and secondary schools, public and private.
2.36 PivateEducation. The main objective is to bridge the quality gap between the governmnent-
aided private schools and public schools. The effectiveness of private sector education will be
enhanced by upgrading under-qualified teachers, assuring minimum standards of educational
infrastructure, and reformulating the system of grants and loans to the private sector. The calibre



- 11 -
of intake of private schools will be improved by modifying the computerized selection system, and
introducing alternative management and administrative arrangements for private secondary schools.
2.37   Tertiary Education. The recent establishment of the Tertiary Education Commission (EC)
has been an important and welcome development. This structure provides a framework to coordinate
the activities of the various higher education institutions. Over the last few months, a consensus has
emerged on a number of key policy principles and measures that will guide the expansion and
improvement of the performance of tertiary education institutions, under the leadership of the TEC.
These include:
(i)   the preparation of a higher education master plan to outline expansion objectives for
the higher education system as a whole and to delineate the respective missions of
each type of higher education institution (balance between undergraduate and post-
graduate programs; choice of disciplines; accreditation and transfer mechanisms);
(ii)   an agreement among the various parties involved on the necessity to formulate a
rationalization program aiming at achieving a more optimal use of existing resources
(faculty, administrative staff, physical facilities), and at promoting cooperative
programs among the various higher education institutions; and
(iii)  the preparation of a coordinated faculty development plan.
(e)    The Education Sector Investment Program for 1991-2000
2.38   Objectives and Scope.  To implement the core policies of the ESMP, the Government has
prepared a ten-year (1991-2000) Education Sector Investment Program (ESIP), currently comprising
26 projects with an estimated investment cost of US$135 million (Annex 5.1). The ESIP will be a
"rolling' plan, to which projects could be added (or removed) as priorities change or financing
becomes a constraint. Implementation of the ESMP has begun, with about US$18 million committed
or completed. Most of the major investments will take place from 1993 to 1998 (the project
implementation period), with annual expenditures projected at US$12-15 million, or two to three
times current levels. The major share of projected investments will be for secondary (42 percent)
and tertiary education (33 percent), with the remainder for primary education, technical/vocational
education and training, and support for central-level activities such as examinations, inspectorates and
teacher upgrading. About 57 percent of investment will be for construction, 35 percent for
equipment, and 8 percent for technical assistance and training.
2.39   Description.  Expanding access to secondary education will account for about half of the
proposed investments and will consist of extension, renovation and new construction of state
secondary schools and upgrading of private secondary schools, thereby increasing enrollment capacity
by about 15,000 student places. Next in emphasis (about one-third of investments) will be increasing
the capacity for educating and training skilled manpower, to be achieved by establishing a 1,200-
capacity Institute of Technology specializing in management, business, and computer sciencesl/,
I/    The Institute of Technology is currently not included in the ESIP. Its inclusion would be considered during
the proposed joint mid-term review, to be conducted in 1995 (see Annex 8).



- 12 -
expanding the existing Lycee Polytechnic by 1,200 student places to provide technician training in
engineering subjects, and increasing the undergraduate and graduate capacity of the University of
Mauritius to about 5,000 students. Investments in quality improvements will include the provision
of new facilities for science and technology teaching; upgrading programs for teachers; new programs
for diagnostic and assessment testing and measurement; and a unified system for school supervision
and inspection. Investments will also be made in strengthening MOES capacities in management and
administration by installing an education management information system (EMIS) and improving
computerization of administrative tasks; strengthening the regional education centers; establishing a
unified system for school supervision; and setting up a school maintenance unit.
2.40   Assessment, The ESIP is considered a sound program which adequately supports the policy
objectives of the ESMP. Priorities have been attached to the 26 components of the ESIP; 14 of these
constitute the so-called 'core investment program" or CIP (paras. 3.5, 3.6), which will be supported
by the proposed Bank loan (para. 3.39). The ESIP is viewed by the Government as a "reservoir"
of investment projects, to which other components will be added as project implementation proceeds
and policy objectives are being met. The validity of the reservoir concept will be reviewed during
joint Bank-Government implementation reviews (para. 4.10), and adjustments to the program made
at that time. During negotiations, assurances were be sought from the Government that the projects
contained in the ESIP will be included in the Public Investment Program (PIP), and that any new
projects that would be added to the reservoir of the ESIP will be consistent with the objectives of the
Master Plan (ESMP). Any deviation will be reviewed in advance with the Bank (para. 6.3(a)).
D.    THE BANK GROUP'S ROLE
(a)    Past and Ongoing Involvement
2.41   The World Bank has financed three education projects in Mauritius, totaling US$27.4 million
and providing support for primary, junior secondary, secondary, post-secondary, rural education and
industrial trade training. The First Education Project (Cr. 501/Loan 1033-MAS, US$7.0 million,
signed in 1974 and completed in 1980) aimed at expanding and improving the quality of secondary
education and increasing the access of urban and rural poor to secondary schooling. The project was
completed with a delay of about 18 months and its objectives were only partially achieved. New
curricula and textbooks were produced and teachers were trained in practical and science subjects.
On the other hand, programs in rural education were not pursued. Enrollments in project institutions
were below expectations, and there were problems in equipment installation.
2.42 The Second Education Project (Loan 1543-MAS, US$15.2 million, signed in 1978 was
completed in 1985) aimed at institution building in the Ministry of Education, improving the quality
of primary teacher training, and building and equipping junior secondary schools. The project also
included a component to establish a Central Training Office (CTO), the precursor of the IVTB. The
project was amended in 1983 and concentrated on primary school rehabilitation, curriculum
development and providing educational facilities on the island of Rodriguez. The CTO was
established but never became operational.
2.43   The Industrial and Vocational Training Project (Loan 3401-MAS, US$5.4 million, signed in
1991), became operational in March 1992. The project will support the development of the Industrial
and Vocational Training Board as the lead agency in organization, management and provision of
industrial and vocational training in Mauritius. Preliminary results indicate that excellent progress



- 13 -
is being made during the first year of operation, particularly with respect to strengthening the
institutional capacity of the IVTB, and starting up job-specific training programs in cooperation with
employers.
2.44   Lessons Leamred   The PPARs and PCRs of the two completed projects observe that, in
order to accommodate changing Government's education policies and satisfy parental choices,
extensive changes were made during implementation. For example, to meet parental aspirations,
three-year junior secondary schools were upgraded to five-year secondary schools, and financing
earmarked for rural education centers was diverted to upgrade existing primary schools. The key
lesson is that a clear vision of a policy framework in which institutional changes would be developed
and investments defined should be a prerequisite for project processing. The second lesson is that
project design should be sufficiently flexible to accommodate the needs of a developing and changing
economic environment. The third lesson is that the project should refrain from supporting
experimental and innovative activities for which there is little commitment from parents. The
proposed project takes these lessons into account by obtaining at the outset full consensus on policies
and programs, and by providing a flexible financing mechanism.
(b)   Rationale for Bank Involvernent
2.45   The Country Assistance Strategy supports three areas of the Mauritian economy: the
environment, infrastructure, and human resource development. The strategy gives high priority to
the development of a skilled labor force capable of meeting the needs of a growing and diversifying
manufacturing and service-based economy. To support this strategy, the Bank has maintained an
active dialogue on human resource development with the Government and has taken a leading role
in industrial training by supporting a policy seminar on the national training strategy (1989) and
participating in a donors' meeting convened in Geneva (1990) to discuss Mauritius' human resource
development strategy. Similarly, following the 1990 decision of the Government to prepare a long-
term human resource development plan, the Bank has been closely associated with the preparation
of the ESMP by providing professional support and advice, in cooperation with UN agencies (para.
2.29).
2.46   The Bank has reviewed the ESMP policies in terms of development problems, institutional
changes and investment priorities and has assessed its strategy for restructuring and re-energizing the
education system. At this juncture, the priority is to assist the Government in the implementation of
its sector development plans and programs, ensuring that investments clearly support the policy
objectives, and fostering institutional development.



- 14 -
CHAPTER III. THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES
3.1    The objective of the project is to assist the Government of Mauritius in implementing the
policy reforms and associated investment programs of the education sector Master Plan (ESMP) and,
through this process, strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Education and Science (MOES) to
develop and implement sustainable sector investment programs. The key policy objectives of the
ESMP are:
*     increasing access to and promoting equity of educational opportunity at all levels;
*     improving the quality and efficiency of education; and
*     strengthening sector management and institutional development.
3.2   To support these policy objectives, the project will finance a portion of the Govermment's
five-year (1993-98) core investment program (CIP) for the education sector (paras 3.39, 3.40).
Financing will be in the form of a Sector Investment Loan (SECIL), based on prior agreement on
four key conditions: (a) a comprehensive policy framework for the entire education sector; (b) an
appropriate education sector investment program (ESIP); (c) an expenditure program which supports
both the policy framework and the sector investment program; and (d) an intermediary institution
which will manage and coordinate program implementation.
B.  THE POLICY FRAMEWORK
3.3    The policy framework comprises three separate but closely linked elements: (a) a Letter of
Education Sector Development Policy from the Government of Mauritius summarizing the essential
features of the ESMP (Annex 2); (b) a Policy Action Plan (PAP) and implementation timetable,
summarizing the implementation of agreed policy measures (Annex 3); and (c) a set of performance
indicators with benchmarks and dated achievement targets to monitor implementation of the program
(Annex 4). The policy framework confirms the understanding between the Government of Mauritius
and the Bank on the three major categories of policy objectives listed above: increasing access and
promoting equity, improving quality and efficiency, and strengthening management and institutional
development (para. 6.2(a)). Chart 1 summarizes the three policy categories and lists various policy
measures supported by the project.



- 15 -
Chart 1: Policy Framework - Objectives and Measures
A.   Increasing Access and Promoting Equity
1.     Develop and expand early childhood education
2.     Establish nine years of basic education
3.     Minimize tracking and streaming of pupils
4.     Improve private sector provision of secondary education
5.     Support the expansion of tertiary education
B.     Improving Quality and Efficiency
1.     Reform national assessment, examination and testing
2.     Upgrade primary and secondary teachers
3.     Design a responsive curriculum with more instructional time for science and
mathematics
4.     Develop effective school leadership, with more autonomy in school management and
greater accountability
C.    Strengthening Sector Management and Institutional Development
1.     Rationalize and coordinate the development of tertiary education (TEC)
2.     Develop a capacity for policy formulation, planning and programming, and for
monitoring and evaluation of the labor market (MOES)
3.     Delegate educational support to the regional levels (regional education centers)
4.     Provide effective school supervision (inspectorates)
5.     Conduct a program of research and studies
3.4    Policy Action Plan (PAP) and Performance Indicators.  Following the issue of the ESMP,
the Government prepared, with Bank assistance, a PAP, consisting of more than 300 specific policy
measures designed to guide the implementation of the ESMP. The PAP (Annex 3) is designed to
guide the implementation of the policy measures contained in the ESMP over the five-year period
1993-98, in a format which lends itself to regular monitoring of progress. A set of performance
indicators (Annex 4) provides the monitoring framework. In addition to being useful operational
tools, both the PAP and the performance indicators are important inputs to the annual joint reviews
of project performance (paras. 4.8 to 4.11). At negotiations, assurances were given that the
Government will implement the project in accordance with (a) the policy directions stated in the
Letter of Education Sector Development Policy (Annex 2); (b) the policy measures and criteria
specified in the PAP (Annex 3); and (c) the targets specified in the key monitoring indicators (Annex
4). In addition, the Government provided an assurance that it will consult with the Bank sufficiently
in advance with respect to any material change in any provision of the said Letter or PAP during
project implementation (para. 6.3(b)).



- 16 -
C.  THE CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM
3.5    The 1991-2000 education sector investment program (ESIP) contains 26 specific investment
projects with a total value of approximately US$135 million (Annex 5). The ESIP is a Government
approved, indicative program, to which other investments may be added as required (one possible
addition would be a two-year post-secondary Institute of Technology). The status of the ESIP, and
proposed modifications to it, will be discussed with the Bank during the joint annual reviews of
project implementation (para. 4.10). The core investment program (CIP) consists of 14 projects
selected from the ESIP, with a total value (base cost) of about US$70 million (Annex 6). These
investments have been identified as critical to the successful implementation of the Master Plan and
the achievement of its policy objectives, and would be financed with Bank assistance over the five-
year period 1993-98. The composition and costs of a five-year expenditure program (July 1993 to
June 1998) was submitted and reviewed during negotiations (para. 6.2(b)).
3.6    The CIP is divided into three major categories of investments, classified according to ESMP
objectives, as follows:
Increasing Access and Promoting Equityl   The CIP will provide funds to (a) renovate or
rehabilitate sub-standard facilities at existing primary and secondary schools; (b) construct
new facilities for primary and state secondary schools; and (c) support the expansion of
tertiary education within the framework of the higher education master plan.
Improving Ouality of Education. The CIP will provide funds to (a) reform the national
assessment, testing and examinations system; (b) upgrade primary and secondary teachers
and school principals; and (c) provide teaching aids, library materials, laboratory equipment,
and science and technology equipment.
Strengthening Sector Management.  The CIP will provide funds to (a) strengthen sector
planning, programming and management, including setting up a management information
system (MIS); (b) support the Tertiary Education Commission; (c) promote the development
of private education; (d) institutionalize the national inspectorate and related educational
services (regional education centers);  (e) undertake a program of studies promoting
innovation and change;  and (f) strengthen the program  management capacities of
implementing agencies.
D.    INCREASING ACCESS AND PROMOTING EQUITY
3.7   Investments in this category are designed to improve the physical facilities of primary and
secondary schools, increase the enrollment capacity of secondary schools, expand and improve
private-sector secondary schools, and increase enrollments at the University of Mauritius.
(a)    Rehabilitation and Construction of Primary Schools
3.8    This sub-program will finance the extension and rehabilitation of facilities at existing primary
schools and construct new primary schools in underserved locations.



- 17 -
3.9    Rehabilitation of Existing Primary Schools. Physical facilities of about 25 primary schools,
recently acquired by the state from private sector owners, have been poorly maintained and require
significant upgrading. Located in rural and semi-urban areas and built in the early 1950s, these
schools require extensive repairs to roofs, ceilings, water pipes, school fencing, and in some cases
replacement of inadequate temporary facilities. Where needed, rehabilitation work will provide some
additional classrooms, multipurpose rooms, libraries, toilet blocks, and facilities for pre-primary
classes. When completed, the program will have rehabilitated the learning environment for about
10,000 primary students or 7 percent of the primary school population.
3.10   Construction of New Primary Schools.  This program will provide funds to construct about
13 new primary schools in underserved locations, to replace schools housed in substandard rented
facilities, redress severe overcrowding at some schools (with student populations of 1,000 or more),
and serve a number of regions from which children are required to travel long distances to school.
The locations of six new primary schools have been identified; the remaining seven sites are being
determined on the basis of school planning criteria acceptable to the Bank.
(b)    Renovation and Construction of State Secondary Schools
3.11   As a result of the introduction of nine years of basic schooling, and anticipated improvements
in student performance, the secondary school population is expected to increase by about 15,000
students, from 85,600 to 99,800 between 1993 and 1998 (see Chart 4). Part of the increased
population (about 3,000 students) will be accommodated at 21 existing state secondary schools which
will be expanded and renovated (para. 3.12); some 5,000 students will be accommodated in new state
secondary schools to be constructed under the project (para. 3.13); and the remainder of the
increase, about 7,000 students, will be accommodated by private sector schools, to be supported
under the project (paras. 3.15, 3.16). Bank loan funds will be used to finance science and technology
equipment and supplies, technical assistance to develop new programs, and staff training programs.
3.12   Renovations and/or Extensions of Existing State Secondary Schools.  Physical facilities of
21 out of 25 state secondary schools will be renovated and/or extended to provide accommodation
for an additional 3,000 students. Eleven of these 21 schools will be renovated. Included in this group
are schools built decades ago by private owners that have had little or no maintenance, whereas others
lack ancillary facilities such as libraries, science laboratories, toilets, and workshops. The project
will provide funding to carry out general repairs, as needed, and construct some additional facilities
including classroom extensions. Seven other state secondary schools have recently been upgraded
to teach up to HSC level (Form VI) and as a result have become overcrowded. They will be
provided with additional classroom space (a block of six classrooms each). Finally, three state
schools at Rosebelle, Bornes and Vacoas will be provided, in accordance with their needs, with
additional classrooms, science laboratories, libraries, reading rooms, and an administrative block.
Total capacity increase of the renovation/extension program will be about 3,000 student places.
3.13   Construction of New State Secondary Schools.  This program will provide funds for the
construction of five new state secondary schools accommodating about 5,000 students, and located
in regions which are now deprived of a secondary school. The new schools will make provision for
the teaching of science, mathematics and technical subjects, and will be provided with appropriate
facilities for this purpose. In deciding on the size of the schools, the MOES will aim at establishing
small, efficient schools of about 1,000 capacity each. During negotiations, the Bank reviewed and
agreed with the Government on (a) the criteria for locating the new schools; (b) determination of the



- 18 -
optimal size of schools; and (c) identification of tentative location, including ownership and rights
to land without causing displacement of local people.
(c)    Support to Private-Sector Secondary Schools
3.14   The objective of this program will be to improve the quality of education provided by private
secondary schools and to expand their enrollment capacity by approximately 7,000 student places by
the year 2000. To achieve these objectives, Government will broaden the scope of its program of
assistance to private secondary schools. Bank loan funds will be used to support this initiative.
3.15   Background.  The Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) has established a loan facility
of 100 million Rs designed to provide funds for private secondary schools to expand or improve their
facilities. However, the fund is underutilized as only the more affluent private schools (such as those
affiliated with religious organizations), who are able to meet their repayment obligations, tend to
borrow money. As of December 1992, only about 20% of the 100 million Rs fund has been lent for
improving 17 privately owned and operated schools. At the lower end of the scale, about 18 private
schools operate in sub-standard rented facilities. Government has decided to replace these with 9 new
schools of economical design, using a new financing mechanism (a Private Limited Company) in
which both the Government and the private owners of these schools will have shares. This leaves
about 55 private owner-operated secondary schools, generally in poor physical shape and often
overcrowded, which are not in a position (or not interested) to borrow funds from the DBM facility
and which have not been included in the Private Limited Company arrangement being set up for
schools currently operating in rented facilities.
3.16   A New Program of Financial Sunnort. For this middle group of private secondary schools,
Government intends to increase the economic incentives for owners, in a program consisting of three
associated elements: (a) use of the existing DBM loan scheme, under current terms and conditions,
with DBM funds to be used for new construction or for extension or renovation of existing facilities,
with the objectives of increasing capacity, improving quality and catering in particular to the teaching
of science and technology; (b) a modification of the comprehensive grant formula with the objective
of providing private schools which have expanded or improved their facilities with additional funds
for operation and maintenance; and (c) the provision of equipment, furniture and supplies for the
new facilities, financed by public funds (Bank loan funds will be used to finance their purchase).
To offset, in part, the increased costs associated with this program, Government will institute cost
recovery measures applicable to all secondary schools, public and private, through amendments to
the matching grant formula. In addition, efficiency measures will be introduced in all secondary
schools, based on a survey of facilities, staff and other resources, and, in the case of private schools,
an examination of their finances. A draft program defining the mechanisms and modalities of
providing assistance to private secondary schools to expand their capacity and improve the quality
of education was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations (para. 6. 1(a)).



- 19 -
(d)    Expansion of Higher Education
3.17   The project will support the expansion of the UoM, on the basis of an academic development
plan providing for a projected increase in enrollment capacity from the current 1,700 to 5,000 at the
undergraduate and from 50 to 500 at the post-graduate level. To accommodate this expansion, the
UoM is constructing an additional 15,700 square meters of floor area which is expected to be
completed by end-1994. Final decisions on the utilization of these new facilities will be based on an
academic plan and a research program, to be reviewed with the Bank. Emphasis will be placed on
full-time degree courses in science, social science and the humanities and on post-graduate programs,
while transferring, to the extent appropriate and possible, the certificate and diploma courses to other
institutions.
3.18   Subject to acceptance of the university's development plan, the project will support the
expansion of the University, and of the other higher 'education institutions, by upgrading the
professional qualifications of faculty and staff, and by providing appropriate laboratory equipment,
books, and instructional materials. The mechanism to provide this assistance to tertiary education
will be through three Development Funds, administered by TEC (para. 3.32), and used to finance
agreed investments in staff development, library and research, and laboratory upgrading.
E.  IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION
3.19   Investments in this category are focused on three activities: (a) reforming student assessment,
testing, and examinations; (b) developing and operating teacher upgrading programs; and (c)
providing library books and teaching aids to primary and secondary schools. Bank loan funds will
be available to finance technical assistance and staff development, and to purchase library books and
teaching aids.
(a)    Student Assessment, Testing, and Examination Reform
3.20   The objective of this program is to strengthen the capacity of the Mauritius Examinations
Syndicate (MES) to design and implement a proposed reform of the student assessment and
examinations systems, and expand its research program in the area of examinations and testing. Bank
loan funds will be used to finance the acquisition of the necessary equipment, the development of
testing programs and materials, the cost of local staff training, and the provision of externally
recruited specialist services. Loan funds will also be used to finance the costs of participating in the
International Assessment of Educational Progress (IAEP) program.
3.21   The MES will implement the following four programs within the next five years: (a)
introduce sequentially, beginning with Form I, the Continuous Comprehension Evaluation (CCE)
program; (b) redesign the primary school leaving examination (CPE) to strengthen its assessment
and testing capabilities and eventually eliminate its selection functions; (c) introduce, by 1995, a
national diagnostic assessment for Standard 3; and (d) introduce, by 1997, a national orientation
assessment for Form III. To facilitate these activities, the project will assist in the construction of
data processing and storage facilities, and the acquisition of examination and test-related equipment
and computers. The project will also provide for conducting in-country workshops for primary and
junior secondary teachers on the use of CCE, CPE, and diagnostic assessments.



- 20 -
3.22   Professional staff of the MES will pursue advanced studies in educational measurement and
testing techniques, diagnostic assessment and evaluation, and data processing and analysis. Specialists
services, to be provided by an external agency of recognized international standing, will advise on
the development of test materials, selection of test formats, and improvement of measurement skills,
and will carry out diagnostic studies. Professional development of the MES staff and the visits of
the expatriate staff will be scheduled carefully, to permit trained nationals to work with expatriate
experts on the design and development of reform programs.
(b)    Teacher Upgrading
3.23   The objective of this program is to develop and deliver over the 1993-98 period quality
teacher upgrading programs designed to improve the professional competence of practicing primary
and secondary teachers and school principals. Bank loan funds will be used to finance the costs of
developing teacher upgrading programs and associated instructional materials, expert services and
local staff training.
3.24   The development of teacher upgrading programs will be preceded by a revision and
simplification of the existing structure of certificate and diploma courses offered by the Mauritius
Institute of Education (MIE), so as to provide a coherent training structure at the diploma level for
the planned nine years of basic education. This revised program will also assist in establishing a
clearly defined career path, with provisions for advancement through improved professional
qualifications. Particular attention will be paid to finding ways for practicing teachers with less than
"A' level qualifications to enter an upgrade path that leads to a teaching diploma and, possibly, to
a degree.
3.25   An operational plan for teacher training and upgrading is under preparation. This plan will
in particular consider the roles and responsibilities of inspectors in teacher upgrading and the use of
the regional education centers, with a view to creating a decentralized system of teacher upgrading
and school-based support. The plan is expected to outline the process for assessing current structures
and regulations, recommend ways to reform them in order to support the planned nine-year basic
education system, and develop new forms of teacher certification to be implemented under the
project. The plan was presented in draft form to the Bank for review and comment at negotiations.
During negotiations, assurances were given by the Government that it will (a) follow the principles,
policy actions and programs as outlined in the operational plan for teacher upgrading; and (b) design
a career motivation package for practicing teachers to become effective upon graduation of the first
cohort of the new in-service teacher upgrading program (para. 6.3(c)).
(c)    Endowments for Libraries and Teaching Aids
3.26   This program supports the Government's strategy to provide primary and secondary schools
with adequate library facilities, books and teaching aids. Bank loan funds will be used to finance the
provision of library books, instructional materials and equipment, and teaching aids.
3.27   A 1990 survey indicates that two-thirds of primary schools have less than one book per pupil
and limited or no facilities for book storage or reading. While most secondary schools have libraries
and reading rooms, their stock of books need to be expanded and updated. The Government strategy
is to upgrade the collection of books, improve physical infrastructure and provide where needed a



- 21 -
reading-cum-instruction room. Instructional aids in most private schools are also outdated and need
to be updated.
3.28   A survey will be carried out by MPCU to provide, school by school, an inventory of needs
with respect to libraries, instructional materials, and additional space requirements. The project will
finance the survey and, subject to its findings, upgrade book collections and increase the stock of
reference books (the objective will be to provide three to five books per primary child and five to
seven books per secondary student). Provision will also be made to supply bookshelves and storage
equipment. In addition, the project will finance instructional equipment such as VCRs, TVs, radios
and radio cassettes, calculators, and computers. Training of teachers on how to better use this
technology for instruction will also be included.
F.  STRENGTHENING  SECTOR MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
3.29   This program has four objectives: (a) coordinating and rationalizing tertiary education; (b)
strengthening the management capacity of the MOES; (c) establishing an effective national schools
inspectorate; and (d) establishing a network of regional education centers. Bank loan funds will be
used to finance equipment, training and technical assistance in support of these objectives.
(a)    Coordinating and Rationalizing Tertiary Education
3.30   The Government of Mauritius is committed to formulating a Tertiary Education Development
Plan (TEDP) to rationalize the higher education system and plan for further expansion of the system.
Consensus has been reached between the four tertiary institutions concerned and the Tertiary
Education Commission (TEC) on the TEDP (para. 2.37). The TEC will prepare and subsequently
implement the TEDP. An Inter-Institutional Planning Board (IPB) has been constituted to assist the
TEC in this task.
3.31   Under the proposed project, the TEC will be given assistance to strengthen its capacity to:
*     coordinate the annual activity programs and long term development plans of the four
higher education institutions;
*     plan academic programs with a uniform modular curriculum and credit system;
*     sustain faculty and staff development; and
*     develop libraries and information resources to foster faculty research.
3.32   The project will provide funds to strengthen sector-wide activities to be carried out by TEC,
as follows: (a) preparing institutional development plans for each of the four higher education
institutions as well as a consolidated tertiary education development plan (both to be completed in
1993); (b) preparing proposals for the introduction of an academic credit system (1993); (c)
developing a database on academic research (1994); (d) reviewing teacher education programs (1994);
and (e) reviewing distance education (1993). In addition, the project will support the expansion of
the tertiary education system by setting up three funds, as follows: (a) a staff development fund, to
be used for study abroad; (b) a library fund, to subscribe to international databases and to purchase



- 22 -
books and periodicals; and (c) a laboratory fund, to upgrade and/or establish undergraduate
laboratories for the faculties of science, agriculture and engineering. Detailed proposals for the
establishment and use of these funds, to be coordinated by the TEC, will be submitted to the Bank
for review and comment no later than December 31, 1993. During negotiations assurances were
given by the Government that it will follow the principles, policy actions, and projected programs
as outlined in its operational plan for rationalization of tertiary education (para. 6.3(c)). Satisfactory
completion of the TEDP will be a condition for disbursement of funds allocated to TEC (para. 6.5).
(b) Strengthening the Sector Management Capacity of the MOES
3.33   Policy Formulation. Planning, and Programming.  The MOES' capacity for policy analysis,
resource management, and decision making will be enhanced by (a) establishing an Education
Management Information System (EMIS), fully integrated within the operating units of the ministry;
and (b) improving operational linkages with the planning, programming and budgeting functions of
the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development and the Ministry of Finance. The EMIS will
also reinforce the secretariat of the recently established National Education Council with the capability
of monitoring growth and progress of the education system and changes in labor supply and demand
functions. The project will also finance measures to strengthen existing MOES capacities for finance
and budgeting and for personnel management through increased computerization and improved data
processing, and through professional management training for MOES staff.
3.34   Research and Studies. To promote innovation and excellence within the education system,
this program will support research and studies designed to improve program development, maximize
learning achievements, equalize learning opportunities, and improve learning quality. The program
will finance research to explore alternative approaches for more effective, efficient and flexible
delivery systems, and implement pilot operations resulting from this research. The PAP (Annex 3)
has identified five research studies: promoting science and mathematics teaching; efficiency of
language instruction; early childhood education; special education; and management of private sector
education. More studies will be added to the list later. The project will provide funds for local and
foreign expert services to conduct these studies.
(c)    Establishing an Effective National Schools Inspectorate
3.35   The objective of this program will be to assist in the design and development of a viable
institutional framework for a National Inspectorate, encompassing supervision and inspection of all
primary and secondary schools in the public and private sectors, and will provide funds for the
following activities:
(i)    develop an administrative framework, with clear operational procedures, within
which the National Inspectorate would function;
(ii)   upgrade the professional competence of the inspectors through training abroad and
in-country; and
(iii)  improve the logistical base from which the inspectors operate.
3.36   The project will provide the services of externally recruited advisers on school inspection to
assist the Chief Inspector of Education to (a) draft proposals for an appropriate structure of the



- 23 -
inspectorate; (b) define the qualification and duties for inspectors of pre-primary and primary
education, state and private secondary education, and technical and vocational training; (c) set up
procedures and regulations for school inspection; (d) review requirements for staff recruitment,
training abroad and locally, and career development; and (e) identify needs for pedagogical equipment
and provide some training for immediate needs, especially in inspection and reporting techniques.
The project will finance the costs of training of inspectors in-country and abroad; conducting regular
training and orientation workshops; and the acquisition of needed logistic support including office
space, equipment and furniture. Bank loan funds will be used for the purchase of equipment and the
provision of technical assistance and local staff training.
(d)    Establishing Regional Education Centers
3.37   The objective of this program will be to establish a system of educational support services
for teachers and students at the regional level, allowing a gradual devolution of some ministerial
responsibilities to the local levels. The project will finance program development, limited civil
works, equipment, and training costs.
3.38   The existing network of six education centers and two sub-centers, serving eight of the
country's ten regions, will be expanded to cover all regions, and all centers will be upgraded as
Regional Education Centers (RECs). The RECs will perform a service function to provide
educational support services for the benefit of teachers and pupils; they will not become an additional
layer of management at the regional level. The REC will be the meeting place for all teachers in the
region (primary and secondary, public and private) for in-service training (para. 3.25), professional
conferences organized regionally, and serve as a resource center for teaching and learning materials.
The RECs will also provide counseling and guidance services to students, and information to parents
and pupils on school placement and career choices. The REC will be the seat of school supervision
and will house the Regional Advisory Councils. The emphasis at the RECs will be on in-service
training of teachers at the school level, as distinct from upgrading programs for certification and
associate salary increments.
G.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.39   The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$ 78.7 million, with a base cost of US$
66.7 million. Price contingencies, estimated at US$ 8.0 million, assume an annual domestic inflation
rate of 5 percent and a foreign inflation rate of 3.1 percent. Physical contingencies are estimated at
US$ 4.0 million.



- 24 -
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
fin US$ million)
Project Component & Sub-   Foreign    Local      Total       FE       Total
Component                                            (%)    Base Cost
I_ _ _ _             I__ _ _   _ _ _
A.  Increasing access and     41.7       13.4      55.1       75.7       82.6
promoting equity
B.  Improving quality          4.8        2.7       7.5       64.0       11.2
C.  Strengthening sector       3.6        0.5       4.1       87.8        6.2
management
D.  Total base line costs     50.1       16.6      66.7       75.1      100.0
(a) Physical contingencies  3.0      1.0        4.0      75.0        6.0
(b) Price contingencies    6.0       2.0        8.0      75.0        12.0
E.  Total Project Costs       59.1       19.6      78.7       75.1      118.0
3.40  Project Financing.  The total costs of US$78.7 million include duties and taxes of US$1.96
million and a foreign exchange component of US$59.1 million. The IBRD loan of US$20.0 million
equivalent amount to 25 percent of total project costs and 17 percent of costs net of taxes. It will
account for about 34 percent of the foreign exchange costs involved in the construction of new state
secondary schools, purchase of equipment, teaching aids and furniture, training, and technical
assistance. Financing of allowances and operating costs will be the responsibility of Government.
The Government will also finance about 66 percent of the foreign exchange costs involved in the
construction, purchase of equipment, teaching aids and furniture, training and technical assistance.
The financing plan is shown in Table 4.2.



- 25 -
Table 3.2: Financing Plan by Category of Goods and Services
(in US$ million)
ITEM                  IBRD        GOVERNMENT    TOTAL
Civil Works                           4.7              41.3             46.0
Land Acquisition                      0                 4.0              4.0
Equipment & Furniture                11.5               5.4             16.9
Books & Printed Items                 1.1               3.9              5.0
Technical Assistance                  1.5               3.1              4.6
Training & Studies                    1.2               1.0              2.2
TOTAL                                20.0              58.7*            78.7
* Including duties and taxes of US$1.96 million.
3.41   Recurrent Costs Implications.  Forecasts of recurrent expenditures for the five-year project
period 1993-1998 are provided at Annex 14.2. In spite of the projected reduction in primary
enrollments (from 132,200 in 1993 to 123,300 in 1998), it is expected that expenditures for primary
education will increase by about 1.1 percent a year, largely attributable to the proposed introduction
of remedial education and the increased qualifications and hence higher pay of teachers upgraded
under the project. Expenditures for secondary education are expected to increase by about 5.3
percent per annum due to the combined effects of a secondary school enrollment increase (from
85,600 in 1993 to 99,800 in 1998), and the upgrading of class-C teachers in private secondary
schools (para. 2.19). The largest budget increase, however, will accrue to the UoM where
enrollments are expected to expand by about 18 percent per year over the five-year project period.
Taking account of the expected limited growth of the other tertiary-level institutions (MIE, MGI and
MCA), and assuming the application of efficiency measures (such as improved staff:student ratios,
particularly at the UoM), the annual increase in expenditures for tertiary education is estimated at
10.7 percent.
3.42   The combined effect of these developments will require an increase in the MOES recurrent
budget of about 5 percent per year in real terms. Assuming that the economy will grow at 5 percent
annually, and that the recurrent budget of the Government will grow at the same rate, the share of
education in the budget during the coming decade should remain at the same level (about 11 to 12
percent) as during the past five years. In relation to the GNP, the total education expenditures are
projected to be in the range of 3.5 to 3.7 percent. On this basis, the project is considered sustainable.



- 26 -
CHAPTER IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION AND READINESS
4.1   The project was conceived during the preparation of the Education Sector Master Plan
(ESMP, para. 3.1) and World Bank financing officially requested by the Prime Minister in January
1991. During the Donors Consultative Meeting in November 1991, the Bank agreed, in principle,
to support the implementation of the ESMP with a policy-based sector investment loan. In June
1992, the project appraisal mission reviewed with Government its education sector policy framework
as presented in the ESMP and reached agreement on a draft Policy Action Plan (PAP) designed to
guide implementation of the policy measures. The appraisal mission also reviewed the sector
investment and expenditure programs and identified the composition of a core investment program
(CIP). Following project appraisal, the Government initiated in October 1992, with UNDP
assistance, the preparation of operational plans for the rationalization and development of tertiary
education, the restructuring of teacher training, and the improvement of sector efficiency. The post-
appraisal mission, conducted in December 1992, reached agreement of the final composition of the
CIP, developed criteria for the allocation of loan proceeds, and reviewed the institutional
arrangements for program coordination and implementation.
B.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
4.2   Reorganization of MOES. In order to equip itself for the implementation of the ESMP, the
MOES is developing a reorganization plan with initially a better delineation of responsibilities for
planning, operations and administration, and eventually a program of staff development and
reassignment. Preliminary plans for this reorganization were discussed during negotiations (para
6.2(g)); the new structure is expected to be in place by Loan effectiveness. In this plan, there would
be two directorates under thePermanent Secretary (PS) of Education: a Directorate of Education
Management and a Directorate of General Administration. The Education Management Directorate
would have four divisions: Inspectorate, School Services, Science and technology, and the Master
Plan Coordination Unit (MPCU). The MPCU will be responsible for project coordination,
monitoring and evaluation; the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), a division of MPCU would be
responsible for all procurement and disbursement actions, and for supervising all civil works.
Implementation of the various ESMP policy and investment components would be carried out by
existing operational units responsible for each subsector: the MOES for public primary and secondary
education, the PSSA for private secondary education, and the TEC for tertiary-level education.
4.3   Steering Committee. The Ministerial Steering Committee, composed of senior staff of the
Education Sector and chaired by the Minister of Education and Science, will provide policy and
operational guidance for implementation of the ESMP. The Steering Committee will meet regularly
to review the status of project implementation and resolve any operational issues. The Steering
Committee will review and approve the operational plans of the implementation agencies and the
budgets associated with these plans.



- 27 -
4.4    Master Plan Coordination Unit (MPCU).   The MPCU will coordinate and monitor the
implementation of all sector policies and programs contained in the ESMP and ensure that the
development targets are met. The MPCU will liaise with the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development with respect to the ESMP investment program and budget allocations, and with the
Ministry of Finance with respect to the allocation of recurrent budgets and the use of loan funds. The
MPCU will be responsible for inter-ministerial and intra-ministerial coordination, and for liaison with
other agencies and financiers involved in the education sector. The MPCU will review project
proposals prepared by the implementation agencies for consistency with the objectives of the ESMP
and forward them to the Minister MOES for approval. The MPCU will work closely with the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), the Tertiary Education Commission (TEC), and the Private Secondary
Schools Authority (PSSA).
4.5    As the intermediary institution for relations with the World Bank, the MPCU will (a)
coordinate the preparation of annual work programs and budgets for all project components; (b)
maintain and consolidate all project-financed accounts; (c) prepare the necessary documentation for
withdrawal of proceeds from the IBRD loan; (d) make arrangements for audits of project accounts
and SOEs; (e) organize the joint annual reviews of project implementation as well as the midterm
review; and (f) prepare for supervision missions.
4.6   Project Implementation Unit. The PIU, originally set up to implement the First and Second
IBRD Education Projects but disbanded in 1985 when Education II was completed, has recently been
resurrected, within MOES, to manage the implementation of a new AfDB-financed education project.
Given its experience in project management and implementation, and its knowledge of Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures, the PIU will assume responsibility for all procurement
matters and for supervising all civil works under the proposed project. The PIU will consult with
the implementation agencies on civil works, equipment and technical assistance requirements,
coordinate the preparation of equipment lists and technical specifications, prepare bid documents and
invite tenders, participate in bid evaluations, and prepare and administer contracts. With respect to
civil works, the PIU will be responsible for reviewing designs and specifications, obtaining planning
approvals, providing site supervision and issuing works and purchase orders. The PIU will also
handle the preparation of disbursement applications relating to the Bank loan, and keep the loan
accounts. Finally, the PIU will assist the MPCU in preparing progress reports and the documentation
required for the joint annual reviews of project implementation (para. 4.10).
4.7   Implementation Schedule.  The project will be implemented over the five-year period July
1, 1993 to June 30, 1998. The policy action plan (PAP, Annex 3) provides the framework for
planning the implementation of the policy measures supported by the project.  The project
implementation schedule (Annex 7), as well as the procurement and disbursement schedules (Annexes
9 and 10) provide the basis for planning the physical aspects of project implementation. During the
joint annual review of project implementation (para. 4.10), the PAP and the implementation schedule
will be reviewed and updated. A detailed program of investments and actions for the first two years
of implementation (1993-95) has been developed by the MPCU and PIU in consultation with the
implementation agencies and the Ministries of Planning and Finance. These were discussed and
agreed during negotiations (para. 6.2(c)). Implementation plans for the remaining three years of
project implementation (1995-98) will be developed on a rolling basis and finalized during the joint
annual reviews of project implementation (paras. 4.10, 4.11).



- 28 -
C.  MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.8    Monitoring and evaluation of project performance will be carried out by the implementing
units over the life of the project, with the MPCU playing a coordinating role. The main aspects of
project performance to be monitored are (a) progress in implementing the policy measures as defined
in the policy action plan (PAP, para. 3.4); (b) progress in implementing the investment components
as detailed in the core investment program (CIP, para. 3.5); and (c) the status of capital and recurrent
education sector expenditures (para. 3.41). Performance indicators for education to monitor the
project, were reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations, and are at Annex 4. A schedule of Bank
supervision missions is found at Annex 8.
4.9   Progress Reporting.   Detailed information on the status of project performance will be
maintained by the MPCU and PIU, and made available to Bank supervision missions. In addition,
semi-annual progress reports will be prepared by the MPCU and submitted to the Bank for
information and comment. Government will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to be
submitted to IBRD not later than six months after the closing date of the loan. During negotiations.
assurances were given by the Government that the MPCU will prepare semi-annual progress reports
and forward them to the Bank by April 30 and October 31 of each year (para. 6.3(d)).
4.10   Annual Joint Reviews of Project Implementation. To provide a structure for regular reviews
of project performance and expenditures, the MPCU will organize no later than May 31 of each year
(to coordinate with the Government's budget preparation cycle), a joint Bank-Government review of
project implementation, based on its regular semi-annual progress reports (para 4.9) and an annual
work program and budget for the next fiscal year. At negotiations, assurances were given by the
Government that, beginning in 1993, it will submit to the Bank for review and comment, no later
than April 30 of each year, a statement of project achievements and actual expenditures for the
ongoing year and a work plan and projected expenditures for the coming year (para. 6.3(e)).
4.11   Midterm Review.   A midterm review of the project, in addition to the planned annual
reviews proposed in paras. 4.9 and 4.10 above, will be carried out jointly by Government and the
Bank no later than 1996 (para 6.3(e)). The review will: (a) evaluate overall progress in the ESMP
and project implementation relative to program and project objectives; (b) identify constraints and
bottlenecks by reviewing the adequacy of policies and regulatory framework for the ESMP; (c)
assess progress in the upgrading of teacher skills at primary and secondary schools; (d) assess
progress in the renovation and the new construction of primary and secondary schools; (e) asses
progress in the strengthening of science teaching at secondary schools; (f) assess the improvement
in the development of tertiary education; (g) assess progress in the upgrading of private secondary
schools; (h) assess progress in the teacher training programs;  (i) determine progress in the
achievement of a National Inspectorate and the formulation of working standards and guidelines for
day-to-day inspection work; and (j) assess progress in the raising of education standards and
efficiency.  If required, the project would be modified on the basis of the findings and
recommendations of the mid-term review, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
D.  PROCUREMENT
4.12   Procurement arrangements for items financed by IBRD are given at Annex 9 and summarized
below (Table 4.1). Detailed requirements for the first two years of project implementation, for which
Bank procurement procedures and guidelines will be applied, have been reviewed and agreed with
the government. Items to be procured for the remaining three years of the project would be assessed
vis-a-vis the sectoral requirement for each year thereafter and will be reviewed jointly prior to the



- 29 -
start of each year by the Government and the Bank. This procurement will also be done according
to Bank's guidelines.
Table 4.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
rin US$ million equivalent)
PROJECT             PROCUREMENT METHOD                  N.B.F.   TOTAL
ELEMENT                                                                        l
ICB         LCB    OTHER
1. Works                18.4          -            -           31.6        50.0
________________(4.7)                  _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ __(4.7)
2. Goods                 15.5         2.0          1.9          2.5        21.9
(10.8)       (0.5)         1.3         (-)        (12.6)
3. Consultancies                                   3.2          -           3.2
___________ _________   _ ___________(1.5)   _  _ _ _ _ _      (1.5)
4. Studies and            -            -           3.6          -           3.6
Training                                        (1.2)                    (1.2)
TOTAL                  33.9          2.0          8.7        34.1         78.7
(15.5)       (0.5)        (4.0)        (-)        (20.0)
4.13   Procedures for ICB would follow Bank procurement guidelines.  Procedures for local
competitive bidding (LCB) will be reviewed by IBRD and will include public bid opening, clear
evaluation criteria, and local advertising, and the award will be made to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder. Foreign bidders will not be precluded from participating. Sample bid documents
for all works, goods and services were received and discussed during negotiations (para.6.2(h))
4.14   Civil Works.   Civil works contracts (US$15.6 million) for the five new state secondary
schools (para 3.13) will be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures among qualified construction firms and in accordance with IBRD procurement guidelines.
The civil works category also includes rehabilitations and renovations to primary, secondary and
private schools, additions to the University of Mauritius and extensions to existing premises which
are to be entirely funded by the Government and would be procured using local bidding procedures,
which are conform to the Bank's LCB procedures and allow foreign contractors to bid. LCB
procedures agreed with Government will, inter alia, include (i) evaluation and award procedures;
(ii) advertizing in local papers with public bid opening; (iii) awards to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder; and (iv) specified evaluation criteria.
4.15   Goods,   Training equipment, teaching aids, furniture and fittings, and other supplies
(computers, cameras, videos, etc.) will be grouped in appropriate bid packages of US$100,000 or
more and would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Contracts for other
equipment, such as some office equipment (furniture, air conditioners, stationary, etc.), each
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and aggregating to US$500,000, will be awarded under LCB
procedures (see para. 4.13).  Smaller contracts not exceeding US$25,000 each and aggregated to



- 30 -
US$200,000 will be procured through international or local shopping based on price quotations from
at least three suppliers.
4.16   Books. Journals, and Instructional Materials (US$1.1 million). Selected titles of library and
reference books and other printed materials will be procured on the basis of competitive quotations
for discounts on list prices from retailers and booksellers, or by direct negotiations with publishers.
Printing contracts for teachers guides, school supplies, and other types of instructional aids will be
procured through ICB among pre-qualified printers and publishers.
4.17   Overseas and In-country Training.   For overseas training financed under the loan, the
qualifications of candidates, along with the course of study, proposed training institutions, and costs,
will be subjected to prior review by IBRD. Given the importance of skills development and training,
the project will finance part of local costs for local training. Local training courses proposed (along
with their estimated costs) and financed under the project will also be subject to prior Bank review.
4.18   Technical Assistance.    Technical assistance (including both long- and short-term
assignments) for training and studies will be provided by firms and individual consultants. Selection
procedures for all consultants (firms and individuals) will be in accordance with the Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (August
1981). All consultant terms of reference, qualifications, experience, and conditions of employment
will be satisfactory to the Bank and subject to review before an agreement (or contract) is negotiated
and signed.  Procedures in consultancy contracts involving firms will include the customary
mandatory review by the Bank of proposed short list, letter of invitation, and award proposal for all
contracts. Any proposals for single-source selection of a consultant will be critically examined or
reviewed by the Bank.
4.19   Review of Procurement. During project implementation, procurement of goods and services
above US$100,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior-review procedures. Selected post-review of
awarded contracts below the threshold levels will be carried out. Terms of reference, curricula vitae,
and draft contracts and letters of appointment for consultants will be reviewed by IBRD prior to
appointment of the consultant(s).
4.20   A draft Country Procurement Assessment Report for Mauritius, prepared in June 1987,
concluded that, although Government procurement regulations were outmoded in some respects, the
system as a whole worked satisfactorily and, thus, that no special exemptions will be needed in the
loan documents. This report will be updated by the Bank during 1993 and that the Government will
be advised of any variations and anomalies outside normal Bank procedures. Procurement for all
Bank-funded goods and services under the project and the review of procurement documents will be
done in accordance with Bank guidelines (issued May 1992). Standard bidding documents modelled
on Bank sample documents for procurement of civil works and goods will be used under ICB
procurement and Bank solicitation package for consultants will be used to prepare consultancy
packages. These will be reviewed by Bank before Board presentation. The PIU, already in place
in the MOES, will coordinate procurement arrangements with assistance from the MPCU and other
implementing agencies, who will prepare lists and specifications of equipment and materials
associated with their particular requirements.
4.21   Responsibilities.  The PIU will be responsible for all civil works and procurement matters
related to the projects components.
4.22   The project implementation schedule is indicated in Annex 7, from which the estimated
disbursement schedule (see Annex 10) has been derived.



- 31 -
4.23   Recording of Procurement Information.   Procurement information will be collected and
recorded as follows:
(i)    prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
(ii)   comprehensive semi-annual reports to the Bank by the borrower, indicating:
a.    revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including
best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies;
b.    revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award, and completion time for individual contracts;
c.    compliance with aggregate limits on specified  methods of
procurement;
d.    reports to include the consultant performance evaluations.
(iii)   a completion report by the borrower within three months of the loan's closing date;
and
(iv)   at the time of supervision missions, a detailed statement of all procurement
undertaken to date, together with a forecast of anticipated procurement to be
undertaken in the coming year, with estimated costs.
E.    DISBURSEMENTS
4.24   The disbursement profile for all sectors in Mauritius is six years. All disbursements will be
made in line with Bank Guidelines and will operate under procedures acceptable to IBRD.
Disbursements will be fully documented, except for payments for contracts of less than US$25,000
equivalent, which will be disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). SOEs will
be certified by the Head of Finance in PIU, in consultation with other Implementating Agencies (IA)
as necessary, who will confirm that these are in agreement with the ledger accounts, copies of which
will accompany the claims. The ledger accounts and supporting documentation will, however, be
retained and made available for review by the auditors and IBRD supervision missions. Wherever
possible, all withdrawal applications should be aggregated in batches of not less than US$25,000
equivalent. An indicative schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 10 along with the project and
country disbursement profiles. To ensure the timely disbursement of IBRD funds, Government
confirmed at negotiations that withdrawal application requests will be sent to IBRD matching the
expenditure of Government resourcing and that no excessive delay in placing these requests will take
place.



- 32 -
4.25 The proposed IBRD loan of US$20.0 million will be disbursed as shown in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2: Disbursement Categories and Percentages
(in USS million)
CATEGORY             AMOUNT OF LOAN   PERCENT OF EXENDITURES
ALLOCATED               TO BE FINANCED
1. Civil Works                       4.7          35% of foreign expenditures
2. Equipmmt & Furniture              11.5         70% of foreign expenditures
3. Books & Printed Items             1.1          70% of foreign expenditures
4. Technical Assistance              1.5          100% of foreign expenditures
40% of local expenditures
5. Training & Studies                1.2          100% of foreign expenditures
40% of local expenditures
TOTAL LOAN AMOUNT                  20.0
F.    ACCOUNTS, AUDITING, AND REPORTING
4.26   The Finance Division of the PIU will establish and maintain separate project-related accounts.
Such accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting
principles and practices, satisfactory to the Bank, to reflect the performance and position of the
project.
4.27   MOES' accounts will be regularly audited by government auditors under the supervision of
the Director of Audit, who in turn submits his report to the Parliament. An auditor's opinion and
report satisfactory to the Bank on the interim and annual financial statements will be provided within
six months of the close of the fiscal year. Reports will include a detailed statement on the adequacy
of the accounting system and internal controls and an independent and separate opinion on the
reliability of SOEs as a basis for loan disbursement and on the compliance with any financial
covenants. Supporting documents and SOEs will be retained by the PIU and will be available to
Bank supervision missions. The project accounts and auditing arrangements will provide adequate
and timely information to the Bank for supervision of disbursements and the project generally.
CHAPIER V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    BENEFTIS
5.1    Project benefits will be widespread. By establishing nine years of basic education, the project
will provide a larger and better-educated pool of secondary school graduates, improve the quality and
sophistication of the future labor force, and facilitate the transition of the Mauritian economy to a
higher level of productivity. Policy measures supported by the project will strengthen Government's



- 33 -
capacity for policy formulation, planning, and program management, enhance the development of
private sector education, and provide better opportunities for training in science and technology.
B.    RISKS
5.2   There are two main risks. Eirs, owners and managers of private secondary schools may not
be willing to borrow Government funds, even at subsidized interest rates, to improve and expand
their facilities. This would not only jeopardize Government's policy objectives of improved quality
and enlarged capacity, it would also force the Government to consider alternative ways of expanding
enrollment capacity at the secondary level. This risk is being addressed by providing owners of
secondary schools with instructional equipment and supplies free of charge under the project,
provided that their facilities are expanded and improved in a satisfactory way, based on mutually
accepted criteria. Second, while the four tertiary education institutions have reached consensus on a
comprehensive development plan for higher education, there is still a risk of continued duplication
of certain programs and inefficiencies in resource use. In recognition of this risk, it has been agreed
that a major outcome of the rationalization of tertiary education should be the integration of MIE into
an enlarged university, either by transforming MIE into a full-fledged Faculty of Education or by
creating a SchooltDepartment of Education as a joint venture between MIE and the University of
Mauritius. The two minor institutions (Mauritius College of the Air and the Mahatma Gandhi
Institute) which have very limited undergraduate programs could remain as independent entities.
5.03   No environmental risks are foreseen. The Government of Mauritius is particularly sensitive
to enviromnental concerns, as evidenced by its Environmnental Management Project, financed in part
by the Bank (Environmental Monitoring and Development Project, Loan 3277-MAS, US$12.4
million, signed in 1991).
A.    AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1    During negotiations, the Government submitted for the Bank's review the following:
(a)    a draft program defining the mechanisms and modalities of assistance to private
secondary schools to expand their enrollment capacity and improve the quality of
education they provide (para 3.16);
(b)    a draft operational plan for the rationalization and development of tertiary education
(para. 3.32).
6.2    During negotiations, the Government provided the following:
(a)    a final Education Sector Policy Letter together with a Policy Action Plan (PAP) and
a set of performance indicators that reflect progress in the implementation of sector
policies and programs (para. 3.3);



- 34 -
(b)   the composition and costs of a five-year expenditure program (July 1993 to June
1998), including indicative budgetary provisions for activities to be financed under
the project, beginning with FY93 (Annex 6), (para.3.5);
(c)   the composition of the FY93 investment program, fully appraised and costed, and the
FY94 indicative investment program (para. 4.7);
(d)    operational plan for restructuring teacher education (para. 3.25); and promoting
sector efficiency.
(e)   summary terms of reference for studies and major technical assistance programs
(EMIS; financing, cost and efficiency; support for MPCU and PIU; policy
formulation, planning and programming (para 3.34 and 4.18);
(f)    criteria for determining the size and location of new secondary schools (para. 3.13);
(g)    a draft reorganization plan for the Ministry of Education and Science, reflecting its
expanded responsibilities for implementation of the ESMP (para. 4.2); and
(h)   sample bid documents for all works, goods and services to be procured by the project
(para. 4.13).
6.3    During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a)   the projects contained in the Education Sector Investment Program (ESIP) will be
included in the Public Investment Program (PIP), and that any new projects that
would be added to the reservoir of the ESIP will be consistent with the objectives of
the education sector master plan. Any deviations would be reviewed in advance with
the Bank (para. 2.40);
(b)   it would implement the project in accordance with (i) the Letter of Education
Development Policy (Annex 2) and the policy measures and criteria specified in the
PAP (Annex 3); and (ii) the targets specified in the key monitoring indicators
(Annex 4), and would consult with the Bank in advance in respect of any material
change in any provision of the said Letter or PAP during project implementation
(para. 3.4);
(c)   it would (i) follow the principles, policy actions and programs as outlined in the
operational plan for rationalization of tertiary education including teacher upgrading;
and (ii) design a career incentive package for practicing teachers to become effective
upon graduation of the first cohort of the new in-service teacher upgrading program
(paras. 3.25, 3.32); and
(d)   the MPCU would prepare semi-annual progress reports and forward them to the Bank
by April 30 and October 31 of each year (para 4.9);
(e)   it would, in preparation for conducting an annual joint Government-Bank review of
project implementation, submit to the Bank for review and comment, no later than
April 30 of each year and beginning in 1994, a statement of project achievements and
actual expenditures for the ongoing fiscal year and a work plan and projected
expenditures for the coming year (para 4.10). In addition, a midterm review of the



- 35 -
project will be carried out jointly by the Government and the Bank no later than June
30, 1996 (para 4. 11).
6.4    A condition of disbursement for the tertiary-level education components would be the
submission of Tertiary Education Development Plan acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.32).
B.    RECOMMENDATIONS
6.5   Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$20 million on standard Bank terms.






Basic Education Data
Table 1.1: Mauritius: Enrollments. 1991
Level        Age-Group        Grade        Enrollment    Enrollment       % Female       % Private
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _R atio_ _ _ _ _ _ _
Pre-Primary               3-5         Kl-K2          25,000-                      -
Primary                 6-11             1-6        135,233      99.4            49.3           24.3
Secondary               12-18           7-13         81,090      55.2            50.9           79.6
Junior         12-14             7-9         44,119      64.8            51.8           83.8
Secondary          15-16          10-11         28,775       70.2           50.5           80.4
Upper          17-18           12-13          8,216      21.6            47.5           55.1
Technical-              15-18          10-13           645         -              -
Vocational*
Hiher*                  19-22          14-17          2,250       1.1             34             0
OQM
Xx
*(Data for 1990).
0
1h



Basic Education Data
Table 1.2: Mauritius: Physical Facilities
Schools       Classrooms         Facilities       Staff      Adminis    Teaching           Support
Primarv            290            4,688             385(c)         8,016         539          5,830           1,647
Public       230             3,692              292          6,396         433           4,538          1,235
Private         60(a)            996                93           1,620         106          1,192           322                                              co
Secondary          125            2,390            1,426(d)        5,909       1,960(e)       3,949             -
Junior        23              498               455          1,810         763           1,047
Secondary        102(b)           1,892              971          4,099        1,197          2,902
(a) of Private Primary Schools, 53 are aided, and 7 non-aided.
(b) of Private Secondary Schools, 69 offer clabss up to form V, 25 up to form VI, and S mixed form VI claswc.
(c) for Primary Schools it includes librry and rmading room, staff room and canteen.
(d) for Secondary Schools it includes labortory, multi-purpose rooms, workshops, special room and office.
(e) for Secondary Schools, not-teaching support staff are included in adminitative and management group.
0QI
ol



Basic Education Data
Table 1.3: Mauritius: Efficiency of Present Education System
Primary      Secondary FI-III   Upper Secondary
FVI-VII
Years of Course                      6.00              5.0               2.0                                    1
Student Years Per Graduate           6.88              8.9               4.2
Internal Efficiency                  87%              57%               47%
0 Z
OC2






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
- 41 -
LETTER OF EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
BY THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
I am writing to confirm the broad outlines of the
Gov-rnment of Mauritius educational development policy, as
outlined in our Education Master Plan for the Year 2000, and
as amended through later discussion.
The rapid economic and social changes which we have
experienced during the past decade have necessitated a fresh
look at our educational system.   In recognition of these
changing needs, an Education Sector Master Plan (ESHP) was
prepared for the period up to the Year 2000. This Plan has
been approved by the Government of Mauritius. Its objectives
are set out in Chapter IV of the ESMP. They are briefly as
follows:-
(a) To ensure that every child reaches an agreed standard
of basic education, both in order to make the system
more equitable and to develop the human resources
needed for our further development. The principal
measure for meeting this objective will be the
eventual provision of nine years of basic education
for all children.   This will involve raising the
transition rate from primary to post-primary schools
through a program for assessment and remediation in
'the primary schools, the construction of pre-
vocational centres, the provision of additional
secondary schools places (including the construction
of ftve new state secondary schools and eight new
schools owned and operated by private companies), the
training of remedial teachers, the revision of the
CPR, and the preparation of curricula for children who
need special help in reaching agreed minimum standards
of basic education.



ANNEX 2
-42-                               Page 2 of 4
(b) To improve the quality of education at all levels.
This will involve enhanced programs for teacher
training, with special emphasis on in-service
training.    All  teachers will  receive  pedagogical
training.   Measures will be taken to improve the
morale of teachers through more favorable promotion
prospects and regular access to training. Increased
use will be made of teaching aids, including
electronic equipment and material.
(c) To help the further economic and social development of
the country. The teaching of science and mathematics
in primary and secondary schools will be strengthened.
A special science school will be established in each
region. The capacity for technical education will be
enlarged, especially through the expansion of the
Lycee Polytechnique and through polytechnic types of
institution.   A program has been prepared for the
development of information technology in the schools.
A centre for Science Education will be established.
The  provision  of  tertiary  education  will  be
substantially  expanded.    Each  tertiary  education
institution will finalize its development plan,
following a standard format defined in cooperation
with the Tertiary Education Commission. A tertiary
education master plan will then be prepared by the
Tertiary Education Commission on the basis of the
various institutional development plans. The tertiary
education master plan will present a consolidated
expansion plan for the sub-sector as a whole, as well
as a'rationalization plan aiming at achieving a more
optional use of existing resources, and at promoting
cooperative programs among the various tertiary
education institutions.
(d) To lessen inequalities in the educational system. In
addition to the proposals for nine years of schooling,
additional resources (such as remedial teachers) will
be directed towards low-achieving primary schools.
Poor quality private secondary schools will be
replaced by better quality private institutions.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
- 43 -
Under-qualified teachers in private secondary schools
will be gradually replaced by qualified ones.
Assistance  will  be  provided  towards   improving
infrastructure in the private schools. Good quality
schools will be provided in regions lacking them.
Special measures will be taken for raising teaching
and learning standards in Rodrigues. These will
include   teacher   training   programs   and   the
strengthening of the educational infrastructure.
(e) To develop the abilities and aptitudes of the
individual child. Guidance will be given to students
on appropriate courses. An orientation Assessment will
be introduced after Form III; students will be able to
choose between academic, business and technical
courses, or will leave the formal educational system.
(f) To improve the efficiency and performance of the
educational system.  All means will be examined for
using resources cost-effectively. Teaching time will
be increased. Distance education systems will be used
where appropriate, and relevant skills will be built
up.    In order to  achieve  the  above  objectives,
appropriate mechanisms for cost-recovery will be
developed
(g) To  strengthen  the management  of education.    The
organisational capacity of the Ministry of Education
and Science will be strengthened. A National Centre
for Curriculum Development has been established within
the Ministry. A manpower development program will be
prepared.      A  National   Inspectorate   will   be
established.  The regional education centres will be
expanded to provide a wider range of educational
services,   including   expanded   teacher   training
programs. They will act as regional resource centres,
as centres for distance education programs and as
bases for the Inspectorate.   More responsibilities
will  be  allocated  to  the  schools.    A  National
Education Council has been set up. Machinery has been
put in place for implementing the Plan. A management



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
- 44 -
information system will be developed. The master Plan
will be subject to annual review and periodical
updating.
The total cost of the core elements in the Education Sector
Investment program for the period 1993-1998 is roughly
estimated at Rsl,OOO million. A detailed program for the year
1993/94 is now under prepareation, and an indicative time-
table is being prepared for the period 1993-1998.   At a
Donors' Consultative Meeting held in Paris in November 1991,
pledges of assistance totalling US$49.1 million were made
towards the cost of the Plan. This included US$44 million in
loans from the World Bank, the African Development Bank and
the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique; and USS5.1
million in grants from the EEC, UNDP, UNESCO and UNICEF.
The Master Plan has the full support of the Government of
Mauritius,   and   we   are   strongly   committed   to   its
implementation.



DRAFT POLICY ACTION PLAN
MOES POWCY AGENDA                              |                         BMPLEMENTATION
RESPONSIBLE                       SCHEDULE
AGENCY
92  93   94    95    96    97    9          9
A. Dr.am Ac   & E&
t. h__
1.1   Ase  _md by regioun ad plan options.                       ) P  priry
1.2   Study A samS. @rniaonal udture.                             ) Division        _                 _
1.3    S      t expandig p)shoing.                                 (MOES)
2. Pt,ye aimaying of sdehlq fr A chUm  by yer 2_.
2.1   S"aecumamy. s-1-chob Iseb_ Co wpehenive CotinuE MIE/MES
Aseset(CCE)
2.2    Re4mia teachen on CCE, dcck for regional an social parities.                      _     _            -                           U'
2.3    Prpe Redial Specialids by deploying surpku primry
2.4   Inreas tmision ras fom Standard VI to Form 1.                                                                      -
2.5   Sclectio of sudent to cadaic and pvocationa strms wuld
be bsed en _heir adanic orition, atwude, and eanming
pmreence; and not on Oh basis of their sucess or failure in the
CPE. Creover btee the two strum would be aflowed.
EnsulesmOtto PVCs wiN not be coarmd to the failurs of CPE.
2.6    Develop and cisduce CC  fOr Form  1-SE. Dvelop and
isidme oulaaion assumanat ead of Fom IU.
2.7   Sequecing anafly school be Raeedial edi.                                           =                       . 
OF
0



MOES POLICY AGENDA                                                         IMPLEMENTATION
RESPONSIBLE                        SCHEDULE
92   93    94    95    96    97    98    99
3. Impove equity & acess to secondary euaention (Forms IV and V).
3.1   Strcam within schools, in accordance with orientation assessment  Secondary                              _      -
to scienc, arts. technical and business programs.             Curriculum
3.2   Improve promotion rates and access between Forms IV and V.     MOES/PSSA        -
3.3    Raise the share of students in state schools gradually, fmm current                                     -             -
20 percent to 30 percent.
4. Expand aces to Higher Secondary Educatin (Form VI lower and
upper).
4.1    Expand enrollment by adding Form Vl to some cxisting "O" level 
schools.
4.2   Improve rates of transition from Form V to Form VI by reforming
SC examination ("O" level).
4.3    Expand capacity and develop economics of scai with selected
schools disciplincs.
S. Improve at aD levels, the physical learniag euvironuseu, and in
partlcular for disadvantaged schools.
5.1   In both public and private "O" level secondary education schools,                   .
add wchool places for Forms 1-111.
5.2   Improve quality and availability of clam oms, laboratories,                          -      -
vwrkshops, etc. in private schools.
IPt'
'0



DRAFT POLICY ACTION PLAN
MOES POLICY AGENDA                                                         IMPLEMENTATION
RESPONSIBLE                        SCHEDULE
AGENCY
92   93    94    95    96       97    9t    99
.    Enhance Qualit, of Learnin un Schools Imeans. content & orocess]
1. Establish a National Cnter for Currculum Resrch and
Dedelopiet (NCCRD). Among its functions:
1.1    Conduct and fiunane studics to:                              ) MOES
a)   Improve curricula covering basic knowledge, and skills,  ) NCCRD
appropriate to need and ability of the pupils.         ) 
b)    Revise Core Curriculum for ForTns 1-111.
c)    Develop curriculum for secondary education (Forms IV-V).
1.2    Organize - jointly with MIE and MES - workshops for teachers to    MOES
ineorportte suggestions and discuss findings and recommendations.   NCCRD
1.3    Curricula enhancements:
a)    Encourage teaching of science and mathematies at primary  MOES                             -
and secondary level.                                   NCCRD
b)    Assess achievement in science and mathematics, of +9 and
+ 13 year olds, by participating in international assessments                 -     -
of education programs.
c)    Provide special incentives to schools that encourage
teaching nd karning of sciene and mathematics: organize                             -
conteds, competitions, and science fairs.
d)    Study teaching of languages at the printary level, with a
view to improve analytical skills and the efficiency with                           _      -
which languages are taught.
e)    Review instructional time available at the primary.
scondary, and higher level (in light of ongoing study on
"time for kaming"); check adequacy of contact hours
tward achieving higher level of skill and a relative
blanko  in all subjecu.
f)    Subject to resource availablility, extend the hours of
schooling, as wll as days of schooling per year.
_o z
0 
'.0



DRAFT POLICY ACTION PLAN
MOES POLICY AGENDA                                                         IMPLEMENTATION
RESPONSIBLE                        SCHEDULE
AGENCY
92   93    94    95    96    97    98    99
1.4    Other
a)    ltdhee inaiomi technoogy and compuer education
with ptiority given to Ponn 1-111 students.
b)    Renore shool lribs; rhabilitate fcdie and
.equNnen; upgrade the libnea.
2. Refem National Ass_mea  Examlmtiom and Testing Proces
2.1    Changing the rote of the CPE grdually, while rdaining its
assessment functions. CPE would be used principally for                                   -
orientation of pupils in the light of an aussmea t of their
capacities.
2.2    Redesign CPE, as crierion-referenced; the final Cor wi1l take
into account the school-based asssmen.
2.3    Defie with NCCRD the ssental learning competecies for the
nine year basic chooling.
2.4    Stngthen profesional expcie and capcity of MES.
2.5    To provide valid diagostic and ascssmen ps.. .
2.6    Reform the SC examination.
x
.                                                                                                            >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



DRAFT POLICY ACT1ON PLAN
MOES POUCY AGENDA                                                          IMPLEMENTATION
RESPONSIBLE                        SCHEDULE
AGENCY
92   93    94    95    96       97    98    99
3. Optisw the Conribution of Teachers to the lemrng Process
3.1    Upgrade systemicaly qualfication of teachers through a       MIE
restretured teacher training program. During initial years,                        
priority would be given for the training of category C teachers.
3.2    Upgrade pedagogical skills and knowledge of teachers of science                     _
and mathmatics.
3.3    To undeake a sudy to enable upgraded teachers to receive their
salary increa and grade promotion automaticaly. Reexamine
the system of entitlement of schools.
3.4    To undertake a study to develop a unifed teacher carmer structurc
to hfcilitate teachers mobility:
ectween differaet schools within the prmary or secondary                                                                       '
sysdan;
'from prinmry to secondary systems; nd
bdween private and public schoob.
3.5    Deploy urplus primary teacher to teach smail remedial cles                              
within the schoob and/or cluster of chools.
3.6    Retran surplus teachers of Asian languages u general purpose
teachers.
3.7   Strngthin professional expertis and capacity of taining                              -                      )
intitioos.
4. Enhane EMfdecy & Sewr Performace
4.1    Among others, and subect to a special tudy interim policy    )
actions to improve efficiency will include:                  )
a)    gmdual reduction of eacum teaching and supportive saff;  ) MOES                             _ - -
b)    avoidance of super speciliation of subject tecwhing, which   )
leads to very smal cass  on optional subjects;         )
c)   avoidance of under utiliztion of spac; and                                                                                    oQ Z
d)   no special sections for repneatrs for form V and VI.                                        -Q  z|
Lo1
0



DRAFT POLICY  ACTION  PLAN
MOES POLICY AGENDA                                                            APMLEMENTATION
RESPONSIBLE                         SCHEDULE
AGENCY
92   93    94    95      96     97    98    99
4.2    Mcrge small prinury schools. Establish more, but smaller, and
efficient-size secondary schools in state and private sectors, with a
population between 500 and 1000. Smaller schools should
encourage more intimate context and feedback between teachers
and pupils, reduce rquirements of additional administration and
non4eaching staff, nd mininize commuting disance and
transportation costs borne by parents.
4.3    Establish a national study team to rualize recommendations on
such matters as: Institution of a Board of Government or Trustees
for each secondary school to advice effectivcly management and
accountability; ensuring absorption of qualified redundant staff by
Board of Governos of the new slate secondary schools, or by
aided private schools.
C. Strenrthen Sector Manmemeut & Institutional Developmnst
1. Improve Institutioua Capaciy of Miit of Edtwat   and Science
[MOMSI
1.1    Establish a National Education Council (NEC) to help and advise  MOES
on monitoring the overall educational growth nd progress of the
system.
1.2    Review structure and provide pmfessiona training (i.e., courses,                                   -
seminars, udy tours abroad and workshops) in the following
are"s:
a)    policy formulation, strategic planning - including analysis
of labor market changes - nd cvaluation;
b)    fuuncial policies, programming nd budgeting;                                                                                        >
c)    administrative and pedagogical pcesonnel tructures n                                                                                Z
management;                                                                                                                     tD X
w
_                                                                    .                    _             _   Eh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



DRAFT POLICY ACTION PLAN
MOES POLICY AGENDA                                                         IMPLEMENTATION
RESPONSIBLE                        SCHEDULE
AGENCY
92   93    94    95    96    97    98    99
1.3   Prmvide capability within NEC to evaluate and monitor:
a)    changes in labor market supply and demand functions, and                            _
b)    overaU growth and progress of the education system.
1.4    Develop a Management Information System [MIS] and,
computerize the enrollments, fiancial and other statistics and data
at ministerial, district and institutional levels.
1.5    Decentralize decisions: strengthen local PTAs and Regional
Education Centers; facilitate the creation of Regional Advisory
Councilsl. Use them to:
a)    help develop supportive school supervision in primary and
secondary schools,
b)    encourage in-service teacher training and effective
curriculum adaptation, and
C)    nurture school principal's greater autonomy, kadership,
accountability, and control functions.
1.6   Introduce a redefried supportive management system for primary  MOES/PSSA
and wcondary schools.
2. Incre  Efrfftvesess of iigber Educaton
2.1    Modify nd srengthen the Tertiary Education Commission (TEC)
to:
a)    strengthen policy formation, planning and coordination of  TEC
higher education institutions.
b)   review the proposals and channel a1 the public fmds for
higher education;
/ Tz
0
~/This regional 1Ayer will not transform itself into an administrative and management layer.



DRAFT POLICY ACTION PLAN
MOES POUCY AGENDA                                                         IMPLEMENTATION
RESPONSIBLE                        SCHEDULE
AGENCY
92   93    94    95    96    97    9S    99
c)    deveop coherent policies for a long-rnge development of
tertiary education and investment plans;
d)    uWlyze, appiove, and finunce development projets;                                   t
e)    monitor aademnic  andards, accreditation, and modularity;
I)   suppot research, the development of information services,
and libraries;
g)   review and help with plan for systematic facuky and staff
2.2   In relation with the Universky of Mauritius, MIE, MCA, nd
MGI, the foLowing actions arm expected:
a)    an expansion of undergrduate studies and of its enrollment
capaciy;
b)   the dcfinkion and design of continuing education coures;
c)   the cstablishmnt of a Depamnt of Extra-Mual studies
[at UoMI; and
d)   the cosolidation of f cuky and saff deveopmnt.
3. Improve Effelivemess of Private Edmeatiom
3.1   Impove calibn of intake in private chools by modifying the    PSSA
computerized seection ystem.
3.2    Review Comprehensive Grnt fonnula to impnpve the system of
bientad  grnts to the private sector:
a)   to increae number of qualified tewahen and upgade aD
cegory "C" tche,n;
b)   to enouragc PTAs or Board of Governor's cration with                         -
mageanent% adminisrativo ad financial audbing
authority; aNd
0t
.0



DRAFT POLICY ACl'lON PLAN
MOES POLICY AGENDA                                 |IPLEMENTrATION
RESPONSIBLE                          SCHEDULE
AGENCY
92   93    94      95     96     97     91    99
c)    bring up to a minimun dandard the infrastnctum Z/and_
3.3    Maintain the prat policy of alowing fee paying private primary
and second_ y schools, fuanced entimely by the parents ad private                       _ 
inveslog.
V'I
OQIB
0
/S.A. .s*ulrd piwste o, houle. where phyuca irnprovcrnust are o(poesble. diould be closed.






ANNEX 4: MAURMTUS: EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY MONr CRoNG INDICATORS
Baw_line Daft    1993-94       1994-95      1995-96      1996-97      1997-91     cau |ume
uly Im
June 1993
A. WREASM ACCes                     m rR  ery
1.  eiais Ne Yin. of Basic PAueaia
1.1 Inm   Public Secary School Placea                                                                   17,720         18,320       l9200        21,000       23.150       26,1W
1.2 Icee PrivatSecaoay School PlceA                                                                    67,870         69,940        71,310       72,350       72,930       73,000
.- :.-"'' .''''' .  .   '-': :' '".............   ...     :',;.: ."'
2. Icreas e       SedwS        SS) 1d       P                                                        l
2.1 No. of mu mc      Iadboeaeia i                                                                 1 3s        0 1S so
2.2 No. d aewLirc in PSS                                                                            _
~~~~  I          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   L~
3. Support EmIh  f_    Tetwy Educioz
3.1 Pae wlmoid i Degrve Program i0.                                                                                      42           42          4U            47           s
3.2 MS/Ph.D.                                                                                             25              25           26           23           31            33
3.3 Post andume Pragr awalIo.                                                                             so             75           100          150          200          250
LA
3. IfBROVQ          OUAL frY   E                                                                        IFPICIINCY
4. Upgruade- T en                                                                                   I                                                       l                                1
4.1 P t of QAlified Primay Teahr                                                                          35             35           40     |    45            so0           355          60
42 Redce Pr   dt Secoaluy teachen esegared     CC)                                                        46             40           35           30           25           20 
4.3 G    s of Tea      od  d in CCE                                                                   mpleup          STD 2        STD3    |  STD&6  |               II      m II
. . . . .. .-.-..-
5. Reform Ndo_mI ExaminI io.
5.1 S%ofpp3ad   edin CPE                                                                                 60             65           a            72            75           so
5.2 % of ppil paed in SC                                                                                 52             54                        61           63            65
5.3 S poPibsp_d inHSC                                                                                    40             42           44U          46           49            so0 
5.4 IAEP Socave in 34db ad Science for +9, ned +13 yew OWLd
6. . . .a. . . .i. . .
I...................1..____...I.L....L.
6.R_raosie Coik
6.1 Prepniontidivc_o-ticErS_               eadTobasSlouyBs dBcRk         E  |ti                             20       |     22      |     24     |     26    |      28     |      0 
62 Pea wled in  oaday Sciewe nd Tecnology                                                                20      |      22 |.24                   26    2|             |    30
0l



C. 7.  lmmgIbe.aug  Maaql
7.1 P,otessiaudI D'dapme of Kay SOalo Offica as ElIS. bapocice. Pigrm  mafgemcn.                        0              1            3           6      |                  10
Ragioeu Educuia deliwy pcogu  (10 parca  of ceaul MMfl)
7    P      (Resna Hddnw  pwika "is wko  fo15o 6aid*0I                                                                             35     |     65           Is*         100     l
I,p..                                                                                                                                                         a.                            ^ ;;^z<;
ov::: ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    o
09



57  -                                                ANNEX  5
COMPOSMON AND RSTIMAThD COSTS OF ESIP                                                     Page I of 2
Lotus MK3                                   (IM  - 2000)
(la MiUlIo  Rs)
Fud        _         Currency
Re uirements                Components
Project                                             Technical
lltie of Prject                                 Value  Local   Foreign   Construction  Equipment Assisance
1. Pre-ftlmary&Primary Eduvaeion
1. * Upaagtbet.eac gskflsbot                   ADB/    27        9        18           18           5          4
pimary school teachers                    IBRD/   (-6)
GOM
2. * Ekteagom and renovation of primary        GOM/    36        10       26           33           3
schods (25 schob)                         IBRD
3. * Costuuetio a PrimaryScbods                GOMI    63        18       45           60           3          _
(6 schools)                                IBRD
4. * Pro-Primary Education (100 shods)          0OM       4      3         1           3            1
...........               130
(-6)
11. Seoadary Education
5. * Upgbadag thteacngskillsot                 ADB/
seory schoo teachers                       GOM/    23        8        15           12           7          4
IBRD    (-4)
6. * Etteadom &reovadonotSsateSsc.             ADB/    99        28        71          70           22          7
Schods (5 scbools)                        GOM/  (-29)
IBRD/
USAID
7. * Cooasruconof fivenwStteaSec.              GOM/   310    100          210          250          35          25
Scbools                                    IBRD
S. * Upgradng of private secondary swbools     GOM/    100    20           80          100           -          -
(85 schools) DBM Loas Facility             IBRD   (-25)
9. Epando of Lycee Polytedu.ic                FRENCF   87        33        54          20           S0          17
TA
10. Promodo. ofcomputw educton                  ADB       35      10       25           12          20           3
11. Desig tecamologrand desip                    ADB      40      5        35           12          22           6
commeumcmioa
12. Str.gthbeiag the teacing  soidenc           ADB       40      -        40           -           40          -
13. Constrmdon 1 Private Sec. Schools            0OM      105     25       80           80          24           1
14. * Private Educadon Equipment                IBRD      80      -        80                       80          -
(25 schools)
3gRtO1AL                               919
(-58)
111 TeIwy Education
15. * DevelopmentotTertiaryEduvction           INDIA/   597    127         470         324          243         30
GOM/  (-182)
IBRD
16. D.veloeut of distane eduetioc               ADB       115    22        93           40           65         10
(-42)
712
(-224 _            -



ANNEX 5
-  58  -                                                Page2 of 2
TABLE 5.1: COMPOSITION AND ESTIMATED COSTS OF ESIP
(1992 - 2000)
(In Million Rs)
Funded                Currency
by               Re uirements                  Components
Project                                               Technical
Title of Project                                  Value  Local   Foreign   Construction  Equipment  Assistance
IV. Other
17.  Development of MES (Exams)                  GOM        30      4        26            3            10          17
18. Maintenance Unit                             ADB        14      -        14            -            11          3
19. ' Est. of a National Inspectorate            GOM/    14         -        14            -            2           12
IBRD
20. Development of Education in Rodrigues         GOM       114     32        82           74           30          10
& Agalega
21. Special Education                             GOM        15     10        5             7            7           1
22.  Teaching Aids & Ubraries                    GOM/    50         25        25           15           35           -
IBRD
23. ' Regional Education Centers                 GOM/    30          8        22           25            5           -
(8 Ext. + 2 New)                            IBRD
24.  Program Management (MOES)                   GOM/    20          0        20            -            6          14
IBRD
25. Pre-Vocational Centers (10)                   GOM       60      15        45           50           10           -
26. Science Center                                GOM       60      11        49           35           22           3
SUB TOTAL                                407
TOTAL                                             2168    523       1645         1243          758         167
-        1___(-288) _
Note: (a) (-288) = Amount expended by June 1993
(b) The Institute of Technologywould be considered as a possible addition to the ESIP at the time of the Mid Term Review.
(c) Figures do not include possible escalation in prices or price and physical contingencies.
*   In CIP (1993 - 98)



- 59 -                                               ANNEX 6
COMPOSMTION AND COSTS OF CIP
(JULY 1993 - JUNE 1998) (IN MILLON RUPEES)
(Figures shown are at December 1992 and do not include escalaton and price and physical contingencies)
PROGRAM                                    -ESTIlATED COSTS-                          COMPOSITION OF COSTS
TOTAL    LOCAL           FOREIGN           CONSTR.  EQUIP. TA/TRNG
A. INCREASING ACCESS AND PROMOTING
EQUITY
1.              PRIMARY:
Rehab and Reno (2)                  36         10                26               33          3         0
New Const (3)                       63         18                45               60           3        0
2.              STATE SECONDARY:
Rehab and Reno (6)                  70         19                51               41          22        7
New Const (7)                      310         100               210             250          35        25
3.              PRIVATE SECONDARY:
Rehab and Reno (8)                  75         20                55               75          0         0
Equipment (14)                      80          0                80                0          80        0
4.              TERTIARY:
UOMIMIE (15)                       248         47                201             155          85        8
SUB TOTAL                          882        214                668             614         228        40
B. IMPROVING QUALITY
1.              Reform Assessment/
Tests/Exams (17)                    30          4                26                3          10        17
2.              Teacher Training
(MIE/Inspect) (115)                 40         14                26               20          12        8
3.              Teaching Aids
Libraies (22)                       50         25                25               15          35        0
SUB TOTAL                          120         43                77               38          57        25
C. STRENGTHENING SECTOR MANAGEMENT
1.              Management (24)                     20          0                 20               0           6        14
2.              National Inspectorate (19)           14          0                14               0           2        12
3.              Regional Education
Centers (23)                        30          8                22               25          5         0
4.              TEC (1S)                             2           0                 2               0           0         2
SUB TOTAL                           66          8                58               25          13        28
TOTAL                              1068       265                803             677         298        93
USS million                        66.8       16.6              50.2             42.4        18.6      5.8
USS million and contineencies USS788 million
Note: (2) = ESIP number






- 61 -
_                       _Cn3              ___l  _ _
51N0WEC1VENESSCIIOSV                      X   X
REVIEW BRIEP FOR PRIMARY CROOLS       XX
. REVIEW &AGREE WITH MRD SECONDARY
SCHOOL SHEDULESIREQUIR13m              XX
. PNLIMCO3SFE5Th4AlESFOR A &S#            XX
. SELCTION OPARCHIMICI'SMOUXLTANIS          XX
913NDW o CONlTACTS POR DESIGN              XX
. SURVEY SrTiB& JUILDINOS                    XX
PREPARATION OP DESINBID DOafMS               XX
. BIDDD4GANDEVAWAIION                          XX
I NID AWARD SUB7Urr10 TO ORD                    X0
. CONSTRUCTION CONTACTS 13NATURE                  XX
. CONSTRUCllON8PHAS
(i) PRIMARY: REHAB & RENO.          -      0dJ     Ull      a0     GA       e        o40   NBP  LOCAL PROCMURES
NEW ONSTRUCION            -       am      LU3     L3      L40     41   4to       NB'   WHCH CONFORM
(b) SECONDARY: REHAB REND           -       LS      154     U      U4       u       la    NBP  Wm  MD LCB
PROCEDURES
NEW CONSMRUCIlO    _              0.11    312    212      40      US     IL40    ICB
(e) PRIVATE REHAB A RENOL           -      a"      I"      L25    L34    134    S.        NBP
(d)TERTIARY: UOM.btl                -       1.7     187     W       .40            IL40    NW
(a) REalONALED.CENTERS              -       0       L       0m     0.se   0e.40    Lie    NBW
(M TEACH3 AIDS  1COMPUTrRS          -       U       019     0      046    0.4      L10    NBP
(g) MINORWORKS                      -       Wv      07      0.25    U       0.     LJ0    NBP
. PREPARE STANDARD BID DOCLENTS        X
. CRD APPROVAL PROCEDLJRES  DOCT          XX
. CONSTRUCTIONPHASE. IIRD:           -        .      a"     9"    L42        142    4.7    ICB
* CONSTRUCON PHASE. GO)M:            -       532     .1t    t19    t9e      1.65    45.3  XCNE/ NEW CONST. STATE
GOODS,                                                                                      LCB  SECONDARY - ICB
. PREPARE STANDARD BID DOCUENT         XX
R REVIEW BY 3RD                           XX
. REPARE OTHER BID DOCU%ENT               XX
RVIEW BY IRD                              XX
. BiDDING & EVALUATION                      XX
. REVEW BY 3RD                               XX
. CONrRACTSSSIGNATURE                         XX
EQUlPMENTrFURNrURB               -       11      L91    LS7    3.11    3J0    12.7  ICILCB
TEACHNAIDS)COMPU18RS             -       L5      L0      Lue     070    0600    4.20  ICB/LCB
BOOKI.ARNNO MATERLS                              LSD    LOU     LOO    LOD    S.0    ICB
. GOODS PHASE. IRD:   _2                             23      22     232     252    12.8
. GOODS PHASE. GOM:                          149     L9      L3S    2.3     2.      9.3
LOVTORSSHORTLSTORAP?ROVAL
D BID AWARD SU%MflT1D TO 3RD              XX
. CONTRACTS REVIEWED BY 3RD               XX
. CONTRACTSSIONATURE                       XX
ITEKIES                          _      0.30    0.II    U0      0.0      U              0 TH
TBCHICAL ASSISTANCE                      0.   U4         0.      0eJ     09  3JD         amH
TRAIINNG                          _      0.20    0.3    0.20             U       0       m
DESIN & SUPERVISION                      0       LU      0.A0    LUD   04        2.40    m
. CONSULTANCTS PHASE. RD:           0_54    054              54    0.54     0.i4 
. CONSULTANCIPS PHASE. 0OGt                 GA       on     an      022     GA      4.10
IOlBRATOPERAOS
. OPERATION A MXAINTENANCE                000ITOOO                                  -H
NO1h TOTALS MAY NOTADD UPDUBTOROUNI)M.






- 63 -                                                ANNEX 8
SUPERVISION PLAN
EBRD FY &                     ACTIVITY AND FOCUS                               SKILL               STAFF
APPROX.                                                                  REQUIREMENTS            WEEKS
DATES
FY 93             Preparation for and implementation of project launch   Educator                      6
May 93            workshop:                                              Program Managemient
Specialist
The objective is for all key actors to understand the  Civil
linkages of Policy Action Plan, with the varioua parts of    WorkslProcurementl
the project (education, physical, financial and        Disbursement Specialists
nmanagerial) and their inter-relationships. 
FY 94 (YR 1)      Supervision Mission:                                   Educator                      4
Nov 93                                                                  University Management
Review of progress on all components of the project,  Expert
including Policy Framework, physical performance, and
project management. Narrow focus on one or two
specific issues, for example, (1) finalization of training
plans; (2) progress on Tertiary Education Development
Plan.
May 94            First Joint Annual Review:                             Educator                       8
Program Management
Review progress of past year, and prepare plans for the  Specialist
next year, in light of the Tertiary Education         Policy Advisor
Development Plan, Restructured Teacher Training Plan,
Construction of New Secondary Schools, Programs for
Private Secondary Schools, and Review of
Comprehensive Grant Formula.
Review progress with respect to sKff training programs,
TORs for consultants and studies, budgetary allocations,
procurement of goods and services and donors
coordination.
FY 94 (YR 2)
May 95            Supervision Mission.                                  Same as Oct 93 mission.         4
Second Joint Annual and Mid-term Review.              Same as First Annual           8
Review plus a University
Comprehensive review of project inputs, operations and  Management Specialist
outcomes, and restructure project, if necessary, to
include Institute of Technology.
FY 96 (YR 3)
Nov 95            Supervision Mission.                                   Same as Oct 93 mission.       4
May 96            Third Joint Annual Review.                             Same as First Joint            8
Annual Review.
FY 97 (YR 4)
Nov 96            Supervision Mission.                                   Same as above.                 4
May 97            Fourth Joint Annual Review.                            Same as above                  S
FY 98
Nov 97            Supervision Mission.                                  Same as above.                 4
May 98            Project Completion Mission.                           To be determined.              8






ANNEX 9
- 65 -                                              Page 1 of 2
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCURIMENT ARRANGEMENT
(USS mililon equivalent)
PROJECT ELEMENT                        PROCUREMENT METHOD                        N3F           TOTAL
COST
ICs    LCB               OTHER
1.  WORKS
A.  Primary:
Rehab. & Reno.                                                                         2.4              2.4
New Consruction                                                                        4.4             4.4
__ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ ___ __ _ __ __   __ __ _ __ __ _(-)     (-)
B.   Secondary:
Rehab. & Reno.                                                                         3.1             3.1
New Constbuction                       18.4            ---13.4
New  Conion _____________________    (4.7)                                                             (4.7)
C.   Privae Secondary: 
Rehab. & Reno.                          -              -               -                       5.5    5.5
D.  Teitiary                                  -              -               -              11.4            11.4
UoM/MIE                                                                                (-)             (-)
B.   Regional Educational Cete                -              -               -               1.9             1.9
_____________________________  ________   __________(-)                               (-)
P.   Renovation to Libries                    -              -               -               1.11.
G.  Minor Workl                               -              -               -               1.8             1.8
__ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __   _ _ __ _ __ _   _ __ _ __ _ __ _(-)  (-)
Sub-Total                     134IA                                          31.6            (4OS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (4.7)  __ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _()(4.7)
2.  GOODS
A.   Equipment & Furniture                   11.3           0.7              0.2              -             12.7
(9.6)         (0.5)            (0.1)                          (10.2)
B.   Teaching Aids & Computers                1.7                            0.2             2.3             4.2
(1.2)        _                 (0.1)           (-)             (1.3)
C.   Boolk & Leaning Meralt"                                                 5.0             -               5.0
(1.1)                           (1.1)



ANNEX 9
-  66 -                                        Page 2 of 2
PROJECT ELEMENT                    PROCUREMENT METHOD                     NBF          TOTAL
_________               ~COST
ICB        LCB         OTHER
Sub-Total                  13.5          0.7             S.4            2.3          21.9
(10.8)        (0.5)          (1.3)          (-)           (12.6)
3.   CONSULTANCIES
A.  Studies                               -            -              0.6            -              0.6
(0.6)                        (0.6)
B.  Technical Assistanc                   -            -              3.2            -              3.2
_______________________________   _ _ _ _ _ _       ~~(1.5)  _ _  _ _  _          (1.5)
C.  Training                              -            -              0.6            -              0.6
(0.6)                        (0.6)
D.  Design & Supervision                  -            -              2.4            -              2.4
Sub-Total                    -            -             6.8             -             6.8
(2.7)                        (2.7)
TOTAL                      31.9           0.7          12.2           33.9           78.7
.       .__ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _   (15.5)  (0.5)  (4.0)   (-)          (20.0)
Note: (a) NBF = Not Bank Financed.
(b) Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by the Bank.



- 67 -                                ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS AND DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
IBRD                Disbursements       Cumulative      Project Profile     Country
Fiscal Year           (USS million)      Disbursements         (%)             Profile
(USS million)                          (%)
FY 1994
Sep. 30, 1993                          0                 0                 0               0
Dec. 31, 1993                          0                 0                 0               0
Mar. 31, 1994                          0.5                0.5              2.5              3.0
June 30, 1994                          0.5                1.0              5.0              6.0
FY 1995
Sep. 30, 1994                          1.0               2.0              10.0             10.0
Dec. 31, 1994                          1.0               3.0              15.0             14.0
Mar. 31, 1995                          1.0               4.0              20.0             18.0
June 30, 1995                          1.0               5.0              25.0            22.0
FY 1996
Sep. 30, 1995                          1.0               6.0              30.0            28.0
Dec. 31, 1995                          1.0               7.0              35.0             34.0
Mar. 31, 1996                          1.0               8.0              40.0             40.0
June 30, 1996                          1.0               9.0              45.0             46.0
FY 1997
Sep. 30, 1996                          1.0              10.0              50.0            50.0
Dec. 31, 1996                          1.0               11.0             55.0            54.0
Mar. 31, 1997                          1.0              12.0              60.0             58.0
June 30, 1997                          1.0               13.0             65.0             62.0
FY 1998
Sep. 30, 1997                          1.0              14.0              70.0            68.0
Dec. 31, 1997                          1.0               15.0             75.0            74.0
Mar. 31, 1998                          1.0               16.0             80.0             80.0
June 30, 1998                          1.0               17.0             85.0             86.0
FY 1999
Sep. 30, 1998                          0.5              17.5              87.5             90.0
Dec. 31, 1998                          0.5               18.0             90.0             94.0
Mar. 31, 1999                          0.5              18.5              92.5            96.0
June 30, 1999                          0.5               19.0             95.0             98.0
FY 2000
Sep. 30, 1999                          0.5               19.5             97.5             99.0
Dec. 31, 1999                          0.5              20.0             100.0            100.0
PROJECT COMPLETION DATE:
PROJECT CLOSING DATE:
ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS
(in US $ million)
IBRD FY            94               95             96               97              98
Annual             3.1             4.0             4.3              4.3             4.3
Cumulative         3.1             7.1            11.4             15.7            20.0






ANNEX 11
- 69-                              Page 1 of 1
GUIDELINES FOR THE ALLOCATION OF IBRD LOAN PROCEEDS
IBRD loan funds would be used to contribute to the implementation of the Core
Investment Progam (CIP), as specified in paras 3.5 and 3.6 and Annex 6 of the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR). Disbursement of IBRD loan funds would be made with respect to the construction
of state secondary schools, equipment for state and private secondary schools, equipment,
technical assistance and training for the University of Mauritius, for quality improvements to the
education system, and for improvements in sector management, all in accordance with the
relevant descriptions in Chapter III of the SAR. Applicable disbursement percentages and
expenditure ceilings are as provided in the following table:
Use of IBRD Loan Funds
Category              Cost Estimate      Disbursement       IBRD Loan
CIP (million Rs.)   (percent/amount)      Fund
(US$ million)
1. Equipment Private S.S.             80         75%       60m                 3.7
2. Equipment State S.S.               35         75%        26m                 1.6
3. Construction State S.S.           250         30%       75m                 4.7
4. Equipment UoM                      85         75%        64m                4.0
5. TA/Training/Studies UoM            10         70%        7m                 0.5
6. Equipment Quality Improvements     57         75%        43m                2.6
7. TA/Training Qual Improvements      25         70%        18m                1.1
8. Equipment Sector Management        13         75%       lOm                 0.6
9. TA/Training Sector Management      28         70%       20m                 1.2
Total IBRD Disbursenents                                                     20.0
Actual expenditures for which IBRD reimbursement is requested will not deviate more
than 10 percent from the allocations indicated in the table above. Any changes in the use of loan
funds (category and/or ceiling of disbursement) will normally be discussed and agreed between
the Bank and the Government during the joint annual reviews of project implementation. To
ensure the timely disbursement of IBRD loan funds, withdrawal applications would be submitted
to the Bank without undue delay, in accordance with the provisions of the loan agreement.






ANNEX 12
-  71-                                                  Page  1 of  2
INDICATIVE BUDGETPROVISIONS
BY GOVERNMENT OF MAURInUS FY93-FY94 (RL M.)
CIP P_ROV                                            EC    NEEDRO          NET      FY M  FY3    3A-9NCE
VALE             FROM FY93  93-94    93    194    AFTER JULY 95
A. INCREASING ACCESS AND PROMOTING EQUITY:
1. PRIMARY
REHAB. & RENO.                                                    36.0             36.0      20.0  10.0    10.0            16.0
NEW CONST.                                                        63.0             63.0      18.0   9.0      9.0           45.0
2. STATE SECONDARY
REHAB. & RENO.                                                    99.0             70.0      70.0  28.0    42.0             0.0
NEW CONST.                                                       310.0            310.0      67.0   5.0    62.0           243.0
3. PRIVATE SECONDARY
REHAB. & RENO.                                                   100.0             75.0     25.0  10.0    15.0             50.0
EQUIPMENT                                                         80.0             80.0      40.0  25.0    15.0            40.0
4. TERTIARY
UOM/MIE                                                          55&0              248.0     98.0  49.0    49.0           150.0
SUBTC>TAL~                                 -ZO 1..  i -.- 033&0  136.0   202.0                                  5
B. IMPROVINGQUALITY
1. REFORM ASSESSMENT                                                30.0             30.0      16.0   7.0      9.0           14.0
2. TEACHER TRAINING                                                 50.0             40.0      30.0  15.0    15.0            10.0
3. TEACH.AIDS/LIBRARIES                                             50.0             50.0      18.0    8o    10.0            32.0
SU                . .         :- : :       - .  :-:- .0                  .         04.0    0.0 :   4.  : -   :     .
C STRENGTHENING SECTOR MANAGEMENT
1. MANAGEMENT                                                       20.0             20.0       9.0   4.0      5.0           11.0
2. NAT. INSPECTORATE                                                14.0             14.0       6.0   2.5      3.5            8.0
3. REGIONALEDUCATTONAL CENTERS                                      30.0             30.0       9.0   0.0      9.0           21.0
4. TEC                                                               2.0              2.0       2.0   1.0      1.0            0.0
SUBMTOT        :.:     - -  -   -:       - - -L: -.  - 6.0          -     6.0  2: 6   :.- J   -.  4S0 :: .           -
TOTALS                                                              1442.0           1068.0    428.0  173.5  254.5            640.0
D. FUNDING
(a) PSIP ALLOCATION                                                                                  255.0   361.0
(b) IlEMS IN PSIP BUT NOT IN CIP                                                                     118.0   140.0
(c) LESS LYCEE                                                                                       -20.0  -26.0
(d) PLUS CIP                                                                                         173.5  254.5
(e) SUB TOTAL                                                                                        271.5   368.5
(f) OVER BUDGET ALLOCATION (a-e)                                                                    -16.5   -7.5
Note:
1) The 1993 over budget of Rs 16.5m can be absorbed in the PSIP as a budget allocation of Rs 51.0m (PSIP) wil only require Rs 5.0m in 1993;
there will be a surplus of Rs 29.5m for that year. Some of this surplus will be needed (or cost escalation on aU componentL
2) The 1994 over budpt allocation of Ri. 7.5m would be adjused against the current allocation of the PSIP of Rs. 51.0m for the 1994 budgtt, and the
detailed cost estimates (to be completed prior to negotiation) and time frames for completion of the State Secondary Schools dipped to include
Rs 7.5m plus possible escalation.



-  72  -                                       ANNEX  12
Page  2 of 2
DETAILED NDICAnVE DUDGET PROVISIONS - CI? Y93  FrY4 (Ka U)
a     _P__                    T                FY        _ I         .            FY -
93-941              93       _              _          94
A. ACCESS & EQUITY                     I CONST.  EQUIP. T.A.  TOTAL  CONST. EQUIP. T.A.  TOTAL
1. PRIMARY:
REHAB. & RENO.                 20.0      9.6      0.4     0.0    10.0       9.6      0.4     0.0    10.0
NEW CONST.                     18.0      8.5      0.5     0.0      9.0      8.5      0.5     0.0      9.0
2. STATE SECONDARY:
REHAB. & RENO.                 70.0     16.4      88      2.8   28.0       24.6     13.2     4.2    42.0
NEW CONST.                     67.0      0.0      0.0      5.0     5.0     50.0      7.0      5.0    62.0
3. PRIVATE SECONDARY:
REHAB. & RENO.                 25.0     10.0      0.0     0.0    10.0      15.0      0.0     0.0    15.0
EQUIPMENT                      40.0      0.0     25.0      0O    25.0       0.0      15.0    0.0    15.0
4. TERTIARY:
UOM/MIE                        98.0     30.0      18O      1.0   49.0      30.0      18.0     1.0   49.0
SUBTDTAL             338.0     74.5      52.7     &8   136.0    137.7       54.1    10.2  202.0
B. IMPROVING QUAUTY
1. REFORM ASSESSMENT            16.0      1.0      2.0     4.0     7.0       2.0      3.0     4.0     9.0
2. TEACHER TRAINING             30.0     10.0       3.0     2.0    15.0     10.0       3.0     2.0    15.0
3. TEACHER AIDSAJBRARIE   180             3.0      5.0     0.0     8.0       3.0      7.0     0.0    10.0
SUBTOTAL. 4           64.0      14.0     10.0     6.0   30.0      15.0      13.0     6.0    34.0
C STRENGTH. MANAGEMENT
1. MANAGEMENT                    9.0      0.0      1.0     3.0    4.0        0.0      2.0     3.0     5.0
2. NAT. INSPECTORAE              6.0      0.0      0.5      2.0     25       0O       0.5      3.0     3.5
3. REG. ED. CENTERS              9.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       8.0      1.0    0.0       9.0
4. TEC.                          2.0      0.0      0.0      1.0     1.0      0.0      0.0      1.0     1.0
SUtioiA               26.0      0.0       1.5     6.0    7.5       8.0       3.5     7.0    18.5
4IO         S      =4.2    8         M  5=i".s   1    I =70.6 25.5 1



- 73 -                                              ANNEX 13
PRIVATE SECONDARY SCHOOLS AUTHORITY                                   Page 1 of 5
SOROOLS PROPOSING TO IMPROVE FACILMTES
Jam.c of diool            I                                         eI LnOR)"Mnt Prooowd
1 Aleemiah (B & O)                            .      Complete rd foor, oostruct gymnAsum
2. Bhujomrry (B)                                     E Equipment and materials; improve infrstructure; asphalts yard
Port Louis                                         ibrary books.
3. Bhujohany (O)                  .                  Supply Eqcuipmnt
Port Loui.
4. BPS (0)                                           Now seond floor for specalist rooms; (laboratorisu, computer,
Beau Bmin                                         r,mnsium, etc.)
I Colee do la Comine (B)                      .      Extend buikling
6. S Esrit (B)                                       Furniture; labortory equipment, oompute, library books
Qumre Born.
7. Cosmopolitan (B)                           .      Equipment (aboratory, library and sports)
Plains do Papyue
8 Eden (B)                                           Repairs and maintenanoe; sports quipment and clanroom
Roe Hill                                          materialL
9. Hindu Girls (0)                            .      Laboratory and specialized room equipment; compete
Cureipe Road                                      Vymnasium.
10 Imperial (B)                    .                 Construct Vgmneium; habomtory, sporb and lbrary equipment
Forswt Side
IL Ismic Cult (B)                             .      Fumiture; library books; science laboratories; computer;
Port Louis                                        arts & craft.
12 London (3  G0)                 .                  Extend buikling (8 clata/ oomputer); inprove rereational area
Port Louis
D. Loreto (0)                                 *      Construct gymnasium
Curapipa
14. Loeto (0)                                 S      Computer; librafy books, furniture staff room
Mahebwgs
LL Loreto (0)                                 .      New bualding; oomputews; bookr; Senrsl maintenanc
Port Loui
16. Loreto (0)                                .      2-3 new specialist rooms; ymnanium; computen;
Qutre BoAn                                        fumniture.
17. Loreto (0)                                '      Extensiona and repairs; improve recreational facilities
Rose Hill
18 Mauritius (B)                              a      Information not available
Cur4pips Roatd
19. Modem (B a O)                             .      Labormtory ard specialist room equipment; additional floor,
Cenrllq                                           audio & computer rooma.
20. New BDo (B)                                      Specialist room  a:nd Vnnmiuum; eqipment f61miture; computer
RoseHill
2L Notre Dam  ()                                     Construct additional floor for computer studia; eqipments;
Curpie Rod                                        computerL
22 Pre ma(B)                                  .      LibraryAaboratory equipmentx & aspies
Cwepip Road
a. Pro BL Biao      o (B                             Equipment; library bools; teaohin aid.



- 74 -                                                ANNEX 13
PRIVATE SECONDARY SCHOOLS AUTHORITY                                   Page 2 of 5
SCHOOLS PROPOSING TO IMPROVE FACILITES
Name of School             mRente        Owned              Imraoovement Proposed
24. Prot B. Biroondoyal (G)                          Equipment; library books; renovatiorn
Central Flacq
25. Rodrigues (B & 0)                         .      Laboralory ard sports equipment; library boobs.
Port Mathurin
26. St. Andrew (B & G)             .                 Information not available
Roae Hill
27. St. Josepha (B)                           .      Equipment; library books; oomputers
Curepipe
28. St. Marys                                        New construction (4 clan, PE department and canteen)
Rose Hill
29. St. Bartholornew's (B & G)     .                 Sprbt equipment; library books; furniture
Port Louis
30. Adventist (B & 0)              .                 New construction (4 class, specialist rooms, canteen, sanitary
Phoenix                                           facilities).
31. Alpha (B & 0)                  ;                 General maintenance; specialist equipment; library boobm
Port Louis
32. Ambassador (B & G)                               Repairs and maintenance; laboratory, library and sports
Curepipe                                          equipment.
33. Bradley (B& G)                                   Neow construction (2 clars, 2 laboratories)
Long Mauntain
34. Byron (B & 0)                             .      Extend buildings for 2 pecialist rooms; improve computer
Central Flacq                                     rooraml ports facilities.
35 Coalege des Villes Soeurg (0)   .                 Equipment; library and classroom furnniture
Beau Barrin
36 College Ideal (B & G)                      .      Equipment; books; furniture
Riviere du Rampart
37. Cosmopolitan (0)                          .      Laboratory, library and sporta equiprnent
Plaine des Papayeas
38. Curepipe (B)                              .      Sundry equipments
Curepipe Road
39. Darwin (B & G)                 .                 Laboratory and library equipment
Central Flacq                2 dept      1 dept
40. DA.V. (B & G)                             .      Add third floor for pecialist rooms; computers
Port Louis
41. Eden (B & G)                   .                 Repairs & maintenance; sports equipment; claasroom
Curepipe                     2 dept      1 dept   materialL
42. Eden (B)                                         Repirs & maintenance; sport equipment; clasrroom
Port Louis                                        Materials
43. Eden (G)                                         Repirs & maintenance; sports equipment; classroom
Port Louis                                        materialL
44. Eden (0)                                         Repairs & maintenance; sport equipment; classroom
Rose Hill                    1 dept      1 dept   materialL
41. Friendship (B)                 .                 Extend building under ORSEC plan; set-up 9 cormputer
Goodlands                    1 deot    I  dept  I rooams and 1 grakhic room.



- 75 -                                               ANNEX 13
PRIVATE SECONDARY SCHOOLS AUTHORITY                                  Page 3 of 5
SCHOOLS PROPOSING TO IMPROVE FACILITIES
Name of School              Rented      Owned              Imorovement Proaosed
46. Fneandshp (G)                                   Laboratory and library equipment; computen and audio visual
Goodlands
47. Grand Bois College (B & G)                      Laboratory/office equipment; library books
Crand Bois
4& Hamilton (B & G)                                 Laboratory, sports, library and office equipmnent
M4ahebourg
49. International (B & G)                    .      Library books; labortory and sports equipment
Triolet
5O Islamic (B)                                     New construction; furniture; equipment; library boobz
Belie Rose
51. Keats (B & 0)                 .                 Completion of additional claaroorns libray books; furniture
Chenin Grenier
52 Ornitted
5. Le Lycee Mauricien (B   G 0)                     General repairs; library, laboratory and office equipment;
Phoenix                                           clawroom mrniture.
54. Loreto (G)                                      Improvement of existing facilities
St. Pierre
55. Lycee de Beau Bain (G)                          Library, laboratory and sports equipment; ciarroom
Beau Bassin                                       furniture.
56. Macmillan (B & 0)             .                 New equipment and furniture; library books
Mahebourg
57. Macrmillan (B & G)            .                 New construction for gymnasiun and 2 additional
Riviere des Angui e,s                            clarrooms.
A  Madad UlI Islam (G)                              E Equipment for pecial rooms; computers
Port Louis
59. Marechal & Le Chou (B & 0                .       Information not available
Rodrigues
60. Mauritius (0)                                    Information not available
Curepipe Road
61. Mayflover (B & G)                        .       Improve infrastructure (computer & home economica);
Brise Verdiere                                    ibrary books; equipment.
62. Merton (B & 0)                                  F Furniture and oomputers
Pamnplemousses
63. Musim Girls (G)                          .      Two additional floors; equipment; library books
Port Louis
64. Nelson (B & G)                                  Btensions to oomputer, administration and libraqr furniture;
St. Pierre                                        painting.
65 New Devton (B & G)                        .      New fourth floor to be added, library and laboratory equipments
Beau Borin
66. New Educational (B & G)                          Information not available
Riviere Seche
67. New Secondary (B & G)                           Laboratory, sports and art room equipment; library books
Montajne Blanche



- 76 -                                              ANNEX 13
PRIVATE SECONDARY SCHOOLS AUTHORitY                                 Pop 4.of
SCHOOLS PROPOSING TO IMPROVE FACLIT
Name of School              R edj       I Owr. d =  -_   I rov nu
. Newton (B & G)                                    Sundry equipraent librry book.
Rbviwe du Anguills
69. Nightingale (B & 0)           .                 Building mainteunce; lbm  bock.; o   _qmpef  firitue
Surinami
70a Northwn (B & G)               .                 Constnrct 4 cluroon and 1 art room; lira  mid lborbaoy
Plains do Papaye                                equipment
7L N. Saddul (B & 0)                                Sundry eqipments; library bo*  O   DmpAw
Vacos
72. Pamplemouue High (B & G                         Library book; laboratory eqoipment
Parnplemaous
73. Patten (B)                               .      Equipment; library bookb matals
Rose Hill
74. Patten (G)                               .      Equipments; lbrary book; mateial.
Rose Hill
75 Port Louis High (B & G)           .              Improve buildings and infatructure; sudry equpaets and
Port Louis                                      furniture.
76. Presidency (G)                           .      Library bookb labomtory equipment
Cureope
77. Presidency (B & 0)                              Library bookb; labortory equipmet.
Riviera des Angulles
7a Progresive (B & G)                               Sundry equipments; oomputr; mrniture
Rivier du Ranpert
79. Quarlier Mlitaime (B & G)     .                 1 specialist room; librry book labortory "iepmnt
Quartier Militaire
110 Renaisance (B & G)                              Laboratory equipment; libary bookb;i nibi
Cureppe
81. Rose Belle High (B & G)                         Sundry equipments; bbrary book
Rose Bane
82 Royal HoDovey (B & G) )                          Rais standards of laboratories and computr room
Montagn Blanche
83. Soondur Munrakhan (B & O                 .      Corstruct 1 speal and 2 dtawom; convat building tol elm
Long Mntain                                     & 1 apcial.
84. St. Helena's (B & G)          .                 Repirs and mainteunee; labor toyapmnt; library booi.
Curepape
85 Stratford (B & 0)                         .      Improve infiastructure nd faseitie
Quatre Bornes
86 Thanoody (B & 0)                                 Labortory, libray and spor equipmen; acnakct now
Souiac                     1 dept     1 dept   building.
87. Trinity (B)                                     Improve pcial roor; equipment and fbmrihur
Port Louis
M  Trinity (0)                                      Extend building (7 caus and 1 libray)
Port Louis
89. Trinity (B & G)               .                 Construct a morfe scious building
Vacoaa



- 77 -                                                ANNEX 13
PRIVATE SBCONDARY SCHOOLS AUTHORITY                                  PaeS 5 of S
SCHOOLS PROPOSING TO PROVE PFACIL1TIS
Name o[School               I Rented    Onprovamnent Propozd
90. Unity (B & 0)                 *                  Information not availabe
Rose Belle
91. Univernl (B & 0)                          .      Complete building; laboratory equipment; esternal workm
Riviere du Rempart
92. Victoria (B & 0)              *                  Laboratory, bray ad sports equipment
Rose Hill
95. Willoughby (B)                .                  Sunx  equipments and due tommal  ternab
Mahebourg
94 Willoughby (G)                 .                  Library boobs; rundry equipmenb and educational materials
Mahebourg
95 Windsor (B)                                       Library and laboratory equipment; introduce computer science
Rose Belle
96 Windsor (0)                                .      Introduce home economier, biology and computer studio
Rose Bele
97. Cous Jeanne D'Aro (B & G)                        Information not available
Cureppe
98. Beole du Nord (B & G)                           No information available
Mapou
99. Le Bocage High (B & 0)                           No information milable
Quatre Bomes
100 Lycee Labourdonnais<?) .                         No information available
Forest Side






-79 -
EDUCATION  EXPENDITURES                                                                   ANNEX  14. 1
Table 14.1: Education Expenditure 1984-1993 (Rs. Million)
YEAR                            1984       1985        1986        1987        1988        1989       1990        1991        1992        1993
CENTRAL ADM.                   56.13       4651        54.70      45.32       57.91       70.81       93.06      109.41      143.08     157.00
PRIMARY                       227.15      234.58      242.90     257.05      315.08      414.32      423.37      434.54      459.14     490.12
SECONDARY                     186.03      193.89      201.40     222.85      268.60      379.43      414.17      481.43     503.04      560.70
Sec. Public                 49.68       54.59       58.98       67.69       83.63     114.83      121.80      137.25      147.53      161.00
Sec. Private               132.73      135.50      140.93      150.30      178.60     257.00      284.00      341.72      353.00      397.2D
Voc. Centres                  3.63        3.80        1.50       4.86        6.37        7.60        8.37        2.46        2.51       2.50
POST SECONDARY                 43.27       44.68       48.38      54.50       77.00      102.95      114.45      135.17      149.20     170.50
University                   15.36       15.60       17.30      18.50       26.00       38.20       42.60       55.50       60.00      69.00
M.Gandhi Inst                12.61       14.30       14.83      16.30       23.35       29.30       34.18       36.50       41.00      47.70
MIE                          13.20       12.63       13.85      15.90       21.45       27.00       28.21       32.00       34.50      38.60
M. College Air                2.10        2.15       2.40        3.80        6.20        8.45        9.46       11.17       13.70      15.20
Misc Recurrent Exp               1.7         2.1       -2.1         3.0         3.8        10.1         5.0        47.3       63.5        61.9
Total MoES Rec Exp            514.25      521.72      545.30     582.75      722.40      977.64     105000      1207.84     131800     144020
Capital Expenditures           36.07       56.41       42,67      29.39       53.26       59.21       77.79       89.20      122.20     202.00
TOTAL MoES Exp                550.32      578.13      587.97     612.14      775.66     1036.85     1127.79     1297.04     144020     1642 20
non-MoES Exp                   8.80        9.50       10.10       11.30       13.10       14.65      12.97       15.93       25.00       42.10
TOTAL Fiscal Educ Exp.        559.12      587.63      598.07     623.44      788.76     105150      1140.76     1312.97     146520     168430
Private Educ Est               45.00       48.30       51.60      55.00       52.00       54.50       57.00       59.50       62.00      65.10
TOTAL Educ Exp Est            604.12      635.93      649.67     678.44      840.76     1106D0      1197.76     1372.47     152720      1749.40
GOVT. EXP.                    5114.9      58490       60772      64000       7850.4    10072.2    10477.6       11779.9     13150.6    14410.0
GNP Estimates                15081.0    15918.0    18971.0    23038.0    27210.0        31842.0    37396.0      41910.0     46983.8    50549.2
EDIGOVTIN*                    10.9%       10.0%        9.8%       9.7%       10.0%       10.4%       10.9%       11.1%       11.1%      11.7%
ED/GNP IN %                    4.0%        4.0%        3.4%       2.9%        3.1%        3.5%        3.2%        3.3%        3.3%       3.5%
Rev. 930114



.



- 80 -                                              ANNEX  14.2
PROJECTION OF EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
Table 142: Education ExpenItures Estmates 1993-2000
pn MUons of 93-constant Rs]
YEAR                        193         1994        196         1 996        1997        1999o1                   200   Am u O_
CENTAL ADM              Rs I so7    Rs IS5G    Rs 1e240    Rs 17a52    Rs 179U7    Rs iM80    RS 2O30    Rs 21 23               111
PRbIARY                 Rs 49s12    Rs 4a2    Rs 49012    Rs470.6    Rs 6075    Rs 6203    Rs a=34    Rs 48,65               1.1
fECONDARY               Rs 5s20    Rs 00oo    Rs 61198   Rs 64a9s3    RAs Mi         AS 724 4    RS 70267    Rs 140            1
Sec. PubNc            Rs 161.00   AR 16.49    RB17132    Rsi19o4    Rs 20663    RS 22920    RS 2532    RB 2674             r.=lb
Sec Prlate             Rs 397.20    Rs 421.57    Rs 44655    Rs 4e66s    Rs 48037    As 49625    Rs 51056    Rs 6e?        4am
POST SECONDARY          Rs 1 9a60    Rs 1 W02    Rs 21Q74    Rs 242.93    As 20a94    RS 29a12    As 33ao9    RS 367.79    1ta7
UISY                   Rs 6oOD     Rs 79.36    Rs 91.25    Rs 1o4w4   Rs 12069    Rs 13aL78    RsAsIoo    Rs 12634        laa1
11GwId Inst            Rs 47.70    Rs 51.04    Rs 54681    Rs 56 43     Rs e622     Rs e690     Rs 71.6      RB 760.0      7.05%
MIE                     Rss 3660   Rs 41.11    Rs4378      Rs4&63       Rs 49s66    RS 5629     Rs sa2       RB 699        660
M.ColIge Air           RS 1620     Rs17.02     RsiQ07      Rs 21.35     Rs 2392     RS2e79      Rs3aoo       RS3360      1ion%
TEC             Rs 1O0      Rs IOso     Rs 11.03    Rs 11.56    RAsa         Rs Mm70     R8s14O       Rs 14.07      6051S
MES                     Rs 21.79    Rs 24.41    Rs 27.34    Rs 3062     Rs 34.29    Rs 3a4t      Rs 4a02     RI 461U      t2001
MoES-Oer programs       Rs 3Q62     Rs 41.49    RE 4a67     Rs 46.74    Rs 4B03     Rs 6043      Rs 62.9     As 0660       6
TOTAL MoES Rec Exp     Rs 1,44a20   Rs 1,487.05  Rs 1i.6634  Rs 1,637.30  Rs 1,72677   Rs 1r21.93   Rs t,9240   RB 2a27.0s   60U
MoES -CP Cap Exp        Rs 202m     RsA17ao    Rs 25450    Rs1e2e62    Rs M0O         Rs 92.70    Rs 948     196.35
MoES nonCP Cap Exp                   Rs o1.50    Rs 10660    Rs 6am       Rs 960      Ras 9940    Rs 96.76    Rs 104.36
TOTAL MoES Cap Exp      Rs 20zm     Rs 556m     Rs a5e1.m    Rs 21 z62    RsIS&0    RsA18219    Rstsz224    Rs 20Z71         001
TOTAL MoES Exp         Rs 1,64220   Rs 1,76z05  Rs 1i.9234   As 1 ,4A9.2  Rs 1 ,s 1.77   RS ZOD4.12   Rs Zt 14.64   Rs 22290  447%
OOw Fiscal Educ Exp      Rs 42 10    Rs 4605     Rs 4a20     Rs 61.57     Rs5t15      Rs Moe6B    Rs o70       R2069         6B5
PrivateEducEst           Rse610      Rs eB36     RS71.77     Rs 7636      Rs7st3      RssaoM      Rss7.24      Rsst.oo 6
TOTAL Eouc Exp Est     Rs 1,749R40  Rs1,4e  Rs20403l  Rs t,97e. 05  Rs 204605   Rs 2i44.07   Rs Z20t.09   Rs 243"0           461
GNP Low Forecast      Rs eA5492  Rs 52,31tB4   Rs 64.1496   Rs 65044.8  Rs 53,0004   Rs  aO366  Rs CZ137.9  Rs 64.3127     a2l%
Totl Educ ExptGNP          348%        35a7%       377         363%         353%        367%        a64%        a71%         1.011






ANNEX 15.1
- 81-                      Page 1 of 4
STRATEGY AND POLICIES FOR COORDINATING
AND RATIONALIZING TERTIARY LEVEL EDUCATION
OPERATIONAL PLAN
I. FRAMEWORK
1.           This Operational Plan presents the strategy, policies and measures envisaged to
make the Tertiary Education System in Mauritius more coherent, viable and responsive to the
human resources needs of the country. This plan is in keeping with the aims and objectives of
the Education Sector Master Plan which recognizes the need to further develop the higher
education system and sets the mission for the network of tertiary level institutions as:
-     increasing access to higher education;
-     enhancing the quality of learning;
-     fostering institutional capability; and
-     strengthening the managerial procedures of the system as a whole.
2.           The Tertiary Education Commission (TEC) is charged with the responsibility for
coordinating the planning and rationalization activities which will guide the development of the
tertiary education system.
3.           Each tertiary education institution (TEI) has prepared and submitted indicative
plans to TEC. The aim of the Operational Plan is to propose the most feasible options for
translating the composite objectives of the various tertiary institutions into a higher education
development plan articulating a coherent sector-wide strategy.
4.           The 1992 Manpower Survey places emphasis on the need to increase training in
the areas of science and technology, engineering, agriculture, computer science, management and
accounting. The importance of creating an additional teacher training capacity is also stressed.
II. PLAN OF ACTION
5.           The Operational Plan will be executed in three phases:
-     Preliminary Phase (1993-94): establishment of procedures for program
integration and implementation of rationalization measures;
-     Transition Phase (1994-95): transformation of institutional structures and
programs; and
-     Consolidation Phase (1996-97): full operationalization of new structures and
procedures.



ANNEX 15.1
Page 2 of 4
- 82 -
Preliminary Phase 1993-94
6.           The first activity is the preparation, under the leadership of TEC, of a higher
education master plan to outline the expansion objectives of the tertiary education system as a
whole and to delineate the respective missions of each type of higher education institution
(enrollment growth targets, balance between undergraduate and post-graduate programs, choice
of disciplines/areas of specialization). The overall master plan will be based on the institutional
development plan prepared by each TEI (Taryet Date: June 1993).
7.           The rationalization exercise, which focuses on both program integration and
diversification, will be coordinated by TEC on the basis of the recommendations of the master
plan. The aim is to achieve a more optimal use of existing resources (faculty, administrative
staff, physical facilities) and at promoting greater cooperation among the various higher education
institutions, while maintaining their management autonomy and their original vocation.
S.          The specific mission of each TEl will be re-defined along the following lines:
the University of Mauritius will be the main degree granting institution, focusing
on both undergraduate and postgraduate degrees. Enrollment at these levels is
expected to double over the next five years. The University of Mauritius will
also strengthen its Research and Development capability, with the aim of building
up multi-disciplinary departments at the cutting edge in the areas of
biotechnology, computer applications, materials development, health and medical
sciences, marine biology and environmental studies.
the Mauritius Institute of Education (MIE) will be the main teacher training and
upgrading institution, concentrating first on certificate and diploma courses and
moving gradually towards undergraduate and post-graduate courses in
collaboration with the University. The master plan should determine whether it
would be advisable to transform MIE into a full-fledged School of Education
affiliated with the University or to establish a School or Department of Education
as a joint venture between the University and MIE.
-     the Mahatma Gandhi Institute (MGI) will continue to focus on certificate and
diploma courses in its traditional areas of specialization (creative arts, oriental
languages, Indian and Mauritian studies). Enrollments are expected to grow by
50%. Undergraduate and postgraduate programs in specific areas will be
developed, if need be, in collaboration with the University.
-     the Mauritius College of the Air (MCA) will be developed into a cost-effective,
multi-media, publication and mass communications center assuming, with the
University of Mauritius, joint responsibility for the delivery of distance education
programs.
9.           The finalization and implementation of the rationalization plan will involve the
following steps:



ANNEX 15. 1
Page 3 of 4
- 83 -
establishment, under the responsibility of TEC, of a Curriculum Sub-Committee
to develop the procedures for program integration and accreditation of new
courses, and to study the feasibility of a modular system (Target Date: July 1993);
establishment, under the responsibility of TEC, of a Staff Development Sub-
Committee to assist the TEls in identifying their staff training and recruitment
needs (Target Date: September 1993);
definition, by TEC, of a strategy for coordination of research programs (aarge
Date: September 1993)
preparation, by the Inter-Institutional Planning Board (MEC), of an infrastructure
and equipment program to determine priority areas for upgrading of
undergraduate laboratories and workshops at the University of Mauritius (Target
D!ate* July 1293.
preparation, by TEC's Consultative Committee on Distance Education, of a
distance education program delivery plan (Target Date: September 1993).
preparation by TEC of a detailed plan for setting up a Repairs and Maintenance
Unit to serve all TEIs (Taret Date: June 1993).
Transition Phase 1994-95
10.          On the basis of the higher education master plan, the following activities will be
carried out:
Award Programs: establishment of new award courses/programs (Target Dates
June 1224 .
Staff Developme: upgrading of existing staff and recruitment of new staff to
meet new needs of TEIs (Target Date: July 1995).
Research: establishment of new research program areas and of appropriate
linkages with the productive sectors (Taret Date: September 1994).
Consolidation Phase 1996297. During this phase, TEI will concentrate on evaluation activities,
involving the following aspects:
-     quality of teaching in various TEIs
-     internal and external efficiency of TEIs
-     research output of the University of Mauritius.



ANNEX 15.1
Page 4 of 4
- 84 -
Ill. TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Strengthening sector-wide management activities under TEC
studies and experts to prepare:
1993         -      institutional development plan In each of the four higher education
institutions (2 person-months)
1993         -      consolidated tertiary education development plan (2.5 person-months)
1993         -      introduction of academic credit system (1.5 person-months)
1994         -      development of database on research (.5 person-months)
1994         -      review of teacher education (2 person-months)
1993         -      review of distance education (I person-month)
total: 9.5 person-months
Supportini the expansion of the tertiary education system
Establishment of Maintenance Center: equipment of specialized laboratories and
workshops and training of qualified personnel ($500,000) (1994)
Library  Fund:  subscription  to  international  databases  and  purchase  of
textbooks/periodicals ($500,000) (1994-96)
Staff Development Fund (20 persons for 6 months = 120 person-months of scholarships
to study abroad, estimated at S600,000) (1995-96)
Laboratory Equipment Fund: upgradinglestablishment of undergraduate laboratories for
Faculties of Science, Agriculture and Engineering ($5 million) (1995-96)



- 85 -                               ANNEX 15.2
Page 1 of 3
BRIEF OF DRAFT OPERATIONAL PLAN:
TEACHER TRAINING PROGRAM
I. Restructure & Strengthen MIE
1.          A major outcome of the rationalization of tertiary education in Mauritius should be
the integration of MIE into an enlarged university. This would be achieved either by transforming
MIE into a full-fledged Faculty of Education, or by creating a School/Department of Education as
a joint venture between MIE and the University of Mauritius. A complementary outcome will be
a revised understanding of its relationship to the MOES and an improved joint planning process
on the number of timing of both pre-service and in-service courses for teachers. Once its
institutional location and structure are clear, then a process of revitalization of the leadership and
internal reorganization will be undertaken. The new structure should reflect future
responsibilities of MIE for pre-service training at the Diploma level for both primary and
secondary teachers, for in-service support and training of teachers in the schools at all levels, and
for a variety of non-award training activities to support curriculum changes and new instructional
methods. A medium-term plan will be developed jointly with the MOES and the UoM laying out
a rationalized pattern of diplomas and degrees to be offered, including their enrollments and
timing. The plan will reflect emphasis on the priority needs of both upgrading teacher
certification and providing direct support which will improve the quality of the teaching-learning
process in the classrooms. The new Faculty of Education should retain direct responsibility for
training teachers and the integrated delivery of all the inputs needed to insure improved quality of
basic education.
2.          Strengthening MIE will require two kinds of activities; a structured set of
organizational development activities, and limited, focussed opportunities for upgrading the
qualifications of individual staff members once the internal process of reorganization and
management development has ben completed. The new capabilities will support the upgrading of
the content and methods used in the revised training activities, both award and non-award.
Specifically, the modularization of the curriculum now being undertaken with the Advanced
Certificate of Primary Education for distance education, will generate both staff skills and the
foundation for a credit-based system to be used in future programs. The role of distance
education will likely need to be scaled back from current plans but can contribute effectively to
the process of quality improvement in teacher training.
II. Upgrading the Teachingz Force
3.          Primary Teachers. There are currently about 5800 primary school teachers most of
whom went through the two-year preservice Certificate of Education course before beginning to
teach. Of these, 660 who have taught the longest will finish the new Advanced Certificate of
Primary Education (ACPE) at the end of 1992. MIE is currently preparing to offer the ACPE
course to most of the remaining teachers (1200 finishing at the end of 1994 and 3000 finishing at
the end of 1996) through distance education, combined with small amounts of face to face
training. The MoES has also committed MIE to taking 350 new teachers into the preservice
certificate course in January 1993. After these programs are completed , MIE should cease to
offer both of these certificates.



- 86 -                                  ANNEX 15.2
Page 2 of 3
4.          The relatively small numbers of primary teachers needed in the future should be
served by a new preservice, post-HSC diploma course which would be available to all teachers
seeking in the future to teach in the nine years of basic education. The diploma would offer
specialization in lower primary, and various subject combinations for those wanting to teach in the
upper grades. These teachers would be eligible in the future for upgrading including access to
degree training where appropriate. A study of options for allowing selected numbers of certificate
teachers to gain access to upgrading for a diploma should be undertaken, so that the entire present
primary teaching force doesn't feel permanently trapped in their current status. All the various
approaches to upgrading in the future need to place more emphasis on classroom teaching
behavior which will improve learning and less on reaching more sophisticated levels of subject
content.
5.          Secondary Teachers. The 3,950 secondary school teachers are split between the
public and private systems. Of the total about 30% have either certificates or diplomas of teacher
training. An additional 42% have either degrees or post graduate training of some kind. the
most serious upgrading problem exists for the so-called Category C teachers, all of whom teach in
the private schools. Category C contains seven sub-categories distinguished by the presence or
abuse of teacher training and their peiformance on the School Certificate examination. All told
there are about 780 category C teachers, of whom about 27% have a teaching certificate or
diploma. Most of the remaining 570 are the target of the ongoing ORSEC upgrading program,
which graduated 175 at the end of 1992 and plans to enroll and additional 315 to finish at the end
of 1994, which will take care of most of this category--providing that PSSA is successful in
discouraging its schools from hiring any more such teachers.
6.          There is no preservice training available for secondary school teachers in Mauritius-
all new teachers are untrained. an immediate change should be to augment the probation year
requirements with a combination of preservice induction for an initial month, strong in-service
support and one or more vacation courses during the first year. Such training would not provide
certification but rather would raise the minimum conditions needed to successfully complete
probation. This would provide basic teaching skills to all new teachers, improving their
classroom effectiveness until they can participate in in-service upgrading programs. As the
movement toward nine-year basic education gains momentum, providing new teachers for lower
secondary would be best served by expanding the numbers enrolled in a new diploma course
shared with primary teachers as discussed above. To be effective, the diploma course must
include extensive and closely supported teaching internships as part of the training.
7.          Further upgrading must take place through in-service options. The Teacher's
Diploma for secondary teachers currently enrolls cohorts of about 150 every two years. Further
expansion of this course is possible subject to the very real limitations of schools being able to
release more teachers for participation. Distance education may help to limit the amount of
release time required, but at the same time it further weakens the likelihood that the upgrading
will have any effect on teaching-learning in the classroom. the dilemma for many secondary
teachers if the limitations of their formal training, most often not having passed their "A" level
examinations. Finding cost-effective opportunities for practicing teachers to gain their "A" levels
would both improve subject matter competency and open the doors to desired kinds of upgrading.
At the moment, official policy puts the responsibility for such upgrading solely on the teachers
with no assistance from schools or the government.



- 87 -                                 ANNEX 15.2
Page 3 of 3
8.          Future teacher training at the secondary level should come from expanded
opportunities for enrollment in B. Ed., PGCE and M.ED programs- both preservice and in-
service. these programs are particularly needed to strengthen teacher competence in math and
sciences. Provision of these programs however depends on the successful rationalization of
Tertiary education and the restructuring of MIE as part of the UoM.
III. Improve the Ouality of Teaching and Learning in the Classrooms
9.          Refocused Regional Education Centers. Upgrading teachers is only a first step
toward the desired goal of improving their performance in the classroom. To improve learning
the current education centers should be expanded and strengthened, and their roles shifted to
emphasize direct pedagogical support for teachers. Each of the eight regional centers (a region
contains 3 to 7 areas, each with 4 to 12 schools; each area has a primary school inspector and
each region a senior inspector) on the Island of Mauritius and the one on Rodrigues needs to be
refocussed on supporting the quality of education. Most centers will require additional
construction to provide at least two training/working rooms along with needed offices,
instructional resource libraries and storage. Each center should be staffed with two or three
professional staff whose responsibility is working directly with an assigned set of schools. These,
added professionals would be associated staff of the restructured MIE who were assigned full time
to a specific REC. Their skills would combine subject specialization- to be used with all primary
schools in the region--and general pedagogical expertise to be applied in their assigned area
primary schools.
10.        In School Support. Within primary schools, a quality support mechanism is also
required which will help utilize the resources at the RECs. Currently there is a commitment to
hire more than 800 Deputy Head Teachers (DHTs) for primary schools although only 264 are
currently employed. Redefining the role of the DHT as an in-school quality improvement
professional, makes this position the head of a school-based in-service team which could also
include several senior teachers acting as mentors for new teachers and students on teaching
practice. The DHT would also organize study groups of those teachers involved in distance
education programs. An added benefit is the opportunity to promote qualified and committed
teachers into a role which uses their teaching experience rather than promoting them into
administrative roles.
11.         Secondary Schools. A parallel strategy will be used to strengthen the quality of
teaching -learning in secondary schools. Regional centers can support distance education
programs and provide locales for in-service training in subject methods, new curricular
components, and the use of new teaching technologies. In some cases, in-service meetings will
also be held at selected secondary schools which have the best facilities. The emphasis will be on
shifting resources and training downward toward the practicing classroom teacher, to influence the
quality of the learning.






- 89 -                                ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 5
SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Pre-Primary Education
1.    About 25,000 pupils, accounting for about 80 percent of the 3-to-5 age group, attend
about 1,400 private pre-primary schools. In addition, about one-fifth of the state primary schools
hold pre-primary classes on their premises. Increased participation of mothers in the labor force
has generated this need of the very young for early education and socialization. The demand for
early schooling is expected to remain unabated in the future.
Primary Education
2.    By the mid-1980s, universal primary education had been achieved. In 1991, the gross
rate of enrollment (GRE) of the 6-to-Il age group was 99.4 percent, and the net rate of
enrollment (NRE) for the same age group was 97 percent. There was no difference in the
participation rates of boys and girls. Attendance in primary schools is not yet compulsory
(regulations making attendance compulsory are now pending in the Parliament). In 1991, the
system enrolled about 135,000 students in 290 primary schools. About 80 percent of these
schools are administered by the state, 16 percent by the Roman Catholic Education Authority
(RCEA), 2 percent by the Hindu Education Authority (HEA), and the remaining 2 percent by
private voluntary groups. About 5,800 teachers teach in the primary schools, with an overall
teacher-pupil ratio of 1:23. To encourage cultural diversity among its pupils, the education
system provides for teaching of at least seven of their ancestral Asian languages. Among the
primary teaching force, about 40 percent are teachers of Asian languages (1,745). They have
smaller teaching loads and teach less than half of the student population. A better estimate of the
teacher-student ratio for the primary classroom is 1:33, calculated by excluding the language
teachers. Women account for about 45 percent of the teaching force but hold only about 32
percent of the school principal positions. Since 1988, absolute enrollment in the primary system
has stated to decline because of sharp declines in the birth rates (and because of the delayed
marriages of young women participating in the labor force).
Secondary Education
3.    About 70 percent of primary school completers eventually proceed to secondary
education. In 1991, the secondary GRE was about 55 percent for the 12-to-18 age group. The
secondary GRE has remained stable, at between 48 percent to 55 percent, over the past five
years. Currently about 81,000 students are enrolled in 125 secondary schools. But unlike
primary education, about 80 percent of the secondary school places are in the private sector.
There is considerable difference in quality between the state and private schools. State schools
are endowed with better facilities, better teachers, and better financing. There is intense
competition among pupils to gain admission to the better schools, both to the state schools and to



ANN1EXJ1
90-                                    Page 2 of S
varies; it is about 51 percent in Form I but drops to 46 percent as girls progress to upper
secondary education. The girls repeat classes less often than boys and have a higher passing rate
in the CSC and HSC examinations. Their dropout rate, however, increases sharply with age.
4.    About 3,950 teachers teach at the secondary level, about 72 percent of them in the private
sector. The overall teacher-pupil ratio is 1:21 (1:16 in state schools and 1:22 in private schools).
All teachers in the state schools are qualified. More than half, being university graduates, belong
in category A (57 percent); and the remainder, as holders of a diploma, belong to category B (43
percent). No teachers in category C can be found in the state schools. In contrast, nearly half of
the teachers in private schools belong to category C and are underqualified. Of the remaining
private school teachers, 30 percent are in category B and 19 percent are in category A. Women
represent 41 percent of the teaching force; 24 percent in state schools but 48 percent in private
schools. Absolute enrollment at the secondary level has also stated sliding, in part because of a
stable rate of transition from the primary level and in part because of a slower rate of growth of
the primary school population.
Technical and Vocational Education
5.    The capacity for training in technical and vocational education is rather limited, although
there are eight institutions, with a combined annual intake capacity of about 700 students per
year. At the apex is the Lycee Polytechnique, which prepares Form V leavers as higher-level
technicians, with training spread over a three- or four-year diploma program. Next are the two
Industrial Trade and Training Centers (ITTCs), which prepare completers of lower secondary
education as technicians in a one-year certificate course. Completers of primary education who
are unable to secure a place in secondary education can, upon attaining the age of 15, proceed to
one of the five Handicraft Centers for a low-level skills-training program. The capacity of these
centers is very low in relation to about 4,000 primary school dropouts and failures who are
seeking some form of access to vocational and skills training. Control of the ITTCs has recently
been transferred to a newly constituted Industrial and Vocational Training Board (IVTB).
Tertiary Education
6.    The task of forming intellectual and professional capacity for the country has been
delegated to the five institutions operating at the tertiary education level. At the apex is the
Tertiary Education Commission (TEC). Constituted in 1988, this body is responsible for
coordinating the work of the four academic institutions: the University of Mauritius (UoM),
Mauritius Institute of Education (MIE), Mahatma Gandhi Institute (MGI), and Mauritius College
of the Air (MCA).
7.    The UoM is small, enrolls about 1,600 students, and offers courses at the degree,
diploma, and certificate levels. In the absence of a well-formulated, long-term development
strategy for higher education, the UoM's academic programs since its inception in 1965 have
developed in an uncoordinated manner and continue to remain unfocused. The UoM has four
schools: a School of Agriculture, a School of Engineering, a School of Law and Administration,
and a new School of Sciences. The UoM does not have a campus life. Less than half of the



ANNEX 16
- 91 -                                    Page 3 of 5
enrolled students are pursuing full-time academic studies. About one-third of the students follow
courses at the degree level, another third pursue courses at the diploma level, and the remaining
third attend certificate and shorter-duration external award programs. The UoM currently offers
50 different courses: 1 at the doctoral level, 12 first degree, 17 diploma, 13 certificate, 3 external
awards, and 4 short courses. Most of the courses enroll 10 to 15 students. The academic staff to
student ratio is 1:12. The public expenditure per student is about Rs. 33,000, which is about 7
times that of the primary level. The cost per graduate is Rs. 100,000 (US$6,500). Because of
the UoM's small intake capacity for the degree-level programs, its unattractive image, and the
absence of a campus life, about half of the HSC leavers (between 800 to 900) annually proceed
abroad for higher studies. It is estimated that about 3,000 Mauritians are currently pursuing
studies abroad.
8.     The MIE, established in 1973, is responsible for pre-service and in-service training of
teachers. It offers in-service teacher training for secondary school teachers, pre-service and very
limited in-service programs for primary school teachers, and pre-service training for the pre-
school educators (who then train the pre-school teachers). The MIE's courses are long, with a
duration ranging from 18 months to 48 months, and follow the basic pattern of the UoM, offering
one course at the degree level, three at the diploma, and three at the certificate level. Of these,
one is for pre-school educators, three are for primary school teachers, and three are for secondary
teachers. The number of students varies widely from year to year, from a low of 88 in 1983 to
about 2,002 in 1991. The average annual output over the past decade was about 225 teachers,
equivalent to about one-third of 1 percent of the teaching force.
9.     The MGI was established in 1969 as a center for conducting studies on Indian heritage
and the culture of Mauritius. It also runs one secondary school and one Indian Basic School. It
cooperates with the MIE for the in-service training of teachers of ancestral languages and with the
UoM to offer a certificate, a diploma, and awards in the arts, music, and culture.
10.   The MCA is the lead agency promoting distance education and the use of mass media for
enriching art, science, and cultural programs. It has no students. Rather, the MCA acts as a
center for resource development in educational television and radio (in cooperation with MIE) and
also serves the non-formal sector. Academic courses on distance education were discontinued ten
years ago.
Management
11.    Management of the education system is officially centralized in the Ministry of Education
and Science (MOES). Until October 1991, the Ministry included arts and culture and was known
as the Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture (MEAC). The MOES has two administrative
layers: at the center and at the school level. The central bureaucratic layer comprises six
technical divisions, which report to the Chief Technical Officer, and four administrative divisions,
which report directly to the Permanent Secretary. The Permanent Secretary holds the overall
administrative responsibility of the Ministry, under the direction of the Minister. However,
control for administering and financing the different functional parts of the system is shared with
a number of autonomous institutions in both the public and private sectors. These include, among
others noted before, the RCEA (Roman Catholic Education Authority), for administering 48 aided



ANNEX 16
- 92 -                                  Page 4 of 5
primary schools; the HEA (Hindu Education Authority), for 5 primary schools; the Private
Secondary School Authority (PSSA), for coordinating the development and growth of 101
secondary schools; the Public Service Commission (PSC) for selection and recruitment of
teachers; and the Mauritius Examination Syndicate (MES), for research and conduct of
assessments and evaluation.
Education Finance
12.    Structure of the Budget.  For FY93 (July 1992 to June 1993), the Government's budget
allocated to the Ministry of Education and Science is Rs 1642 million, composed of Rs 1440
million (86%) for recurrent expenditures and Rs 202 million (14%) for capital investments.
These allocations represent 11.4% of the Government's total recurrent budget, and 5.4% of the
investment budget. In addition, allocations for education and training to other ministries
(including the Industrial and Vocational Training Board) increase the share of recurrent
expenditures for education to about 13.6% of the total recurrent budget and 5.6% of the total
investment budget. Together, budget allocations for education and training in FY93 amount to
about 11.6% of the Government's total budget. In Mauritius, recurrent expenditures for
education are low in comparison with African and Asian regional averages, where Governments
spend on the average 17% of total recurrent budgets on education. Parental contributions to
education are significant and can be estimated at approximately Rs 65 million in FY93 (payments
for private tutoring, uniforms, transportation).
13.   The distribution of the MOES recurrent budget for FY93 by level of education is as
follows: primary education - 34.8%, secondary education - 39.7%, and higher education 12.8%.
The balance of the recurrent budget (12.7%) is allocated to administrative expenses and overhead.
These percentages reflect a significant shift in resource allocations over the last few years, away
from primary (where the enrollment ratio is about 100%) toward secondary, where the pressure
for admission is increasing. These trends are expected to continue, with increasing expenditures
for secondary education as a result of the introduction of the nine-year basic cycle (para. 2.30),
and as a consequence increasing allocations for tertiary-level education due to growing demand
for higher education (para. 2.37).
14.   Private education in Mauritius is important, representing about 18% of total primary and
80% of secondary enrollments. More than 95% of all private schools receive Government grants
to cover salaries of teaching and administrative staff. There are different funding mechanisms for
private schools: for private primary schools, Government directly pays teachers' salaries. For
private secondary schools, Government provides grants, determined on the basis of a
Comprehensive Grant Formula 1/, administered by the Private Secondary Schools Authority
(PSSA) which retains a five percent fee for its services. Aided schools are not allowed to charge
1/    The Comprehensive Grant Formula determines grants to private secondary schools on the basis of
(i) staff payroll; (ii) availability and quality of facilities (laboratories, workshops, libraries,
recreational areas); (iii) mix and quality of academic programs; (iv) return on owners' investment
and administrative costs.



ANNEX 16
- 93 -                                 Page 5 of 5
tuition. Thus, while the provision of education by private schools is in the hands of private
owners or operators, the funding is essentially public.
15.    Unit Costs as a percentage of per-capita GNP are 15% for primary education, 20% for
secondary education, and 208% for tertiary-level education. These figures compare favorably
with averages for Africa and Asia. The unit costs of private secondary education are much lower
(about one-half) than those of public secondary schools, reflecting lower-quality inputs into
private secondary schools (para. 2.36) as well as inefficiencies in the public secondary schools.






AIl 17
- 95 -                        Pagel of 2
LIST OF DocUMEN NS IX PROJECT FILZ
A.    Government of Mauritius Documents
Manraj, D. Visitor to the University of Mauritius: Main Recort. Port
Louis, Mauritius: University of Mauritius, 1987.
Manrakhan, J. Human Resources Development at the University of Mauritius.
Port Louis, Mauritius: Mauritius, 1988.
Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture. Education Master Plan for th-
Year 2000Q Port Louis, Mauritius, 1991.
Reoort of the National Workshoo on Private Tuition.  Port Louis,
Mauritius, 1989.
Ministry of Education & Science. Mauritius Mastor Plan for Education 1991-
2000: Donors' Consultative Meetina. Paris, Nov. 5-6. 1991. Port Louis,
Mauritius, 1991.
Mauritius Master Plan for Education 1991-2000t Proiects.  Port Louis,
Mauritius, 1991.
---. Mauritius Master Plan for Education 1991-2000: Summary of Main
Prooosals. Port Louis, Mauritius, 1986-1990.
B. Related Studies Documents
African Development Bank. Aooraisal re-ort: Education 1 Proiect:
Mauritius. Abidjan, Ivory Coast, 1991.
Appadu, Kaviraj. Labour Market Theories, Education and Emolovment: An
Exploratorv Study with Reference to Mauritius. Stockholm, Sweden:
Institute of International Education, University of Stockholm, 1989.
UNESCO. Implications of the Nine Year Schoolina Policy. WGM Paper 30.
Paris, France, 1991.
Chinapah, Vinayagum. Educational Research: National and International
Persoectives. Paper presented at International Conference on Expert Group
in the Promotion of Research, June 17-21, 1991, Mauritius. Stockholm,
Sweden: Institute of International Education, University of Stockholm,
1991.
Commonwealth Secretariat. Aaenda Item 2: Imorovina the Oualitv of Basic
Education: Country Pavers Volume 4. Zleventh Conference of Commonwealth
Education Ministers, Barbados, Oct. 29 - Nov. 2, 1990.
Topor, Helen. Towards Eauitv and Efficiency in the Education System of
Mauritius. Paper presented at Annual Conference of Australian and New
Zealand Comparative International Education Society, Sydney, Nov. 24-26,
1982. Sydney, Australia: University of Sydney, 1982.
C. World Bank Internal Documents
World Bank.  Mauritius: Eouiioina for and Exoandino Horizon: Review of
Policies of the Education Sector Master Plan, World Banks Washington, D.
C., 1991.



ANNEX 17
- 96 -                          Page 2 of 2
World Bank. Mauritius: Expandina Horizons. Report No. 9685-HAS.
Washington, D. C., 1991.
World Bank. Mauritius: Financial Sector Review. Washington, D. C., 1992.
World Bank. Mauritius: Manaaina Success. Washington, D. C. 1989.
World Bank. Mauritius: Proposed Mannower Trainina Strategv and Proiect.
Memo by Francis Lethem and Jan Segerstrom dated Nov. 25, 1987. Washington,
D. C., 1987.
World Bank. Staff ADDraisal Report: Mauritius: Industrial and Vocational
Training Project. Washington, D. C., 1991.
World Bank/UNESCO. Completion Report: Second Education Prolect (Loan 1543-
MASI. Paris and Washington, D. C., 1986.



Chart 1: Structure of the Mauritian*Education System
Higher Education
Primary                    Secondary                   (University)
Entranoe                          OPE                       SC        HSC
Junior 8Soondary    Teac 1 Tralnlng  Agriculture
Pro-Vooational                      Industrial Tech
Pr1vate VoTeoh Training             Administration
Hotel a Caterlng Training           MIE
4    6    0    7    8    9   10       12   13   14   16 1|    17   18   19   20   21   22
1    2    3    4    6    8    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   16   10   17   18   19
C.P.E * oert. of Primary Eduoation
8.0. * Cambridge Sohool Cert.
H.8.C. - Cambridge Higher Sohool Cert.
T.D. - Teaoher'a Dlploms
P.G.C.E. * Poet-Grad Cert. of Eduostion
T C * Tecoher's Certifloate






Chart 2: Mauritius: Pyramid of Enrollmnents, 1977 & 1991
Grad                                                                                                                              Age
1-:    .....                        ....... :--:::-:::-::::-::::::::;-: :::::-1
13                                                                                                                               18
12                                                                                                                               17
12T                                                                                                                               TT._T'|| 1  167
1 1                                                                                                                              15
1 0                                                                                             1                                15
1 14
8               lIIz..  zz.                                                                                                      13
.   ~~1I
7                                                                                                                                112
e~~~~~~.                           .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .      . .I_1
_ _ ~ ~    ~    ~    . .  .   .  .  .   .    . .  . .  .      . . . ..   
6                                                                                                                                1 10
4                             A                               _0(
3                              C: wvvnn...r.rvrvfln.fln. . .8..........
2                                                                                                                                /            -
1                                 [! [JIJ b66^*st;.M4 u-..1-'..,
I        . - _   _  
lo A00)                             0                               10.000                            20,000
* /   I nfloll  [<p ,1                                        1901  Enroll               Pop. 






Chart 3: Mauritius: Ministry of Education and Science:
Planned Organization Structure
NationalTrt
Education                                              bd(stl On
Edouncili                                       _ _ - . Commissi'on'
Pcrmanent Secretary                   (Iiwcutiv:
I I : Q~~irector). '
r    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - I           - -              
I                            |                          N.C.C.R.D.
P;e^ff>; ....M.E.8  University                   M .E.              M CA.            M.G.I.
.................  (Diroctor)   (Vice Chancellor)                  (Dir-ctor)           rector         (Diroct)
National lnspectorate              Educational Management
(Chief Inspector of(Director of                          Administration         Fnane aArt   Culture
(chief I                           Education)                     (P.A.S.)               (P|AS.       S(.
Management |          |Planning &   |Monitoring &|
Division                Development            Evaluabon
(C. E.O.)               (C.E.O..)              (C.E.O.)
Educa1 (} u^tion)on Irnplornnnlallon CootdinalioneUnil
mi *t ku Mat Plan Implementation &Cooidination Unit



MAURITIUS: Education Enrollments
I-list. Data [86-92]& Projections [93- ]
160
140-
120
1000
°° 80-
60i
40-
20-
86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96  97 98 99 2000
--A- Primary Ed   - Total Sec       Priv Sec      State Sec      x



MAURITIUS - EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated/Country Disbursement Profile
20
15;                                                ;; 
O                                                   ,  ,   ,   ,, ,., ,,. ,,,,,.,,,,,,,,., . ,,., ,, , ,,,,,,,,,.,,, , , ,.,,., ,, , ,, , , , ,, < .;............... ................
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,,,. ..         ...,....,.-.
2    10   I.qj                                    . .
D   .........................  .. , .,   -   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................
5               .1::,2.                                    
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............,    . H. ;.,.;... ..
...........                 ......................
O'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ y..,,, ...   ,.,,    ...,
19931   1994   I  1995   |  1996   |  1 997   |  1 998   |  1 999                                                                        j
* ~Fiscal Year
* SAR Projected X-K~Profile






IBRD 24629
Cononnier P-tn
MAURITIUS
A  2    /         .,                  ~~~OCEAN
ARTERIAL ROADS                                                 T6/k
'-, *^'*   MOTORWAY
OTHER MAIN ROADS
BUILT-UP AREAS
RESERVOIRS AND RIVERS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
°            OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES                         *                    Vollon
Cove Po            o ;   t0\l  xq
INDIAN
OCEAN
Onrk m                 Re
I   I    I  I  I  I  ~  ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~            ~~~.                       O~~~LANC1i.fPplO-0
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ft'\.,-,\y=
t r ~~~~~~~~~~~.,                                                                                                                                         INDIAN J 
|IOS       1t 2        3      At 5                                                                                            r     ~ ]                     /
the convenience of reoders aored is or thse internal us  ofTheWordeborg
map do no imly on !h portr ofTeWrd  akGop)aydmn
Book Group The deno( inations used and the boundanes shown on this                                                                      k4ChAl-nd f .
suc bondriens                                                                                                                              / S=X~
KILOMTEnRS 0       2      4       6       a     10                          Sou'lloc                                     TANZANJlX                   s YCHELLES               Wm=            1993
IT ,     ,     I                                                                                     _! COMOItS           
MdILES 0    1    2    3      4    5                                                                                     g      ,MKT                                 frsc,o
th. c-n  eD i-feSer od.   IS i, f  th. im-do use oi Th. WofddZ-                                                                                       j                 eco9l
B-1, Group The d ... -t,-n used and the bo..dona shown on this4^                                                                            ,',      9     Il
-opd. -1f imphy, - the prf oi Th.s Wodd Blok G,o.p, ony judgmen                                                                            Iw -  AASe
onche legol. 'srsD  n  erDyo  n  nosmn   vocpuc  iI                                                                                                1        ^r       MAURITIUS Is.



