Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2686-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
AND
EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
MAHAWELI GANGA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
January 10, 1980
This docnt hs  a restct dtbutemn sad may be med by recipints mly in the pemfonce of
Itheir offca dutis. ts eutents My nO othenise be dbdosed wlhout Wold Bnk autboratien.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =   Rs 15.6
Rs 1             =   US$0.064
Rs 1 million    =   US$64,102
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)              =   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)              =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)        640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)              =   30.5 centimeters (cm)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GDP      -  Gross Domestic Product
MW       -  Megawatt
M        -  Million
NCRB     -  North Central River Basins
MDA      -  Mahaweli Development Authority
GLOSSARY
aru      -   stream
chena        slash and burn or "shifting" agriculture
district =   the first subdivision in the country for Government
administrative purposes (22 districts in Sri Lanka)
dry zone =   northern and eastern two-thirds of Sri Lanka
ganga    =   major river
maha     =   northeast monsoon season (October to January)
oya      =   small river
paddy    =   unhusked rice
tank     =   reservoir for local rainwater storage
wet zone =   southwestern one-third of Sri Lanka, including
Colombo, the Capital
yala     =   southwest monsoon season (March to June)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Beneficiary:         Mahaweli Development Authority (MDA).
Amount:              US$3.0 million equivalent (IDA); and about US$2.0
million equivalent (EEC Special Action Credit).
Terms:               Standard IDA and EEC Special Action Account.
Project              The proposed project would provide technical assistance
Description:       for:  (i) preparation of a reconnaissance-level study of
plans for conveying and utilizing surplus Mahaweli Ganga
water to develop land in three alternative areas in order
to select the best plan for a transbasin diversion project;
(ii) ongoing review of designs and tender documents for
the Right Bank Canal, and preparation of final designs and
tender documents for construction of civil works and social
infrastructure for part of System C in the Mahaweli Basin;
and (iii) support for other studies and designs of projects
in the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program. Training of
local staff is included throughout the project.
Estimated Cost: /a                                      US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
Consulting Services
Transbasin Diversion Plan         0.25      1.15      1.40
Right Bank Canal and System C    0.20       1.05      1.25
Other Studies                     0.20      1.05      1.25
Sub-Total                       0.65      3.25     3.90
Vehicles, Equipment and
Supplies                        0.04      0.46     0.50
Training                           0.01     0.09      0.10
Government Contribution
(e.g., counterpart personnel,
offices and houses for
consultants)                      1.00       -        1.00
Contingencies                     0.10      0.40      0.50
TOTAL                           1.80     4.20     6.00
/a The project would be exempted from all taxes and duties.
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                                         US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
IDA                               0.50      2.50      3.00
EEC                                0.30     1.70      2.00
Government                         1.00      -        1.00
Total                      1.80      4.20     6.00
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY                            1980      1981      1982
IDA
Annual                             0.3      1.7       1.0
cumulative                        0.3       2.0       3.0
EEC
Annual                             0.5      1.0       0.5
Cumulative                        0.5       1.5       2.0
Map:                 No. IBRD 13477RI



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A MAHAWELI GANGA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for two proposed
credits to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the equivalent
of US$5.0 million on standard IDA and EEC Special Action Credit terms to help
finance a technical assistance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues and
Prospects" (Report No. 1937-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on March 23, 1978. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Sri Lanka has achieved social progress far beyond that of other
countries with comparably low per capita incomes. Literacy, health and life
expectancy are high; nutrition is adequate; and mortality and population
growth rates have been declining. These impressive gains have been achieved
despite generally low output and employment growth. Per capita GDP growth
averaged only 0.9% per annum in the 1948-60 period; it accelerated to an
average of 2.1% in the 1960s and then declined to 1.3% per annum in the 1970s.
Throughout the 1960s and much of the 1970s, these modest output gains were
eroded by adverse terms of trade. This disappointing performance has been
accompanied by a disturbing increase in the level of open unemployment. In
the 1970-1977 period, while the labor force grew at about 125,000 per year,
employment rose by about 85,000, much of it in the form of unproductive jobs.
The number of unemployed, therefore, rose, and open unemployment is presently
estimated at over one million, or 20% of the labor force.
4.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable ini-
tial conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901.
The food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence
in 1948, Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life
expectancy. These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-
Independence period through large expenditures on social services and the food
subsidy, which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues
in the 1960s and 1970s. These expenditures were financed by harnessing the
surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree crops (tea, rubber, and coconut),
which provided the Government with both an easy revenue source and foreign
exchange earnings.
1/   This part is substantially the same as Part I of the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for a Small
and Medium Industries Project (Report No. P-2594-CE, dated June 14, 1979).



- 2 -
5.        There were both measurable and non-measurable socio-economic benefits
flowing from these improvements in health, nutrition and education, such as
the decline in fertility and the relatively low rate of urbanization. At the
same time, there were significant costs arising from the firm commitment of
successive governments to maintain these social gains. The fiscal burden of
these expenditures imposed a high degree of inflexibility on Sri Lanka's
policymakers in their attempts to accelerate long-term growth. That inflex-
ibility increased over time as growth slowed down and, in partic-ular, the
ability of the tree crop subsector to provide the resources for the social
programs weakened as commodity prices kept falling and productivity suffered
due to inadequate incentives. Moreover, the gains in education had a nega-
tive impact in the form of large numbers of educated unemployed who posed a
challenge to the established political order. With political parties com-
peting with each other to offer inducements to the electorate, governments
have failed to focus social expenditure programs more narrowly on specific
groups living in poverty, making these unnecessarily costly.
6.        In the 1960-77 period, gross domestic product at constant prices
rose by an average of 3.8% per annum. This performance masks a marked decel-
eration in the growth of the productive sectors of the economy between the
1960s and the 1970s. Average GDP growth slowed down from 4.4% per annum in
the 1960s to 3.0% in the 1970-77 period. Growth fell from an average of 3.4%
to 1.9% in agriculture; from 6.2% to 2.3% in manufacturing.
7.        The key to the slowdown in GDP growth lies largely in the sluggish
growth of agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of GDP and four-
fifths of export earnings. Tea and coconut output has been declining steadily
from the mid-1960s; rubber, after showing a rapid increase in the 1960s,
stagnated in the 1970s. Erratic weather conditions, declining commodity
prices, a rising effective tax burden, and low producer returns combined with
the uncertainties caused by a long, drawn-out land reform (1972-75) depressed
producer incentives and, hence investment and production, to new lows. These
problems were aggravated by a dual exchange rate, introduced in 1968, which
discriminated against traditional exports and in favor of food imports.
8.        Paddy production, which grew at an average of 7.4% per annum in the
1964-70 period, and at 4% during the 1960s, slowed down to 0.7% per annum in
the 1970-77 period. The decline in yields and cropping intensities is attrib-
utable principally to a sharp deterioration in the institutional support for
production programs. The only bright spot on the agricultural scene has been
the rapid increase in output of subsidiary food crops in the 1970s. This
represents gains in acreage rather than yields and is in response to the
improved incentives arising from a 1970 ban on imports of these crops.
9.        Manufacturing output in the 1970s also decelerated due to the cumu-
lative impact of declining investment levels, severe foreign exchange short-
ages that necessitated import rationing (with serious consequences for a
sector in which imported raw materials account for 70% of the value of raw
materials used), the exhaustion of import substitution possibilities, and
inefficiencies in management of the public sector, which now accounts for
66% of the gross value of production in organized industry.



- 3 -
10.       In general, economic growth was constrained by a persistent foreign
exchange shortage throughout the 1960s and 1970s, inadequate levels of saving
and investment, and the low efficiency of resource use. Sri Lanka's terms of
trade have deteriorated steadily since the early 1960s and worsened sharply in
the mid-1970s following increases in the price of imported food, fertilizer,
and petroleum. The share of these three items in Sri Lanka's total imports
jumped from about 50% in 1972 to 70% in 1975. This sharp increase has, to
some extent, offset the improvement in export prices (particularly of tea)
since 1973. Trade policies that discriminated against exports and encouraged
import substitution caused a slow growth in exports of 2.5% per annum between
1960 and 1976, which acted as a significant constraint on growth for an econ-
omy in which exports account for nearly one-third of GDP.
11.       The share of consumption in GDP has remained relatively stable and
high (at 86%) over the last decade and a half. Domestic savings, when
adjusted for the dual exchange rate, averaged 11.5% of GDP in 1966-70 and
10.5% in 1971-75. Public savings averaged a mere 1% of GDP in the 1960s,
shrinking rapidly in the 1970s, and eventually becoming negative. This poor
performance is attributable to the large and growing burden of subsidies and
transfers, which worsened in the 1970s because of the increasing disparity
between import costs and officially determined prices. Private savings were
adversely affected in the 1970s by political uncertainties, a confiscatory
tax burden, and falling real interest rates.
12.       Gross investment has averaged 16% of GDP at current market prices
in the 1960-76 period. In real terms, investment has been declining, and
there has been persistent failure throughout this period to raise the level
of public investment (around 6-7% of GDP), while private investment in produc-
tive activities was, on the whole, given little encouragement. The efficiency
of investment has also been rather low due to both neglect of some key sectors
and a failure to exploit the full potential of past investments. Much of the
investment in agriculture was directed to paddy; but the tree crop subsector
was neglected, resulting in an erosion of the latter's production base. In
the manufacturing sector, capital-intensive import substitution was pursued
to the neglect of labor-intensive export-oriented production. Utilization
of the potential already established has been uniformly low. This has been
reflected in low cropping intensities and yields in the agricultural sector,
and low-capacity utilization in manufacturing.
13.       In the elections of July 1977, the eighth since Independence, the
United National Party won a large majority. In the period that it has been
in office, it has embarked on a major reform of political institutions and
economic policies. A new constitution has been enacted introducing a
presidential form of government. Proportional representation has replaced
the first-past-the-post voting system.
14.       The policy changes introduced by the new government have been
designed to address the economic problems described in paras 3-12 above.
The Government identified its objectives as the revival and resuscitation
of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capacity util-
ization in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and investment,
and (iii) efforts to encourage exports and import substitution in foodgrains.



A program of policy reforms has been developed in close consultation with
the IMF. Its principal aim is to dismantle controls over resource allocations
and initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more realistic
relative prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby
arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979, the
Fund's Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement
covering the 1979-81 period.
15.       The policy reforms introduced so far include:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16, 1977,
at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00, and then was allowed to float.
This implied a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevailing
prior to unification, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange Entitlement
Certificate rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-weighted average
rate of the two markets. 1/
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime has been liberalized.
With the exception of foodgrains and petroleum products, public sector import
monopolies have been terminated. Prior licensing of imports has been abol-
ished for all but a handful of commodities. The tariff structure has been
revised and simplified.
Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage
speculative imports, interest rates have been raised sharply.
Price Controls. These have ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange rate
caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food, fertilizer and
petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Export tax rates on tree crops were
raised further to mop up windfall profits while attempting to leave adequate
producer margins. Business Turnover Tax rates have been substantially lowered
and rationalized to be consistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate.
To limit the growth in food subsidies, the rice and sugar rations were confined
to the poorer half of the population and the subsidy on imported wheat flour
was reduced through adjustments in the domestic price. On September 1, 1979
the Government introduced a system of food and kerosene stamps for families
with monthly incomes less than Rs 300 to replace specific food subsidies and
rationing. Initially about seven million persons were issued with food and
kerosene stamps.  To offset the adverse impact of these changes, public sector
wages have been adjusted upwards on two occasions, and an income supplement
has been introduced at Rs 50 per month to benefit the poorest households in
which one or more persons has no gainful employment.  Public corporations have
been asked to pass on cost increases, except in the case of fertilizer, petro-
leum, milk, and public transport, where price increases were initially
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 5 -
deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The Government has subsequently
made some adjustments in bus fares, petroleum, and fertilizer prices. These
changes, taken together, have enabled an increase in public savings and con-
tributed, together with higher aid receipts, to a sizable step up in capital
expenditures.
Tax Reform: The tax structure has been rationalized and simplified with a
view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden of personal and
company taxation has been lowered.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic procurement price for rice has
been increased by 21%. With the related increase in flour prices, incentives
for paddy and other flour substitutes have been improved. Fresh coconut
prices have recently been increased by 30% and the export duty on coconut
products has been appropriately adjusted. The unification of the exchange
rate also ends discrimination against tree crops; however, the increase in
export taxes takes away a substantial part of these gains. To lift depressed
producer margins, the export duty on tea was reduced twice during 1979. These
reforms constitute only a beginning, and the Government anticipates the need
for further price adjustments designed to reduce the continuing large burden
of subsidies and current transfers (currently at over one-third of government
revenues) and to provide adequate price incentives.
16.       The economy's response to the policy reforms has been encouraging.
Real gross national product in 1978 increased by 8.2%. The improved avail-
abilities of inputs following import liberalization, an increased role for the
private sector in distribution, and good weather helped attain a record paddy
harvest. Industries, other than tree crop processing, benefited from the
removal of price controls and increased access to imported raw materials and
spare parts. Output of manufacturing industries rose by 8%, and electricity
consumption by 13%, in 1978. After an initial slow start, private investment
has also responded well to the reforms. This is partly reflected in the near
threefold increase in capital goods imports from US$83 million in 1977 to an
estimated US$230 million in 1978. Transport operators, in particular, have
rushed to modernize their antiquated fleets, resulting in sizable imports of
transport equipment. Others have taken advantage of accelerated depreciation
provisions to replace worn out machinery and equipment. Applications for new
investments have been encouraging. Public investment has also shown a major
increase in 1978, resulting in a total investment level of 12% of GNP.
17.       The removal of price controls on most manufactures, policy induced
price increases, and related wage increases contributed to the 16% inflation
rate in 1978. Money supply growth slackened, and the budget had a contrac-
tionary effect due to under-expenditure on capital account. Interest rate
reform ensured positive real interest rates, contributing to a shift in asset
preferences and easing the task of managing the balance of payments. The
Central Bank estimates total employment in the public sector and the formal
private sector to have increased by 102,000 in 1978 as against 40,000 in 1977.
Unemployment in 1978 is estimated by the Central Bank to have been 900,000 or
16% of the total labor force.



-6-
18.       With import liberalization, merchandise imports in 1978 rose by
43% to US$1,024 million. Merchandise exports rose by 13% to US$844 million.
Thus, the current account deficit swung from a surplus of US$78 million in
1977 to a deficit of US$151 million in 1978. However, since aid disbursements
also rose sharply, net foreign exchange reserves rose by US$81 million in
1978. Gross foreign exchange reserves rose to US$398 million, or 4.5 months
of imports. Thus, despite import liberalization, Sri Lanka's balance of
payments remained well in control.  The exchange rate averaged Rs 15.60
US$1.00 during 1978, appreciating modestly against the dollar and depreciat-
ing against currencies of Sri Lanka's major trading partners.
19.       While the overall performance of the economy has been good, there
remain several underlying weaknesses, particularly the inadequacy of incen-
tives and the poor quality of management of the tea estates, severe managerial
problems in the State industrial corporations, shortages of skilled manpower
and inadequate construction capability. The Government is aware of these
weaknesses, and technical and financial assistance programs are in the pro-
cess of being developed to address some of these problems.
20.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. In this context, the Government attaches
the highest priority to three major programs: (i) Accelerated implemen-
tation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, by far the largest multi-
purpose river basin development ever undertaken in Sri Lanka; (ii) a 200
square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo under a newly constituted
Greater Colombo Economic Commission which has established the first Investment
Promotion Zone near Colombo's international airport, Katunayake, and approved
some 50 proposals involving a total investment of US$100 million by end-
December, 1978; and (iii) a housing and urban renewal program with its main
focus on the Colombo metropolitan region.
21.       Recognizing the enormous financial and manpower burden of these
schemes, the Government has, in consultation with the Bank, begun preparation
of a medium-term public investment program which will attempt to ensure con-
sistency between the multiple objectives of Government policy and the finan-
cial, administrative and manpower resources available for attaining those
objectives. An initial outline of the program, incorporating the capital
budget for 1979, was presented to the May/June 1979 Aid Group meeting. It
is seen as a rolling program, emphasizing the annual capital budget, and making
such adjustments in objectives and content as are deemed necessary by short-
term developments and opportunities that present themselves.
22.       The Government has identified three major policy objectives in the
medium term: (i) the creation of over one million new jobs between 1979 and
1983 to absorb the 630,000 expected additions to the labor force and make a
significant dent in the backlog of the unemployed; (ii) acceleration of eco-
nomic growth to 5.5% per annum; and (iii) structural improvement in the bal-
ance of payments through reduced dependence on tree crop exports and import
substitution in food. The program envisages a total public investment of
Rs 46 billion over the 1979-83 period (US$2,900 million), some 60% of total
(gross) investment. Investment is expected to average 24.5% of GNP in the



- 7 -
1979-83 period, as against 16% in the 1971-76 period. To enable this increase
to materialize, domestic savings are expected to average about 14% of GNP, a
substantial improvement over the 10.5% recorded in the 1971-75 period. The
program, however, relies heavily on a substantial increase in net external
inflows, which are estimated to average 11% of GNP throughout the period,
as against an average of 2.3% in the 1970-76 period. These external flows
will finance over two-thirds of the public investment program.
23.       The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority program against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastruc-
ture investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the
economy. The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond
to the economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment pro-
gram, and provide much of the short-term growth.
24.       Success in attaining the Government's medium-term development
objectives is dependent on: (i) further reforms to improve price and export
incentives and management in the public sector; and (ii) additional efforts
to mobilize domestic resources and address absorptive capacity constraints
such as manpower shortages and planning and implementation capability. How-
ever, success will ultimately be contingent on a well-designed program of
external financial and technical assistance. This is particularly because the
proposed increase in investment, together with the new import liberalization
policy will cause imports to grow much more rapidly than in the past. More-
over, Sri Lanka's terms of trade are expected to worsen over the medium term,
due in the main to an expected decline in real tea unit values, and an increase
in foodgrain and petroleum import costs. Thus, larger aid flows are needed
to ensure that an ambitious development program, with a strong rehabilitation
component, can be implemented within the framework of a liberalized import
regime. Such assistance will also help finance about two-thirds of the public
investment program. In this context, local cost financing will be needed to
support this effort, particularly in the early years, as domestic resource
mobilization efforts begin to gather momentum.
25.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the new policy envi-
ronment in Sri Lanka. Aid commitments in 1978 from members of the Sri Lanka
Aid Group totalled US$353 million, an increase of 57% over 1977. At the 15th
Meeting, held in Paris on May 31 and June 1, 1979, donors also expressed firm
support for the accelerated Mahaweli Program. Excluding indications for the
Mahaweli Program, total aid indications at the 1979 Aid Group Meeting were
US$387 million, an increase of 9.6% over 1978 commitments. Several important
donors (i.e., Austria, Canada, India and the U.K.) did not provide any indi-
cations at the 1979 Meeting for reasons unrelated to development in Sri Lanka,
but most donors announced commitments later in the year. The grant element
of aid commitments is currently around 63% and is expected to improve further.
The debt service ratio in 1978 stood at 10.0%, declining from 15.0% in 1977,
due to improved export earnings and the decline in outstanding short- and
medium-term borrowings. The ratio dropped further to 9.0% in 1979.



- 8 -
PART II - THE AGRICULTURAL AND IRRIGATION SECTORS
The Agricultural Sector
26.       Agriculture remains of central importance to the economic develop-
ment of Sri Lanka. It contributes directly about one-third of GDP, half of
total employment, 80% of export earnings and a substantial share of Govern-
ment revenues. Much of the activity in the manufacturing, transport and
service sectors is also dependent on agriculture, either in relation to the
supply of inputs or the processing of agricultural output. It follows, there-
fore, that the mixed performance of the agricultural sector in recent years
has substantially affected overall economic performance. Thus, a primary aim
of the economic reforms introduced by the present Government (paragraph 15)
has been to restore dynamism to the agricultural sector, and, while it is too
early to judge the full effects of these reforms, encouragement can be derived
from the record 1978 paddy harvest.
27.       There is undoubtedly considerable potential for accelerating agri-
cultural growth rates. Sri Lanka's climate is suitable for year-round cul-
tivation and the variations in precipitation, topography, temperature and
soils make it possible to grow a wide range of crops.
28.       Development has been concentrated in the wet and intermediate zones
which lie in the southwest of the island. These zones account for only a
third of Sri Lanka's surface area, but contain some two thirds of the popula-
tion, virtually all the tea and rubber, 50% of the paddy land and a substan-
tial proportion of the area under coconuts and miscellaneous field crops.
Agricultural growth in these areas must depend primarily on increasing the
productivity of already developed land. Low tree crop yields reflect in-
adequate past investment due to poor financial returns and uncertainty over
future ownership. The government is currently engaged in a major review of
the tea and rubber sectors which should lead to extensive rehabilitation and
diversification programs. Coconuts represent a more difficult problem, given
their wide dispersal under smallholder ownership. Nevertheless, considerable
potential exists both for higher yields and intercropping. Further inten-
sification on paddy land (already at 170%) is closely related to improvements
in water control and drainage and the removal of significant farm power and
marketing constraints.
29.       The dry zone--to the north and east of the island--is, with the ex-
ception of the Jaffna peninsula, fairly sparsely populated and underdeveloped,
despite a continuing process of migration and colonization. Permanent agricul-
ture accounts for less than 30% of about 6 M ac considered suitable for agri-
culture, with an additional 40% under subsistence-type chena ("slash and burn")
agriculture. Cultivation in the yala season is confined to the irrigated
areas, but, even in these areas, water and other constraints limit average
year-round intensities to about 110-120%. Very considerable potential exists,
therefore, both for increasing intensities on already developed land and for
expanding cultivated area. A total of some 1.5 M ac could probably ultimately
be brought under irrigation (compared to less than 0.7 M ac at present). The
balance of the available land will remain under rainfed conditions, but there
is scope for stabilizing chena agriculture, raising productivity and extending



- 9 -
agricultural production during the maha season. Paddy will continue to be the
dominant crop in irrigated areas, but the dry zone as a whole also represents
the main opportunity for diversifying into a wide range of field crops.
30.       The agricultural sector has, therefore, the potential for consid-
erable development and will continue to absorb most of the increase in
Sri Lanka's labor force. Over the last thirty years, the proportion of the
total population living in rural areas has, in fact, declined only modestly.
While income distribution data need to be treated with considerable caution,
they suggest not only that rural-urban income differentials have narrowed, but
also that there has been a significant reduction of inequality within the
rural community. These effects reflect in part the depressed levels of
economic activity in the urban and estate sectors.  However, they are also due
to such factors as a shift in the terms of trade in favor of agriculture, the
impact of land reform, and the spread of education, health and food subsidy
programs throughout the country. While there is considerable rural poverty in
Sri Lanka, these factors--together with underutilized land resources in the
dry zone--should ensure that rural inequality does not reach the extremes
witnessed in neighboring South Asian countries. The challenge will be to
increase rural productivity on a broad front with special emphasis on the
smallholder sector.
31.       The Government is attempting to improve the performance of the agri-
cultural sector in order to provide for increased employment, incomes, export
earnings and food self-sufficiency, while building on the social and related
achievements of past decades. The Government's strategy has emphasized better
utilization of the existing potential through institutional and policy im-
provements as well as rehabilitation of the productive base. Among the
policies and programs that have been given high priority are: (i) establish-
ment of appropriate price incentives for the producer; (ii) strengthening of
agricultural support services such as research, extension, credit, farm power
and fertilizer distribution; (iii) improvements in water management; (iv)
improvements in the management of state-controlled lands; and (v) programs to
rehabilitate plantation crops and improve the living conditions of plantation
labor. Given adequate attention to implementation problems, the Government's
agricultural growth target for the next five years (4.5% per year) appears to
be attainable. For the longer-term, and to balance this emphasis on quick-
yielding programs and policies, the Government is accelerating the expansion
of irrigated agriculture in the dry zone through the Mahaweli Ganga Develop-
ment Program (paragraphs 39-41) and a replanting/rehabilitation program in
the tree crop sector.
The Irrigation Sector
32.       Irrigation in Sri Lanka has a history dating back to at least the
5th century B.C. Ancient irrigation reached its zenith in the 12th cen-
tury A.D. and, though a number of the systems developed were gradually aban-
doned, many still form the basis for systems currently in use. At present,
about 900,000 ac throughout the island are irrigated (about 35% of the area
under field crops) and major efforts are being made to expand this area,
principally through the Mahaweli Program.



- 10 -
33.       Annual rainfall in the wet and intermediate zones ranges from about
1,600 mm to 4,000 mm and is fairly well distributed throughout the year.
Paddy can, therefore, be grown under rainfed conditions (not only in the maha
season, but in some areas in the yala season as well) and irrigation develop-
ment has primarily been limited to run-of-the river diversion . In contrast,
annual rainfall in the dry zone, ranging from 800 mm to 1,600 mm, is concen-
trated in the maha season and is subject to considerable year-to-year vari-
ability. Irrigation is, therefore, essential for cultivation in the yala
season and supplemental irrigation is also usually necessary for the main maha
crop. The dry zone accounts for almost 80% of the total irrigated area.
Existing schemes are based on storage tanks designed to provide supplemental
irrigation to the main crop, with residual water used for limited dry season
cropping. There are a total of about 180 schemes having a storage capacity
of 2,000 ac ft or more (irrigating nearly in total 400,000 ac) and large
numbers of smaller schemes. Traditionally, maintenance of these schemes has
been the responsibility of the farmers themselves, with only the major head-
works and main canals in the hands of the Government. Water is allowed to run
continuously, running from field-to-field with only limited development of
field level channels. Not only have most schemes deteriorated, but the
irrigation system itself is highly wasteful. With proper operation, improved
water management practices and the introduction of appropriate cropping
systems (in particular to diversify into crops other than paddy on the more
permeable soils) substantial increases in cropped areas could be attained with
existing water supplies. Therefore, under the ongoing Tank Irrigation Modern-
ization Project, the Bank Group is providing support for improved water
management.
34.       In addition to these smaller schemes, the Government has undertaken
or is implementing a number of multi-purpose water development projects, of
which the Mahaweli Program is the largest. The Mahaweli Program will place
substantial financial and manpower burdens on the Government, not only in
undertaking the physical works, but also in ensuring the effective settlement
of large numbers of farmers in the new project areas. During the late 1950s
and 1960s, settlers were usually admitted to the (much smaller) schemes prior
to land development and were left to do this work for themselves. The result
was a slow build-up in benefits, wasteful use of water and high dropout rates,
aggravated by inadequate supporting services, inappropriate settler selection,
insecure tenure and poor management. Under the Mahaweli Program, appropriate
settler selection procedures, suitable settlement infrastructure and improved
planning of support services are being provided. This should help sustain
agricultural development and at the same time help reduce regional imbalances
in the Sri Lankan economy.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
35.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$73.4 million (net of cancellations)
and eighteen credits totalling US$215.2 million (net of cancellations and
exchange adjustments) in support of 26 projects. About 52% of Bank Group



- 11 -
assistance has been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy
development), 20% for power, and the remainder for development finance com-
pany operations, highways, a program credit (mainly involving the import of
raw materials for industry), water supply, and small and medium industries.
Eight loans and seven credits (including cancellations) have been fully
disbursed so far. During FY79, IDA credits for a total of US$68.0 million
were approved for a Rural Development Project, Road Maintenance Project,
National Extension and Adaptive Research Project, and a Small and Medium
Industries Project. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations as of November 30, 1979, together with notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
36.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in the
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon and an IFC non-revolving line of
credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon for on-lending
to private small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises were approved in
FY78. IFC also approved an investment of US$3.32 million in a synthetic
textile mill, and US$986,000 in a polypropylene bag manufacturing plant in
FY79. An investment of US$3.25 million to the Pearl Textile Mills, Ltd.
(Ceylon) was approved by IFC's Board of Directors in 1970, but cancelled the
same year because Government approval for the project was withdrawn.
37.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, in-
comes and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects
to support industry and basic infrastructure are also included. In addition
to providing financing for the ongoing Mahaweli Ganga Development Project,
the Bank Group is assisting the Government of Sri Lanka in accelerating
the implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program principally
through the coordination of external assistance for project preparation and
implementation. It is expected that significant investment opportunities for
IDA and other Aid Group members will flow from this effort. Projects in water
supply and sewerage, rubber rehabilitation, road transport, rural development,
and telecommunications also are being prepared for possible IDA financing.
38.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 10.3% (IBRD, 3.3%; IDA, 7.0%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (almost totally
Bank) of debt service.  It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total
external debt will increase to 16% by 1985 (with the Bank's share declining
to 0.7%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline
to about 4.4% by 1985.
PART IV - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The Mahaweli Ganga Development Program
39.       The basic concept underlying the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program
stems from the need to overcome two major problems which Sri Lanka faces:
(i) unemployment, and (ii) excessive imports of agricultural products,



- 12 -
particularly rice. During the construction phase, the Program will provide
employment for tens of thousands of people. After construction, about 225,000
farmer families will be settled, and over a million people will be gainfully
employed in agricultural and allied pursuits. The output of these people
will significantly reduce the need to import rice, wheat flour, sugar and
other food items, for which the foreign exchange bill was about Rs 4 billion
in 1978, or about 80% of the capital budget for the year.
40.       The Program is based on a Master Plan prepared jointly by a UNDP/FAO
team and Sri Lanka engineers in 1965-68 (see Map). The Plan envisaged develop-
ment of about 900,000 ac of irrigable land in the dry zone, as well as about
500 MW of hydro-power. It was divided into three phases, each including
several projects, for stepwise implementation over a 30-year period.
41.       With Bank Group financial assistance, the initial construction of
the Program began in 1970 (Loan No. 653 and Credit No. 174-CE) on transbasin
diversion headworks at Polgolla on the Mahaweli Ganga and at Bowatenna on the
Amban Ganga, including a 40 MW hydro-power plant at Polgolla. Delays early
in the construction were due mainly to a change in Government, civil distur-
bances, foundation problems at the Polgolla power house, tunnelling problems
at Bowatenna, and slowness in awarding contracts for the Bowatenna diversion
dam. After overcoming these problems, the construction progressed satisfac-
torily and the project was completed in 1978. The project provides an improved
water supply to about 130,000 ac of existing irrigated land and a full irriga-
tion supply to about 100,000 ac of new land. Under the second IDA credit
(Credit No. 701-CE), in collaboration with Canada, the Netherlands, U.K. and
U.S., work is underway on the development of irrigation systems, construction
of new villages and towns on about 70,000 ac of this aforementioned new land
(the Government undertook development of the remaining 30,000 ac), settlement,
and on improving agricultural extension and support services. Under this
second project, attention has been given to agricultural extension and research,
land development, settlement and social infrastructure. Good progress in
these areas has been made to date.
The Acceleration of the Mahaweli Program
42.       Late in 1977, the Government realized that, at the current rate of
construction and population growth, the Program would not have much impact on
the country's economy in terms of meeting existing serious food shortage and
unemployment problems. General agreement on the desirability of accelerating
the Program was reached between the Government and the Association in December
1977. In response to the Government's request, the Association undertook to
help mobilize international financial support for the Program and to advise on
the scope of the studies and investigations required to carry it out. Follow-
ing the Association's advice, an Implementation Strategy Study was carried out
by Netherlands-financed consultants (NEDECO) to: (i) review and reevaluate
the UNDP/FAO Master Plan and each of the separate projects; (ii) examine the
implications of various alternative phasings of the feasible projects; and
(iii) recommend a specific action plan taking into account technical, financial,
economic, institutional and manpower constraints. The Association also agreed



- 13 -
that, in light of the urgency of the Program, the study need not hold up pro-
gress of the ongoing physical work and should, in fact, proceed simultaneously
with the execution of readily implementable projects for which technical and
economic viability had been clearly established.
43.       In March 1978, as Executing Agency of the UNDP-financed Multi-Sector
Program of Project Preparation, the Association engaged a French engineering
consulting firm, SOGREAH, to serve as a liaison between the Government and the
Association and to act as general consultants to provide technical assistance
to the Government of Sri Lanka in carrying out services related to the
planning and preparation of final designs, specifications, and tender docu-
ments of projects included in the Program.
44.       After a review of available financial resources, construction capa-
bilities and trained technical personnel, the Government decided to accelerate
the construction of five major projects, comprising five dams and hydropower
plants with an installed capacity of about 600 MW, and development of about
290,000 ac of new lands. During the early months of 1978, the Government
consulted with the Association and contacted several prospective donor coun-
tries for assistance in the preparation of the five projects. Expressions
of interest were received from the following: (i) Victoria Project-U.K.;
(ii) Maduru Oya Project-Canada; (iii) Kotmale Project-Sweden; and (iv) Ran-
denigala Project-Germany. Japan agreed to finance a feasibility study of
the Moragahakanda Project.
45.       Other possible external assistance included an expression of
interest by the Government of Canada to finance feasibility studies of some
of the other projects in the Program. The U.S. indicated interest in provid-
ing financing for downstream development (the irrigation system, on-farm
development and social infrastructure) of the Maduru Oya Project (System B).
The U.S. also is financing an in-depth study of the impact of the accelerated
Program on the environment. The Asian Development Bank recently approved a
grant of US$98,000 to assist in the planning of roads in the Mahaweli area.
46.       NEDECO's Final Report was completed in August 1979, several months
after bilateral-financed consultants had started feasibility studies of four
of the major projects. NEDECO's findings differed significantly from the
UNDP/FAO Master Plan--in part due to updated information and in part due to
the use of more advanced analytical techniques and assumptions, (e.g. with
regard to water availability, water requirements, regulation capability of
the reservoir system, and alternative water conveyance systems). Two of the
significant NEDECO findings were:
(a) the Victoria, Maduru Oya and Kotmale reservoirs together
can supply enough water to fully irrigate existing irrigated
lands and the new areas proposed for development under the
accelerated Program, thus permitting the water developed by
the Randenigala and Moragahakanda reservoirs (and several
small reservoirs) to irrigate lands elsewhere in the North
Central River Basins (NCRB) or the Northwest or Southeast
Dry Zones; and



- 14 -
(b)  if surplus Mahaweli water is to be diverted to the NCRB area,
a different plan can be developed for conveying the water
northward which would substantially lower the cost as compared
with the conveyance system proposed under the UNDP/FAO Master
Plan.
The Requirements for Technical Assistance
47.        In view of (i) NEDECO's findings, and (ii) the Government's desire
to construct the Randenigala and Moragahakanda Projects as soon as feasibility
can be established, there is an immediate need to carry out studies of a
transbasin diversion plan. The determination of the area to which the water
from these two Projects is to be diverted and utilized has become an urgent
priority.  There is also a need to carry out pr mptly the preparation of final
designs and tender documents for the developmen[ of the downstream works (irri-
gation and social infrastructure) in the command area to be served by the
Victoria Project (System C), since the construction of the Victoria Project
is expected to begin in early 1980 and the ongoing study carried out by the
Government (assisted by its consultants, Hunting Technical Services, Ltd.) is
only a feasibility-grade study of the area. By end 1984, when the headworks
for the Victoria Project are expected to be completed, the downstream develop-
ment for the Project should be in place so as to maximize benefits from the
investment. The Government does not have the capability to carry out these
studies due to the full commitment of its experienced engineering and tech-
nical staff to other ongoing works.
48.       While the UNDP and bilateral agencies are expected to continue to
provide Sri Lanka with financing for technical assistance, the level of need
for the proposed technical assistance project is beyond that which can be
expected from these external sources over the next two years, particularly
because of the financial constraints under which these sources will be operat-
ting during this period. Thus, the proposed project is intended to provide
the Government with additional technical assistance funds at the amount
required for an expeditious implementation of the Mahaweli Program.
49.       At the Government's request, the proposed technical assistance
project was identified jointly by the Government of Sri Lanka and the Associa-
tion. It was prepared by the Government with IDA assistance. A mission
visited Sri Lanka in November 1979 to discuss the project and the draft terms
of reference of technical assistance prepared by IDA. A Staff Appraisal
Report was not required. Negotiations were held in Colombo, Sri Lanka, on
December 27, 1979. The Borrower's delegation was led by Mr. S. Velayutham,
Director, External Resources Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning.
A timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of
the credits are given in Annex III.



- 15 -
PART V - THE PROJECT
Project Description
50.       The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
accelerate the implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program. It
would provide consultants' services (including training) and vehicles, equip-
ment and supplies to the Government for: (i) preparation of a reconnaissance-
level study of plans for conveying and utilizing surplus Mahaweli Ganga water
to develop land in any of three alternative areas (or any combination of them)
in order to select the best plan for a transbasin diversion project; (ii) on-
going review of designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Canal, and the
preparation of final designs and tender documents for construction of civil
works and social infrastructures (e.g., village and township centers and roads)
in Zones 3 to 6 of System C (Zone 1 is for the most part already developed and
Zone 2 will be undertaken by Government with its own resources); and (iii)
support of other studies and designs of projects in the Mahaweli Program to be
undertaken by the Mahaweli Development Authority (MDA) during implementation
of the Program. Training of local staff is included in all the above studies.
The proposed project would be carried out over two-year period beginning in
early 1980.
51.       Study of Transbasin Diversion Plans.  The study would investigate
at reconnaissance level alternative plans for conveying and utilizing surplus
water of the Mahaweli Ganga, together with local inflows, to irrigate selected
areas in the North Central River Basins (NCRB) and/or the Northwest or South-
east Dry Zones. The study would recommend the best plan, both technically
and economically, including the determination of which subprojects should be
developed under the selected plan and integrated into the Mahaweli Program.
Also included in the study would be the preparation of terms of reference for
feasibility studies for the selected plan and related subprojects.  The period
of the study would be about 15 months.
52.       Right Bank Canal and System C.  The Government has requested IDA
to finance: (i) the construction of all but the first 3 km of the Right Bank
Canal, a transbasin canal connecting the Mahaweli Ganga at Minipi with the
Ulhitiya and Ratkinda reservoirs lending on to System C; and (ii) the devel-
opment of Zones 3 to 6 of System C of the accelerated Mahaweli Program,
comprising about 46,000 ac of net irrigable area. The Association has agreed
to consider this request, and appraisal of such a project is tentatively
planned for March 1980, by which time, the final feasibility report presently
being prepared by U.K. consultants (Hunting Technical Services, Ltd.),
financed by the Government, should be available. Prior to the appraisal,
however, the Government's designs and tender documents for the Right Bank
Canal should be reviewed, and the preparation of final designs of the irri-
gation and drainage systems and social infrastructure in System C, together
with the preparation of tender documents, should be started so that the
designs and cost estimates would be well advanced before the project is
presented to the Executive Directors for approval. As Hunting Technical
Services, Ltd., has performed to date to the complete satisfaction of the



- 16 -
it is the Government's wish and intention that the firm carry out this addi-
tional work. Thus, in early December 1979, the Government engaged the firm
to initiate the work (review of Right Bank Canal documents), based on proce-
dures and documentation satisfactory to IDA, for which retroactive financing
is recommended: (paragraph 57). Under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, the Government intends to further engage the firm to carry out
the preparation of final designs and tender documents for System C (Zones 3
to 6). The implementation period for the work would be about 15 months.
53.       Support for Other Studies and Designs.  It has been the experience
during the last two years that consulting services for unforeseen but important
studies and designs, such as geophysical studies of dam sites and tunnel and
main canal alignments, hydraulic model studies of spillways and irrigation
outlets, and testing of foundation and construction materials, and other
detailed planning and designs are often required to be carried out during
the preparation and implementation of projects in the accelerated Mahaweli
Program. Fortunately, during these two years, the UNDP-financed Multi-Sector
Program of Project Preparation (paragraph 43) could make funds available to
immediately carry out the required work vital to the progress of these projects.
This UNDP Program, however, will be terminated in June 1980. Thus, given the
limitations in UNDP resources and other outside assistance, the Government has
asked IDA to provide funds (in this proposed project) in support of the Maha-
weli Program until about March 1982. Terms of reference and contracts for
these studies and designs would be agreed between the Government and the
Association.
54.       Training.  It was agreed that, under their terms of reference,
the consultants would give training to the local personnel engaged in the
work, either counterpart personnel provided by the Government to the consul-
tants or local personnel directly hired by the consultants. Under a program
agreed with the Association, the training may include on-the-job training,
classroom teaching, seminars or symposia, and, for the counterpart personnel
provided by the Government, training on specific or specialized subjects
abroad. The consultants and the Association would assist the Government
in making arrangements for the training abroad.
Organization and Management
55.       The consultants would work directly under the MDA, created in early
1979. The Authority is the chief implementing agency for the Mahaweli Program,
and all finances for the Program are funded by the Authority and allocated to
the executing agencies. The Authority has the powers of direction and control
of all government and semi-government institutions involved in the Program,
and all policy decisions are taken by the Authority. The Authority is headed
by a Director-General and is controlled by a Board consisting of three members
nominated by the Minister of Mahaweli Development with concurrence by the
President. The Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Planning and the
Secretary of the Ministry of Mahaweli Development function as ex-officio
members of the Board. The MDA would be responsible for ensuring effective
coordination of the various government ministries and executing agencies
concerned. The Association staff would provide assistance to the Government
in supervising the work of the consultants.



Project Cost
56.       The estimated cost of the project would total about US$6.0 M, 70%
of which would be foreign exchange and 30% local currency. It would include
US$3.9 M for consultants' services, US$1.0 M for the Government's contribu-
tion to the project (mainly for counterpart staff, offices and houses for
consultants' personnel), US$0.5 M for vehicles, equipment and supplies,
US$0.1 M for training of local staff, and US$0.5 M in contingencies.  The
project would be exempted from all taxes and duties. The consultants' cost
of US$3.9 M comprises about 370 man-months of expatriate professional personnel
(at an average cost of about US$9,000 per man-month), US$0.3 M for local staff
directly hired by consultants, and US$0.27 M of direct reimbursable costs
for items such as office expenses, operation and maintenance of vehicles
and equipment, communications and printing of reports. The man-month costs
of expatriate consultants estimated above include salaries, firms' overhead
and fees, international and local travel, subsistence and other allowances.
Financing
57.       The EEC Special Action Credit of US$2.0 M would finance consultants'
services for the ongoing review of the designs and tender documents for the
Right Bank Canal, and the preparation of final designs and tender documents for
System C (US$1.5 M), as well as vehicles, equipment and supplies for the entire
proposed technical assistance project (US$0.5 M). Retroactive financing up to
US$200,000 equivalent (dating back to December 1, 1979) is recommended for the
ongoing review of the Right Bank Canal documents. The IDA Development Credit
of US$3.0 M would finance the consultants' services for the study of a trans-
basin diversion project (US$1.5 M) and the other studies and designs of projects
under the Mahaweli Program (US$1.4 M), as well as the training for local staff
(US$0.1 M).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       The consultants for the transbasin diversion study and the other
studies and designs (including training) would be appointed in accordance with
the Bank Group's guidelines for selection of consultants. Further to the
Government's present contract with Hunting Technical Services, Ltd., for the
ongoing review of final designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Canal
of System C, the Government would negotiate a contract with the firm, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to prepare the final designs and
tender documents for Zones 3 to 6 of System C (including training). Since the
vehicles, equipment and supplies are urgently needed to start the consultants'
operations, they will be purchased by the consultants, on behalf of the Gov-
ernment, through limited international tendering or direct off-the-shelf
purchase, as shall be agreed by the Association. Also, since these vehicles,
equipment and supplies will be financed by EEC Special Action Funds, their
procurement would be limited to EEC member states and developing countries
which are recipients of EEC Special Action Credits.
59.           The IDA funds would be disbursed against 100% of the total cost
of the consultants, whether foreign or local, and whether hired directly or
as subcontractors, for the transbasin diversion study, other studies and



- 18 -
designs and training. The'EEC Special Action funds would be disbursed against
100% of the total cost of the consultants for System C and all imported or
locally manufactured vehicles, equipment and supplies for the entire project.
For locally procured vehicles, equipment and supplies, disbursements would be
made againt 70% of the cost. Disbursements would be made agai.--t documentation
specified under the agreed contracts for: (i) the actual number of man-months
spent by the consultants during the conduct of their work; (ii) the costs of
travel and housing; (iii) the actual costs of vehicles, equipment and supplies;
and (iv) the actual other direct costs incurred under the project.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.            The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association, the draft EEC Special
Action Credit Agreement between the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka and the Association as Administrator of the EEC Special Action Account
established with funds contributed by the member states of the EEC, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. There are no special conditions of the Development Credit or
the EEC Special Action Credit.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the EEC Special
Action Credit would comply with the criteria established by the Agreement of
May 2, 1978, between the Association and the European Economic Community.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
IDA Development Credit and EEC Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 10, 1980



-19-                                      Anr._.  i
Page 1 of 6 pages
TAAL
__SRI LA_XA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
mVprSjqP  F (:R0tJ1PS (ADSJUSTPl) AVFRA(F
LANID AREA CTS(S"~~LL                         . _ .'.                                    /S
TOTAL                                                                              SAME     NEAT ,JwdCA
AGRICULTURAL                                         1T RECENT       GEUCRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
.190  /      170 t1 ESTIMTE Lb      REGION /C  GROUP Ld    GROUP /
GNP PER CAPITA (U'2                  7J0         -Li''    200.0           167.4      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PUR Lj.~FLKI'
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL F;1UL;ALNI)    10'.0         .G    127.0              65.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL FOPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        9.9        12.5      14.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9       22.0      25.2            12.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     151.0       191.')    213.0            85.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    507.0      518.0    579.0            322.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURIE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.5 /f     40.0      39.0            44.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        54.3 LE     56.0      57.0            52.9       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.2 /f      4.0       4.1             2.9        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATS (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.6         2.4       1.7             2.2        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             4.8         4.5       3.7             4.2        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    37.6        33.1      27.4            45.1       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    10.7         8.0       7.9            17.3       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.5         2.3       2.0             3.2        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TNOUSANDS)      ..        55.3    113.0                .          *        1
USERS (PERCF.IT OF MARRIED   EN)    ..        8.0       9.9            13.7       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA 11970-100)            86.6       100.0    109.1             95.6       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENTS)                    92.0       101.0      97.0            91.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)         45.0        50.0      48.0            49.6       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIKAL AND PULSE      15.0        16.0      15.0            12.6       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY KATE      ..                  16.8              ..         ..         7.5
1EALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEAS)    60.5        65.8      67.8            43.1       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          52.0        50.0      51.0            99.5      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAn WATER (PERCRNT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               -        21.0      19.0            30.0       26.4        31.1
URBAN                              .-        46.0      36.0            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..        14.0      13.0            17.2       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCINT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        64.0      59.0            15.7       16.1        37.5
URBUAN                             ..        76.0      68.0            66.9       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              ..        61.0      55.0             2.5        3.4        25.4
POPUIATION PER PYSICIN           4500.0          ..   4010.0           8830.8    13432.7      9559.2
POPULATION PE  NSII  PER"SN      4170.0      2730.0   2280.0           8479.3    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BDI
TOTAL                           330.0       330.0    330.0           1624.5    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                              *-       130.0    140.0               *-      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              ..       570.0    600.0               ..    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        54.0      51.3              *-       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.47        5          ..              ..        5.2
URBAN                                  f 6 .3                                      4.8
RURAL                             5.271       5.5        ..              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.07/       2.5
URBA                              2.1         2.7                       :..        1.          2.3
RURAL                             2.0         2.5
ACCESS TO ELtCTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             7.511       9.0        ..              ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                            35.9 7      34.5        ..
RURAL                             2.3 7f      2.8        ..              ..        S.7        10.3



- so -
Annex I
TABLE JA                                     Page  2  of  6 pages
SRI IANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SRI LANKA                                               /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        99.0       77.0             59.1       62.9         75.8
FEMALE                90.0        94.0      77.0             38.4        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 27.0        51.0       54.0             19.9       14.4         17.7
FEMALE                16.0        51.0      55.0              9.9         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..           1.0       1.0              1.5        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0           ..      22.0             38.2       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                            ..           ..        ..             23.5       19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         77.6      78.1             35.6       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8.0          7.0       6.7              2.2        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         36.0           ..      37.0             14.9       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..               ..        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  36.0         49.0        ..              6.4        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            ..       3.9               ..        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3500.0 Jt  4100.0    4707.0
PEMALE (PERCENT)                   22.6        23.7       28.5             21.3       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.3        52.0       55.0             62.8       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.5        14.4         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                34.3         33.5      34.6             35.8       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 50.8         49.2      48.2             52.4       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               16.2         16.5      20.3             15.6       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.4       1.2              1.3         1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.4          18.8      18.6             18.6       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  52.1          45.6      42.8             42.8       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5           7.4       7.3              7.3        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.7          17.9      19.3             19.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      68.0             80.2       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      76.0             67.2       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..                   59.0             39.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      26.0             50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      22.0             44.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unitorm.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  1963.
September, 1978



Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                         Page    3  of    6    pages
iNU    Thr ad)uuted group averages for each indicator are populationm-eightad geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
pauiafa'd !a aerr  IS  each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is cot uniform.  Due to lack of data,
a ,.aaLt 2 Surplus Oil Euportera and indicators of access to water and excrete dispos-l, h-o.sis, Income distribution and poverty are
. ,- ceometric means without the exclusion of extreme velcer.
' _.,, ,. Io, and rural - Population (total,
-    . o=prisiog laud area and inland waters.                            and r a        ll;    l by thand  respective snhber of hospital beds
-                -     'c-t estimate of agricultural area used temporarily               iveilahic it pubili'  and private general and spec-alized hospital and re-
-rcps, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitoti-a cectors   hospitult    ore establishmentn permanently staffed by
at mos onet.. phynliixo. Etstblishnrnrs providing principally custodial
caro arc nor includod.  Rural hospitals, how.ever, include health and medi-
C!PPrrR  r:i"rmi (r5) - SGNP per capita estia ates at current market prices,                  cal centers not pernanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
alcacir  hr bysame conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 bais);                  sistant, nuose, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomadtian and
1960, l9'0, cd 1977 data.                                                                 provide a linited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospEtol bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSlDOPTION PER CAPITA - Anual consumption of commercial energy                       fros hospitals divided by the nuhber of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average sie of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals wto share living quarter.
To.ta  l  gp- otinr. mid-year (milliosn) - As of July 1; if not available,                   and their main meals.   A boarder or lodger may ot may not be included is
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                             the household for statistical purposes.   Statistical definitions of house-
Urban I1L,4atie  (Percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
ties; diffe-ee- definitions of urhas areas may affect comparability                     Av-rage nunber ofp_eosos er reo= -            total, urban, and rural - Average mum-
of drta a-rneg ceontrios                                                                  ber of persona pee roo  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Populatico density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude aon-Fermanent structures and
Per so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per  q. k. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters ao  percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yeart), working-age
(15-64 years), ano retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                ERUCATION
year ppoulation.                                                                      Adjusted enrollrent retics
Populatiro  growth rare (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - tctal, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of tatal and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary schoal-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 yearn but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (putr thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year pcpulati-s; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since same pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 fsr most recent estimate.                       above the official schocl ag.e
Crude death rate (por thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; tin-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instructisn; pro-
and five-year ave-age ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides ge*erol vocational, or teacher training in-tructions for pupils
Gross reproduction  te     - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal oep-oductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertilit1 rates; unually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enroLlment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions  in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial., or other programs ubich operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
aceeptors of birtt-control devices under auspices of natianal family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and oscondary levels divided by numbers cf teachers in the carre-
Family ploncioc - users (percent of married woman) - Percentage cf                          npoxding lvels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (Percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
doice  to all manied women in same age group,                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 yearm  and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMiPTION
Index of food production per capita (19705100) - Index number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger crs comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all foed commodities,                                       seating less than eight person.; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requiremants) - Computed fron                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic prsduction, imports le.s                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
esporto, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registrrtios of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; dato for recent years may met be comparable since most countries
qUirements werm estimated by PAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    poblic per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                        tries and in years when registration  of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation  (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tin  of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements far all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appearn at least four tines a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mebile
23 frame of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply free animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               ERPLOYMENT
derived froe animals and pulses in grama per day.                                      Total labor force (thounancd) - E-coomically active persons, including armed
Child (aies 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and une-plo-ed but oxclaupdinF  touswls, stedents, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tions in various  -ountries a.e cOt insparable.
PFeale (perceer) - Fe.ute lahor fr-e as pyr-entage ef total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force io facring, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in niming, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under              -    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 female labor force as percenteges of their respective populatinos.
Access to safe water (percent of popslation) - total, urban. and rural -                     These a-  ILO's adio-ted participation rates reflecting age-sen
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       str-ucr   of the P-plpori-zn.  -nd long rime tred.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or ustreated but                    icnomic dpplatio  und   15 aod 61 and o                                               t
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group  of 15-64 pyesrt
and eanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters free a house may be considered as being within re.-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                       of househs1ds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family't
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to .ecrata disposal (Percent of PoPulation) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absolute Poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                         Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Eereta                           nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatment, of human excrete and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estimated relatioe poverty Income lene  (00$ pee capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty income level Is that income level less than one-third
Population per phYsician - PFpulation divided by .sober of practicing                        per capita peruo.al income  f the coutry.
physicians qualified from  a medical school at university level.                       ttimated population below Poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural 
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population     (urbon and rural) who are either "absolute poore  or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative  poor" wihever is gr         raltr.
ass istant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Eccuomic Analysis and Projections Department



-22-                         ~~~~~~Annex i
-  22  -                         Page 4 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
E C O N O M I C    D E V E L O P M E N T    D A T A    S H E E T S
A C T U A L                        EST.
1965        1970        1976        1977        1978
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (1)
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT   1975  PRICES)
GROSS DOMESTIC PROOUCT                  1783.0      2354.0      2747.3      2811.4       3020.7
GAINS FROM TERMS OF TRADE                539.7       242.2        185.1       413.4       362.6
GROSS DOMESTIC INCOME                   2322.7      2596.2      2932.4      3224-8       3383.3
IMPORTS                                 1189.8      1017.3       913.5       999.3       1272.8
EXPORTS - VOLUME                        -670.2      -662.9      -660.5      -694.5       -754.8
EXPORTS - TT. ADJUSTED                 -1209.9      -905.i      -845.6    -1107.9    -1117.4
RESOURCE GAP - TT. ADJUSTED              -20.1       112.1        67.9       -108.6       155.4
TOTAL CONSUMPTION                       2055.9      2239.0      2563.6      2648.2       2891.1
INVESTMENT                               246.8       469.4       436.8       468.0        647.6
NATIONAL SAVINGS                         244.3       297.9       350.7       570.6        511.1
DOMESTIC SAVINGS                         266.9       357.3       368.9       576.6        492.3
GOP AT CURRENT US5                      1686.6      1870.6      2424.2      2821.3       2546.3
SECTOR OUTPUT
(SHARE OF GDP AT   1975  PRICES)
AGRICULTURE                              0.444       0.422       0.376       0.387        0.384
INDUSTRY                               0171         0.211       0.217       0.201       0.202
SERVICES                                 0.385       0.367       0.407       0.412        0.415
PRICES (  1975  - 1001
EXPORT PRICE INDEX                       65.65       56.86       95.16       119.13      125.63
IMPORT PRICE INDEX                       36.37       41.64       74.33       74.67       84.86
TERMS OF TRADE INDEX                    180.52      136.55      128.02       159.53      148.05
GOP DEFLATOR (US$)                       94-59       79.47       88.24       100.35       84.30
ANNUAL AVERAGE EXCHAN6E RATE              4.76        6.85       10.88        11.06
Growth Rates          1976
SHARE
1965             OF
1977            GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (1)
(MILIIONS OF US$ AT   1975  PRICES)
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                     3.9            X00.0
GAINS FROM TERMS OF TRADE                                   6.7
GROSS DOMESTIC INCOME                      2.8            106.7
IMPORTS                                   -1.4             33.3
EXPORTS - VOLUME                           0.3             24.0
EXPORTS - TT. ADJUSTED                    -0.7             30.8
RESOURCE GAP - TT. ADJUSTED                                 2.5
TOTAL CONSUMPTION                          2.1             93.3
INVESTMENT                                 5.5             15.9
NAIIONAL SAVINGS                           7.3             12.8
DOMESTIC SAVINGS                           6.6             13.4
GDP AT CURRENT US$                         4.4
PRICES (  1975   = 100)
EXPORT PRICE INDEX _5.
EXPORT PPICE INDEX                         5.1
IMPORT PRICE INDEX                         6.2
TERMS OF TRADE INDEX                      -1.0
GOP DEFLATOR (US$)                         0.5
SELECTED INDICATORS                     1965-77
ICOR                                      4.37
IMPORT ELASTICITY                        -0.39
AVERAGE NATIONAL SAVINGS RATE             0. 1i
MARGINAL NATIONAL SAVINGS RATE            0.32
IMPORTS/GDP                               0.44
INVESTMENT/GDP                            0. 16
RESOURCE GAP/GDP                          0.04
(1) COMPONENTS MAY NOT ADD UP BECAUSE OF ROUNDING



- 23 -                                         Annex I
Page 5 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
1973        1974         1975        1976         1977        1978
A C T U A L                              E S T.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
1.  EXPORTS (INCLUDING NFS)                424.3       570.4        628.2       628.5        827.3        948.2
2.  IMPORTS (INCLUDING NFS)                445.3        731.7       798.8        679.0       746.2       1080.1
3.  RESOURCE BALANCE                       -21.0       -161.3      -170.6        -50.5        81.1       -131.9
4.  NET FACTOR SERVICE INCOME              -17.3        -16.6       -18.4        -20.1       -15.0        -11.0
.1 NET INTEREST PAYMENTS                  -14.7       -14.7        -15.9       -18.6        -14.0        -10.0
OF WHICH ON PUB M&LT LOANS             -15.5       -16.5        -20.6       -23.1        -22.1       -22.8
.2 DIRECT INVESTMENT INCOME                -2.7        -2.0         -2.4        -1.5         -1.1         -1.2
.3 WORKERS REMITTANCES (NET)                 .0           .0          .0           .0           .0          .0
5.  CURRENT TRANSFERS (NET)                    .2         -.2          2.8         6.6         10.5        27.1
6.  BALANCE ON CURRENT ACCOUNT             -38.1       -178.1      -186.2        -64.0        76.6       -115.8
7.  PRIVATE DIRECT INVESTMENT                  .5         1.3          -.2          .0          -.3         2.0
8.  GRANTS & GRANT-LIKE FLOWS                13.0        42.0        77.0         58.0        60.8         57.9
PUBLIC M&LT LOANS
9.  DISBURSEMENTS                           83.8        146.3       157.4        210.4       150.1        260.7
10. AMORTIZATION                           -39.1        -52.4      -117.7      -103.8       -101.9        -72.1
11. NET DISBURSEMENTS                       44.7        93.8         39.7        106.7        48.2        188.6
OTHER M&LT LOANS
12. DISBURSEMENTS                              .0          .0           .0          .0           .0          .0
13. AMORTIZATION                               .0          .0           .0          .0           .0          -0
14. NET DISBURSEMENTS                          .0          .0           .0          .0           .0          .0
15. USE OF IMF RESOURCES                    -1.4         33.3        27.9         11.1        46.9           .0
16. SHORT-TERM CAPITAL
TRANSACTIONS                            -9.8        13.2         -2.8       -22.6          6.5        -3.0
17. CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS NEI                28.2        62.3        -12.0        -31.8       -56.9        -35.8
18. CHANGE IN RESERVES
(- = INCREASE)                        -37.1         56.8        56.6        -57.4      -183.0        -94.0
19. NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE   (1)
RESERVES (END OF PERIOD)               -11.0       -67.8      -124.4        -67.0        116.0       210.0
GRANT AND LOANS COMMITMENTS (US$ Million)
1.  OFFICIAL GRANTS                         21.1        37.0         76.0         53.1       104.3        123.7
2.  TOTAL PUBLIC M&LT LOANS                 92.1        233.1       285.8        221.8        167.6       324.9
.1 IBRD                                      .0           .0          .0           .0          .0           .0
.2 IDA                                      6.0        24.0         29.5           .0        41.2         25.5
.3 OTHER MULTILATERAL                       2.8         2.5         30.0          8.1        49.7         83.2
.4 GOVERNMENTS                             58.4        72.9        196.6       140.9         69.7        192.8
.5 OF WHICH CENTRALLY PLANNED
ECONOMIES (2)                            2.6        21.4         56.1         4.2          1.7         10.0
.6 SUPPLIERS                               25.0       133.6         29.7        72.7          7.0         23.4
.7 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                    .0           .0           .0          .0           .0          .0
.8 BONDS                                     .0           .0          .0           .0           .0          .0
.9 PUBLIC LOANS NEI                          .0           .0          .0           .0           .0          .0
3.  OTHER M&LT LOANS (WHERE
AVAILABLE)                                .0           .0          .0           .0          .0           .0
MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. GRANT ELEMENT OF TOTAL
COMMITMENTS                          45.000       27.100       55.700      39.800       64.400      62.686
2.  AVERAGE INTEREST RATE                    .037        .051         .029        .040         .021        .024
7.  AVERAGE MATURITY (YEARS)              23.700       13.600      28.800       20.500      35.400       29.529
1/ NEI FOREIGN ASSETS: US$ EQUIVALENT OF LINE 31. IFS.
2/ INCLUDES CMEA COUNTRIES, PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA. NORTH
KOREA, NORTH VIETNAM.
DATE OF LATEST UPDATE 05/04/79



- 24 -                                    Annex I
SRI LANKA                        Page 6 of 6 pages
D E B T    A N D    C R E D I T W O R T H I N E S S
1973       1974        1975        1976        1977        1978
A C T U A L                           E S T.
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
TOTAL DEBT OUTSTANDING (DOD
END OF PERIOD)                        484.8       587.3       598.0       702.3       787.0       974.5
INCLUDING UNDISBURSED                    680.1      875.7       997,0      1103.8      1217.9      1428.1
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE                      -54.6       -68.9      -138.4     -126.8      -124.0       -94.9
INTEREST                              -15.5       -16.5       -20.6       -23.1       -22.1       -22.8
OTHER M&LT DEBT SERVICE                     .0          .0          .0          .0          .0         .0
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                       -54.6       -68.9     -138.4      -126.8      -124.0       -94.9
DEBT BURDEN
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                        12.9        12.1        22.0       20.2        15.0        10.0
DEBT SERVICE RATIO (1)                    13.5        12.4       22.4        20.4        15.1        10.1
DEBT SERVICE/GDP                           2.7         2.7         5.2        5.2         4.4         3.7
PUB. DEBT SERVICE/GOV. REVENUE            15.7        10.0        19.0       20.0        23.5        14.7
TERMS
INT. ON TOTAL DOD/TOTAL DOD                3.2         2.8        3.4         3.3         2.8         2.3
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL DOD              11.3        11.7       23.1        18.1        15.8         9.7
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT
GROSS DISB./IMPORTS (INCL.NFS)            18.8        20.0        19.7       31.0        20.1        24.1
NET TRANSFER/IMPORTS(INCL.NFS)             6.6        10.6         2.4        12.3        3.5        15.4
NET TRANSFER/GROSS DISB.                  34.9        52.9        12.1       39.7        17.4        63.6
EXPOSURE
IBRD DISB./GROSS TOTAL DISB.               6.5         3.4        3.6          1.6        1.3          .7
BANK GROUP DISB./GROSS TOTAL
DISBURSEMENTS                           12.4        10.9        12.2        4.0         8.7         5.6
IBRD DOD/TOTAL DOD                         6.6         5.8        6.1         5.1         4.4         3.3
BANK GROUP DOD/TOTAL DOD                   9.5        10.0        12.5        11.3       11.3        10.3
IBRD DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL DEBT
SERVICE                                  8.0         7.4        4.0         4.7         4.9         6.1
BANK GROUP DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL
DEBT SERVICE                             8.1         7.5        4.2         5.0         5.2         6.5
OUTSTANDING DEC. 31. 1977
_________________________
EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                 AMOUNT    PERCENT
IBRD                                                             34.3         4.4
BANK GROUP                                                        89.0        11.3
OTHER MULTILATERAL                                                43.8         5.6
GOVERNMENTS                                                     574.9         73.0
OF WHICH CENTRALLY PLANNED ECONOMIES (2)                       52.8         6.7
SUPPLIERS                                                        79.2         10.1
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                                              .1          .0
BONDS                                                               .0          .0
PUBLIC DEBT NEI                                                     .0          .0
TOTAL PUBLIC M&LT DEBT                                          787.0        100.0
OTHER PUBLIC M&LT DEBT                                              .0          .0
OTHER M&LT DEBT                                                     .0           0
TOTAL PUBLIC DEBT (INCLUDING UNDISBURSED)                       1217.9       154.8
TOTAL M & LT DEBT (INCLUDING UNDISBURSED)                       1217.9       154.8
DEBT PROFILE
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1978-82/TOTAL DOD END OF 1977                  63.5
1/INCLUDING NET DIRECT INVESTMENT INCOME
2/INCLUDES CMEA COUNTRIES. PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
NORTH KOREA, NORTH VIETNAM.



ANNEX II
- 25 -                      Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1979)
US$ Million /a
Loan or                                                         Amount (net of
Credit                                                          cancellations)
No.     Year   Borrower           Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and seven credits fully disbursed            73.4    71.5
504     1974   Sri Lanka      Dairy Development                    9.0      7.1
666     1976   Sri Lanka      Tank Irrigation                      5.0      4.5
701     1977   Sri Lanka      Mahaweli Ganga
Development II                   19.0      18.8
709     1977   Sri Lanka      Water Supply                        9.2       5.7
742     1977   Sri Lanka      DFC - Industrial IV                  8.0      4.5
818     1978   Sri Lanka      Tree Crop Reha-
bilitation (Tea)                 21.0      20.5
819     1978   Sri Lanka      Tree Crop Diver-
sification (Tea)                  4.5      3.4
891     1979   Sri Lanka      Kurunegala Rural
Development                      20.0      20.0
900     1979   Sri Lanka      Road Maintenance                    16.5     16.5
931     1979   Sri Lanka      National Extension and
Adaptive Research                15.5      15.5
942     1979   Sri Lanka      Small and Medium
Industries                       16.0     16.0
Total,                                                   73.4   215.2    132.5
of which has been repaid                               39.2     -
Total now outstanding                                    34.2   215.2
Amount sold,                        3.6
of which has been repaid          3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                           34.2   215.2
Total undisbursed                                        Nil    135.4    132.5
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of November 30, 1979)
Amount of US$ Million
Year        Obligor               Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1977 The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon   Development Banking       -      0.1       0.1
1978  Bank of Ceylon             Development Banking    2.0       -        2.0
Total Commitment now held by IFC                   2.0     0.1       2.1



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The original project, as appraised in 1973, was designed to increase
milk production on about 2,400 dairy farms covering 42,000 acres in the
Coconut Triangle and Mid Country of Sri Lanka by providing credit, technical
assistance and a strengthened milk collection, transport and marketing system.
Complementary objectives were to establish pilot units for commercial calf
rearing and pasture management systems and to provide processing equipment
to the National Milk Board. However, progress was severely constrained by
the poor supply of cattle available for onlending to project borrowers. The
poor supply of cattle was due to import problems and an over-estimation of
the national herd at appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics.
Moreover, unrestricted slaughter of cattle was stimulated by a rapid increase
in concentrate feed prices which made milk production unattractive plus the
relatively high consumer price of fish and poultry meat. It, therefore,
became necessary to reformulate the project. Before proceeding with refor-
mulation, the Government was requested to provide appropriate incentives to
the dairy sector by raising the producer price of milk and stabilizing feed
prices. Appropriate action was taken in November, 1978, and the climate for
dairying has improved accordingly. The revised project would focus on
what was a small component of the original project -- support to dairy co-
operatives. Under this component, dairy farmers would be organized in a
manner similar to the successful Anand pattern of Dairy Cooperatives in
India. The National Dairy Development Board (India) helped in the prepa-
ration of the reformulated project. Under this reformulation, the supply
of inputs and services would become key activities which would include pro-
vision of technical assistance and credit to farmers and support for milk
collection, transport and marketing. The successful ongoing pilot calf/heifer
rearing and pasture programs have been expanded. The number of beneficiary
farm families would be substantially increased (current estimate approximately
10,000 vs. 2,400 in the original project) and the project would contribute to a
considerable increase in income of existing landless and small farmer dairy
producers. A review mission visited Sri Lanka in July, 1979, and reported good
progress.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers five tank areas, serving a total cultivated area
of 31,500 acres. The project includes: (a) construction works for improving
irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) improvement of farm roads, (c) provi-
sion of farm equipment for land preparation and plant protection; (d) strength-
ening of agricultural supporting services, particularly extension; and
(e) technical assistance for improving the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation systems. The construction program is behind schedule by about



- 27 -
Page 3
one year due to delays in procurement of construction equipment, civil dis-
turbances in 1977, and shortage of experienced staff for surveys, designs
and supervision.  Practically ail construction equipment has now been pro-
cured and construction progress has begun to pick up significantly. However,
in order to complete the project within the revised time schedule, additional
equipment will be required and tendering for this equipment has just recently
been started. Unfortunately, quality control has been neglected (either
through lack of training and experience or through negligence) and some of
the completed works are poorly constructed. The Government has agreed to take
action to improve quality control and closely monitor future work and will
reconstruct those facilities which do not function properly after operation
commences. In this regard, a quality control training program was provided
by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in the USA for three Irrigation Department
engineers during November-December 1978 and it is hoped that construction
quality will improve to the levels required. A recent supervision mission
reviewed the project with the Government and agreed on steps to be undertaken
to strengthen project management and improve project implementation. A well-
qualified Water Management Specialist has been appointed (part-time) to set
up a water management training program for Irrigation Department staff and
farmers. Project completion is expected to be delayed about one year.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of June 27, 1977; Effective Date:  December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The credit will help finance construction of irrigation and drain-
age schemes on about 40,000 acres of new land in the Mahaweli Ganga dry zone,
together with providing O&M facilities and equipment, production support in
the form of necessary tilling power and implements, marketing, transport and
processing facilities for about 70,000 acres and improved agricultural exten-
sion services for 106,000 acres. Cofinancing arrangements have been made with
Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and the EEC.
The Government has undertaken development of the project on an accelerated
basis and will probably complete the project by end 1980. Unfortunately, in
its haste to meet unrealistic target dates, the Mahaweli Development Board
(MDB) proceeded to implement the project without proper planning and coordina-
tion and without regard to quality standards and acceptable work practices,
resulting in poorly constructed and only partially completed project works.
The MDB has since improved its quality control and planning and coordination
capability and a significant improvement in project implementation has occured.
The work is continuing to improve due to the greater awareness and effort on
the part of MDB staff and no major problems currently affect progress other
than disbursements for civil works. It is expected that the project will be
completed about 1-1/2 years earlier than estimated at appraisal.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of May 101977; Effective
Date: February 9, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This credit will help finance improvement of existing piped water
supplies to Colombo and five adjacent towns south of Colombo. In addition,
the project will provide piped water to five adjacent towns north of Colombo
and Ambalangoda and Kalutara on the southwest coast of Sri Lanka. It also
includes provision for expenditures on spare parts and equipment, technical
assistance and training. An additional credit of Canadian $5.0 million from
Canadian funds administered by IDA is assisting in financing this project.
Recently, an EEC Special Action Credit Agreement of US$7.0 million has been
signed. Actions were taken in implementing some institutional changes,
introducing a new bulk water tariff, and establishing new accounting proce-
dures both in the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and in local
authorities. Despite initial delays, the WDB has made good progress during
the past year, particularly in procurement. Thirty three contracts have been
awarded, resulting in a commitment of about US$13 million out of the credit.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit will meet a substantial portion of DFCC's estimated
foreign exchange requirements for lending to private sector industrial
projects and tourism. Subprojects for US$5.7 million have been authorized.
DFCC remains a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of
activity, which could increase further provided that DFCC's staffing problems
are overcome as well as the constraint caused by the low equity base.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The credit would assist the Government in improving the economic
efficiency of the tea industry by lowering production costs and improving
tea quality in the project area, as well as in stemming the decline in tea
output. Project progress is satisfactory. Procurement is under way; all
tender documents have been issued. In the case of housing, awards have been
made and construction started. Field works, replanting and infilling, are
on schedule. All other project components, namely health component, training
component and tea area measurement, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
This credit would help the Government in its initial effort in a
long-term program to rehabilitate, diversify and settle degraded mid-country
lands, mainly nationalized tea estates. The National Agricultural Development
and Settlement Authority, the project executing agency, has developed into a
mature development organization which is operating efficiently under capable



ANNEX II
-29 -                      Page 5
management. Despite some delay in procurement of equipment, progress in
field work is impressive. Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarca-
tion are nearly complete and soil conservation work (bench terraces, lock and
spill drains, graded stone terraces) well under way and acceleratng. Founda-
tions for about 500 houses have been laid and these houses are at various
stages of construction. The project has now reached a stage where the more
difficult social part of the project, namely transport of non-citizen labor
to other estates, settler selection, and land allocation will have to be
tackled.
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million of
April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims to assist the development of the District of
Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes of raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards and to develop a replicable model
for rural development for other districts in Sri Lanka. The project will
provide for rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes accompanied by
improved water management practices to fully exploit the irrigation potential,
and for programs for replanting/underplanting, intercropping and fertilizing
of smallholder coconut plantations. The project will also strengthen agri-
cultural extension services, improve the supply of input services such as
fertilizer distribution and seeds supplies, and lay the foundation for a
viable agriculture credit system. These directly productive investments
will be complemented by investments in transportation, health, education,
water supply and rural electrification. Subsidiary loan agreements with
participating banks have been signed and the project unit set up. A super-
vision mission reviewed the project in August and reported good progress.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
The project aims to improve the highway system of Sri Lanka by a
program of enhanced periodic and routine maintenance. It would assist the
Government in the rehabilitation of 112 miles of road, resurfacing of 150
additional miles and strengthening, repairing or replacement of 30 bridges.
The project would also provide plant and equipment workshops and strengthen
the road maintenance services of the Department of Highways. Consultants
have recently been appointed and are expected to start their work soon.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help Sri Lanka to (a) introduce a Training and
Visit (T&V) extension system throughout the entire country, (b) strengthen
adaptive research, and (c) improve and expand training of extension officers.
The project would establish a link between research and extension and enhance
the intensity, coverage and the content of agricultural extension services.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
A unified extension system would be developed, under which extension workers
would receive biweekly training, visit farmers according to planned schedules,
and transmit extension messages.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million of
July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 24, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of SMI firms, defined as enter-
prises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million, so as to
increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation, export
expansion, regional development and economic growth. The project would have
two main components - credit and technical, management and marketing services.
Under the credit component, it is proposed to establish a fund in the National
Development Bank (NDB) to provide refinancing of subloans made to SMI firms
by commercial banks and the Development Finance Corporation. The technical
services component would be implemented by the Industrial Development Board,
Department of Small Industry, Department of Textile Industries, and the
National Institute of Management, and directed at specific subsectors - rubber
products, light engineering, subcontracting exchanges, handlooms, coir pro-
ducts, and rice milling.



- 31 -                ANNEX III
SRI LANKA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
Project prepared by the Association over a 2-month
period (August/September 1979), with Government
assistance in November 1979.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Association prepared the project with assistance
from the Government's Mahaweli Development Authority.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project
July 1979 - November 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission 1/
October 29, 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 27, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
May 9, 1980
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
None.
1/   No appraisal mission was required since the Association had already
gathered the data and information required for the preparation of the
project documents. A mission visited Sri Lanka in November 1979, to
discuss the project and the draft consultants' terms of reference
prepared by IDA.






IBRD13477RI
79;C0'                          0o -3'300'                                                                                       31-30'            DECEMBER 7979
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Existing  and Proposed  Irrigotion Schemes
.  N  4*- Protec boundaries
-- - Proposed conals
B A  Y     0 fIrrigated areas
. / 89   <     FNG   ' '         '"' . , .. -f .'-'-Proposed irrigotion areas
cIZiiQ  4 zExisting dams and reservoirs
:<-' Proposed dawns arnd reservoirs
Ex1 ,isting weir-, and reservoirs
JJ61Proposed weirs and reservoirs
Existing Power station
O Proposed power stations
Proposedt pumping station
_____Roads
IA NAA-A)PA:                    ~~~~~A irrigation service areas
2    Natural reserves and sanctLuaries
t*Nt    Wlff    #*    i4@f   ft   e  )  >  *' _ ?  2/V  '9* t_A PAt_. -    NRComplex
d-ZrWl7.wrMcoaroffb  X  Vavuniya                                                 Proposed tunmness
-1-0W            - - - - Area bountdaries
0    1, C    H N A    Al  -,  g /t,__\
S90ANX                                                                                                                                                          5 ;\  < t{   8 \   '/e3V'
r4On,.4A/ OCEA^f WS \ \ r I 9 Ij:~/ 
Iwr.rl   a0    0 to   i  2 0 0 4
r5t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
Kuruneg aa
,x~~~~~~~um   mp,per.dbre,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                           M
ssde  0#Wv    dW frr
PACSiAP              C H N 
I N D I A                       807                             530810 



