Report No. PID7067
PID7067.TXT
Project Name                    Indonesia-Water Resources Sector   (+)
Adjustment Loan
Region  East                    Asia & Pacific Region
Sector                          Water Resources and Irrigation
Project                         IDPE64118
Borrower(s)                     Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency             National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS)
Bureau of Water Resources & Irrigation
Jl. Taman Suropati 2,
Jakarta 10310
Indonesia
Telephone:      62-21-334711
Fax:            62-21-334711
Environment Category            B
Date PID                        Updated May 1, 1999
Project Appraisal               January 26, 1999
Projected Board Date            May 18, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
Water Resources Problems. Indonesia's water resources and irrigation sector
faces increasingly complex long-term investment challenges and management
problems which are likely to severely constrain the country's economic
development and food security, lead to a deterioration of public health and
irreversibly damage its aquatic environment. They arise from the adverse
synergistic impacts of population growth, urbanization and industrialization.
The key sector problems are: (a) water allocation under local scarcity due to
growth of non-irrigation water demand (b) inadequate urban access to piped
water supply while affordable investment in urban water supply facilities is
unable to cope with the growth in demand (c) water pollution and other adverse
impacts of untreated municipal wastewater discharge and industrial and mining
effluent disposal generate large diseconomies; (d) adverse impacts of
watershed degradation such as increasing flood peaks, decreasing low flow and
sedimentation diseconomies to water infrastructure; and (e) adverse
environmental impacts of poorly planned swampland development to meet the
country's food self-sufficiency/cereal import substitution needs as well as
income generation for transmigrant settlers.
Achieving Food Self-Sufficiency and Sustainable Irrigation. About 809 of
domestic rice production comes from irrigated areas while only about 4t
derives from reclaimed swampland. The investment strategy of maintaining rice
self-sufficiency through expansion of irrigation and swamp reclamation needs
review, especially with respect to the choice of most cost-effective and
environmentally sustainable intervention. However, sustaining rice and food
production requires an effective irrigation O&M program instead of de facto



deferral of routine maintenance and reliance on periodic externally aided
investment for irrigation scheme rehabilitation. Apart from production
losses, deferred maintenance results in frequent rehabilitation capital
expenditures that are 6-7 times higher in present value terms than that of a
satisfactory routine maintenance program. Despite the preservation of central
O&M funding in real terms at about $70-80 million/year since 1987, allocated
funds are used primarily for staff and their activities, while whatever
remains (15-40 percent of allocation), is generally used for urgent repairs
needed to ensure water delivery elsewhere. Furthermore, since 1997, O&M
funding is provided to provinces as part of the general provincial block grant
transfer mechanism: this has resulted in provincial governments allocating 25%
less resources to O&M while Rupiah devaluation has further reduced O&M budget
value.
Investment Challenges. The essential investment needs of the sector are
very high. They include: (a) at least US$1 billion to complete ongoing
irrigation schemes in the Outer Islands over the next 5-10 years and about
US$50-100 million/year for scheme rehabilitation (overcoming deferred
maintenance and depreciation); and (b) about US$7.5 billion over the next ten
years to achieve a target piped water supply coverage of 62% for the urban
population. In view of growing wastewater generation as a result of improving
access to piped water supply through house connections, urban sanitation needs
and the magnitude of environmental diseconomies generated in the vicinity of
large urban areas, it is imperative to revisit conventional wisdom which
regards sewerage and sewage treatment as publicly and privately unaffordable
in Indonesia. A 1998 study estimates that an investment of about $1 billion
over the next five years for sewage collection in predominantly low income
urban areas could cover about 60% of the urban population.    However, this
investment does not include municipal wastewater treatment needs.
Strategic Sector Investment Programming. The advent of the economic crisis
has drastically reduced the publicly affordable expenditure envelope while
demanding an increasing reliance on new regulatory and financial institutions
for more sustainable and effective management of existing infrastructure and
water use in both the urban and irrigated rural areas. Furthermore, urban
competition for water requires the public's recognition of water as an
economic resource, together with an unavoidable need for greater--albeit less
affordable--beneficiary contribution to the upkeep of its supply and
distribution infrastructure. Although the Ministry of Public Works is
responsible for water resources, irrigation and urban water supply, there is
no coordinated strategic prioritization and allocation of scarce capital
resources within the sector, let alone consideration of the environmental
impact of increasing volumes of untreated urban effluents. Existing sector
collective decision-making and regulatory institutions, as well as its
financial and fiscal arrangements, are not up to such challenges. Clearly,
structural reforms are needed to craft institutions to weigh the social
opportunity and infrastructure costs involved in water quality management and
seek an affordable mix of investments, financial mechanisms and regulatory
interventions to achieve a sustainable level of environmental water quality.
Sector Structural Constraints. Mitigating the water resources and irrigation
sector's multi-faceted challenges and resolving its emerging issues is
difficult because of: (a) the growing inadequacy of policy, legal and
regulatory frameworks, (b) the hitherto lack of political will to implement
legal provisions which would require payment for bulk irrigation water supply
-2 -



and industrial effluent discharge fees; (c) weak sector institutions for
integrated policy formulation, planning, governance, management, strategic
allocation of scarce resources and water pollution control; (d) uncoordinated
government agencies pursuing narrow functional mandates in addressing problems
and diseconomies that require concerted inter-governmental cooperation and
action; (e) ineffective administrative and implementation performance of
provincial and district water resources and irrigation agencies; (f) a culture
of agency preferences for construction-based externally-aided project-type
solutions instead of effective service delivery and programs based on economic
incentives and regulatory sanctions for beneficiary behavior modification; (g)
the complexities of staff deployment and performance incentives, budget
transfer and organizational structure that must be overcome to implement a
policy of de-concentration and devolution of central government roles to
regional and local governments; (h) the absence of mechanisms for stakeholder
voice in sector decision-making institutions; and (i) inconsistent management
data sets (e.g. for areas irrigated) and unreliable hydrological and water
quality data. These general structural problems can only be overcome by the
Government's emerging political will to undertake a sector structural
adjustment program within the broader framework of macroeconomic structural
adjustment and overall national governance reforms.
2. Objectives
The reforms that comprise the conditions of tranche payment release would
address the sector's problems and structural deficiencies through policies
requiring an integrated approach based on cost-effective strategies to be
implemented through fiscally and environmentally sustainable programs. The
specific loan objectives are to improve: (a) the national institutional
framework for water resources development and management; (b) improve the
organizational and financial framework for river basin management; (c)
regulatory institutions and implementation instruments for regional water
quality management; and (d) irrigation management performance and fiscal
sustainability through farmer organization empowerment for participatory
irrigation management.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Indonesia Water Resources Sector Adjustment Loan (WATSAL) forms part
of the Bank's strategic objective to address the Indonesian economic crisis
through an integrated package of four adjustment and governance operations
(Policy Reform Support Loan II, Social Safety Net Structural Adjustment Loan,
Governance Reform Loan and WATSAL). The loan amount is tentatively set to
form part of the Bank's commitment to an overall external financing plan
worked out with the Government and IMF, Bank, ADB and bilateral donors in the
July 1998 CGI meetings. Indonesia needs external support to finance its
projected fiscal deficit of 2.5w of GDP for FY 98/99 and 5.8w of GDP in FY
99/00. This deficit is an integral part of a strategy of macroeconomic fiscal
stimulus to reverse economic contraction and revive growth. Most of the
expenditures are for bank restructuring and mitigating the social costs of the
economic crisis. Without this support, Indonesia would not be able to sustain
the necessary social expenditures and bear the costs of bank restructuring
without risk of hyperinflation.
Sector adjustment must be begun now if the country is to adequately cope
with 21st century challenges of population growth, urbanization, socio-
-3 -



economic reconstruction and government reformation. Bank support of the
Government's WATSAL Reform Program would consolidate the Bank's involvement in
the sector by: (a) sustaining the Bank's dialogue about sector issues with GOI
and exposing it to international best practice; and (b) setting future Bank
and donor support for sector investment programs on a firm policy, legal,
regulatory and institutional foundation. The proposed operation is unique for
Indonesia in that its Reform Program is an outcome of internal government
self-analysis of institutional deficiencies, on-going public consultations
and, the reformation aspirations of a wide coalition of interests within
government and civil society seeking a paradigm shift in sector management.
Consequently, expeditious loan approval would consolidate and further energize
the efforts of the reformist elements in the sector to prepare and complete
the program.
4. Description
Loan Concept. Over the past decade, the Bank and Asian Development Bank
(ADB) have sought to persuade the Government of Indonesia (GOI) to initiate
improvements and reforms which would lead to formal adoption of integrated
national and provincial water resources development and management policies,
strategies, institutions and programs. Given the pro-reformation environment
prevailing in Indonesia and within the present government, it has been agreed
that the necessary reforms could be now be implemented using the following
two-stage strategy: (a) a US$300 million three-tranche Water Resources Sector
Adjustment Loan providing general balance-of-payments support (against a
negative list of imports) in return for a GOI commitment to undertake a
detailed set of policy, legal, institutional and regulatory reforms in the
water resources and irrigation sector; and (b) a subsequent Bank and donor-
supported investment and capacity-building assistance program to enable sector
management and operations under the already implemented WATSAL reform
framework. Donor assistance coordination would be arranged by establishing a
GOI-donor forum in the form of a Local CGI for Water Resources and Irrigation
Management.
The Policy Matrix. The Policy Matrix furnished by GOI addresses the
WATSAL objectives through four key sets of reforms as follows.
(a) Facilitate environmentally and socially sustainable management of water
resources by improving national policies and, institutional, regulatory and
decision-support frameworks. Sub-objectives under this overall objective
include: (i) establishment of an effective intergovernmental water resources
and irrigation management coordination framework; (ii) adoption and
implementation of a National Water Resources Policy (NWRP) and NWRP
Implementation Plan to guide sector planning, programming, budgeting real-time
management and regulation; (iii) establishment of institutions for stakeholder
involvement in water resources management and irrigation policy formation and
decision-making; (iv) amending water resources legislation to provide for
regional autonomy and private sector involvement in water resources
development; (v) improving water resources and irrigation management
information and decision-support systems and (vi) more effective water
resources planning and real-time resource management by improving the quality
and reliability of the national hydrological and groundwater data systems, and
the national water quality monitoring framework.
(b) Strengthen the organizational, financial and administrative framework for
- 4 -



river basin water resources management. The objective has three components,
namely: (i) fostering integrated management and regulation of surface and
groundwater by establishment of adequately funded and appropriately staffed
river basin management units within the provincial administrations; (ii)
establishing sustainable self-financing corporate river basin management
organizations in strategic river basins; (iii) introducing a water use rights
system for secure, equitable and efficient water allocation to all water users
with due consideration of conservation and other non-consumptive water uses.
(c) Improve regulatory institutions and implementation arrangements for
effective regional water quality management. This objective would be achieved
by two sub-objectives, namely: (i) improving the legal, institutional and
regulatory framework for enforceable water pollution control and effective
surface and groundwater water quality management; and (ii) establishing an
incentive framework for compliance with water pollution control regulations by
private and public sector establishments and commercial estates.
(d) Improve the performance and sustainability of public irrigation schemes by
establishing an institutional framework for transparent and accountable
delivery of irrigation services and participatory fiscal support to democratic
farmer organizations empowered with autonomous governance and financial
authority to gainfully manage and control higher level irrigation networks for
which they are willing to accept full responsibility. This overall objective
seeks to achieve four principal sub-objectives, namely: (i) creation of an
incentive framework in line with national reformation principles that provides
benefits from WUA membership and facilitates a national program that replaces
"top-down" administrative fiat with rapid "demand-based" establishment of
empowered WUAs and WUAFs; (ii) agency accountability for improvement of
irrigation services and infrastructure through institutions for transparent
and participatory joint management of irrigation schemes by both local
government irrigation agencies and farmer organization representatives; (iii)
improved fiscal sustainability of scheme O&M and rehabilitation through
nation-wide irrigator payment of Irrigation Service Fees and contributions to
government funding of scheme rehabilitation programs; and (iv) reorganization
of the management of government irrigation services to focus on both effective
development of farmer irrigation organizations, as well as serving their needs
and objectives.
5. Financing
The loan would be US$300 million under standard IBRD terms. The first
tranche--upon loan effectiveness--would be US$50 million; the second and third
tranches would be US$100 million and US$150 million respectively, payable upon
fulfillment of the reform program comprising the second and third release
conditions.
Implementation
An inter-governmental Task Force of senior officials from the sector
ministries as well as NGO representatives has been appointed by the Minister
of Planning to prepare and process the various reforms comprising the Policy
Matrix attached to the Government's Letter of Sector Policy. The process will
receive ministerial oversight from: (i) a WATSAL Task Force Steering Committee
composed of the Directors General of sector ministries; and (ii) an inter-
ministerial Coordinating Team for "Policies on Efficient River Utilization
- 5 -



and Sustainable Watershed Management" which was established by Presidential
Decree No. 9 on January 14, 1999.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the reforms will be ensured as: (a) all reforms
require issue or amendment of a Basic Law, Government Regulations and Decrees;
(b) the National Water Policy and Action Plan is to be incorporated into the
policy statements of the "Broad State Policy Guidelines" (GHBN) for the 7th
Five Year Plan (Repelita VII); (c) sector institutions and regulatory
arrangements would be reorganized to facilitate implementation of the new
policies; and (d) new organizations would be established to implement the
policies nationwide.
8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
Piecemeal reforms as part of loan conditionality are ineffective.
Accordingly, GOI ownership has been sought for an overall reform planned by
all affected ministries and agencies with appropriate inputs from civil
society derived by public consultation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     No
10. Environment Aspects
A Sector Environmental Assesment (SEA) was prepared by GOI in accordance
with the Bank's Operational Policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). SEA
preparation was accompanied by a two-stage public consultation process to
inform the public and selected stakeholder representatives about the proposed
reforms and SEA findings. The public consultation process was designed after
consultation with NGOs and two NGOs were used to assist GOI in organizing the
consultation process and obtaining public inputs. The SEA assesses the
potential environmental and social impacts of the proposed policy,
institutional and regulatory actions required for the loan. The SEA concludes
that the proposed WATSAL reforms are not likely to induce any adverse
environmental or social impacts and would result in a major improvement in
sector management. In fact, the reforms specifically address improvement of
Indonesia's fresh water habitats, would lead to farmer empowerment in
irrigation management as well as stakeholder representation in sector policy
formulation and decision-making institutions. A copy of the SEA has been
deposited in the Public Information Center for public information.
11. Program Objective Categories (POC) EN
12. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager:
Theodore Herman
-6-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C 20433
Telephone: 202 458 1282
Fax:         202 522 1674
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 7, 1999.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
7
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be
necessarily included in the final project.
- 8-



