Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No P 7304-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
WATER RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
April 23, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 21, 1999)
Currency Unit = Rupiah
1 Rupiah       =  0.00012 US$
US$1            =  8,650 Rupiah
FISCAL YEAR: April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           - Asian Development Bank
Balai PSDA    - Provincial Basin Management Unit
BANGDA        - Directorate General for Regional Development
BAPPENAS   - National Planning Agency
BAPEDAL       - Environmental Impact Control Agency
CGI           - Consultative Group for Indonesia
Cipta Karya   - Directorate General for Human Settlements
DEG           - Directorate of Economic Geology
DGWRD         - Directorate General for Water Resources Development
FY            - Fiscal Year
GBHN          - Broad State Policy Guidelines
GOI           - Government of Indonesia
IMF           - International Monetary Fund
IOMP          - Irrigation Operations and Maintenance Policy
KLH           - Ministry of Population and Environment
MOA           - Ministry of Agriculture
MOHA          - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOME          - Ministry of Mines and Energy
MPW           - Ministry of Public Works
NGO           - Non-Government Organization
O & M         - Operations and Maintenance
PDAM          - Municipal Water Supply Corporation
PJT           - Jasa Tirta Public Corporation
PLN           - National Electric Company
PP            - Government Regulation
PPTPA         - River Basin Water Coordination Committee
PRSAL         - Policy Reform Support Adjustment Loan
PTPA          - Provincial Water Coordination Committee
PUOD          - Directorate General for Public Administration & Regional Autonomy
Rp.           - Rupiali
SCL           - Single Currency Loan
SEA           - Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SOE           - State Owned Enterprise
WU            - Basic Law
WATSAL        - Water Resources Sector Adjustment Loan
WUA           - Water User Association
WUAF          - Federation of Water User Associations
Vice Presidenit:          Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:         Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager:           Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader:         Theodore Hermnan, EASRD



TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY                                                         i-v
A. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT                                                      1
The Government's Response to Economic Crisis                                 I
Macroeconomic Prospects and Extemal Financing Needs                         2
Political-Economic and Government Refornation                               2
Country Assistance Strategy                                                 3
B. THE SECTOR MANAGEMENT CONTEXT                                                  4
Water Resources Management Problems                                         4
Food Security and Irrigation Development Affordability                      8
C. SECTOR ADJUSTMENT ISSUES                                                       9
Policv and Structural Lacunae                                               9
Incomplete Legislative Framework                                           I I
Inadequate Regulatory Framewvork                                           13
Weak Cost Recoverv Policy                                                  14
Improvement of River Basin Management Institutions                         15
Ineffective Water Quality Management Framework                             17
Declining Public Irrigation Sustainabilitv                                 17
D. THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM                                        19
Reform Program Onrgin                                                      19
Completed Reform Actions and Ongoing Initiatives                           20
The Sector Structural Adjustment Program                                   22
E. THE PROPOSED LOAN                                                             27
Loan Rationale and Objectives                                              27
Policy and Adjustment Actions Supported bv the Loan                        28
Loan Administration                                                        28
Sector Environmental Assessment and Public Consultations                   31
Potential Benefits                                                         32
Risks and Risk Assessment                                                  33
F. RECOMMENDATION                                                                35
ANNEXES:
ANNEX 1: Indonesia- Rice Production Profile and Projections              36
ANNEX 2: Management Mandates of Sector Agencies                          37
ANNEX 3: Letter of Sector Development Policy                             38
ANNEX 4: Policy Matrix                                                   52
ANNEX 5: Policy Matrix Implementation Plan                               58
ANNEX 6: GOI Sector Environmental Assessment Summary                     69
ANNEX 7: Key Macroeconomic Indicators                                    73
ANNEX 8: Balance of Payments                                             74
ANNEX 9: Indonesia at a Glance                                           75
ANNEX 10: Status of Bank Group Operations                                77
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
WATER RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Indonesia
Amount:        US$300 million
Terms:         Standard amortization terms, front end fee, grace period and interest rate for fixed-
rate US dollar Single Currency Loans with an expected disbursement period of 18
months.
Description:    The proposed loan would provide balance of payments assistance to the Republic of
Indonesia to support a structural adjustment program of policy, institutional,
regulatory, legal, and organizational reforms in the management of the water
resources and irrigation sector. The Program has four objectives as follows:
(a) Facilitating efficient environmentally and socially sustainable water
resources development and management by improving national policy,
institutional, regulatory and decision-support frameworks. The reform
outcomes include:
*  Decentralizing water resources and irrigation management frameworks to
conform with national legislation on regional autonomy and revenue-sharing;
*  Activating a National Apex Body for policy and strategy formulation and,
intergovernmental sector management coordination;
.  Including a National Water Resources Policy  (NWRP) and NWRP
Implementation Action Plan in the 7t Five Year Plan's "Broad State Policy
Guidelines";
*  Issuing a national regulation and guidelines for representation of non-
government stakeholders on Provincial and River Basin Water Coordination
Committees, and establishment of such stakeholder representation institutions in
about eight provinces;
*  Activating a national water resources and irrigation Management Decision-
Support System based on an intergovernmental data-sharing network;
*  Establishing a national framework for collection of surface and groundwater
hydrological data on a sustainable basis, together with operational strengthening
of Provincial Hydrological Units in about eight provinces; and
*  Establishing a National water quality sampling network.
(b) Strengthening of the institutional and regulatory framework for integrated
and equitable river basin management. Organizational and administrative
outcomes include the following structural adjustments:
*  Improving the management framework of less developed river basins by
forming Provincial Basin Management Units in about eight provinces;
*  Establishing a national framework for an enforceable water use rights system
for surface and groundwater allocation, and a uniform framework of water



ii
abstraction licensing by provincial governments; and
* Improving the water resources management of six highly developed strategic
river basins by (i) establishment of four new river basin management
corporations and (ii) amending the corporate structure of two existing basin
management corporations to provide for improved financial sustainability and
better governance.
(c) Establishing effective regulatory institutions and implementation
arrangements for water pollution abatement and regional water quality
management. The specific structural adjustment outcomes are:
*  Improving the framework for basin water quality management and mitigation of
water pollution by industry, mines and municipalities, including (i) incentives
for corporate investment in wastewater treatment facilities and (ii) payment of
wastewater discharge fees by polluting entities; and
*  Implementing water pollution control and water quality management by
provincial environmental impact control agencies in six highly developed river
basins through operational concessions to river basin management corporations.
(d) Improving the performance and sustainability of irrigation systems by
establishing an institutional framework for transparent and accountable
delivery of irrigation services and participatory fiscal support to democratic
farmer organizations empowered with governance and financial authority to
manage irrigation networks under their control. Reform outcomes include:
- Adopting a national framework for the establishment by district governments of
autonomous and self-financing water user associations (WUAs) and water user
association federations (WUAFs) to manage irrigation networks;
* Launching of a program for democratic establishment of empowered WUAs;
R Revising the roles and responsibilities of central, provincial and district
government irrigation agencies to provide support services to WUAs and
WUAFs in conformity with the decentralization of public administration;
* Implementing a nation-wide Irrigation Service Fee framework for sustainable
financing of operation, maintenance and asset amortization of irrigation
schemes by the local government, WUAs and WUAFs; and
* Establishing a "demand-based" WUA Irrigation Improvement Funds for
affordable financing of prioritized incremental rehabilitation of irrigation
networks under the management control of WUAs and WUAFs.
Benefits:      In the medium-term, the proposed sector reforms are expected to result in new
management institutions able to respond in an effective financial, social and
environmental manner to the adverse impacts of changing land uses, urbanization
and growing non-irrigation water demand.  Their benefits would result in:
(a) strategic and coordinated cross-sector implementation of prioritized programs
and investments under a binding national water resources policy; (b) financially
sustainable integrated river basin management based on water allocation and quality
rights for both consumptive and non-consumptive uses; (c) a strengthened
institutional and regulatory framework for affordable water quality management
capable of arresting the degradation of water quality and the aquatic environment;
(d) use of service fees for bulk water supply and control of wastewater discharge



iii
(d) use of service fees for bulk water supply and control of wastewater discharge
based on the recognition of the economic value of water and the "polluter pays"
principle; (e) improvement in the efficacy and equity of irrigation services; and (g) a
reduction of government's fiscal burden for the sustainability of irrigation networks.
In the short-term, the loan would: (a) enable the development and utilization of
professional expertise within the country to formulate a sector reform program in
line with national needs and aspirations, and (b) facilitate a process of reaching
inter-governmental consensus and internalized "ownership" of the reforms.
Completion of the proposed reforms would result in: (i) creation of an improved
sector policy, governance and fiscal framework; (ii) implementation of national
sector coordination framework headed by a high-level National Apex Body;
(iii) implementation of an improved sector data base framework consisting of
strengthened hydrological organizations in eight provinces and a sector Decision-
Support Systemr; (iv) establishment, in the principal river basins of eight provinces,
of participatory basin regulatory institutions, provincial basin management units
and four new river basin management corporations; (v) an improved regulatory
framework for water pollution control, a national water quality monitoring network,
and provisions for effective water quality management in six key river basins; and
(vi) initiation of a process of democratic establishment and support of empowered
WUAs and WUAFs together with technical and financial support arrangements by
government. These outcomes would also result in sector transformation to a level
that would enable a coordinated Bank and donor investment support program for
consolidation of the reforns and new institutions through institution building,
planning, staff and beneficiary training, monitoring arrangements, equipment and
technical assistance.
Risks:          The risks inherent in the proposed operation are that:
*  political uncertainties, social unrest and interest groups benefiting from the
status quo, may prevent the incoming Government from fully undertaking the
proposed sector refonns;
*  ideological differences and the institutional complexities of crafting a revised
policy, legal and regulatory framework may take longer than expected in view
of an anticipated change of Government;
*  the difficult economic situation may weaken the incoming Government's resolve
to introduce universal Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) for irrigation O&M and
charging of effluent discharge fees by basin management corporations;
*  the reforms may not be adequately implemented because of the capacity and
skill limitations of staff available to provincial and local governments;
*  the public and intergovernmental consultations undertaken during loan
preparation were insufficient to ensure their acceptance by sector beneficiaries,
various stakeholder groups and the sector agencies; and
*  the present Government's interest may be motivated by receipt of loan proceeds
and not major reform or long-term sector adjustment needs.
Risk Assessment of Weakening Government Commitment. The risk of rejection of
the reform program by an incoming Government is small due to the looming "water
crisis" and the national inability to sustain inefficient investment in public irrigation.
The risks of partial acceptance are moderate and in keeping with those associated
with new policy paradigms and sector adjustment operations. The proposed sector
adjustment reforrns are based on implementation of national reformation aspirations



iv
shared by the public-at-large and the principal political parties. The reform
concepts arise out of an national inter-agency sector institutional reform dialogue
started by the National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) in 1997. The Bank has
only played a subsequent facilitating role in exposing national experts to
international experience and best practice. Consequently, the proposed program is
conceptually "owned" by a large group of professionals from all sector agencies,
university experts and NGOs active in water resources affairs. The Reform
Program was prepared 42 senior civil servants and NGO officials appointed to a
GOI Task Force for Reform of Water Resources Sector Policy. The proposed
reforms have also been extensively discussed with senior officials and staff in key
provinces. The Reform Program has been approved by all sector agency Directors
General and an nine member ministerial Coordination Team for Policy on River
Utilization and Sustainable Watershed Management (Tim Koordinasi).
Risk Assessment of Non-Acceptance by Civil Society. The reform impacts and
risks have been analyzed in a Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) and have
been found to be positive, benefiting both water users and the environment. They
would position the nation to respond more effectively to a looming water
management and water quality crisis, as well as public dissatisfaction with irrigation
services.  The reform concepts have been presented to the public and NGO
community during the stakeholder consultation process accompanying preparation
of the operation's requisite SEA. The Task Force will continue with public
consultation after loan effectiveness as part of the process of preparing the various
reforms that constitute the proposed operation's program.   The irrigation
management reforms have been the subject of Rural Participatory Appraisal
exercises on Java during the past year and were discussed at a national workshop
where they received wide support from provincial government officials. The new
irrigation management policy has been given national exposure by a presidential
statement to the media prior to its formalization through issue of a Presidential
Instruction.
Assessment of Implementation Risk. Loan design has considered these risks leaving
only those of completion delay. Provision has been made for adequate funding of
Task Force activities, special studies and technical assistance up to December 2000
using the proceeds of the Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Management
Project (Loan 3762-IND), supplemented by Consultant Trust Funds and FAO
resources available to the Bank. WUA and WUAF institution-building has been
piloted by the Government, Bank, ADB and Ford Foundation-supported NGOs for
several years, while provincial basin management units have been piloted on Java
under Loan 3762-IND. Loan proceeds are available for nation-wide implementation
of all reform outcomes of the proposed sector reform program. The decentralization
process will result in a large number of competent staff being transferred to
provincial governments who may be deployed for staffing the nascent provincial
basin management units. Government has already made arrangements to set up the
four new river basin management corporations using technical assistance by the
successful PJT Brantas river basin management corporation which has been
studying the technical and financial feasibility of the proposed new entities for the
past year. The incentive of deposit of ISF payments in WUA bank accounts instead
of payment to district revenue authorities was already mandated by a Ministry of
Home Affairs Circular in September 1998.



v
Assessment of the Bank's Risks. The Bank's risks inherent in possible rejection of
the Reform Program by the next Government are somewhat limited by: (a) the
significant "end-loading" of tranche payments; and (b) a mid-course review which,
inter alia, would gauge the incoming Government's support and re-emphasize to the
new  administration that two proposed follow-on adjustable program  sector
investment loans for irrigation and basin management are dependent on satisfactory
implementation of the proposed sector reform program. While prior Bank water
sector projects have- been one of promises partially implemented, this time a better
outcome is expected. Both the Government and the Bank have engaged in
consultation across a wide spectrum of political and technical stakeholders.
Furthermore, the fiscal crisis and national reform aspirations have brought together
a wide coalition of diverse interests in government that support a shift in water
resources management. Accordingly, this coalition is likely to pursue a sector
reform program with or without donor support. The Bank's catalytic support and
facilitating role only energized existing sector reform efforts and assisted in giving
them a coherent and purposeful structure.
Poverty         Not Applicable
Category:
Estimated       Three tranches: the first tranche of US$50 million to be disbursed immediately upon
Disbursements  Loan Effectiveness; the second tranche of US$100 million to be disbursed by about
December 31, 1999; and the third tranche of US$150 million upon completion of
the sector refonn program during the second or third quarter of CY 2000.
Bank Task Team: Theodore Herman, Christopher Konecki (EASRD); Guy Alaerts (EASES); Karin
Nordlander (LEGEA); Hiarion Bruneau (LOAAS); Ilham Abla (EACIF); Bryan Bruns, Budhiarto SH.,
Helmi, Kikkeri Ramu, Ganjar Kurnia, Sigit S. Arif, Douglas Vermillion, Robert Varley, (Consultants);
Raymond Peter (Additional Secretary, Irrigation Department, Government of Andhra Pradesh, India).
GOI WATSAL Task Force: Koensatwanto Ipasihardjo [(Chairman) (BAPPENAS)]; Soenarno [(Vice
Chairman) (MPW)]; Bambang Adinugroho [(Secretary I) (BAPPENAS)]; Chairil Abdini [(Secretary II)
(Vice President's Office)].
Water Resources Group: Budi Santoso (BAPPENAS); Widia Alfisa, Basuki Hadimulyo, Tatang
Sutardjo, Agni Handoyoputro, Rustam Syarief (MPW); Alina Tampubulon (MOHA); Sutadi (Mvin. of
Forestry); Suhartono (Min. of Industry); Ari Djoekardi, Ardina (KLH); Hendra Setiawan, Rachmat
Benny, Mas Neilyarti Hilman (BAPEDAL); Sri Hernowo (POJ); Trie Mulat Sunaryo (PJT Brantas);
Apun Affandi (West Java Provincial Government); M. Subagio Sardjono (East Java Provincial
Government); Indro Trahjona (SKEPHI); Irchamnmi Soeleiman (LP3ES); P.E. Henanusa (LIPI);. Ning
Pribadi (MOA).
Irrigation Group: Risky Ferianto, Sutedjo (BAPPENAS); Amron, Darismanto, Adhi Suyanto, Sukrasno,
Sudarmanto, Pakpahan (MPW); Mudjiono, Nuryanto, Edi Sugianto, Dodo Suparman, Endah Kastanya,
Yulianto (MOHA); Agus Susewo, Lili Gandawati (MOA) Budi Susilo, Theresia Sri Sidarti (East Java
Provincial Government); Sudar Atmanto (LP3ES); Tashudi (SKEPHI).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A WATER RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Water
Resources Sector Adjustment Loan (WATSAL) to the Republic of Indonesia for US$300 million
for balance of payments assistance and support of a Sector Reform Program. This Program is
described in a Letter of Sector Policy, Policy Matrix and Implementation Plan received from the
Government (Annexes 3, 4 and 5). The proposed loan would be a fixed-rate US dollar Single
Currency Loan on standard IBRD amortization terms, Front End Fee and grace period. The loan
would be disbursed in three tranches over a period of eighteen months.
A. THE MACROECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT CONTEXT
The Government's Response to Economic Crisis
2.   Economic Crisis. Indonesia is currently in the throes of a major economic crisis. Since
rnid-1997 however, the economy swung from rapid growth to rapid contraction and unemployment
climbed steeply. Although the Thai crisis may have been the trigger, internal and external
conditions combined to move Indonesia's problems from foreign contagion to macroeconomic
collapse. The proximate causes of the crisis were the rapid build-up of short-term, unhedged
private external debt in recent years combined with long-standing shortcomings in Indonesia's
banking system. At the same time, Indonesia was hit by the worst drought this century, a collapse
in regional demand, and the lowest international oil prices in decades. What made Indonesia's
crisis so much worse than other East Asian countries were critically weak institutions and endemic
corruption, at a time of high political uncertainty, as the Soeharto era was drawing to a close.
3.   Macroeconomic Response Strategy. In order to mitigate the ill effects of current crisis,
the Government is implementing a four-pronged strategy of policy and institutional reforms based
on: (a) management of the macro-economy; (b) financial and corporate sector restructuring;
(c) protection for the poor and preservation of human assets; and (d) reform of economic
institutions. Specific strategies and programns under this agenda have been designed and
progressively refined throughout 1998 in collaboration with the World Bank, the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and bilateral donor agencies to tailor
new policy initiatives to evolving economic and social difficulties. The ongoing reform agenda is
being supported by the Bank's Policy Reform Support Loan (PRSL) that was approved in July 2,
1998 and the other follow-up adjustment operations that are currently under preparation, i.e. the
Policy Reform Support Loan II (PRSAL II) and the Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan (SSNAL).
Full details of the Government's macroeconomic and social safety net response strategies are given
in the President's Report of these operations.
4.   Public Expenditure Efficiency. With a view to increase the transparency and efficiency of
public expenditures, a Government-Bank Public Expenditure Review was completed and presented
to the CGI meeting in Paris in July 1998. The vast majority of the report's recommendations were
included in the revised budget approved by Parliament in July 1998. The government recognized
the necessity of making fundamental shifts in expenditure priorities and begun to do so in the



-2 -
revised 1998/99 budget. Some of the priority shifts are directed at mitigating the immediate effects
of the crisis, such as the employment creation programs. Others represent the beginning of a
reallocation of spending toward longer term priorities such as improving quality and access to
health and education for the poor. In the short term, these shifts entail deferring or canceling
projects and focusing on maintenance. In the medium term this involves reassessing priorities in
infrastructure and other sectors.
Macroeconomic Prospects and External Financing Needs
5.   Prospects. News on the real economy remains subdued. GDP has declined by 15.6 percent
in FY1998/99, and renewed growth is unlikely until late 1999 or the year 2000. The decline will
be most pronounced in the construction sector (40 percent) and the trade-hotel and restaurant
sector (21 percent), but all sectors, with the possible exceptions of mining and agriculture, are
expected to decline. Rice production is up this year, so overall food shortages are not expected.
There are some signs of rising agricultural incomes due to a combination of domestic commodity
price increases and normal rainfall. Potential bright spots in the economy expected to help restart
growth are the agriculture sector, labor-intensive export manufactured goods, minerals production
and tourism. While there is reason for optimism over Indonesia's prospects for the medium term,
short term prospects remain dependent on private capital flows which are sensitive to political
developments and reform actions.
6.   External Financing Needs.  The proposed financing under the Bank's proposed
macroeconomic adjustment operations are part of the overall macroeconomic framework agreed
with the donor community (CGI) and is supported by an IMF extended arrangement and financing
from bilateral donors, ADB and the World Bank. Gross reserves are targeted to rise by about $4
billion in FY1998/99 and by about $2.5 billion in 1999/2000, enough to cover short term debt
obligations. The strong reserve position is partly due to the need to allow for adequate comfort in
provisioning against the prevailing short-term domestic and external risks in the economy. The
overall budget deficit that is in need of financing is 2.5 percent of GDP for FY-1998/99, and 5.8%
of GDP for FY-1999/2000. Non-debt flows to Indonesia are expected to be rather limited in the
short run. Financing the fiscal deficit with foreign borrowing is important to avoid the upward
pressure that domestic borrowing would put on interest rates and/or inflation.
7.   The need to restructure debts with foreign bank creditors may hamper Indonesia's ability to
access new private finance for some time. Renewed access by Indonesia to international capital
markets is likely to be at significantly higher cost than in the past. Indonesia's fiscal position is
expected to remain under pressure in the medium term. Hence, the deficit is expected to decline
only gradually in the Bank's base case macro-economic projections. A strong reserve position is
also needed in Indonesia in order to cover its short term debt obligations and provide adequate
comfort in provisioning against the short term domestic and external risks in the economy. In
addition, given that the private sources of finance to Indonesia will remain limited and relatively
expensive in the short- and medium-term, there is the need for the authorities to lengthen the
average maturity profile of foreign liabilities. Hence, the proposed adjustment operation is justified
as a complement to the Bank's PRSAL II and the SSNAL.
Political-Economic and Government Reformation
8.   The October 1998 decrees of the People's Consultative Assembly on Development Reform
Policy, Political Economy and Organization of Regional Autonomy have set the stage for a



-3 -
political-economic reformation in Indonesia.  The goals of this declared reformation are
administrative decentralization and State revenue-sharing, local government and community
empowerment, government transparency and democracy. Relevant political-economic reformation
guiding principles are: (a) regional development shall be organized within a system of regional
autonomy, just allocation of national resources and balanced finance between central and regional
governments; (b) management of natural resources shall be implemented effectively, and
transparently by giving opportunities to small and medium enterprises and cooperatives; (c) the
regional government has the authority to manage national resources and is responsible for
maintaining environmental conservation; (d) small enterprises of low capital should be given
priority and assisted in expanding their economic interests so as to be autonomous, especially in the
utilization of natural resources and access to capital resources; (e) management and utilization of
land and other natural resources shall be implemented justly by abolishing all forms of
centralization of powers and ownership; and (f) land, as the basis for agri-business, shall first be
used for the growth of publicly-supported agriculture capable of involving and giving greatest
prosperity to small and medium enterprises and cooperatives.
9.   Legislation is being drafted to decentralize government and introduce a new system of
intergovernmental fiscal relations suitable to public administration based on regional autonomy.
This means that the central government would shift to an enabling role and share about 50% of its
revenue with regional and local government using a block grant principle based on criteria such as
population, regional contribution to GDP and the like. This would limit the central governnent's
role to national matters of defense, monetary policy, etc. The provinces would have authority over
matters which transcend District boundaries (e.g. public works, communications, transport,
mining, forestry, estates and strategic regional policy). Local governments will be able to access
funds from the national budget, donors, private sector and from the local revenue base, and allocate
them in accordance with public preferences. Both provincial and district governments would be
free to restructure their sectoral government departments (dinas) and transfer responsibilities to
provincial or local government enterprises, private enterprises or public-private partnerships.
Thus, the Government intends to reform regional governnent along the following lines: (a) retain a
lean central government apparatus in Jakarta dealing only with solely national govermment
functions, revenue sharing and regulation of regional of local government as an "Enabler" and not
a "Provider" (i.e. seeking greater public-private financial partnerships at the local level);
(b) devolution of resource allocation and implementation power to District and Local Government;
and (c) reorganization of government apparatus at the provincial level (Tk. I) to serve the
administration at district level (Tk. II) and deal mainly with extra-jurisdictional functions and
issues.
Country Assistance Strategy
10.  Given the economic, social and political situation, the strategy over the next few months
calls for quick disbursing assistance to continue the momentum on the reform agenda and protect
the vulnerable. In line with the Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report discussed
by the Board on March 9, 1999, over the next 12-18 months, the Bank's support to Indonesia will
focus on three objectives: (a) ensuring short-term stabilization through bank and corporate
restructuring, restoring macroeconomic stability and maintaining physical assets; (b) reinforcing
the social safety net to protect Indonesia's poor and near poor and to maintain investments in
human capital; and (c) building sustainable institutional foundations for a sustainable future,
through structural and other policy reforms seeking an effective financial system, efficient,
transparent and clean public sector operations and competitive corporate and agricultural sectors.



- 4 -
Tangible outcomes sought include: enhanced human resources; improved urban management;
sound infrastructure; and effective environmental management. The lending program has been
expanded and reoriented towards fast-disbursing adjustment operations to provide much needed
fiscal and balance of payments support. These operations are conditional on achievement of basic
and permanent reforms in macroeconomic and social safety net policy, governance, public
expenditure and natural resources management. Technical assistance loans are planned to support
further banlkng reform, and corporate restructuring. As the reforms supported through the Bank's
proposed lending restore stability, confidence and growth in the economy, the financial resources
provided through these loans will help Indonesia avoid an excessive decline in consumption, and
help continue necessary investments, including in human resources.
B. THE SECTOR MANAGEMENT CONTEXT
Water Resources Management Problems
11.  Need for New Policy Paradigms. The management of Indonesia's water resources sector
faces increasingly complex long-term investment challenges and management problems which are
likely to severely constrain the country's economic development and food security, lead to a
deterioration of public health and irreversibly damage its aquatic environment. These problems
arise from: (a) the synergistic adverse impacts of population growth, urbanization' and
industrialization; and (b) an ineffective sector administration guided by outdated sector policy
paradigms, management institutions and data systems which are increasingly incapable of
addressing emerging problems and challenges in an effective and coordinated manner. The
principal problems relate to growing water shortages and inter-sectoral competition, water
pollution, environmental damage, downstream watershed degradation impacts and declining
physical and fiscal sustainability of existing irrigation infrastructure facilities. The challenges
posed by these problems need to be addressed by comprehensive policies, integrated cross-sector
strategies, improved institutions, andfiscally and environmentally sustainable programs.
12.  Water Allocation under Scarcity. In some river basins, particularly those with large urban
areas such as metropolitan Jakarta and Surabaya on Java, surface water and ground water
resources are reaching a critical stage of maximum use and inter-sectoral competition2. For
example, inter-basin surface water transfer to metropolitan Jakarta must expand by at least 600%
in the next twenty years: this is only possible at the expense of irrigation. Because of this demand
competition and inadequate reservoir storage3 to store excess monsoon runoff, urban and industrial
growth have resulted in locally reduced supplies for irrigated agriculture which is the largest water
user and produces 79% of the country's rice. There is little alternative to coping with growing
non-irrigation water demand on Java except through greater irrigation efficiency, higher rice yields
and cropping diversification to more remunerative but less water intensive crops. This adjustment
lAbout 58% (118 million) of Indonesia's population of about 204 million reside on Java. In twenty years
time, the national population will be about 258 million and the urban population is expected to increase
from 74 million in 1998 to 127 million in 2018.
2 On Java, demand is projected to increase by some 70% over 1990 levels by CY2000. In 1990, the water
availability deficiency on Java stood reportedly at 5% during low flow periods. This figure is projected
to increase to about 40% by the year 2000.
3 Current reservoir storage capacity does little to smooth out large seasonal variations of river flows.
With few exceptions, simulation studies indicate that Java reservoirs only reduce the shortfall in
irrigation and urban water requirements by about 10% in a dry year.



- 5 -
will require effective seasonal inter-sectoral water allocation and regulation by strong basin
management organizations working within a water rights and licensing framework. It will be
imperative to shift management strategy from a water sources development orientation to one of
reliance on an effective institutional framework for water use allocation based on water use and
water quality rights, water pricing and operational recognition of water conservation needs.
13. Urban Population Access to Piped Water Supply. In urban areas, access to clean piped
water supply is wholly inadequate: in 1998, only 40% of Indonesia's urban population had access
to piped water. Bank estimates indicate that, in Jakarta alone circa 1992, the avoidable annual
public health damage from unsafe water ranges from about $40 million to $700 million with a
likely average of $300 million. However, since the urban population is projected to grow at a rate
of about 6.4% per year, completion of affordable water supply investments in CY2008 serving
62% of the population, would still leave an urban population without access to piped water which
is equal in size to the unserved population of 1998. A recent Bank urban water supply policy
study4 estimates that meeting a program target of providing piped water access to 62% of the
urban population by CY2008 would require investment5 of Rp. 18 trillion (about $7.5 billion).
These amounts should be compared with the programmed investment of only Rp.3 trillion during
Repelita VI (1992-1997).
14.  Prior to the current economic crisis, it was believed that water supply investments could be
increasingly financed from increased water tariffs and the capital market. The Bank's analysis
indicated that improved urban water supply would be affordable if urban water management
reforms are carried out that would transform municipal water supply companies (PDAMs) into an
autonomous and creditworthy industry. However, if the urban water supply sub-sector is not able
to attract commercial financing because it is perceived as too risky under the present economic
climate, the above levels of investment would be an unaffordable burden on the GOI budget.
15. Municipal Wastewater Disposal. By 2018, people will produce about 5 million m3/year of
domestic waste. Unless treated, this waste discharge will exact a severe toll on river water quality
and aquatic life, especially in the dry season when river flow is reduced by water diversion for
irrigation and other consumptive uses. From the health point of view, many rivers on Java have
escheria coli and coliform bacteria levels far in excess of allowable levels as a result of domestic
sewage effluents. Current estimates6 suggest that the social costs of inadequate urban sanitation
(diarrhea incidence only causing a diseconomy of $24/capita/year) are at least US$1.8 billion
annually (in 1998 constant prices), or about 0.9% of Indonesia's annual GDP (estimated at
US$200 billion). In view of growing urban wastewater discharge as a result of increased urban
piped water supply, it is imperative to revisit conventional wisdom which regards sewerage and
sewage treatment as publicly and privately unaffordable in Indonesia7.
4 World Bank: Indonesia Urban Water Supply Sector Policy Framework, Indonesia Discussion Paper
Series, No. 10, East Asia and Pacific Region, October 30, 1997.
5 Expressed in 1997 constant prices at an exchange rate of Rp.2,400 = $US1.0.
6 Dillon Consulting Ltd.: Towards a National Environmental Sanitation Program for Indonesia; Jakarta,
October 1998.
7 A 1991 World Bank study concluded that a sewerage levy of 1% on the capital development costs of all
on-going and new high-rise commercial and residential developments in Jakarta's central business area
could finance the construction of a comprehensive central sewerage and treatment system which would
also serve the adjacent low-rise residential areas.



-6 -
16.  Inadequate investment in urban sewerage and waste treatment infrastructure (less than 5%
of the country's urban population is served with sewerage) has led to decreasing environmental
health, increasing surface and groundwater water pollution and degradation of important
environmental resourcese. Aside of an opportunity cost of foregone irrigated production, using dry
season river flow to flush urban drains does not solve the sanitation problem, but only moves
pollutants to another location causing environmental damage. This damage is particularly
significant in estuaries and coastal waters. The annual damages to tourism and fisheries due to the
absence of wastewater treatment are estimated at about $322 million [tourism ($101 million) and
fishery ($221 million)]. These damages do not include river pollution diseconomies such as
increased urban water supply treatment costs, investment in conveyance of clean water,
degradation of river fisheries (e.g. replacement of high value table fish by low-value species), or
reservoir aquaculture losses (e.g. cage fisheries in the Saguling Resevoir on the Citarum River in
West Java are periodically damaged by untreated Bandung wastewater). In Indonesia, municipal
wastewater generation has notyet been acknowledged as a water supply externality and the costs
ofprotecting water sources are not made explicit and charged to water users9. Legislation does
not specifically regulate discharge of municipal wastewater and sewerage into rivers and lakes
in conformity with prescribed environmental or recipient water body standards.
17.  Wastewater disposal is generally regarded as a public good and its investment burden falls
on government shoulders. A 1998 study estimates that an investment of about $1 billion is needed
for sewage collection in predominantly low income urban areas covering only about 60% of the
country's urban population. The contribution of even the wealthiest cities have hardly exceeded
15-18% of investment costs in the past. Consequently, the Directorate of Human Settlements
(Cipta Karya) of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) retains an inordinate control over
investment priorities without being accountable for the investment's sustainability. Those local
governments which have sewerage and treatment facilities assume responsibility for O&M and cost
recovery through their PDAMs (water supply corporation) or a PT PAL (wastewater corporation).
However, even where a sewer system has been constructed to supply wastewater treatment plants
as in Bandung, the household connection rate is as low as 30%. The lack of quantitative data on
poor sanitation costs, inadequate community support and local government commitment, all
contribute to ineffective investment in sewerage and wastewater treatment.
18.  Industrial Effluent Impacts. Industrial waste is projected to grow 4-5 fold from about 0.25
million tons 1990 to about 1.2 million tons in 2010. About 80% of this waste is composed of toxic
and hazardous materials, heavy metals, pesticides and organic materials which are not
biodegradable. At most industrial sites, sludge from the treatment of industrial waste is normally
not found: this suggests that the sludge is disposed of directly into the environment. Industrial
water pollution has adverse downstream economic and environmental impacts: for example,
brackish water shrimp production on the north coast of Java is increasingly threatened by pollution
and may have to be relocated. Similar losses are noted for communities in the Outer Islands
threatened by the rapid growth of processing and mining industries. Industrial toxic waste also
adds to the vulnerability of shrimp exports: for example, antibiotic residues were found in
Indonesian tiger shrimp exported to Japan and led to the search for an alternative supplier. Other
s In Jakarta Bay, the percentage cover of living coral has been reduced to only 10% at about 10 km from
the shoreline and to 40% at a 50 km distance. Similar damages are likely to the coral reefs near
Manado and Ujung Pandang in Sulawesi and the tourist resort areas of Bali
9 A recent ADB-supported study claims "Willingness-to-Pay" studies indicate that poor urban households
are prepared to pay up to 2% of household monthly income (about Rp.25,000) on improved sanitation.



- 7 -
adverse impacts are hazardous bio-concentration of toxic metals (e.g. mercury in fish as a result of
informal sector gold mining in Kalimantan). Thus, industrial pollution mitigation cannot only be
concerned with balancing the commercial viability of industry with environmental values: it must
also consider the diseconomies caused throughout a river basin.
19.  Watershed Degradation. An increasing hazard to water infrastructure sustainability and
river quality is the high and continuously growing sediment yield due to deforestation and changing
land use. Soil erosion, increased irrigation maintenance costs, losses in reservoir yield and power
production due to sedimentation result in an estimated soil productivity loss of about $US315
million per annum on Java (1988/89 prices) while harbor dredging are estimated at about $US25-
90 million per year. River low flows are apparently also reducing because of decreasing
groundwater replenishment as a result of increased storm runoff due to deforestation. To improve
the efficiency and environmental sustainability of forest management, the Government has issued a
forest exploitation regulation which defines--for all potential legal entities in permanent production
forest estates--the terms and conditions of forest use. Following public consultations, a new Forest
Law, compatible with the broad vision and the new regulatory requirements for the sector will be
drawn up. The impacts of erosion and sedimentation on river infrastructure needs to be factored
into the determination of watershed management priorities in a river basin management context.
20.  Flooding  Flood peaks are increasing due to changing land use and deforestation thus
causing increasing flood damages to the rapidly urbanizing coastal areas (particularly in Jakarta,
Medan and Semarang metropolitan areas). Increasing investments are therefore being made in
flood protection facilities. However, flood protection facilities are proving to be inadequate and
flood damages are increasing due to rapid floodplain urbanization. Land-use zoning and flood-
proofing are viable non-structural flood mitigation interventions as well as incorporation of flood
discharge arnelioration measures into the design and operation of multi-purpose reservoirs. The
State Electricity Corporation (PLN) owns and operates large reservoirs which are single-purpose
hydro facilities. These often occupy the only significant storage sites existing in many basins.
Without enforceable basin-wide multi-purpose operating rules, the maximum national benefits
cannot be realized, particularly for water supply and flood protection. This requires joint
land/water resource management and spatial planning with project formulation guidelines and
facilities operation different to those followed under the established institutions. Watershed
utilization and management can therefore no longer be regarded as an upper watershed
productvity and conservation issue: its priorities must also be determined by downstream
impacts on rivers, river infrastructure andfloodplain productivity.
21.  Environmental Impact of Swampland Development. Rice self-sufficiency concerns and
transmigration policy prompted the previous government to embark on a hastily prepared "Million
Hectare Peat Swamp Project" in Central Kalimantan. This project raises concerns of dubious
productivity, economic efficiency, sustainability together with apparent adverse impacts on forest
resources, the indigenous population, wildlife habitat and water quality. To date GOI has spent
about $US630 million since 1996 from largely off-budget sources to construct main supply canal
networks, develop about 30,000 ha and settle 15,000-20,000 families to date. However, it has
become apparent that the technical design itself is not feasible or sustainable and all further
investment has been scaled down to the existing settlement area. This fiasco is an example of the
inadequacy of national development planning and the national environmental assessment process
for large public projects. Indonesia thus needs a national swampland development policy that is
integrated with spatial development plans, and that balances technical and economic feasibility
with social, environmental and conservation concerns.



-8 -
Food Security and Irrigation Development Affordability
22.  Irrigated Rice Production. Indonesia achieved self sufficiency in rice production in
1984 through Government efforts on the supply side to increase agriculture production through
cropping intensification, and irrigation scheme construction and rehabilitation. Average rice
yields increased from 2.1 tons per hectare in the mid 1960s to about 4.3 tons per hectare in the
early 1990s as a result of introduction of improved rice varieties and increasing irrigation.
This trend was maintained until 1994, when it became a net importer. The recent slowdown in
rice production growth is also the result of: (a) stagnation in the introduction of new high
yielding rice varieties together with reduced expansion of irrigation; (b) the disincentive of a
significant reduction in the rice to fertilizer price ratio to about 1.3 and depression of farm-gate
prices as a result of rice consumption subsidies. In 1995, irrigation produced about 79% of
the 48.75 million ton rice output'0 of which about 65% was produced on Java (Annex 1).
23.  Average annual rice production growth rates on Java declined from 5.7% per year in 1980
to 1.1% per year in 1996, while Off-Java, the average annual production growth rate grew from
3.5% to 4.1% in the same period. This asymmetric growth reflects the leveling-off of rice yield
increases and loss of irrigated area due to urbanization on Java, while irrigated and reclaimed
swamp area increased on the Outer Islands. However the build-up of a high rice production
capacity of Outer Island irrigation investments is generally slow: canal networks for 500,000-
700,000 ha are not yet operational due to non-functional canals or incomplete main canals and
tertiary networks."  The Outer Island swamp drainage projects12 require very high development
costs for transmigration, land clearing, water control and settlement infrastructure to attain a
potential productivity which is generally still 50-60% less than that of Javanese irrigation schemes.
At present, although almost one third as large as the irrigated area, highly subsidized and
unsustainable public swamp rice schemes contribute only 4-5% of the total rice production.
24.  Effective Irrigation Investment Issues.  Given the future shortage of capital, the
investment strategy of maintaining rice self-sufficiency through expansion of irrigation and swamp
reclamation needs review, especially with respect to the choice of most cost-effective and
environmentally sustainable production interventions. The fundamental question facing planners is
what investment strategy is appropriate at this time to keep up with a projected rice demand in
CY2020 of about 62-64 million tons while keeping imports to a minimum? Should expensive
'0 About 79% of the rice production comes from a canal-irrigated area of about 4.78 million ha, of
which about 3.01 million ha were constructed by government: the remainder consists of small village
schemes which, for the most part, have received some govemment-sponsored technical improvements.
Some Outer Island schemes are too large in relation to a reliable river flow because of poor planning:
hence a high cropping intensity is not possible. Other schemes are in various stages of completion due
funding shortages. In some cases, the planned high rice cropping intensity is not compatible farmer
preferences in generating cash income from more lucrative tree crops.
12 Swamp areas have generallybeen developed as transmigration settlements. These consist of about 0.55
million ha of tidal water management schemes and about 1.14 million ha of predominantly inland
swamp drainage. The isolated location of these schemes, unsustainable input programs, poor water
control, organic soil degradation, poor markets and a preference for lucrative tree crops, result in low
scheme productivity.



-9 -
expansion of irrigation schemes continue, or can the productivity of existing schemes"3 be upgraded
with much lower investment of about US$1 billion by rehabilitation and scheme completion? It
can be shown that despite loss of land due to urbanization on Java, increased rice production to
attain CY2020 requirements may be achieved by raising the productivity of existing irrigation
schemes instead of developing new projects (Annex 1). Aside of replacing about 110,000 ha of
sugar cane with rice on Java, increased rice output would be mainly achieved on the Outer Islands
by: (a) market incentives for raising irrigated rice yields and cropping intensity to levels closer to
those of Java; (b) completing over 700,000 ha of partially built irrigation networks which are
technically and economically viable; and (c) developing only about 120,000 ha of new schemes. In
addition, an expansion of about 80,000 ha of irrigation on Java and about 100,000 ha of swamp
rice schemes would be needed.
25.  The success of the production improvement strategy is predicated on policy and structural
adjustments in the agricultural sector including policies on: rice pricing and imports; crop
diversification and marketing; production input pricing; agricultural research and varietal
improvement; and irrigation agronomy extension. Thus a complementary agricultural sector
structural operation is needed. However, a reduced pace of irrigation and drainage scheme
expansion concomitant with current fiscal realities is based on the premises of effective
mitigation irrigated land conversion, improved public irrigation management and timely
maintenance of existing irrigation infrastructure. This strategy cannot succeed unless the fiscal
sustainability of public irrigation is assured and the structural problem of deferred system
maintenance is overcome.
C. SECTOR ADJUSTMENT ISSUES
Policy and Structural Lacunae
26.  Structural. Constraints.  Mitigating the water resources and irrigation sector's multi-
faceted challenges and resolving its emerging issues is difficult because of (a) the growing
inadequacy of policy, legal and regulatory frameworks, (b) the hitherto lack of political will to
implement legal provisions which would require payment for bulk irrigation water supply and
industrial effluent discharge fees; (c) weak sector institutions for integrated policy formulation,
planning, governance, management, strategic allocation of scarce resources and water pollution
control; (d) uncoordinated government agencies pursuing narrow functional mandates in
addressing problems and diseconomies that require concerted inter-governmental cooperation and
action; (e) ineffective administrative and implementation performance of provincial and district
water resources and irrigation agencies; (f) a culture of agency preferences for construction-based
externally-aided project-type solutions instead of effective service delivery and programs based on
economic incentives and regulatory sanctions for beneficiary behavior modification; (g) the
complexities of staff deployment and performance incentives, budget transfer and organizational
structure that must be overcome to implement a policy of de-concentration and devolution of
central government roles to regional and local governments; (h) the absence of mechanisms for
stakeholder voice in sector decision-making institutions; and (i) inconsistent management data
sets (e.g. for areas irrigated) and unreliable hydrological and water quality data. These general
structural problems can only be overcome by the Government's emerging political will to
1 About 86% of the country's 6,730 public and village irrigation schemes cover a total area of about
1.65 rmillion ha and are smaller than 1000 ha; only 133 schemes covering 1.57 million ha are larger
than 5000 ha.



- 10-
undertake a sector structural adjustment program within the broader framework of macroeconomic
structural adjustment and overall national governance reforms.
27.  Need for a National Water Resources Policy. In the face of emerging pressures on water
resources which became evident in the 1980s, GOI was urged to step up its efforts to develop and
implement an integrated water resources management strategy. In 1993, a UNDP/FAO-supported
National Water Resources Policy study produced a draft National Water Resources Policy Action
Plan (1994-2020). Seven policies were identified which emphasize efficient water allocation and
utilization, securing water quality, adjustment in economic and capital budget management,
enhanced private sector and community participation, and the need for a water administration
structure consistent with the objectives of integrated management. The Policy Action Plan consists
of specific government actions covering water resources management, socio-economics and
finance, environmental management, and legislation and administration.  With respect to
institutional and implementation efficacy , the policy emphasizes the river basin management
approach and recommends establishment of a National Water Resources Council14.  The
UNDP/FAO policy report did not receive ministerial attention because of the agency focus on
development investments instead of growing management and regulatory needs. Most of the sector
management problems, regulatory and beneficiary participation needs can be attributed to the lack
of government policy review and intra- and inter-sectoral coordination. Coordination is important
since the proposed national policies can impact on other sectors: thus their sustainable
implementation will depend on effective resolution of intergovernmental issues and integration with
other national policies. Further tangible progress on adoption of a National Water Resources
Policy, and guidelines for its implementation. is contingent upon establishment of a national
water resources coordination framework with executive decision-making authority with a
National Apex Body at the highest ministerial level.
28.  Absence of Stakeholder Involvement Institutions.  Intergovernmental coordination
institutions as the Provincial Water Coordination Committee (PTPA) or River Basin Water
Coordination Committee (PPTPA) consist only of government officials who espouse their
perception of the sector interests. No institutionalized public forum exists for receiving stakeholder
views and the decisions lack transparency. This is particularly true for Basin Development Plans
for which no institutional framework exists for their review and formal adoption. For example, a
water resources development and management plan of national consequence such as the Master
Plan for Water Supply to the Jakarta metropolitan area (Jabotabek), has never been discussed in a
public forum and no authority or commission been set up to deal with coordinated investrnent
implementation or reconciliation of public and private interests."5 While such national government
plans--which could be detrimental to local stakeholder interests--may have been possible in
Indonesia prior to May 1998, it is unlikely that under a more pluralistic and open government such
plans may pass without regional consultation. Reconciliation of these issues can only derive from
an intergovernmental institution with non-government stakeholder representation with policy,
'4 The proposed National Water Council is to be structured as an inter-ministerial Committee of
Ministers and a Technical Secretariat of Directors-General of agencies with functional sector
mandates.
15 Major water allocation adjustments would be required in the Citarum basin of West Java to facilitate
the massive planned water transfer to Jabotabek from the Jatiluhur Reservoir which supplies irrigation
schemes totaling several hundred thousand ha. The basin transfer recommendations of the Bank-
supported Jabotabek study have never been subject to the test of public consultation or discussion in the
West Java Provincial Water Regulation Committee.



- 11 -
coordination and decision-making powers at the highest levels of government such as a National
Apex Body (e.g. National Water Council) and Provincial Water Coordination Committees.
29.  Strategic Sector Investment Programming. Even when the Indonesian economy was
growing at 7% per annum, the bulk of water resources investments were based on reliance on
external aid sources. In 1992, the Bank found that investment in water supply and sanitation
needed to be doubled annually from 0.2% of GDP to about 0.4% of GDPI6. The advent of the
economic crisis has drastically reduced the amount of available capital. It also requires increasing
reliance on regulatory and financial institutions for sustainable and effective management of
infrastructure and water use. Given the investment constraints the fiscal crisis, it is relevant to ask:
(a) whether a strategic reordering of priorities for urban and irrigation is needed at the policy and
resource allocation level; and (b) whether there is an appropriate institution that can resolve the
political-economic issues related to a programmatic sector investment policy revision.
Furthermore, urban competition for water requires the public's recognition of water as an
economic resource. Existing sectoral investment decision-making institutions, as well as its data
and decision-support systems, are not up to future sector challenges: even in the Ministry of
Public Works, there is no functional strategic investment planning unit to set priorities between
water resources development, irrigation and urban water and wastewater disposal needs.
30.  Management Information Systems (MIS). The present ministry data bases and MIS
systems lack sustainability and are designed to meet specific internal tasks and management
reporting of sector agencies. Because of resource constraints, a low priority is attached to data
collection and processing systems; the absence of their incorporation into the government's
administrative structure also results in under-funding and dependence on external aid. Water
resources planning and management requires a technical and socio-economic data base at the
district, river basin, and national levels that would be linked through an MIS system. The purpose
of such distributed and shared data bases are to: act as an archive for historical data; provide data
for preparing integrated basin water resources plans and plan monitoring; provide data for basin
water resources management; and provide data input for an appropriate Decision Support System
for review of policy and programming at all administrative levels.
Incomplete Legislative Framework
31.  Basic Water Resources Legislation. Water resources and irrigation sector management is
based on Law No. 11 of 1974 on "Water Resources Development" (UU 11/74). This law provides
that water resources plans should conform with the framework of National Development.
Government is to formulate specific policies and programs regarding data collection, project
planning, water use, pollution control, licensing, and enforcement to meet the law's objectives.
Direct beneficiaries are to participate in the O&M with central or provincial government assuniing
O&M responsibility for works of general benefit (e.g. flood control). The law allows for the
establishment of river basin corporations as State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs): to date, the Jatiluhur
Authority (POJ) in the Citarum Basin of West Java and the Brantas Corporation (PJT Brantas) in
the Brantas Basin of East Java were established in 1990. W  11/74 places the water resources
management and intergovernmental coordination responsibility under MPW, but groundwater data
collection and evaluation is assigned to the Directorate of Environmental Geology (DEG) of the
16 By comparison, despite the higher economic value of water in non-agricultural uses (which are 3 to
250 times higher), investments in irrigation (excluding flood control) circa 1992 constituted about
0.4% of GDP, i.e. about twice that of urban areas.



- 12 -
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MoME). DEG has review and approval powers over all provincial
licensing of groundwater development except domestic use which is exempt from controls. Under
UU 11/74, there are 9 Government Regulations (PP), 1 Presidential Decree, 2 Presidential
Instructions, 14 Ministerial Regulations, 9 Ministerial Decrees, 3 Joint Ministerial Decrees and 5
DGWRD Decrees. However, UU 11/74 is based on the principle of central government
hegemony using de-concentration and co-administration principles current in 1974.  It
consequently needs to be amended to cater for new paradigms (paras 8 and 9) such as:
(a) regional autonomy, decentralization and state revenue-sharing as proposed in pending
national legislation; (b) an intergovernmental coordination framework headed by a National
Apex Body; (c) provision for stakeholder involvement in sector policy formulation institutions;
and (d) beneficiary empowerment in irrigation management.
32. Water Resources Management Regulations. The 1982 Government Regulation No. 22 on
"Water Management" (PP 22/82) sets up the basis for river basin management including the
requirement for a comprehensive water resources plan for each basin which is to be incorporated in
a National Water Plan as part of the National Development Plan. These provisions have not been
carried out. Except for domestic use, all water use requires provincial license, including
groundwater extraction. Government Regulation No. 35 of 1991 on "Rivers" (PP 35/91) declares
that rivers have multi-purpose uses and delegates responsibility for their development and
management to either central or provincial government in accordance with a classification of their
economic importance. PP 35/91 does not, however, mention coordination with agencies
responsible for managing related upper watersheds, groundwater or coastal estuaries in the
interests of ensuring integrated river basin and aquifer management objectives (para. 37).
33.  Irrigation and Drainage. Government Regulation No. 23 of 1982 on Irrigation (PP
23/82) delegates authority to provinces to undertake irrigation O&Alf although user groups or
villages are to undertake tertiary network O&M. The management of government-sponsored
swamp development schemes is regulated under Government Regulation No. 27 of 1991 (PP
27/91). PP 23/82 provides for Irrigation Committees at each level of government to set irrigation
schedules and water allocations. Government Regulation No. 14 of 1987 details decentralization
of irrigation O&M responsibilities to the provinces. The 1984 Presidential Instruction No. 2 on
Management of Farmer Water User Associations (WUAs) prescribes ministerial (MPW, MOHA
and Ministry of Agriculture) responsibilities for establishing WUAs. Once established, the WUAs
are to assume full responsibility for O&M of tertiary canal networks. The Government, through
the Ministry of Home Affairs Regulation No. 12 of 1992 tried to improve WUA functionality by
giving a WUA the right to develop a corporate organization authorized to undertake contracts for
system improvement. This MOHA Decision also gives WUAs an opportunity to become corporate
entities: i.e. open a bank account, receive govermment assets and obtain bank credit. However,
incorporation of a WUA is a complicated process requiring ratification by District Government
and is not explicitly provided for in enabling legislation. Irrigation and drainage management
transfer to empowered farmer water user organizations (paras 51 and 52) above the tertiary
network level is not envisaged under PP 23/82 or PP 2 7/91.
34.  Water Rights. The "Basic Agrarian" Law No.5 of 1960 (UU 5/60) provides for basic
water appropriation rights for specified needs. However no Government Regulation under UU
11/74 exists to implement the concept and establish the rights of water use license holders while
the fundamental issue of water rights for irrigators and environmental needs is not addressed.



- 13 -
35.  Water Pollution Abatement Legislation. Each ministry is responsible for environmental
affairs within its functional mandate, while the Ministry of Population and Environment (KLH) has
the coordinating role and delegates executive powers to the provincial governors. The 1990
Government Regulation No. 20 on Water Pollution Control (PP 20/90) clarifies provincial
authority to collect data, monitor, license, investigate and assess charges relating to water pollution
control and set standards for each major water use. Presidential Decree No. 23 of 1990 establishes
the Environmental Impact Control Agency (BAPEDAL) reporting directly to the President under
KLH guidance. BAPEDAL is to control environmental impacts through damage prevention,
impact management and mitigation measures under existing regulations; it is also to cooperate with
other ministries on technical matters and assist local governments in meeting their environmental
responsibilities. Environmental provisions have been considerably strengthened by the passage of
Law No. 23 of 1997 (WU 23/97) regarding "Environmental Management". This law is to serve as
a foundation for evaluating and adapting all environmental laws and regulations pertaining to
environmental impacts of irrigation, mining, energy, forestry, resource conservation, industry,
human settlement, land use and similar activities. Accordingly, for improved water pollution
abatement (paras 15-18) and water quality management (paras 47 and 57), PP 20/90 needs to be
replaced by an improved regulation under UU 23/97.
Inadequate Regulatory Framework
36.  Fragmented Agency Functional Mandates.  Indonesia's second Twenty Five Year
Development Plan--begun in April 1994--emphasizes, inter alia, development of comprehensive,
integrated and sustainable strategies for water resources development and management. Immediate
spin-offs of this strategy were: (a) the elevation of water resources to the status of a separate
sector; (b) the establishment of a Bureau of Water Resources and Irrigation in the National
Planning Agency (BAPPENAS); and (c) a major re-organization in 1995 of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW).
Within the MPW, along with irrigation development, DGWRD has been assigned responsibilities
for water resources development17 and management, including providing support in these areas to
the nation's provinces and river basin authorities. However, urban water supply and sanitation are
the responsibility of Cipta Karya, a separate agency within MPW. While major construction
projects are under DGWRD control, most water resources and irrigation management operations
are devolved to the provincial government and executed by the Provincial Water Resources
Service.
37.  Despite the reorganization of DGWRD, efficient, integrated and sustainable water resources
management has not been achieved: intergovernmental coordination has been poor because of the
absence of a national decision-making body for policy formulation and implementation, and inter-
sectoral coordination of aggregate sector management. The lack of a national water sector
intergovernmental coordination institution of adequate authority has adverse consequences for
development sustainability. Besides MPW, ten other ministries and agencies are allocated various
aspects of water resources management and activities. Their mandates and interactions are shown
in Annex 2. The fragmented mandates over many ministries adversely affects the efficacy of
economically efficient water allocation to sub-sectors, water pollution control, environmental
conservation and watershed management. This situation derives from fragmented ministerial
7 Single purpose hydroelectric reservoir planning, development and operation is funded and undertaken
by PLN which even maintains its own network of river gauging stations. Multipurpose hydro-electric
reservoirs are constructed and operated by DGWRD and sell power to PLN under monopsonistic terms.



- 14 -
mandates, overlapping sub-sector jurisdictions, lack of coordination and conflicting interests. Key
examples are: (a) the fragmentation of ground and surface water management whereby both
technical and administrative matters of groundwater regulation are placed under MoME by UU
11/74; (b) water quality regulation is ineffectively shared by both BAPEDAL and MPW'8; and
(c) the approach to watershed management whereby responsibilities are divided between three
ministries'9.
38.  Incomplete Regulatory Implementation of Legal Provisions.  For those aspects of
legislation containing political-economic principles--such as user fees and pollution charges
enabled by UU 11/74--the drafting and approval of the requisite hierarchy of national and
provincial regulations, and administrative and technical guideline procedures (Juklak and Juknis)
needed to actually implement such principles has not progressed very far in either national or
provincial governments. A telling example is licensing of water abstraction by non-agricultural
users: in the absence of national regulations or guidance, each province has had to create its own
regulations: hence there is no uniform national system. This situation is due to a combination of
administrative constraints, low political priorities and high bureaucratic transaction costs. In other
cases where legal authority has been provided for regulatory oversight--such as industrial water
pollution control--budget, staff, institutional weakness, priority of actions and government
willingness to clash with powerful interests, have proven inadequate for this responsibility.
Weak Cost Recovery Policy
39.  Beneficiary Contribution to Cost Recovery. Government Regulation No. 6 of 1981 on
"Contribution for Operations and Maintenance Cost for Water Resources Development
Infrastructure" (PP 6/81) requires project beneficiaries to bear water development costs. It
provides guidelines for creating public corporations to manage water infrastructure and recover
their O&M costs through water use and pollution charges. These charges are to be set by MoHA
reflecting amortization and O&M costs. PP 6/81 also includes policy principles such as water
abstraction licensing, beneficiary participation in O&M and its financing, river basin management
and water service fees. A clear funding policy is thus evident in existing legislation, i.e. that rural
and urban beneficiaries should pay for water services. Making the transition from full government
funding--which is clearly fiscally unsustainable--to beneficiary funding (especially for irrigation
services) by establishing equitable and practical procedures for setting service costs throughout the
water sector has hitherto been politically and economically difficult.
40.  Service Fees. PP 6/81 introduces the O&M  fee consisting of a water use fee and a
wastewater.discharge fee. This fee is directly related to infrastructure costs, though there is no
explanation as to what infrastructure would be applied for water quality management. UU 18/97
and the ensuing PP 19/97 in addition create the possibility to charge a surface water use tax. A
similar tax is being applied for over.a decade already for groundwater abstraction. The current
decrees specify that the O&M fee goes to the national-level MPW budget, and the Surface Water
s Mining licenses are issued by local govermnent that benefit from licensing fees under Law No. 11 of
1967 on "Basic Mining". Thus Minister of Public Works Decree No. 458 of 1986 and DGWRD
Decree No. 176 of 18987 to protect water resources from the toxic wastes of mining have no effect
because of local goverrnent interest in mining fees.
'9 Water resources use in forest conservation areas are regulated and licensed by Law No.5 of 1967 on
"Basic Forestry" and its PP 33/70 on "Forestry Plan" under the Ministry of Forestry and Plantations
which do not provide for coordination with MPW which manages water resources under UU 11/74.



- 15 -
Use Tax to the District development budget. Several means already exist for charging water
consumers, including those using groundwater, for the costs of cleaning up the wastewater they
generate: surcharges on PDAM tariffs; environmental levies on the property tax or on business or
development taxes; etc. The introduction of such charges, however, requires political will and
leadership, which has been lacking in most regional and local governments in the past. However,
the implementation of these decrees remains cumbersome and the Wastewater Discharge Fee is
not yet implemented. It is advisable that these fees can be retained at local level for water
management purposes.
41.  The "Polluter Pays" Principle. As for municipal pollution control, Law No. 18 of 1997 on
"Regional Tax and Regional Fees" stipulates that district government can charge a service fee or
levy for the collection and treatment of municipal wastewater. This levy cannot be used for water
resources quality management by, for example, a basin corporation. In addition, law revision
should allow holding a provincial and district government accountable for failing pollution control,
and applying sanctions under UU 23/97. The effluent discharge fee should be calculated as a
function of discharged volume, a factor to reflect the river capacity, and factors that are chosen to
arrive at a total fee that is high enough to stimulate the polluter to reduce his pollution. It is
proposed to allow a basin management corporation to collect this fee and use it for
administrative and monitoring expenses, andfor general water quality management.
Improvement of River Basin Management Institutions
42. River Basin Management. A International Water Seminar held in Indonesia in 1992,
focused on the water resources management policy options, emphasized nationwide river basin
management in addition to setting up management corporations in a few strategic basins. It was
recognized that not only is there a need to develop and maintain river utilization infrastructure, all
basin activities affect water resources management. DGWRD subsequently responded with
creation of a Sub-Directorate of Water Utilization and Planning and a MPW decree on formation
of Provincial Water Coordination Committees (MPW Regulation 67/1993). Five Bank-supported
pilot river basin management programs are underway on Java. The pilots are based on
establishment of River Basin Water Coordination Committees (PPTPA) and Provincial Basin
Water Management Units (Balai PSDA). Balai PSDA establishment was facilitated by Ministry
of Home Affairs Decree 79/96 which places the unit under provincial government control within
the PWRS. A Balai PSDA is to undertake basic hydrological data collection, water quality
sampling, river infrastructure maintenance and the operational aspects of compliance with water
allocation and abstraction determined by a Governor. It is DGWRD's policy to ultimately
establish a Balai PSDA and PPTPA for each of the 90 legally defined River Basin Territories of
Indonesia.
43.  Progress in provincial river basin institution-building has been slow and ineffective.
Guidelines for implementation of Water Service Fee tariffs, integrated groundwater management
and river water allocation needed for Balai PSDA operation have not been forthcoming from
DGWRD. The inability to apply these principles in the pilot Balai PSDA stems from: national
policy lacunae; staffing difficulties related to the disincentives of assignment to a "non-
construction" entity and low grade levels for key positions; and lack of staff and financial resources
of provincial governments. With the exception of some Java provinces, Balai PSDA have not yet
been established as structured units within the PWRS. In East Java, Balai PSDA have also been
established within the Brantas river basin managed by PJT Brantas, thus leading to confusion as to
functional responsibilities and lack of clarity between their regulatory and operational functions.



- 16 -
The pending regional decentralization legislation has also introduced unresolved complications
such as an intention to make Balai PSDA responsible for irrigation schemes crossing District
boundaries. Implementing the concept of integrated water resources management will require
much greater clarity of provincial government's water resources management responsibilities
and the organizational andfinancial provisions to implement them.
44.  River Basin Corporations. The two existing basin management corporations, Perum
Otorita Jatiluhur (POJ) and Perum Jasa Tirta (PJT) Brantas, were established under separate
Government Regulations (PP 42/90 and PP 5/90 respectively). PO is based on the Tennessee
Valley Authority (TVA) model while PJT Brantas follows the French river basin organization
model. Both are partially self-financing SOEs (Perum) with respect to bulk water supply and
hydro-electric power sales to PDAMs and PLN. Investment and public services such as flood
control and water quality monitoring are subsidized by the Government. Of the two, only PJT
Brantas is a success as POJ has no provincial representation on its Board and is responsible for
inadequately funded O&M of a large irrigation network down to the tertiary level. Because of PJT
Brantas success and, since PP 5/90 allows for additional river basin corporations to be established
under the aegis and guidance of PJT Brantas, the Government intends to establish four additional
PJTs by Presidential Decree. These corporations would be in the economically developed and
strategic basins of Bengawan Solo, Jratunseluna and Serayu-Bogowonto in Central Java, and
Jeneberang in South Sulawesi. However, the Presidential Decree has been held in abeyance due
to the implications of the pending regional administration and state revenue-sharing legislation
as it may be more advisable to establish the new entities as Regional Government-Owned
Corporations (B UMD) instead of as SOEs under central government control.
45.  Other issues, in addition to corporate structure and governance, that need to be reconsidered
in setting up basin management corporations under the new regional administration framework are:
(a) Regional Government representation and stakeholder involvement in corporate management
boards; (b) the role of the basin corporation as an executive agent of government (or "operator")
and the mechanisms of its regulation by either the regional government (the Governor through
Balai PSDA and a PPTPA) or central government (i.e. the Minister of Public Works through
DGWRD); (c) resolution of regulatory issues related to river basin corporation authority to use
water user and effluent discharge fees as sources of revenue; (d) financing sources for corporate
investment needs and the enabling legal structure for public-private joint ventures; (e) government
asset transfer and asset management issues (e.g. the source of amortization funding); (f) resolution
of corporate function and financing issues arising out of proposals that basin corporations should
assume O&M responsibility for irrigation canals crossing District boundaries; (g) handling of
subsidies for corporate public service responsibilities (such as services for irrigation, water quality
monitoring, wastewater treatment plants, flood control and watershed management); and
(h) management of municipal wastewater treatment facilities through a concession contract system.
46.  Hydrological Data. The national hydrological data base--which is fundamental to water
resources planning, development and real-time management--is rapidly declining in quality and
reliability. Hydrologic operations are decentralized to Provincial Hydrology Units (PHUs) and to
Balai PSDA that are inadequately managed, staffed, under-trained and under-financed, and without
appropriate logistics support. Hydrological activities are dependent on external aid through a
"Project" approach. The PHUs are unable to provide reliable monitoring of the rapidly changing
hydrological regime induced by changing land use while data on recent flood events are not
available or reliable. There is no reliable volumetric measuring system to manage allocation of
river flow between upstream and downstream water users during the dry season. At the basin



- 17 -
level, compatibility between hydrological data collected by other agencies (e.g. PLN, BAPEDAL)
and that collected by PHUs needs to be improved. A national institution or system is needed to
manage hydrology work, ensure data quality and organize remedial action
Ineffective Water Quality Management Framework
47. Water Quality Management Issues. Too often, water quality management (WQM) is
interpreted as comprising of monitoring and regulatory tasks only, although the development of an
institutional arrangement for financing, construction and operation of urban wastewater disposal
systems poses a greater challenge. Two regulatory approaches have been developing in Indonesia.
Regulations on water resources management include aspects of WQM, but insufficiently cover the
full area of regulation. Regulations that emerge from environmental management concerns, tend to
be more comprehensive, though weaker in identifying organizational arrangements powerful
enough enforce the regulations, and that promote integrated water management. WQM and water
pollution control have been carried out in an ineffective manner by spreading the very limited
human and financial resources too thinly while neglecting municipal pollution sources. There are a
few exceptions, such as in the Brantas basin where PJT Brantas assumes some of the
responsibilities, and in Jakarta. International experience has shown that the optimal approach to
WQM is at the level of river basins where priority setting can lead to investment optimization
yielding the greatest overall benefits. Modalities and institutional improvements are needed which
provide for cost-effective water quality management interventions that apply to municipal
wastewater as well as sharing of the financial burden between polluters and wastewater treatment
beneficiaries. Clearly, structural reforms are needed to craft institutions to weigh the social and
infrastructure costs involved in water quality management and seek an affordable mix of
investments, financial mechanisms and regulatory interventions to achieve a sustainable level of
environmental water quality.
Declining Public Irrigation Sustainability
48.  The Fiscal Sustainability of Irrigation O&M. Sustaining food production requires an
effective irrigation operations and maintenance (O&M) program. A de facto provincial deferred
mainxtenance culture has led to at least one third of the 3 million ha of government designed
irrigation schemes being rehabilitated twice in the last 25 years. Apart from production losses,
deferred maintenance results in scheme rehabilitation investment that is 6-7 times higher in
present value terms than that required if maintenance were to have been satisfactorily
undertaken. Despite the preservation of O&M funding in real terms since 1987, allocated funds are
used primarily for provincial irrigation agency staff and their activities, while whatever remains
(15-40 percent) is generally used for urgent repairs needed to ensure water delivery elsewhere, or
used for minor civil works. Since 1997--and especially under the current fiscal situation--O&M
funding is provided to provinces as part of the general provincial block grant transfer mechanism:
this has resulted in provincial governments allocating even less resources to O&M than expected
based on the central government's block grant budgeting assumptions. Due to Rupiah devaluation,
the value of the budgeted O&M subsidy has reduced from about US$80 million (Rp.195.32
billion) in April 1997 to a reported expenditure of about US$15-20 million (Rp. 150.11 billion).
49. Ineffective Irrigation Management. The Government's 1987 Irrigation Operations and
Maintenance Policy (IOMP) was to have addressed the irrigation sustainability problem. IOMP
focused on: (a) ensuring adequate and timely O&M funding through efficient operations and
maintenance (EOM) and needs-based budgets; (b) simplifying O&M programming, monitoring and



- 18 -
planning, (c) implementing direct O&M cost recovery from irrigators through a gradually
introduced Irrigation Service Fee (ISF) program; and (d) institutional development of Water User
Associations (WUAs) to enable selective management transfer of schemes smaller than 500 ha to
WUAs. However, IOMP failed since the institutional setting was not or supportive or appropriate.
No single agency has a mandate, responsibility or overall authority for IOMP's implementation
under an overall legislative and administrative umbrella. Irrigation agencies at the central and
provincial level are set up to execute civil works and not service-oriented, institutional development
tasks. Under Presidential Instruction No.2 of 1984 on the "Development of the Farmer Water User
Associations", three separate agencies have a mandate for establishing WUAs: the Directorate
General for Water Resources Development (DGWRD) in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW),
Directorate General for Regional Development (BANGDA) in the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MOHA) and Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). Similarly, the Directorate General of Public
Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) in MOHA is responsible for the fee portion of
ISF while the provincial government irrigation agencies are responsible for the related improved
irrigation services. The proliferation of agencies without clear mandates and accountability make
coordination difficult. There is also no provision for provincial and district agency accountability
for supply and maintenance services to irrigators: irrigation services have not improved in return
for ISF payments and consequently, farmers perceive ISF as an additional tax which they refuse to
pay. Thus, the ISF program has been very unsuccessful: instead of increasing beneficiary
contributions and reducing the provincial government's fiscal burden, ISF revenues have been
insignificant while O&M subsidies have increased.
50.  O&M Budget Allocation. Ineffective management of system maintenance is related to the
way in which O&M activities are financed and implemented. Since O&M funding support is
based on "area" under government control, there is every incentive to maximize central funding
support by maximizing this "area" to include village schemes, and minimize the actual
management turnover of small schemes to WUAs. Currently, O&M funding is based on "support"
of over 6.3 million ha of irrigation and swamp schemes. Thus about 1.7 ha of village irrigation
networks are regarded as government supported. Periodic rehabilitation is preferred over routine
maintenance by cash-short provincial governments: consequently they do not allocate sufficient
funds for maintenance as they can always depend on the central government to step in with
externally-funded rehabilitation projects.
51.  Ineffective Water User Associations. Under Ministry of Home Affairs Regulation No. 12
of 1992, WUAs are responsible for tertiary irrigation networks. The diffused ministerial
responsibilities and lack of coordination for WUA formation and development complicates this
endeavor. WUAs have not been effective because of the absence of: (i) irrigator water use rights,
(ii) free choice in the cultivation of those crops perceived to be profitable, and (iii) incentives of
WUA empowerment conferring authority concomitant with the responsibilities of a WUA. Until
1997, 36,712 WUAs were formed but only 7,112 of these are considered "active". hiadequate
attention is being paid by irrigation agencies to WUA capacity-building and its involvement in
design, investment decisions and contractor performance. Poor performance of existing WUAs
arises from the their legal definition as a social institution having irrigation responsibilities but
little recognition of the needfor them to be a socio-economic corporate organization vested with
autonomous authority offinancial management and self-governance, i.e. the WUA is currently
regarded as a water "user ", and not as a "infrastructure and service manager ".
52. Irrigation Management Turnover. The small scheme management turnover program to
WUAs has only achieved about one third of its target, while the efficacy of these WUAs is



- 19 -
questionable due to neglect of their development and a program of post-turnover support. Instead
of empowering farmers, the original and innovative concepts of the system management turnover to
WUAs were used to justify more public funding for rehabilitation and the program was reduced to
turnover of schemes less than 150 ha. The central policy issue of scheme turnover arises from the
IOMP concept of "Special Maintenance", i.e. that government should rehabilitate scheme facilities
to their original design capacity prior to turnover. This policy of ubiquitous government assistance
creates negative incentives that mitigate against WUA assumption of management responsibility.
A more effective policy would be to tumover schemes to WUAs a priori and then review
rehabilitation needs with WUAs along with their equity contribution. In this manner, investment
decisions would be more transparent and beneficiaries would be involved as "owners" in
determining design priorities and ensuring construction quality.
D. THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Reform Program Origin
53.  Program Origin. The general water resources policy and strategy guidelines for the 6th
Five Year Plan (Repelita VI) prescribe efficient and productive water utilization, while preventing
environmental degradation through spatial planning to optimize water resources development.
Nevertheless, the Bureau of Water Resources and Irrigation of BAPPENAS concluded that the
implementation of these guidelines was deficient. It found that: (a) policy reorientation lagged
behind investment in infrastructure development; (b) there was inadequate development of legal
and institutional arrangements for water resources allocation and management; (c) water quality
and environmental degradation have become a serious development constraint; and (d) lack of clear
regulations and procedures cause the private sector participation policy to remain non-operational.
Thus, for preparation of Repelita VII, BAPPENAS obtained a Ford Foundation grant to support a
national forum for water policy dialogue. The participants were stakeholder government ministries
and agencies, NGOs and private individuals . This forum of five seminars and thirteen discussion
sessions, began on September 30, 1997. The declared objective of the forum dialogue was
development of an "agenda for water resources policy and program reform" which would be an
nput into the policy and strategy of the 7h Five Year Plan (Repelita VII).
54.  At the same time, initial sector work by the Bank in late 1997 concluded that further
assistance to the water resources and irrigation sector was not possible unless major sector reforms
were undertaken. These reforms had been identified previously by the Bank and ADB and
coincided with the agenda of the BAPPENAS sponsored intergovernmental sector dialogue. With
the advent of the fiscal crisis, the Bank proposed in April 1998 that a program of requisite sector
reforms should be supported under a water resources sector adjustment loan (WATSAL) which
would be part of the overall macroeconomic adjustment lending that had evolved as the Bank's
revised Country Assistance Strategy. Successful completion of the sector reform program under
WATSAL would then enable the Bank (and other donors) to follow with a pipeline of adjustable
program sector investment loans which would be designed to support reform implementation with
institutional capacity building and other program investments in irrigation and river basin
management. This proposal was accepted by GOI and an informal senior intergovernmental team-
-including NGO representatives active in the irrigation sector--was established by BAPPENAS to
develop a Policy Matrix together with Bank staff. This team superseded the BAPPENAS forum
and its members were required to report to their respective agencies on sector reform deliberations.



-20 -
55. WATSAL Task Force. The initial Policy Matrix prepared by the informal group was
approved by the Directors General of all agencies with a functional sector mandates on October
20, 1998 at a meeting chaired by the Minister of Planning/Chairman of BAPPENAS and attended
by donor and selected NGO representatives. Subsequently, on November 2, 1998, the Minister of
Planning issued a Decree converting the informal team of government officials and NGO
representatives into a "Task Force for Reform of Water Resources Sector Policy" (WTF) under
the chairmanship of the Chief of the BAPPENAS Bureau of Water Resources and Irrigation to
prepare the deliverable Policy Matrix actions for GOI approval. Under the ministerial decree, the
WTF reports to a Steering Committee of sector Directors General who need to: (a) approve the
content of the reforn program and its implementation modalities; and (b) the WATSAL Letter of
Sector Policy, updated Policy Matrix and Inplementation Plan (paras 71 and 72).
Completed Reform Actions and Ongoing Initiatives
56.  Ministerial Coordination Team. In view of the need for inter-ministerial coordination of
river basin management as well as approval of the WATSAL reforms, GOI established a nine
member ministerial coordination team (Tim Koordinasi) for "Policies on Efficient River
Utilization and River Basin Sustainability" under Presidential Decree No. 9 of January 14, 1999.
As stipulated in this Decree, Tim Koordinasi is directed by the Government's Coordinating
Ministers and the Minister of National Planning.  The Presidential Decree specifies Tim
Koordinasi's involvement in the planning and direction of land and water resources management of
economic, conservation and environmental activities within river basins according to national
reformation principles. The Tim Koordinasi's duties are to be carried out on the basis of the
following key principles: (a) management based on beneficial and sustainable principles for the
welfare of the nation and its living enviromnent; (b) consideration of habitat conservation and
environmental sustainability needs for all natural resources and living creatures within specified
rules related to spatial planning and environmental functions; (c) where possible, utilization of
corporate basin management organizations such as State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), Regional
Government-Owned Enterprises (BUMD), cooperatives and private enterprises; and (d) promotion
ofpublic, community and NGO participation in basin management institutions.
57.  Improved Water Pollution Control Regulations. The Government plans to issue a new
Govermnent Regulation on Water Pollution Control under UU 23/97 to replace the existing PP
5/90. Due to the unsatisfactory fiscal, institutional and regulatory provisions of the draft
regulation and inadequate attention to water quality management, KLH and BAPPENAS have
agreed to transfer its preparation to the WATSAL Task Force with the objective of attaining
integrated water quality management in a river basin context The new Government Regulation
would be based on concepts similar to those of PP20/90. It would include: (a) arrangements for
monitoring and enforcement of water body quality and discharges by provincial and district
agencies of BAPEDAL, including provision of financial incentives (such as exemption of import
tax and credit); (b) payment of a wastewater discharge fee whose tariff whose revenue may be
earmarked for water pollution abatement activities; and (c) specific inclusion of regulation of
municipal and mining effluent discharge. The more holistic WQM approach enables the possibility
of using effluent discharge fees as well as positive financial instruments--such as tax deductions for
wastewater treatment--to stimulate industries to install wastewater pollution control facilities. At
the provincial level, the Governor is responsible for the Provincial Environmental Impact Control
Agency (Bapedalda I), and may--in future after passage of the regional administration legislation--
share responsibility for river basin corporations. This development strongly suggests that river
basin corporations could now be the appropriate agencies for the operational aspects of water



- 21 -
quality under the regulatorv oversight of the Bapedalda/BAPEDAL structure in highly developed
river basins.
58.  Declaration of Irrigation Management Policy Reform. The Declaration--prepared by the
WATSAL Task Force and approved by its Steering Committee and Tim Koordinasi--was publicly
announced by the President of Indonesia on April 13,1999 in his opening address at a "National
Workshop on Irrigation Management Policy Reform". The Declaration sets out the basic policy
principles of an irrigation management reform based on: (a) democratic establishment of
sustainable WUAs as legal organizations with self-governing and self-financing authority and
water use rights to manage secondary (and larger) irrigation networks transferred to their control;
(b) changing the responsibilities of irrigation agencies to be an accountable provider of support
services to WUAs and to undertake joint and transparent participatory management with WUAs of
irrigation facilities remaining under government control; (c) nationwide payment of an Irrigation
Service Fee (ISF) to be collected and retained by WUAs for funding O&M of networks under their
control; and (d) providing a basis for mechanisms of direct transfer of matching government funds
for rehabilitation of networks managed by WUAs. The Declaration's policy principles are
included in a subsequent April 1999 Presidential Instruction on "Irrigation Management Policy
Reform" requiring the Minister of Public Works--in his capacity as Chairman of the inter-
ministerial Tim Koordinasi--to implement the new policies. The Minister is to issue a Decree
which elaborates the policy ratiuonale and objectives based on the Declaration. This Decree and
the pending regional autonomy legislation is to serve as: (a) the basis for a Government Regulation
on participatory irrigation management; and (b) Guidelines for the district regulations needed to
implement the new management arrangements.
59.  Irrigation Service Fees. In order to create a positive incentive for payment of an ISF by
irrigators, the Director General of PUOD issued a Decree on September 14, 1998 whereby District
revenue authorities are to: (a) inform WUAs of the Irrigation Service Fee (1SF) amounts collected
within their irrigated area; and (b) transfer these amounts to active WUA bank accounts for use by
the WUAs for the O&M needs of irrigation networks under their jurisdiction. This precedent-
setting Circular--whereby ISFproceeds are not regarded as general revenue to be surrendered to
district revenue authorities--set the stage for an ongoing revision of the defunct ISF framework.
Thus the ISF will become the basis for the self-financing capacity and authority of WUAs in
accordance with the Presidential Instruction on "Irrigation Management Policy Reform" and
subsequent legal and implementation instruments .
60. WUA Empowerment. In January 1999, PUOD set up a committee under the WATSAL
Task Force framework to prepare a Ministry of Home Affairs Regulation entitled "Guidelines for
Empowerment of Water User Associations and/or Water User Association Federations". This
Ministerial Regulation consolidates all previous WUA legislative instruments and brings them in
line with the new Irrigation Management Policy. It provides for: (a) establishment of a new
framework consistent with the October 1998 reformation decrees of the People's Consultative
Assembly and pending regional autonomy legislation; and (b) is to be used by regional and district
governments to establish empowered WUAs and WUAFs in line with the above Declaration and its
Presidential Decree. In the interim, several provinces will be setting up empowered WUAs and
WUAFs under existing legislation as a pilot measure. As an empowerment transition measure in
line with the recent practice under the Bank-supported Java Irrigation Improvement and Water
Management Project (Loan 3762-IND), investments in design and execution of scheme
rehabilitation works will only be sanctioned if formal or informal water user groups have been
consulted and their comments taken into account. As part of the ensuing WATSAL Program, PP



- 22 -
23/82 on Irrigation is to be amended to (i) cater for empowered WUAs and WUAFs as irrigation
management institutions;and (ii) revise the roles and responsibilities of irrigation agencies to
support empowered WUAs and WUAFs.
61.  Curtailment of Million Hectare Swampland Project Expenditures. When the Bank
initiated its discussion of sector reforms as a basis for the proposed operation in late April 1998, it
requested curtailment of all further capital expenditures for development and expansion of of the
Million Hectare Swampland Project (PLG). Pursuant to the request of the Minister of Public
Works, the Task Team submitted a Technical Paper in June 1998 analyzing the technical,
economic, social and environmental aspects of PLG and its deficiencies in these areas. The
Technical Paper recommended inter-alia, that: (a) all further expansion of major civil works should
be halted on technical viability grounds; (b) further expenditure should only concentrate on
consolidation of the existing settled area as a viable source of livelihood; and (c) that a panel of
independent experts and NGOs should review the technical, economic, social and environmental
feasibility of the project. Following a meeting of concerned ministers in July 1998, these
recommendations have been carried out and major expenditures have been curtailed.
The Sector Structural Adjustment Program
62.  Reform Objectives. The proposed reforms would address sector deficiencies through
policy, legislative and institutional adjustments more conducive to food security, sustainable water
use and an improved aquatic environment. The Government's specific sector reform objectives are:
(a) Facilitate environmentally and socially sustainable management of water resources by
improving national policies and, institutional, regulatory and decision-support frameworks.
Sub-objectives under this overall objective include: (i) establishment of an effective
intergovernmental water resources and irrigation management coordination framework;
(ii) adoption and implementation of a National Water Resources Policy (NWRP) and NWRP
Implementation Plan to guide sector planning, programniming, budgeting real-time management
and regulation; (iii) establishment of institutions for stakeholder involvement in water resources
management and irrigation policy formnation and decision-making; (iv) amending water
resources legislation to provide for regional autonomy and private sector involvement in water
resources development; (v) improving water resources and irrigation management information
and decision-support systems and (vi) more effective water resources planning and real-time
resource management by improving the quality and reliability of the national hydrological and
groundwater data systems, and the national water quality monitoring framework.
(b) Strengthen the organizational, financial and administrative framework for river basin
water resources management. The objective has three components, namely: (i) fostering
integrated management and regulation of surface and groundwater by establishment of
adequately funded and appropriately staffed river basin management units within the provincial
administrations; (ii) establishing sustainable self-financing corporate river basin management
organizations in strategic river basins; (iii) introducing a water use rights system for secure,
equitable and efficient water allocation to all water users with due consideration of
conservation and other non-consumptive water uses.
(c) Improve regulatory institutions and implementation arrangements for effective regional
water quality management This objective would be achieved by two sub-objectives, namely:



-23 -
(i) improving the legal, institutional and regulatory framework for enforceable water pollution
control and effective surface and groundwater water quality management; and (ii) establishing
an incentive framework for compliance with water pollution control regulations by private and
public sector establishments and commercial estates.
(d) Improve the performance and sustainability of public irrigation schemes by establishing
an institutional framework for transparent and accountable delivery of irrigation services
and participatory fiscal support to democratic farmer organizations empowered with
autonomous governance and financial authority to gainfully manage and control higher
level irrigation networks for which they are willing to accept full responsibility. This
overall objective seeks to achieve four principal sub-objectives, namely: (i) creation of an
incentive framework in line with national reformation principles that provides benefits from
WUA membership and facilitates a national program that replaces "top-down" administrative
fiat with rapid "demand-based" establishment of empowered WUAs and WUAFs; (ii) agency
accountability for improvement of irrigation services and infrastructure through institutions for
transparent and participatory joint management of irrigation schemes by both local government
irrigation agencies and farmer organization representatives; (iii) improved fiscal sustainability
of scheme O&M and rehabilitation through nation-wide irrigator payment of Irrigation Service
Fees and contributions to government funding of scheme rehabilitation programs; and
(iv) reorganization of the management of government irrigation services to focus on both
effective development of farmer irrigation organizations, as well as serving their needs and
objectives.
63.  Reform Instruments. The reform objectives will be implemented by enabling legal and
administrative instruments as detailed in the Policy Matrix developed by the WTF (Annex 4).
These instruments include amendment of UU 11/74 and its various Government Regulations to
implement the reform program and ensure consistency of existing water resources legislation with
the decentralized public administration framework of regional autonomy and revenue sharing
legislation. Specifically, this includes key Government Regulations such as PP 6/81, PP 22/82, PP
23/82, PP 14/87 on "Transfer of Some Government Responsibilities in Public Works to Regions",
PP 5/90, PP 20/90, PP 42/90, PP 27/91, and PP 35/91. The legislative program includes issue of
new Government Regulations for areas where no other Government Regulation exists that could
serve as a vehicle for fulfillment of sector reform objectives Model edicts, guidelines and
procedures would be prepared to assist provincial and district governments in preparing the
necessary local legislative and administrative instruments for reform program implementation in
territories under their jurisdiction. The national legislation would help ensure local implementation
of water use rights, water abstraction charges, water allocation priorities, wastewater discharge
fees, conjunctive use of surface and groundwater, and management of river and irrigation
infrastructure. In particular, where basic legislation provides for shared or separate water sector
mandates among ministries--e.g. for groundwater, water pollution control, watershed management
and participatory irrigation management--appropriate coordination instruments such as joint
ministerial regulations and decrees would be issued.
64. National Water Resources Policy (NWRP). The envisaged NWRP would be based on the
basic policy principles that are to guide the legislative, institutional and regulatory reforms
comprising the WATSAL Policy Matrix and are attached thereto (Annex 4). The principles are:



- 24 -
* Introduce a water use rights framework for surface and groundwater water allocation and
utilization conducive to economic and social development, equity and environmental
sustainability;
* Improve efficiency in the utilization of water, particularly for irrigation;
* Facilitate conjunctive allocation and use of surface and groundwater through a unified
licensing mechanism;
* Seek attainment of regional surface and groundwater water quality levels conducive to national
socio-economic development and environmental sustainability, and compatible with both
Spatial Land-Use and Basin Development Plans;
* Develop institutions for prioritized, integrated spatial and river basin planning processes based
on participatory involvement of stakeholder representatives in publicly transparent water
resources and irrigation decision-making activities;
* Strengthen the enabling mechanisms for community management and financing of irrigation
networks, municipal water supply and sanitary wastewater disposal;
* Establish a planning, programming and budgeting system for prioritized and sustainable water
resources development investment and management under the new legal framework for
regional autonomy and related national revenue sharing;
* Create a regional water resources regulatory and management structure to support and
implement integrated river basin management under the principle "One Basin, One
Management" through Provincial Basin Management Units and, wherever feasible,
corporatized self-financing entities under Regional Government control;
* Reinforce the principle of beneficiary contribution towards the government costs of public
water supply and irrigation services, and the principle of "Polluter Pays" for the public costs of
water pollution abatement applicable to all pollution sources including publicly owned entities
and municipal authorities.
*  Iinprove the regulatory and incentive framework for private sector participation and
partnership in water resources and water quality management, as well as irrigation
management through investment, operating and maintenance concessions.
* Improve coordination between forestry, agriculture, conservation and water resources sector
public and private activities to promote environmentally sustainable watershed, floodplain and
estuarine management; and
* Establish specific integrated policies for environmentally sustainable wetland conservation and
swampland development.
65. NWRP Implementation. The NWRP would be approved by the Tim Koordinasi and
submitted to Parliament for inclusion in the "Broad State Policy Guidelines" (GBHN) for the 7th
Five Year Plan. To ensure implementation of the NWRP agenda, legal, regulatory, institutional,
financial, organizational and administrative actions would be specified by a NWRVP
Implementation Plan within the next Five Year Plan. This would provide a time bound action plan
of preparation, enactment and dissemination of all interventions and instruments needed for NWRP
implementation. The NWRP Implementation Plan would specify a framework for all NWRP
implementation instruments and actions that are required beyond the WATSAL period and which
should become effective in all provinces over the next Five Year Plan period. Thus the Plan would
include: (a) the Ministerial decrees, provincial and district regulations and decrees; provincial and
district administrative and technical instructions (Juklak and Juknis) for implementation, formation
of entities such as PPTPAs, PHUs, Balai PSDA, River Basin Management Corporations, etc.; and
(b) the number of new management entities and operational units with appropriate capital and



- 25 -
recurrent budget for their establishment and operation. This Plan budget framework would serve
to recruit and assign capital funding through coordinated extemal aid projects where necessary.
66.  Reform Program Outcomes. Completion of the GOI reform program would result in
specific outcomes for the four loan objectives. These include:
Improved Policy. Institutional. Regulatory and Management Information Frameworks
*  Inplementation of national sector coordination framework headed by a National Apex Body
for resolution of sector policy issues, review of strategic planning and inter-governmental
program budgeting, and oversight of sector management and its regulatory performance.
*  A National Water Resources Policy and NWRP Implementation Plan to guide the sector
management process and ensure development of its management instruments and establishment
of management institutions in a programmed manner with adequate funding.
*  Administrative and coordination arrangement for an improved and sustainable framework for
central, provincial and district management information data organized to support a
Management Decision-Support System based on an inter-agency data-sharing network.
*  Establishrnent of: (a) a national hydrology system to manage a sustainable national framework
for improved collection, processing and dissemination of surface and groundwater hydrological
data; (b) adequately funded and staffed Provincial Hydrological Units in eight provinces
under the national framework; and (c) a national water quality monitoring network.
*  Establishment of a national framework for an enforceable water rights system for surface and
groundwater allocation, and a uniform framework ofprovincial water abstraction licensing.
* Issue of national regulations and guidelines for representation of non-government stakeholders
on Provincial and River Basin Water Coordination Committees (PTPA and PPTPA), and
establishment of such transparent PTPA and PPTPA institutions in eight provinces and in
their key river basins respectively.
Improved River Basin and Water Quality Management Institutions
 Improved river basin management by: (a) formation ofProvincial Basin Management Units in
about eight provinces; (b) establishment offour new river basin management corporations
key strategic basins on the basis of a generic Government Regulation for such corporations;
and (c), an amended corporate structure for two existing basin management corporations
(POJ and PJT Brantas) to provide for financial sustainability and representation of Provincial
Government on their Management Boards.
*  Improved framework established for basin water quality management and mitigation of
water pollution by industry, mines and municipalities, including (i) tax and/or other financial
incentives for corporate investment in wastewater treatment facilities and (ii), payment of
wastewater discharge fees by polluting entities; and
.  Provincial environmental impact control agencies grant operational concessions to basin
management corporations to undertake pollution source monitoring and implementation of a
effluent discharge fee framework in six highly developed river basins.
Improved Irrigation Management Institutions and Arrangements
*  Adoption of a national framework for the establishment by district governments of
autonomous and self-financing WUAs and WlJAFs for: (a) the management of irrigation
networks transferred to their control; and (b) the joint management by WUAs/WUAFs and
local government of large irrigation schemes still under partiai government management;



- 26 -
*  Launching of a program for democratic establishment of empowered WUAs and WUAFs;
*  Revision of the roles and functional responsibilities of central, provincial and district
government irrigation agencies to provide support services to WUAs and WUAFs in
conformity with the decentralization of public administration;
* Implementation of a nation-wide Irrigation Service Fee framework for sustainable financing
of operation, maintenance and asset amortization of irrigation schemes by the local
government, WUAs and WUAFs; and
*  Establishment of a "demand-based" WUA Irrigation Improvement Fund for financing of
phased and affordable rehabilitation of irrigation networks under WUA/WUF management
control by direct transfer of matching funds to eligible WUAs/WUAFs.
The above outcomes would facilitate establishment of a framework for coordinated GOI, Bank and
donor sector investment program for reform consolidation through institution and capacity
building, training, monitoring arrangements, civil works, equipment and technical assistance.



- 27 -
E. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Loan Rationale and Objectives
67.  Loan Rationale. The proposed operation (WATSAL) forms part of the Bank's strategic
objective to address the Indonesian economic crisis through an integrated package of four
adjustment operations (including PRSAL II, SSNAL and a Governance Reform Loan). The water
resources and irrigation sector is important to the economy and environmental quality of Indonesia,
makes large demands on public expenditure, and faces increasingly difficult problems. Structural
adjustment of the sector is needed as its unsatisfactory management results in significant economic
inefficiency, diseconomies and adverse impacts. These impacts are exacerbated by the effects of
the fiscal crisis. Sector adjustment must be begun now if the country is to adequately cope with
21' century challenges of population growth, urbanization, socio-economic reconstruction and
government reformation. Bank support of the Government's WATSAL Reform Program would
consolidate the Bank's involvement in the sector by: (a) sustaining the Bank's dialogue about
sector issues with GOI and exposing it to international best practice; and (b) setting future Bank
and donor support for sector investment programs on a firm policy, legal, regulatory and
institutional foundation. The proposed operation is unique for Indonesia in that its Reform
Program is an outcome of internal government self-analysis of institutional deficiencies, on-going
public consultations and, the reformation aspirations of a wide coalition of interests within
government and civil society seeking a paradigm shift in sector management. Consequently,
expeditious loan approval would consolidate and further energize the efforts of the reformist
elements in the sector to prepare and complete the program.
68.  Link with the Country Assistance Strategy. The proposed operation forms part of the
Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) and its response to the crisis in Indonesia. It focuses on
building foundations for a sustainable future by fostering sustainable management institutions and
maintaining physical assets through structural and policy reforms. In line with the CAS, the
operation seek outcomes that contribute to: (a) transparent management for effective allocation and
conservation of a key natural resource; (b) fiscal sustainability of sector services and infrastructure
maintenance; and (c) efficient and transparent public sector operations based on public-private
partnerships and community empowerment; and (d) effective environmental management.
69.  Loan Objectives. The proposed loan has four general goals, namely to: (a) facilitate
sustained government support for a necessary Sector Reform Program which addresses water
resources and irrigation sector problems and structural deficiencies through policy, legislative,
regulatory and institutional adjustments; (b) enable the development and utilization of professional
expertise within the country to formulate a sector reform program in line with national needs and
aspirations, (c) facilitate a process of reaching inter-governmental consensus and internalized
"ownership" of the reforms; and (d) improve sector management by transformation of its policies
and institutions to a level that would mobilize the subsequent sustained and coordinated support the
donor community. Aside of balance-of-payments support, the specific loan objectives are
improvement of: (i) the national institutional framework for water resources development and
management; (ii) the organizational and financial framework for river basin management; (iii)
regulatory institutions and implementation instruments for regional water quality management; and
(iv) irrigation management performance and fiscal sustainability through farmer organization
empowerment for participatory irrigation management.



- 28 -
70.  Program Objective Categories. Actions under the proposed loan contribute to natural
resources management, economic management and environmentally sustainable development.
Policy and Adjustment Actions Supported by the Loan
71.  Letter of Sector Policy and Policy Matrix. A Letter of Sector Policy and Policy Matrix
(Annexes 3 and 4) was approved by the WATSAL Task Force (WTF) Steering Committee and
ministerial coordination team (Tim Koordinasi). The Letter of Sector Policy sets out the
Government's Sector Reform Program and its attached Policy Matrix identifies the specific
reforms to be undertaken under each reform objective. The Policy Matrix provides specific
monitorable indicators of actions which are needed to implement each reform.
72. WATSAL Implementation Plan. The WTF has prepared a WATSAL Implementation
Plan indicating the processing steps and anticipated time frame for preparation and delivery of each
reform in line with the Policy Matrix's monitorable indicators. This Plan was furnished to the
Bank on March 29, 1999. The final version of the Implementation Plan agreed at Negotiations
(Annex 5) was attached to the Letter of Sector Policy and will serve as a means of Bank
supervision of WATSAL policy action progress.
Loan Administration
73.  Borrower and Loan Amount. The Republic of Indonesia will be the Borrower. The
amount of $300 million forms part of an overall external financing plan revised by the
Government, IMF, World Bank, ADB and Japan in December, 1998. It will be a fixed rate single
currency loan (SCL) in US dollars, with standard amortization terms, Front End Fee, grace period
and interest rate for fixed-rate US dollar SCLs, with a disbursement period of about 18 months.
74.  Tranche Disbursement and Procurement  The proposed loan will be a three tranche
operation to be disbursed as follows: (a) a first tranche amount of US$50 million minus the amount
of the Front End Fee disbursed upon Loan Effectiveness; (b) a second tranche amount of US$100
million upon fulfillment of completed second tranche actions (para 78); and (c) a third tranche
amount of US$150 million disbursed against completion of all third tranche actions (para 79). A
disbursement modality based on three tranches is used because: (i) the implementation of the
operation's Program requires GOI commitment to reform process spanning the pre-election period
and extending beyond the transition to a newly elected government; (ii) completion of the second
tranche actions constitutes an important enabling and programmatic step towards overall
completion of the Sector Reform Program; and (iii) the post-election second tranche disbursement
requires actions that may be construed to be of a political-economic nature and, as such,
Government approval facilitates a reality check--for both the WTF and the Bank--of the new
administration's support of the Sector Program supported by WATSAL.
75.  Funds will be disbursed against any import expenditure except those normally excluded
from adjustment loans, i.e., imports of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and tobacco processing
machinery, radioactive material, pearls and precious stones, nuclear reactors, gold and jewelry of
gold, silver, platinum, and military equipment, and luxury and environmentally hazardous goods.
The Government will open and maintain a deposit account with Bank Indonesia for the
disbursement of these funds. Upon loan effectiveness, the Government will submit simplified
withdrawal applications to the Bank, against which the Bank will disburse the first, second and



- 29 -
third tranche loan amounts into the deposit account. Disbursements will not be linked to specific
purchases and supporting evidence for disbursements is therefore not required. If, after deposit is
made in the deposit account, the proceeds of the loan or any part thereof are used for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) return
the amount to the deposit account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to
the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
76.  Condition of Loan Negotiation. A public announcement of the new irrigation management
policy by the President of Indonesia.
77.  Conditions of Board Presentation. All conditions for Board Presentation have been met.
These include: (a) establishment of the WATSAL Task Force and its Steering Committee (para
55); (b) submission of the WATSAL Implementation Plan (para. 72); (c) issuance of a Presidential
Decree establishing the inter-ministerial Tim Koordinasi (para.56); and (d) issuance of a
Presidential Instruction on "Irrigation Management Policy Reform" (para 58).
78.  Conditions of Second Tranche Disbursement. Subject to GOI maintenance of a macro-
economic framework consistent with the objectives of the Program--as determined on the basis of
agreed indicators--disbursement of the second tranche amount will require completion of actions
under four objectives supported by the Loan as follows:
Improved National Policy. Institutional. Reaulatory and Decision-Support Framework
*  Establishment of a framework for water resources development which provides for the
participation of non-government stakeholders in policy and decision-making in PTPAs and
PPTPAs, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
*  Adoption of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for a water resources and irrigation
decision-support  system,  including  administrative  procedures  and  implementation
arrangements.
*  Establishment of a national hydrology management system responsible for the upgrading of
surface and groundwater data collection networks.
*  Strengthening of hydrological data collection in selected provinces as agreed with the Bank,
including establishment of provincial hydrological units and strengthening of existing
provincial hydrological units through appropriate staffing and funding of activities.
Improved River Basin Mananement Institutions
*  Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for the organization, financing
(including financing from bulk water supply service fees and wastewater discharge fees) and
management of river basin management corporations.
Improved Water Quality Management
*  Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, on water pollution control and water
quality management, including incentives for corporate wastewater treatment.
Improved Irrigation Management Institutions and Arrangements
*  Issuance of procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for the establishment of autonomous WUAs
and WUAFs for: (a) the management of irrigation networks transferred to the control of the
associations and federations; and (b) the joint management with the Government or
government-owned entities of irrigation schemes through scheme-level management fora.



-30 -
79.  Conditions of Third Tranche Disbursement. Subject to GOI maintenance of a macro-
economic framework consistent with the objectives of the Program--as determined on the basis of
agreed indicators--release of the third tranche amount will require completion of all the actions
under four Loan objectives as follows:
Improved National Policy. Institutional. Regulatory and Decision-Support Framework
*  Adoption of a national water resources policy and related implementation plan, acceptable to
the Bank, including provision for the establishment of a National Apex Body for water
resources.
Improved River Basin Management Institutions
*  Establishment of PTPAs and PPTPAs and introduction of non-government stakeholder
participation in PTPAs and PPTPAs, in selected provinces agreed with the Bank.
*  Establishment of a national water quality sampling network.
*  Establishment of Balai PSDA in selected provinces as agreed with the Bank.
- Strengthening the governance mechanisms of PJT Brantas and Perum Otorita Jatiluhur by the
introduction of provincial government management participation in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
e  Establishment of a river basin corporation in each of the Bengawan Solo river basin,
Jeneberang river basin, Jratunseluna river basin, and Serayu-Bogowonto river basin.
*  Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, on water use rights and provincial
water abstraction licensing and allocation of water use rights.
Imnroved Water Quality Management
e  Establishment of integrated water pollution control and water quality management by
provincial environmental impact control agencies in the Bengawan Solo river basin,
Jeneberang river basin, Jratunseluna river basin, Serayu-Bogowonto river basin, Brantas river
basin and Citarum river basin, through operational concessions to basin management
corporations acceptable to the Bank.
Improved Irrigation Management Institutions and Arrangements
*  Establishment of revised roles and responsibilities of central, provincial and district
government irrigation agencies: to take into account the Borrower's policy on decentralization;
and to provide support services to WUAs and WUAFs.
*  Adoption of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for: (a) the financing of operation and
maintenance of irrigation schemes by the Government, the WUAs, and the WUAFs, to ensure
fiscal sustainability of maintenance and rehabilitation of irrigation schemes; and (b) the
establishment of an Irrigation Improvement Fund for the financing of prioritized rehabilitation
and improvement of irrigation networks managed by WUAs and WUAFs.
80.  Accounts and Audit. Bank Indonesia will maintain the accounts for this loan in accordance
with sound accounting practices. The accounts under the program will be audited witiin four
months of a request by the Bank.
81.  Management and Monitoring of the Program. Responsibility for preparing the sector
reform program rests with the WATSAL Task Force and its Steering Conunittee of sector agency
Directors General. Monitoring and final approval of the reforms for implementation is the



- 31 -
responsibility of the inter-ministerial coordination team (Tim Koordinasi) supervised by the
Coordinating Minister for Economics, Finance and Industry and the Minister of National Planning.
The World Bank will remain heavily involved in facilitating reform preparation and monitoring
their implementation. In order to reaffirm the commitment of the next Government to the
WATSAL Reform Program, the Bank will: (a) ensure that documentation in Indonesian about the
Program is circulated to the new membership of both the WTF Steering Committee and the Tim
Koordinasi--as well as key provincial government officials--after the new administration has been
established; (b) program a supervision mission to conduct a review of the WATSAL
Implementation Plan (para 72) with the new Government; and (c) facilitate the availability of
selected international and local experts using the Bank's Consultant Trust Funds and the FAO
Cooperative Program resources. Where possible and practical, the proceeds of the Java Irrigation
Improvement and Water Management Project (Loan 3762-IND) will also be used to fund WTF
activities and studies. The WTF would continue the public consultation process for all second and
third tranche actions.
Sector Environmental Assessment and Public Consultation
82.  Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA). A SEA report was prepared by the WTF for
the Government and submitted to the Bank on March 5, 1999 (see Annex 6. for its Executive
Summary). The SEA assesses the potential environmental and social impacts of the proposed
policy, institutional and regulatory reform actions under the loan. As an integral part of SEA
preparation, public consultations were conducted with representative stakeholders with the aim of
disseminating information concerning the proposed policy reforms, eliciting responses on the likely
positive and negative impacts as perceived by the stakeholders, and sharing the results of the SEA
preparation with the same consulted groups at a follow-up meeting. These consultations were
conducted primarily by national NGOs, with local facilitators, and held in three selected provinces
(West Sumatra, West Java and South Sulawesi) at three levels: provincial, district and local, in
order to reflect opinions from different levels of civil society and government. Consultations were
also held at the national level, and with NGOs in each of the provinces. The WTF will implement
the SEA recommendation of further public consultations.
83.  The SEA report concludes that the WATSAL reforms are not likely to induce any adverse
environmental or social impacts. In fact, they specifically address improvement of Indonesia's
fresh water habitats, would lead to community empowerment for participatory irrigation
management and make sector management more transparent by introducing institutions for
stakeholder involvement in policy and decision-making. The public consultation summaries in the
SEA highlighted most of the social and institutional deficiencies that the proposed reform
program would seek to address. These include: (a) lack of coordination in water resource
management, (b) lack of transparency in managing water rights and levies, (c) weaker water users
disadvantaged by more powerful stakeholders; (d) overall weakness in implementation and
enforcement of environmental regulations; (e) overlapping regulations, issued by different sectoral
and regional institutions, are a major source of confusion, especially in the fields of issuance of
licenses and allocations of water rights; (f) the inadequate attention paid to the natural water
storage capacity of watersheds, groundwater recharge zones and wetlands; (g) the lack of
coordination between utilization and conservation of water resources; and (h) the deficiencies of
hydrological and other data.



- 32 -
Potential Benefits
84.  Sector Management Improvements. In the medium term, the proposed reforms would
address the sector's basic structural deficiencies and issues (Section C). They are expected to
result in participatory sector management institutions able to respond in a more sustainable manner
to the increasingly adverse irnpacts and problems of population growth, changing-watershed land
uses, urbanization and growing non-irrigation water demand (Section B). Their benefits would
result in: (a) replacement of the current external aid-driven "Project" approach with strategic and
coordinated cross-sector implementation of prioritized programs and investments under inter-
ministerial guidance and a national water resources policy framework and action plan; (b) river
basin water sector management based on water allocation and quality rights for both consumptive
and non-consumptive uses, implemented by a financially sustainable, transparent, decentralized
and participatory institutional framework; (c) an effective institutional and regulatory framework
for effective and affordable water quality management capable of arresting the degradation of
water quality and the aquatic environment of river basins on a prioritized basis; (d) operational
revenue from user fees for bulk water supply and control of effluent discharge based on the
recognition of the economic value of water and the "polluter pays" principle; (e) improvement in
the efficiency and equity of irrigation services as a result of stronger modalities of irrigation agency
accountability; and (g) more effective deployment of government funding for the sustainability of
irrigation networks by direct transfer of funds to autonomous WUAs and WUAFs empowered with
governance and financial authority concomitant with their management responsibilities.
85.  Paradigm Shifts and Reformation. The proposed sector reform program represents an
attempt at a sustainable and internalized policy and institutional paradigm shift in the management
of a key economic sector within the context of national reforrnation principles (paras 8 and 9).
Accordingly its benefits include institutionalization of new paradigms under the basic law on water
resources which legalizes national consensus on sector governance. The key new governance
concepts are: (a) the establishment of a inter-ministerial National Apex Body as a sector
coordination institution above the Ministry of Public Works; (b) transparency through non-
government stakeholder representation at all levels of sector decision-making forums (including a
possible advisory group to the National Apex Body); (c) transformation of WUA legal concepts
from social organizations to empowered and autonomous self-financing corporate organizations
with water use rights, able to receive government funds directly, and managed in its member's
interests by elected office holders; (d) rejection of unsustainable centralized irrigation management
down to the farm level and its replacement by public-private partnership through transparent joint
government/WUA management on the basis of mutual equality and accountability; (e) introduction
of accountability for services to fee paying water users and implementation of the concept of
payment for use of common resources (i.e. effluent discharge fees); (e) expansion of regional
government's role to include investment and governance control of river basin corporations; and
(f) that the water resources component of Broad State Policy Guidelines may include
implementation of institutional targets as well as physical works. Enduring capacity-building and
institution-building benefit arises from the process of seeking to implement these principles in
practical management by mobilizing national expertise and engaging in inter-governmental
dialogue and consensus-building.



- 33 -
Risks and Risk Assessment
86.  Risk Summary. The potential risks inherent in the operation are:
* political uncertainties, social unrest and interest groups benefiting from the status quo, may
prevent the incoming Government from fully undertaking the proposed sector reforms;
* ideological differences and the institutional complexities of crafting and implementing the
reforms may take longer than expected in view of the change of Government;
* the difficult economic situation and fiscal constraints may weaken the incomning Government's
resolve to introduce universal Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) for irrigation O&M and to sanction
of charging of effluent discharge fees by river basin management corporations;
*  the reforns may not be adequately implemented because of the capacity and skill limitations of
staff available to provincial and local governments;
* the public and intergovernmental consultations undertaken during program preparation were
too limited in scope and duration to ensure their dissemination and acceptance by the
beneficiaries of sector services, various stakeholder groups and the sector agency
bureaucracies; and
- the present Government's sponsorship of the reform program may be motivated by immediate
receipt of loan proceeds for balance-of-payments support and not long-terrn sector adjustment
needs.
87.  Risk of Weakening Government Commitment.  The risk of rejection of the reform
program by an incoming Government is small due to the looming "water crisis" and the national
inability to sustain inefficient investment in public irrigation. The risks of partial acceptance are
moderate and in keeping with those associated with new policy paradigms and sector adjustment
operations. The proposed sector adjustment reforms are based on implementation of national
reformation aspirations shared by the public-at-large and the principal political parties. The
reform concepts arise out of an national inter-agency sector institutional reform dialogue started by
BAPPENAS in 1997. The Bank has only played a subsequent facilitating role in exposing national
experts to international experience and best practice. Consequently, the proposed program is
conceptually "owned" by a large group of professionals from all sector agencies, university experts
and NGOs active in water resources affairs. The Reform Program was prepared by a committee of
42 senior civil servants and NGO officials appointed to a GOI Task Force for Reform of Water
Resources Sector Policy. The proposed reforms have also been extensively discussed with senior
officials and staff in key provinces including a national Workshop on Irrigation Management
Policy Reform opened by the President of Indonesia. The Reform Program has been approved by
all sector agency Directors General and an nine member ministerial Coordination Team for Policy
on River Utilization and Sustainable Watershed Management (Tim Koordinasi).
88.  The Task Force is well aware of the conservative staff element in DGWRD and the
provinces who may feel threatened by the empowerment aspects of the new irrigation policy and
may seek to sabotage it. The reform action of "redefinition of the roles and responsibilities of
irrigation agencies.." is based on finding modalities neutralize these elements and allay their these
fears. Since this risk is internally recognized, the preparation process should be left to find local
solutions within the national administrative culture which reduce this risk.



- 34 -
89.  Risk of Non-Acceptance by Civil Society. The reform impacts and risks have been
analyzed by a Sector Enviromnental Assessment (SEA) and have been found to be of a positive
and salutary nature benefiting both water users and the environment (paras 82 and 83). They
would position the nation to respond more effectively to a looming water management and water
quality crisis, as well as public dissatisfaction with irrigation services. The reform concepts have
been presented to the public and NGO community during the stakeholder consultation process
accompanying preparation of the operation's requisite SEA. The Task Force will continue with
public consultation after Loan Effectiveness as part of the process of preparing the various reforns
that constitute the proposed operation's Program (para 82). The irrigation management reforms in
particular have been the subject of Rural Participatory Appraisal exercises on Java during the past
year and were discussed at a national workshop where they received wide support from provincial
government officials. The new irrigation management policy has been given national exposure by a
presidential statement to the media prior to its formalization through issue of a Presidential
Instruction (para 58).
90.  Implementation Risk. . Loan design has considered these risks leaving only those of reform
completion delay. Loan preparation arrangements provide for adequate funding of Task Force
activities, special studies and technical assistance up to December 2000 (para 72). WUA and
WUAF institution-building has been piloted by the Government, Bank, ADB and Ford Foundation-
supported NGOs for several years, while provincial basin management units have been piloted on
Java under Loan 3762-IND. Loan proceeds are available for nation-wide implementation of all
reform outcomes of the proposed sector reform program. The decentralization process will result
in a large number of competent staff being transferred to provincial governments who may be
deployed for staffing the nascent provincial basin management units. Government has already
made arrangements to set up the four new river basin management corporations using technical
assistance by the successful PJT Brantas corporation which has been studying the technical and
financial feasibility of the proposed new entities for the past nine months. The incentive of deposit
of ISF payments in WUA bank accounts instead of payment to district revenue authorities was
already mandated by a Ministry of Home Affairs Circular in September 1998 (para 59).
91.  The Bank's Risks. The Bank's risks inherent in possible non-acceptance of the Reform
Program by the next Government are somewhat mitigated by: (a) the significant "end-loading" of
the third tranche disbursement; and (b) a timely review of the Program's implementation progress
which, inter alia, would seek to inform the incoming Governnent, gauge its support for the Sector
Reform Program. Negotiation of two proposed follow-on adjustable program sector investment
loans for irrigation and basin management are dependent on satisfactory implementation of the
proposed sector reform program. Thus significant opportunity exists for the Bank to strategically
reassess its risks and those of the operation as a whole.
92.  While prior Bank water sector projects has been one of promises partially implemented, this
time a better outcome is expected. Both the Government and the Bank have engaged consultation
across a wide spectrum of political and technical stakeholders in a manner which would have been
improbable prior to 1998. Furthermore, the fiscal crisis, an appreciation of both looming problems
and institutional shortcomings, as well as national reformation aspirations, has brought forth a
wide coalition of diverse interests in government that support a paradigm shift in water resources
management. This coalition is likely to pursue a sector reform program with or without Bank.
The Bank's catalytic and facilitating role only energized existing sector reform efforts and assisted
in giving them a coherent and purposeful structure. Accordingly, in this case, there are substantial
benefits to be derived, in the present sector context, from "trusting" sector leaders and national



- 35 -
experts to: pursue a desired reformation outcome; and engage in a process of inter-governmental
dialogue to determine reform details within the agreed Program framework. The preparation and
outcome represented by the SEA, public consultations and the "Declaration of Irrigation
Management Policy Reform", is an example of the potential of the proposed process. Although
there is a perception of "start-up" risk, the sustainable benefits of such a process outweigh the
benefits of a risk-averse approach requiring conditionality of prescribed "up-front" policy actions.
The latter approach would have a lower degree of internalized sector "ownership" and
sustainability of such "completed actions".  Since the proposed operation--along with the
Governance Loan under preparation--could be construed as an element of the Bank's emerging
"Comprehensive Development Framework" for Indonesia, its initial risks should be accepted.
F. RECOMMENDATION
93.  I am satisfied that this proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstr6m
Washington, D.C.
April 23, 1999



- 36 -
Indonesia: Rice Production Profile and Projections            ANNEX 1
Table 1: Rice Production Profile 1995
Location     Cultivation       Area         Yield       Cropping       Output      % of Total
Type            (m ha)       (tons/ha)    Intensity    (million tons)
Java         Irrigated         2.562         5.66         1.75         25.11         51.51
Rainfed          0.797         3.90         0.87          2.70          5.54
Upland           0.516         2.40          0.75         0.93          1.91
Swamp            0.004         2.70         0.70          0.08          0.16
Off-Java     Irrigated        2.126         5.04          1.25         13.39         27.40
Rainfed          1.305         2.80         0.77          2.81          5.76
Upland           2.162         1.80         0.50          1.95          4.00
Swamp            1.690         1.50         0.70          1.78          3.65
Total               11.162                I                  48.75        100.00
Table 2: Land Available for Rice Production: 1995 to 2020 (millions ha)a/
._______        Changes 1995 to 2020 __            l
Location   Type    Area       Urban     Rural      Sugar-    Irrigation    Horti-    Net Loss  Area 2030
(1995)    Growth    Housing   cane       Expansion   culture
Java     Irrigated    2.562    -0.330    -0.074     +0.111     +0.080     -0.104    -0.317    2.245
Rainfed    0.797     -0.110    -0.026     +0.039     -0.047     -0.040    -0.184    0.613
Upland     0.516                                                -0.056    -0.056    0.460
Swamps    0.004                                                                     0.004
Off-Java  Irrigated    2.126                        -0.111    +0.839b'   -0.104    +0.624     2.750
Rainfed     1.305                         -0.039     -0.120     -0.040    -0.263     1.402
Upland     2.162                                                -0.056    -0.056    2.106
Swamp      1.690                                     +0.100                         1.790
Total    Irrigated    4.688                                                                   4.995
Rainfed    2.102                                                                     2.015
Upland     2.678                                                                     2.566
Swamp      1.694                                                                     1.794
a/ Increments based on Table 3.5 in World Bank Report No. 10504-IND, Washington D.C., September 1, 1992.
b/ Includes completion of 718,500 ha of irrigation schemes Off-Java.
Table 3: Potential for Increased Rice Production '995-2020-'
Area (nillions ha)    Yield (tons/ha)  Cropping Intensity (%)  Production (10 tons)
Location   Type        1995      2020      1995      2020       1995      2020       1995        2020
Java      Irrigated   2.562     2.245      5.66       6.00      1.75       1.75     25.11       23.57
Rainfed     0.797     0.613      3.90      4.30       0.87      0.90       2.70        2.37
Upland      0.516     0.460      2.40      2.60       0.75      0.75       0.93        0.90
Swamp       0.004     0.004      2.70      2.70       0.70      0.70      0.08         0.08
Off-Java   Irrigated  2.126     2.750      5.04       5.50      1.25       1.70      13.39      25.71
Rainfed     1.305     1.402      2.80      3.60       0.77      0.85      2.81         4.29
Upland      2.162     2.106      1.80      2.40       0.50      0.70       1.95        3.54
Swamp       1.690     1.790      1.50      2.50       0.70      0.70       1.78        3.13
Total Production                                                                  48.75       63.59
a/ Yield and cropping intensity projections based on Table 3.7 in WB Report No. 10504-IND, September 1, 1992.



Management Mandates of Sector Agencies
So..   weRsue   elr|                                 Mnsro               Ali.,11  MfAi.i-tr                   MIM"'tY f Mi-gn        N:inis e Ot          Minilq.ry           Minimlyd e        lNIWIIry 1111,th   Mi.i."rY.fs t&      N.'i-I Pi ..ibang   MnsrofHm               alnd Ag-ny
_   AI&M-inR.IP-nibiin                          P Yubli Worh'        Agric ltu-           Ferntry6                                 nuf                Tn .n pt          Envro ......                                 rd                  * 7..d            AfIn                    1
I                                                                            4                                       6ml!trsuesndutrmngmn  _ _d _                       1       10 Ii 1l                                                     12 1ll   _  - 
. Onerall manauement md guidance of orriyation -|; IIE . _ + 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    IU. -                                                                               _      1J U,11   -11
3~~~~~~~ q..]mey -f,-meara  fupe  vr           t_                                                                                                                                                                                          |
4   U   ater  use  m  misement p>wsr grneration and -_1 _ _ 1ll l 1lI
It            m      ogemi& -   offrud.e                  ................................................................................-..............   
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           f
f-dw
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' L                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 
6      W.. dInmU ,,kf1.,nUr>dlttto  m
7       P  .     .  ?             .  i
I I  C-       (-,d) ... MAdm inistw --i ndS3ngmnVuevso
Othre      _Oh    = Administ gation/Mngmniuevso



- 38-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 14
Minister of State
For National Development Planningl
Chairman of National Development Planning Agency
Republic of Indonesia
April 21, 1999
Our Ref.: 2565 /MK/4/1999
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Water Resources and Irrigation Sector:
Policy, Institutional, Legislative and Regulatory Reform Program
This Letter of Sector Policy is furnished in support of the Govermnent's request to
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for a Water
Resources Sector Adjustment Loan (WATSAL) which is an integral part of the
macroeconomic and sector reform and balance of payments support program of the Bank.
The letter describes our Program of policy, legislative, regulatory and institutional reforms
for the water resources and irrigation sector of the economy. This Program-in terms of
objectives, reform actions and detailed monitorable indicators for completion of each
action--is summarized in the Policy Matrix (Attachment 1) and Implementation Plan
(Attachment 2) attached hereto. The Policy Matrix has been approved by the Directors
General comprising the Steering Committee of the WATSAL Task Force (WTF) and by
the ministerial "Coordination Team for Policy on River Utilization and Sustainable
Watershed Management" (Tim Koordinasi). The WTF is comprised of senior officials
from sector ministries and government agencies as well as representatives of two NGOs
active in the sector. These NGOs have also served as facilitators of public consultations
about the Reform Matrix proposals, and have subsequently assisted the WTF in preparing
a Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) reviewing the impacts and risks of our
proposed reforms. The SEA was furnished to the Bank on March 5, 1999.
This letter represents the Government's commitment to the Sector Reform Program
The sector reform program was discussed at a Cabinet meeting, chaired by His Excellency
the President, on April 7, 1999. Together with the Presidential Instruction on "Irrigation



ANNEX 3
- 39                         Pape 2 of 14
Management Policy Reform", this letter and its Policy Matrix, will guide the actions and
cooperation of all sector ministries and agencies involved in undertaking and completing
the reform program actions. Given the challenges facing the water resources and irgation
sector in the 21g century and the public sector reformation aspirations of the Indonesian
people, we are confident that the sector reform program we have initiated wil be fuly
supported by the incoming Parliament and Administration after the forthcoming June 7,
1999 National Election.
Need for Sector Reform and Structural Adjustment
Water Resources Management Problems
Indonesia's water resources and irrigation sector faces increasingly complex long-
term investment challenges and management problems which, unless effectively addressed,
will increasingly constrain the country's economic development and lead to a deterioration
of food security, public health and irreversible damage to the environment exacerbated by
inappropriate and ineffective legal structures, regulations, policies and institutions. The
problems arise from the adverse impacts of population growth, urbanization and
industrialization. It is, therefore, essential that we change our sector policies, use more
effective institutional frameworks, improve planning and management systems as well as
increased beneficiary participation to adjust to current and future challenges.
Sustainable Irrigation
Sustaining irrigated food production requires an effective irrigation operation and
maintenance (O&M) program. Despite the preservation of O&M funding levels at about
US$70-80 million equivalent per year since 1987, efficient and sustainable irrigation O&M
is not being achieved by the provincial govemments responsible for implementation. Funds
are used primarily for staff support and administrative activities. The planned increase in
regional fiscal and management autonomy raises further concerns. The current system of
Irrigation Service Fees has failed because of lack of accountability without a direct link
between revenue and provision of O&M. A "deferred maintenance culture" together with
periodic externally aided rehabilitation has resulted in a costly short-lived irrigation
system.  Also, the Government's strategy of expansion of irrigation and swamp
reclamation needs review, particularly with respect to the choice of the most cost-effective
and environmentally sustainable interventions.
Water Pollution Control Deficiencies
Industrial water pollution control has been addressed through programs like
PROKASIH and PROPER Some water pollution abatement is being achieved but
national discharge standards for each economic sector require stronger enforcement.
Municipal effluent disposal and treatment has received little attention and funding, because
of difficulties related to financing, cost recovery and available know-how. A clear
operational concept remains to be elaborated regarding the best institutional and
organizational arrangements for municipal effluent regulation and, more importantly, for
the financing and operation of any treatment works required to ensure wastewater



ANNEX 3
- 40 -                       Page 3 of 14
discharge quality. Attention also needs to be given to water conservation and water
pollution caused by mining and non-point sources of pollution.
Institutional Constraints
Mitigating the sector's problems requires improved institutional arrangements in
terms of legal and regulatory frameworks, coordinated water resources policy formulation,
better management procedures and controls, better budgeting systems, and mechanisms
for stakeholder consultation and representation in policy formulation and decision-making.
Sector Reform Principles and Objectives
Guiding Principles
In view of the water sector's problems and constraints, the Government will initiate
a new water resources policy, including institutional and legal reform within the wider
context of national reform and basic changes in public administration including the
structural adjustment program agreed with the Consultative Group for Indonesia.
The guiding principles of the water resources sector reform are derived from the
national reform principles of the People's Consultative Assembly (MPR) Decrees
including the proposed legislation on regional administration and fiscal equalization
between the central and regional governments. Basic Law No. 11 of 1974 on Water
Resources (UU 11/74) and relevant regulations deriving therefrom wil be amended. The
reformn will re-align the role of government as follows: (a) the central government will be
limited to an enabling and regulatory role while promoting public-private partnerships at
the regional and local level, and transferring resources to regional and local governments;
(b) sectoral mandates and implementation authority will be devolved to provincial, district
and local government; and (c) provincial governments will be reorganized to serve the
district and village levels and limit its executive role to extra-jurisdictional functions and
issues such as management of river basin covering several districts and/or provinces.
Institutions which facilitate public consultation and stakeholder participation will be
created. A meaningful system of participatory irrigation management will be established
which will include transfer of responsibility for irrigation management to water user
groups.
Reform Objectives
Specific sector reform objectives are to improve:
*  The national institutional framework for water resources development and
management;
*  The organizational and financial framework for river basin management;
*  Regional water quality management regulatory institutions and implementation; and
*  National irrigation management policy, institutions and regulations.



- 41-                      ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 14
Reform Instruments and Action Plan
The reforms will be implemented by amendment of appropriate legal and
administrative instruments as detailed in the Policy Matrix including:
*  W  11 /74 and its various Government Regulations and provincial regulations,
*  PP 6/81 on "Contribution to the Cost of O&M of Water Resources Developmert
Infrastructure",
* PP 22/82 on "Water Management Regulation",
* PP 23/82 on "Irrigation",
*  PP 14/87 on "Transfer of Some Government Responsibilities in Public Works to
Regions",
* PP 5/90 on "Perum Jasa Tirta",
X PP 20/90 on "Water Pollution Control",
* PP 42/90 on "Perum Otorita Jatiluhur",
? PP 27/91 on "Swamps", and
e PP 35/91 on "Rivers".
New Government Regulations and provincial regulations will be introduced in areas where
no regulation exists. Presidential and Ministerial Decrees will be issued along with model
edicts, guidelines and procedures for subsequent enactment by provincial and district
governments to ensure imnplementation of the reform program.
Institutional, Policy and Decision-Support Framework
Water Resources Sector Coordination
We will establish a national water resources coordination fiamework managed by a
National Water Sector Apex Body comprised of the various ministers responsible for
water resources development and management. The Apex Body will guide policy
formulation, resource allocation, program implementation and regulatory control in
general, and inter-sectoral coordination and issue resolution in particular. A permanent
advisory group of stakeholders, NGOs and public representatives wlll be formed to
provide input to the Apex Body from time to time. The Apex Body will be supported by a
technical conmmittee of ministry and agency Directors General and an Executive
Secretariat under the Directorate General of Water Resources Development in the
Ministry of Public Works. The coordination framework and the Apex Body, will be
established through an amendment of Law No. 11 of 1974 and its supporting Regulations.
A nine member inter-ministerial "Coordination Team for '"olicies on River
Utilization andSustainable Watershed Management" (Tim Koordinasi) has been



42-                        ANNEX 3
PaRe 5 of 14
established through Presidential Decree No. 9 of January 14, 1999. Tim Koordinasi is
directed by the Government's Coordinating Ministers and the Minister of State for
National Development Planning/Chairman of National Development Planning Agency.
The Tim Koordinasi's duties are to be carried out on the basis of the following key
principles: (a) management based on beneficial and sustainable principles for the welfare of
the nation and its living environment; (b) consideration of habitat conservation and
environmental sustainability needs for all natural resources and living creatures within
specified rules related to planned spatial structuring and environmental functions; (c)
where possible, utilization of corporate basin management organizations such as State-
Owned Enterprises (BUMN), Regional Government-Owned Enterprises (BUMD),
Cooperatives and Private Enterprises; and (d) promotion of public, community and NGO
participation in basin management institutions. Tim Koordinasi may evolve into the
proposed National Apex Body to be set out in the revised UU 11/74.
National Water Resources Policy (NWRP)
To guide water resources development and management, the Government-- through
the Tim Koordinasi-- will review current policies and procedures for water resources
management and adopt a National Water Resources Policy (NWRP) for both surface and
groundwater that will support and guide the development and conservation efforts of all
government and private entities. The NWRP will cover water quantity and quality
management for both surface and groundwater in the context of river basins and aquifers,
including upper watersheds, floodplains and estuarine areas. A specific component of the
NWRP will specify appropriate policy for resolution of environmentally and socially
sensitive swampland development issues.
The NWRP would include policy principles to guide legislative, institutional and
regulatory interventions that:
-  Introduce a water use rights framework for surface and groundwater water allocation
and utilization conducive to economic and social development, equity and
environmental sustainability;
*  Improve efficiency in the utilization of water, particularly for irrigation;
*  Facilitate conjunctive allocation and use of surface and groundwater through a unified
licensing mechanism;
* Seek attainment of regional surface and groundwater water quality levels conducive to
national socio-economic development and environmental sustainability, and compatible
with both Spatial Land-Use and Basin Development Plans;
* Develop mistitutions for prioritized, integrated spatial and river basin planning
processes based on participatory involvement of stakeholder representatives in publicly
transparent water resources and irrigation decision-making activities;
*  Strengthen the enabling mechanisms for community management and financing of
irrigation networks, municipal water supply and sanitary wastewater disposal;



43                         ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 14
*  Establish a monitored planning, programming and budgeting system for prioritized and
sustainable water resources development investment and management under the
proposed legal framework for regional autonomy and related national revenue sharing;
* Create a regional water resources regulatory and management structure to support and
implement integrated river basin nanagement under the principle '"One Basin, One
Management" through Provincial Basin Management Units and, wherever feasible,
corporatized self-financing entities under Regional Government control,
* Reinforce the principle of beneficiary contribution towards the government costs of
public water supply and irrigation services, and the principle of'Polluter Pays" for the
public costs of water pollution abatement applicable to all pollution sources including
publicly owned entities and municipal authorities.
* Improve the regulatory and incentive framework for private sector participation and
partnership in water resources and water quality management, as well as irrigation
management through investment, operating and maintenance concessions.
* Improve coordination between forestry, agriculture, conservation and water resources
sector public and private activities to promote environmentally sustainable watershed,
floodplain and estuarine management; and
 Establish specific integrated policies for environmentally sustainable wetland
conservation and swampland development.
NWRP Implementation
The NWRP will be approved by the Tim Koordinasi and processed as an input into
the "Broad State Policy Guidelines" (GBHN) process. To support implementation of the
NWRP agenda, the Government will review, revise and enact necessary legal, regulatory,
institutionaL financial, organizational and administrative instruments. The NWRP will be
realized following a time bound NWRP Implementation Action Plan which will specify a
framework for all NWRP imnplementation instruments beyond the WATSAL period.
These instruments will ensure implementation of water rights, water abstraction
charges, water allocation priorities, water effluent discharge fees, conjunctive use of
surface and groundwater, and management of river and irrigation infrastructure. Where
basic legislation provides for shared or separate water sector mandates among ministries,
effective coordination instruments such as joint ministerial decrees will be issued as
necessary. The NWRP Implementation Plan instruments will be incorporated into the list
of outputs which comprise the desired outcomes of anational development plan.
Stakeholder Participation Institutions
We will make explicit provision for stakeholder representation on committees and
other similar decision-making fora. To this effect, we will amend decrees establishing
Provincial and Basin Water Resources Committees (PTPA and PPTPA) or replace them
with appropriate legal instruments incorporated into a revised UU 11/74, its supporting
Government Regulation PP 22/82 and any related Regulations and Ministerial Decrees.
The modalities of stakeholder selection, representation and roles are still to be determined.



-44-                         ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 14
However, firmer representatives of irrigation schemes will be included on the PTPA
and PPTPAs. Accordingly, Provincial Irrigation Committees will be merged with PTPAs
while District Irrigation Committees will become sub-committees of the PPTPA. Whereas
only a few PTPAs and PPTPAs are active today in the provinces on Java and in some
outer island provinces, we will set up and activate PTPA in all provinces and ensure active
PPTPA in all developed river basin territories (SWS) in about eight provinces.
Data Networks and Management Information Systems (MIS)
It is our intention to develop and operationalize a data sharing and information
systems network by the end of the WATSAL period for DGWRD and BAPPEDAL
agencies in particular. We will also build on the BPPT initiative to develop a "Wide Area
Surveillance System" which includes land and water management with respect to data on
agricultural productivity, land use information, flood forecasting and water quality
management. The transfer of selected aggregate MIS data from local government
agencies to the Regional and Central Government authorities will become essential for
coordinated sector management. Data bases and MIS systems will be improved, brought
into a common decision support system, and linked through a dedicated data network.
To promote sustainability of hydrological operations and data needs by the end of
the WATSAL penod, we will issue appropriate administrative and budgeting
arrangements to upgrade hydrology institutions and organizations, along with a personnel
program.  These reforms will then be supported by an appropriate decree, and
implementation plan for establishment and/or strengthening of adequately funded and
staffed Provincial Hydrological Units in about eight provinces. The improved national
hydrological framework will be supported by sustainable establishment of a national water
quality monitoring network for regional water quality management.
Sustainable River Basin Management
Integrated Management in Less-Developed Basins
To strengthen water resources management in less-developed basins, the
Government is setting up basin level provincial basin management units (Balai PSDA)
under the oversight of PPTPAs. The roles, responsibilities, functions and financing are
gradually evolving. The necessary regulations are in place to support the functioning of
these institutions while detailed administrative and technical guidelines to implement
various aspects of management need to be strengthened. As a result of the movement
towards decentralization and regional autonomy, some Balai PSDA are also being given
an operational role in the management of irrigation networks that transcend District
boundaries.
During the WATSAL period, the role and responsibilities of Balai PSDA as a
regulator and/or operator will be clarified and strengthened. All legal, administrative,
personnel management, and budgeting arrangements will be put in place for effective
functioning of the Balai PSDA as a river basin management unit. As a minimum, these
units will be functional in all provinces on Java and in about four provinces in the outer
islands.



A:l!INEX 3
Page 8 of 14
Strategic River Basins
In developed and strategic basins of national importance, the ROI will strengthen
water basin resources management by establishing self-financing, autonomous river basin
management corporations. These may be centrally funded and managed State-Owned
Enterprises (BU ) along the lines of Perum Jasa Tirta (PJT) Brantas or Regional
Govermment-Owned Corporations (BUMD) in line with the provisions of the pending
regional autonomy legislation. Whether these are established as BUMN or BUMD is a an
important issue.
Currently four strategic river basins (Bengawan Solo, Jeneberang, Jratunseluna, and
Serayu-Bogowonto) are targeted for incorporation as BUMN under a pending Presidential
Decree using the provisions of PP 5/90 initially under PJT Brantas technical guidance and
financial support. Later these entities would become independent BUMN corporations
when the new organizations have adequate revenue and implementation capacity.
However, we will re-evaluate the desirability of establishing the four basin corporations as
BUMN in consultation with the three Regional Governments concerned. Other issues, in
addition to corporate structure and governance, that will be reconsidered in setting up
basin management corporations under the new regional administration framework are:
3 Regional Government representation and stakeholder involvement in corporate
management boards;
3 The role of the basin corporation as an executive agent of government (or "operator")
and the mechanisms of its regulation by either the regional government (the Governor
through Balai PSDA and a PPTPA) or central government (i.e. the Minister of Public
Works through DGWRD);
*  Resolution of legal and regulatory issues related to river basin corporation authority to
use water user and effluent discharge fees as sources of revenue for provision of
corporate services;
*  Financing sources for corporate investment needs and the enabling legal and financial
structure for public-private joint ventures;
* Government asset transfer and asset management issues (e.g. the source of
amortization funding);
*  Resolution of functional and financing issues arising out of recent proposals that basin
corporations or Balai PSDA should assume O&M responsibility for irrigation
networks crossing District boundaries and therefore become an irrigation as well as a
water resources management entity;
*  Handling of essential subsidies for corporate public service responsibilities (such as
responsibilities and services for irrigation, water quality monitoring, wastewater
treatment plants, flood control and watershed management); and
*  Management of hydraulic infrastructure and wastewater treatment facilities through a
concession contract system.



-46-                         ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 14
Clearly, issue of a Presidential Decree to establish the four new basin corporations
under the provisions of PP 5/90 to utilize PJT Brantas capacity and expertise will not
enable resolution of all of the these issues. We will resolve this question by preparing a
generic government regulation for establishment of River Basin Corporations under UU
11/4 consistent with the proposed regional administration and fiscal laws during the
WATSAL period. The decision to issue a Presidential Decree to establish the four new
corporations under the existing PJT Brantas will await the enactment of the regional
administration and fiscal equalization legislation. Once their provisions and implications
for the new basin corporations are understood, the natter will be reviewed by Tim
Koordinasi and the issue decided on an interministerial consensus.
POJ Corporate Mission and Financing
The Jatiluhur Authority (POJ) is currently not a successful self financing corporation
as it is not only a bulk water supplier like PJT Brantas, but is also responsible for O&M of
a large irrigation network for which it receives an inadequate subsidy. Furthermore,
without West Java Government representation on its management board and involvement
of the provincial agencies, POJ has great difficulty in addressing the water quantity and
quality management aspects. Its revenue generation capacity is very limited and without
large central subsidies cannot manage the water resources in the basin. Accordingly, PP
42/90 establishing POJ will be revised to incorporate the paradigm shift in corporate basin
management.
Secure, Equitable and Efficient Water Allocation
Effective water management policy requires a system of water rights (WR). As
demands increase and inter-sectoral competition increases for limited supplies, public
regulation based on recognized water rights will be required to achieve societal goals.
The Government will establish an enforceable formal national water and water
quality rights framework as part of the NWRP. In particular, the problem of water rights
for irrigation schemes wiU be explicitly addressed to include prevailing customary water
rights concepts. The water rights system will be supported by appropriate regulations and
a uniform provincial framework of water licensing for abstraction and discharges that
covers all user sectors. The necessary policies, strategies, regulations, institutional
approaches and administration will be detailed in a time bound plarL The basic legal and
implementation instruments of the WR system will be issued as part of the sector reform
program.
Water Quality Management
Water Pollution Control Regulations
River basin management agencies in strategic basins will be provided with regulatory
powers for Water Quality Management (WQM). This will include resource mobilization
for essential investments, supported by regulatory interventions and incentives such as
pollution charges, effluent fees and levies to be paid by private and public sector
establishments and municipalities, as well as positive incentives (e.g. tax breaks for



-47-                       ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 14
corporate entities investing in wastewater treatment plants and/or clean technology).
Regulatory agencies and monitoring systems will be strengthened and institutions for
collective decision-making will be established.
The amended Government Regulation on Water Pollution Control (RPP) being
prepared will replace PP 20/90 and utilize Law No.23 of 1997 on Environmental
Management (UU 23/97). The RPP provides an opportunity to harnonize "water
resources management" and "environmental management" since both water pollution
regulation, water abstraction licensing and basin management are vested in regional
governments. River basin entities may be appropriate agencies for operational water
quality management tasks under agreement with provincial pollution control agencies
(Bapedalda Th I) whose primary role is regulation. The PPTPAs are a forum for
stakeholders such as industries and municipal authorities to engage in a dialogue about
WQM issues.
Preparation of the water pollution control RPP will be carried out within the
intergovernmental task force framework of the sector reform program. This will ensure
an effective, enforceable and sustainable regulatory and financial framework to abate
water pollution using UU 23/97, while also retaining the necessary linkages to the relevant
regulations of WU  11/74 relating to water resources management by regional
governments. The RPP will regulate surface and ground water pollution and vest the
responsibility to collect waste discharge fees with regional governments. It will stipulate
that the revenue for effluent discharge fees and wastewater treatment plant charges must
be utilized solely for water pollution control activities. The RPP will include the
regulation of wastewater disposal by municipalities and mining activities. To ensure
implementation viability and consistency, PP 6/81, PP 22/82 and regulations under WU
18/97 will be reviewed and modified as necessary.
Basin Water Quality Management Institutions
Basin management entities may monitor water quality and wastewater discharges,
assist regional government in technical assessments for wastewater discharge permits, and
collect effluent discharge fees (either as a surcharge on potable water supply and bulk
water, or via an "environmental service fee" collected through district government). The
basin entities may then use this revenue to promote waste treatment and engage in water
quality and discharge monitoring on behalf of Bapedalda Tk. I. With assistance from the
regional government, river basin corporations could co-finance and operate wastewater
treatment plants set up in collaboration with municipalities and commercial estates. The
basin management entities may also participate in government industrial pollution
abatement programs such as the PROKASIH 2005 initiative. The Government will
implement this approach, initially through river basin corporations in critical/strategic
basins, and later through basin entities elsewhere.
We will determine the most effective institutional and fiscal mechanisms for WQM
and prepare model implementation decrees for regional governments. The Ministry of
Public Works and Bapedal will prepare national guidelines (Pedoman) to calculate the
water abstraction and effluent discharge fees, the pollution assimilative capacity of rivers,
and specify the mechanisms to integrate water quality and quantity management at the



ANNEX 3
-48-                      Page 11 of 14
level of river basin corporations.  This will enable regional governments to issue
regulations and decrees to implement the national regulatory framework, set standards for
river reaches, other water bodies, and wastewater discharge, establish and implement a
wastewater discharge fee, and integrate the roles of the river basin corporations and
Bapedalda Tk.I in a coherent structure. Bapedalda I will grant operational concessions to
river basin management corporations to implement pollution source monitoring and
execute effluent discharge fee arrangements in the Bengawan Solo, Brantas, Citarum,
Jeneberang, Jratunseluna, and Serayu-Bogowonto river basins.
Participatory Irrigation Management
Farmer Irrigation Organization Empowerment Policy.
To improve public irrigation network sustainability, the government will establish an
institutional and fiscal fiamework to enable effective and sustainable O&M of public
irrigation network through revision of the 1987 Irrigation O&M Policy and Irrigation
Service Fee (ISF) regulations. To this end, the President of Indonesia has issued a public
Declaration of Irrigation Management Policy Reform (DIMPR) on April 13, 1999
signaling our intention to implement an effective policy of participatory irrigation
management. This declaration will be formalized through a Presidential Instruction.
The new irrigation management policy will focus on incentives and arrangements for
participation and empowerment at all levels of irrigation management which:
* Establish autonomous, self-reliant and self-governing water user associations (WUAs)
with management jurisdiction over part or all of a irrigation network based primarily
on canal network boundaries and related operational considerations;
*  Provide for democratic election of WUA leaders in a manner which represents the
interests of all potential WUA members;
* Allows flexible WUA governance procedures to suit local irrigation and village
management customs;
*  Vests WUAs with authority to discharge their responsibilities including developing and
enforcing their own rules, levying fees, operating a bank account and undertaking
financial obligations;
* Allows voluntary federation of WUAs into higher level organizations up to the scheme
level that resolve water disputes and engage in management of operations and
maintenance;
* Allows transfer of irrigation management to WUAs or Water User Association
Federations (WUAFs) above the level of tertiary canals;
*  Facilitates public-private partnership and administrative transparency through joint
management of large irrigation schemes by providing WUA or WUAF representatives
with a scheme-level forum for access to information as well as a right to "voice" and



ANNEX 3
- 49 -                     Page 12 of 14
"choice" about government provision of budgets and irrigation services for their
irrigation network; and
* Ensures govermment guidance and support for irrigation infrastructure placed under
farmer organization management control by commitment to a program of monitoring,
evaluation and follow-up activities including financial and technical government
support.
We will create legally-recognized water users associations which are federated up to
governing fora at the level of entire irrigation systems in at least eight provinces. Relevant
government agencies will be represented on such fora but the WUA representatives will
have the majority voice in matters of O&M objectives and plans, irrigation service fees,
management rules and sanctions, and so on. During the WATSAL period, the existing
legal instruments and administrative modalities for establishing and supporting WUAs will
be reviewed and amended to reflect this new irrigation management policy and issued as a
consolidated Govermment Regulation and/or Joint Ministerial Decree of the Ministry of
Home Affairs and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). Appropriate amendments will
also be made to UU 11/74, PP 23/82 on Irrigation and PP 27/91 on Swamps, as well as to
any related MPW regulations to ensure functional and implementation consistency.
Reorganization of Irrigation Agencies
The new irrigation management policy requires the reorganization of irrigation
agencies and their financial and logistic resources to deliver the WUA/WUAF support
program. We have identified the principal legal instruments needed to implement the
Declaration of Irrigation Management Policy Reform (DIMPR), along with the
redefinition of the roles and responsibilities of central, provincial and district-level
irrigation institutions to reflect our new policy and the proposed services to be provided to
WUAs. The DIMPR includes an action plan indicating the key steps needed for revision
of irrigation agency organization and management to support the DIMPR framework.
This action plan also outlines a framework for revising the roles and responsibilities of
central and regional government agencies to support and implement the DIMPR. The
operational details of a central and regional government irrigation management
reorganization program (including reorganization, model operational procedures, staff
deployment, capacity building activities, etc.) will be furnished by the Ministry of Public
Works and Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) after consultation with regional
governments prior to the completion of the WATSAL period.
Financing of WUA Activities
We have taken an initial step through the September 14, 1998 Circular of the
Director General, Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) to revise the
existing Irrigation Service Fee (ISF) procedure to allow WUAs to collect and retain ISF in
their bank accounts for maintenance of their scheme. We will also be undertaking a
simplification of procedures to determine the level of ISF for each scheme and seek
transparent modalities by which ISF will be paid by all farmers in a public irrigation



ANNEX 3
-50-                         Page 13 of 14
scheme. Such modalities include linking of government O&M subsidies to levels of ISF
collection. As implied by the DIMPR and aforementioned Presidential Instruction, we will
implement ISF payment as a national requirement for all water users in public irrigation
schemes.
We will correct the irrigation network sustainability problem through reforming the
way in which irrigation infrastructure is maintained and developed. We will fundamentally
change the institutional framework and financing mechanisms for irrigation infrastructure
maintenance and rehabilitation. System-level WUA federations will have the right to
request, prioritize and control the quality of all infrastructure repair and development
activities as part of the empowerment policy. In addition to the technical services and
training to be made available by regional irrigation agencies, government-financed
Irrigation Improvement Funds will be established for demand-based rehabilitation and/or
improvement of irrigation infrastructure under WUA/WUAF management at the district
and/or provincial level as needed.
The operational modalities of the Irrigation Improvement Fund will be similar to
those of the Bank-supported Kecamatan Development Project and similar demand-based
funding programs. WUAs will only be eligible for Irrigation Improvement Funds if they
have established and contributed to their own capital reserve account, preferably as part of
their ISF payment. Funding eligibility will also be subject to periodic irrigation scheme
technical audits by district irrigation agencies to ascertain that WUAs are satisfactorily
operating and maintaining any network placed under their management.
Financing of Government Irrigation O&M
Improvement of government support services to WUAs under the DIMPR requires
that district irrigation agencies are accountable to WUAs. The full transfer of irrigation
responsibilities to regional governments will also require allocation of adequate O&M
funding for the irrigation headworks, main canals and large secondary canals of schemes
which remain a government responsibility, albeit that such schemes may be jointly
managed by District Government and WUAs.
The estirnation of government O&M budgets will no longer be based on a per
hectare of command area formula. The O&M budget to be made available by a district
government for each irrigation scheme will be matched or linked to the total ISF payments
collected by scheme WUAs. Thus, a direct linkage will be created between District
irrigation agency fiuding and WUA satisfaction with irrigation supply and support
services and their consequent willingness to pay the ISF. This linkage will foster irrigation
agency accountability for services to WUAs.
To encourage regional government responsibility to ensure efficient maintenance for
works under its responsibility and prevent premature costly rehabilitation investments, we
will seek viable modalities for establishment of district and/or provincial level Irrigation
Improvement Funds. This would establish a matching reciprocity for WUA contributions
to their own capital reserve funds. The O&M funding concepts will be incorporated into
the guidelines for Regional and District Govermnent irrigation regulations.



ANNEX 3
- 51-                        Page 14 of 14
Investment and Donor Support
We believe that the ambitious program described above is one that will be
supported by all multilateral and bilateral lending agencies active in the water resources
sector. When it has been completed, we look forward to their assistance in undertaking
the public and private capacity-building programs needed for full implementation of our
proposed reforms. At the same time, prioritized civil works investments will also be
needed to assist us in overcoming the technical challenges described earlier in this letter.
We look forward to the Bank's assistance in organizing donor support for the investment
programs that could result from our sector reform.
Sincerely Yours,
BOEDIONO



WATER RESOURCES and IRRIGATION REFORM PROGRAM POLICY MATRIX v
Objective 1: Improve the National Institutional Framework for Water Resources Development and Management
Sub-Objective                         Proposed Reform                                       Monitorable Indicator
1.1 Establish a National   a. Establish an apex Inter-ministerial team (Tim Koordinasi) (i) Presidential Decree No. 9 on "Coordination Team for
Water Resources       based on existing regulations for water sector policy     River Utilization and Sustainable Watershed
Management            formulation, guidance, strategic planning, inter-agency   Management" issued on January 14, 1999.
Coordination          coordination and dispute resolution.
Framework
b. Establish a Technical Secretariat of Director Generals for    (ii) Issuance of appropriate Ministerial or Joint Ministerial
Tim Koordinasi                                            Decree based on decisions of the Tim Koordinasi meeting
held on March 4, 1999.
1.2 Adoption of a National a. National Water Resources Policy (NWRP) and NWRP   (i) NWRP and NWRP Implementation Plan approved by Tim
Policy for Water      Implementation Plan to be formally adopted by Government   Koordinasi and scheduled to be included in the agenda of
Resources             as binding on all ministries and organizations having water  the next "Broad State Policy Guidelines" (GBHN).
Management            resources management functions (inclusive of surface water,
groundwater and water quality form upper watershed to
lowland and coastal areas).                                                                                            
b. Revise Law No. 11 of 1974 on Water Resources (UU 11/74)  (i)  Issuance of amended UU 11/74 and amendment of the
and its existing Government Regulations to: (i) conform with  following Government Regulations (PP): PP 6/81. PP
proposed regional administration and fiscal legislation, (ii)  22/82, PP 23/82, PP 14/87, PP 6/88, PP 5/90, PP 42/90, PP
implement the proposed sector reforms, including provision  27/91 and PP 35/91.
for a National Apex Body for Water Resources Management
at the highest national level; and (iii) facilitate execution of
the NWRP Implementation Plan.
c. Revise relevant MPW Ministerial Regulations and Decrees in (i)  Issuance of revised MPW Regulations (PRT) including:
line with proposed regional administration legislation and  57/PRT/87, 58/PRT/87, 39/PRT/89, 45/PRT/90,
specific sector reforms.                                  48/PRT/90, 49/PRT/90, 52/PRT/90 and 64/PRT/93
d. Prepare Guidelines (Pedoman) for: (i) Regional Government  (i) Issuance of Pedoman for key Perda and/or Gubernatorial
Regulations (Perda) and/or Gubernatorial Decrees, and (ii)  Decrees, and Juklak and Juknis.
administrative and technical guidelines (Juklak & Juknik).
a/ See endnote on Page 6 for\explanation of the various text fonts used in this matrix.                                                           (D
0



Sub-Objective                         Proposed Reform                                       Monitorable Indicator
1.3 Involvement of     a. Issue Government Regulationsfor Involvement of the Public  (i) Issuance of a new Ministerial Regulationfor stakeholder
Private Sector in     in Water Resources Development (private sector and       involvement in water resources management.
Development and       community participation) and Water Management
Stakeholders in Basin    Regulation (stakeholder and community involvement in wate
Management Policy     resources management).
and Decision-Making
b. Amend Ministerial Regulation to: (i) include stakeholder  (i) MPW Regulation 67/PRT/93 revised and Pedomnan issued
representatives in Provincial and Basin Water Management    for gubernatorial decrees which include selection and
Coordination Committees (PTPA & PPTPA); and (ii)        appointment of stakeholder representatives.
combine PTPA and Provincial Irrigation Committees.
c. Establish functional PTPAs and establish PPTPAs with  (i) Gubernatorial decrees for inclusion of stakeholder
stakeholder representation in key river basin territories  involvement in PTPA and PPTPA issued; and PPTPA
(SWS) of about eight Provinces.                         established in key river basins in about 8 provinces.
1.4 Improve National   a. Establish a sector Decision Support Systemfor specified data (i) Completion of data network concepts, framework,
Water Resources       needs using an intergovernmental data-sharing network    procedures and implementation arrangements.
Information and       utilizing agency management information systems (MIS).    (ii) MIS system of DGWRD improved on a sustainable basis.
Decision Support
Systems
I 5 Improve National   a. Establish su.sainable institutional, organizational and  (i) Issuance of Ministerial Regulation to establish a national
Hydrological and       Jinancialframeworkfor improved hydrological data         hydrologv management system responsible. for upgrading qf
Water Quality Data     collection, processing and information reirievalfor surface  surface and groundwater data collection networks.
Collection and         and groundwater management.                          (ii) Issuance of Pedomanfor Perdafor establishment/'upgrading
Management System.                                                              offullyfunded and staffed Provincial Hydrological Units in
8 provinces; and PHUs established/upgraded in about 8
provinces.
b. Establish a sustainable national water quality sampling  (i) Issuance of Ministerial Regulation to establish a national
network.                                                water quality sampling organization and network.
rvt
'-d
0-'



Objective 2: Improve the Organizational and Financial Framework for River Basin Management
Sub-Objective                         Proposed Reform                                        Monitorable Indicator
2.1 Improve Provincial   a. Implement regulatory arrangements for water allocation and  (i) Issuance of amended related Ministerial Decrees, and
Regulatory             wastewater discharge, drought management, conjunctive use    Administrative and Technical Pedoma.
Management of River   of groundwater and surface water, water quality monitoring
Basins and Aquifers   and integrated watershed management.
b. Formation of fully functioning Provincial River Basin  (i) Issuance of Regional Government Perda, and Balai PSDA
Management Units (Balai PSDA) in key basins in about 8   established in key basins in about 8 provinces.
provinces
2.2. Develop Sustainable  a. Establish the organizational,financial and management  (i) Issuance of generic Government Regulation for river basin
Corporate Framework   frameworkfor self-financing river basin water management  corporations as BUAN or BUMD.
for Management of      corporations compatible with regional autonomy legislation. (ii) Issuance of Ministerial Regulation/Pedomanfor Regional
Strategic River Basins                                                          Government establishment of river basin corporations.
b. Strengthen arrangements for corporate financing from bulk  (i) Issuance of Pedoman for corporate water service and
water supply service fees and wastewater dischargefees.  wastewater discharge fees.
c. Revise legal basis for PJT Brantas and Perum Otorita  (i) Issuance of revised PP 5/90 for PJT Brantas and PP 42/90 for
Jatiluhur (POI) to strengthen financial management and   POJ.
provincial role and functions in governance of the
corporations.
d. Formation of four River Basin Corporations (Bengawan  (i) Issuance of Presidential Decrees and/or Regional
Solo, Jeneberang, Jratunseluna and Serayu-Bogowonto river    Government Perda for four basin corporations; and entities
basins),                                                in process of being established.
2.3. Introduce Secure,    a. Establish a national framework for an enforceable water  (i) Issuance of Government Regulation for Water Use Rights
Equitable and          rights system for surface and groundwater allocation.    and amend existing MPW regulations.
Efficient Water
Allocation                                                                  (ii) Issuance of Pedoman for revised provincial water licensing
regulations and allocation of water use rights.
0



Ob ective 3: Im rove Regional Water Quali Mana ementR  ulatory Institutions and Implementation
Proposed Reform                                      Monitorable Indicator
Sub-Obiective                                      ._                        _ _ _ _ __  _ _ _ _ _  __ _ __._     __ _ _  _ _ _
3.1 Establish an Effective a. Establish an Effective and Enforceable National Regulatory (i) Replacement of PP 20/90 by the issuance of Government
and Enforceable       Frameworkfor Water Pollution Control.                   Regulation on Water Pollution Control and Water Quality
National Regulatory                                                           Management and revise MPW Regulation 42/PRT/90.
Framework for Water
Pollution Control.                                                        (ii) Administrative and Technical Guidelines (Pedoman) issued
to enforce sanction provisions of PP on Water Pollution
Control and Water Quality Management.
b. Improve the incentive frameworkfor industries, mines and   (i) Issuance of regulations, as necessary, to facilitate
municipalities to comply with discharge licenses and effluent   introduction offinancial and/or other incentives for
discharge standards                                    investment in on-site effluent treatment and/or investment
in clean technology.
3.2 Integrated Water    a. Implement integrated water pollution control and water  (i) Issuance of Pedoman for licensing/concession arrangements
Quality Management    quality management in six river basins (Bengawan-Solo,  from Bappedalda I whereby river basin corporations could:
Implemented in Six    Brantas, Citarum, Jeneberang, Jratunseluna and Serayu-  undertake stream and effluent discharge quality monitoring;
Highly Developed      Bogowonto).                                             collect effluent discharge fees; and operate municipal
River Basins                                                                  wastewater treatment plants.
(ii) Decree Bapedalda I of Central Java, East Java, South
Sulawesi and West Java to enforce water quality standards
in priority basins managed by basin corporations.
(iii) Operational concessions issued to six basin corporations.
X n
-d
0
0-.



Objective 4: Improve Irrigation Management Polcy, Institutions and Regulations
Sub-Objective                         Proposed Reform                                        Monitorable Indicator
4,1 Improve irrigation    a. Establish a participatory framework for management  (i) Irrigation Management Policy Reform (IMEPR)
governance,           transfer and joint management based on an Irrigation       announced by the President of Indonesia on April 13.
transparency, and      Management Policy Reform (IMPR).                          1999 and Presidential Instruction on 'Irrigation
accountability                                                                   Management Policy Reform" issued in April 1999.
through farmer
empowerment and    b. Strengthen ftamework lo establish democratic Waler User    (i) Issuance of a Decree bv the Minister of Public Wor'ks--in
management transfer.   Associations (WUA) & WUA Federations (WUAF) with          his capacity as Chairman of Tim Koordinasi--to implement
autonomous governance andfinancial authority to manage   the IMPR.
irrigation networks transferred to their control.     (ii) Issuance of a Minister of Homne Affairs Regulation based
on the IMPR and issue national guidelines (Pedoman).
4.2 Improve Regional    a. Redefine roles, duties and responsibilities of central,  (i) Issuance of a revised PP 23/82 on Irrigation and revised
Government             provincial and district-level irrigation institutions to focus on  MPW Regulation 42/PRT/89 to be compatible with
Irrigation Services   reliable water delivery and post-management transfer services    proposed regional autonomy legislation and the IMP.
to WUA/WUAF.
(ii) Issuance of administrative and technical guidelines
(Pedoman) for reorganization of irrigation agencies for
compatibility with proposed regional administration
legislation and IMP.
(iii) Establish, as necessary, Scheme Level Management Fora in
medium and large irrigation schemes in a phased manner.
4.3 Ensure Fiscal       a. Revise framework for financing of irrigation operation and    (i) Issuance of revised regulations (Kepmen/joint ministerial
Sustainability and     maintenance by WUA/WUAF, with full authority to collect    decree) and guidelines.
Efficiency of O&M      irrigation service fees in all schemes.
and Rehabilitation of
Irrigation Schemes.   b. Create framework for government-financed Irrigation
Improvement Funds for prioritized phased rehabilitation of
irrigation infrastructure directly under WUA/WUAF
management control.
0



Key Principles of a National Water Resources Policy
The NWRP would include policy principles to guide legislative, institutional and regulatory interventions that:
* Introduce a water use rights framework for surface and groundwater water allocation and utilization conduciveto economic and social development, equity
and environmental sustainability;
* Improve efficiency in the utilization of water, particularly for irrigation;
* Facilitate conjunctive allocation and use of surface and groundwater through a unified licensing mechanism;
*  Seek attainment of regional surface and groundwater water quality levels conducive to national socio-economic development and environmental
sustainability, and compatible with both Spatial Land-Use and Basin Development Plans;
* Develop institutions for prioritized, integrated spatial and river basin planning processes based on participatory involvement of stakeholder representatives
in publicly transparent water resources and irrigation decision-making activities;
* Strengthen the enabling mechanisms for community management and financing of irrigation networks, municipal water supply and sanitary wastewater
disposal;
 Establish a monitored planning, programming and budgeting system for prioritized and sustainable water resources development investment and
management under the new legal framework for regional autonomy and related national revenue sharing;
* Create a regional water resources regulatory and management structure to support and implement integrated river basin management under the principle
"One Basin, One Management" through Provincial Basin Management Units and, wherever feasible, corporatized self-financing entities under Regional
Government control;
*  Reinforce the principle of beneficiary contribution towards the government costs of public water upply and irrigation services, and the principle of
"Polluter Pays" for the public costs of water pollution abatement applicable to all pollution sources including publicly owned entities and municipal
authorities.
* Improve the regulatory and incentive framework for private sector participation and partnership in water resources and water quality management. as well
as irrigation management through investment, operating and maintenance concessions.
* Improve coordination between forestry, agriculture, conservation and water resources sector public and private activities to promote environmentally
sustainable watershed, floodplain and estuarine management; and
* Establish specific integrated policies for environmentally sustainable wetland conservation and swampland development.
a/ Text font denotes the following:
Bold text denotes actions already completed for a first tranche disbursement under the WATSAL;
Italic text denotes reform actions (and their monitorable indicators) to be completed for a second tranche disbursement under the WATSAL; and
Other text denotes reform actions (and monitorable indicators) to be completed for a third tranche disbursement under the WATSAL.
(D M
Xx
a'i
>4
o



WATER RESOURCES AND IRRIGATION REFORM PROGRAM POLICY MATRIX
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Objective 1: Improve the National Institutional Framework for the Development and Management of Water Resources
No.          AGENDA                             ACTIVITY                        RESPONSIBLE PARTY                   OUTPUT            COM-
PLETED
1. 1.  Establish National Water   1.1 .1 Establish Coordination Team for   Directorate General of Water        KEPPRES               01/99
Resources Management          KPSKPDAS (Policy on river              Resources Development (DGWRD)
Coordination Framework        utilization & sustainable watershed
management)
I. 1.2 Establish Secretariat of KPSKPDAS   DGWRD                              Ministerial Decree    06/99
Coordination Team
1.1.3.Prepare academic paper for           WATSAL Task Force                  Academic paper        09/99
National Apex Body for Water
Resources
1.1 .4.Include provision for National Apex  WATSAL Task Force                 Draft of revised Law    09/99        v
Body for Water Resources, as part of                                     No. 11/1974
Revision of Law No.11/1974
1. 1 .5.Prepare Draft of KEPPRES for       WATSAL Task Force                  Draft of               10/99
establishment of National Apex Body for                                  KEPPRES
Water Resources
1.1.6 Inter-agency discussions and process of   WATSAL Task Force, Coordination   KEPPRES            10/.99
issuance of KEPPRES                   Team
tD~Z
LJI
00
In
0



No.           AGENDA                            ACTIVITY                         RESPONSIBLE PARTY                   OUTPUT             COM-
No.           AGENDA                                                          _._..._PLETED
1.2   a. Formulation National    I .2.a. 1. Review and revise draft National  WATSAL Task Force                 Draft of main points   07/99
Policy for Water                Water Resources Policy and                                              of Policy
Resources Management            Implementationi Plan
2. Inter-agency discussion of revision  WATSAL Task Force                 Draft of Policy       08/99
of National Water Resources
Policy & Implementation Plan
3. Inter-agency discussion of final   WATSAL Task Force                   Final draft of        09/99
draft policy prepared by KPSKPDAS                                       Policy
Coordination Team
4. Finalize Policy and Implementation    Coordination Team                National Water        03/00
Plan for National Water Resources                                      Resource Policy in
GBHN
Ln
0
Fh



No.          AGENDA                           ACTIVITY                        RESPONSIBLE PARTY                 OUTPUT            COW-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ P L E T E D
b. Revise laws and       I .2.b. 1. Review Law No. 1 1/74 including  WATSAL Task Force               Identify regulations    08/99
governmnent regulations       other related regulations                                            that need revision
2. Prepare academic paper about      WATSAL Task Force                 Academic paper        09/99
regulations which need revision
3. Prepare draft revisions of laws and  WATSAL Task Force              Draft laws,          10/99
regulations                                                          Government &
Ministerial
Regulations
4. Inter-agency discussion of draft  WATSAL Task Force                 Revision of          03/00
revisions of law, government &                                       Laws, Government &
ministerial regulations                                              Ministerial
Regulations
5. Prepare Guidelines for Regional Re-  WATSAL Task Force             Guidelines for        04/00
gulations & Implementation &                                        Regional                          o
Technical Guidelines                                                Regulations,
Implementation &
Technical Guidelines
6. Revise Regional Regulations &    WATSAL Task Force                 Revision of           04/00
Implementation & Technical                                          Regional
Guidelines                                                          Regulations,
Implementation &
Technical Guidelines
1.3   Strengthen system of     1.3.1 Preparation of involvement concept &  WATSAL Task Force                Academic paper       11/99
coordination of water        stakeholder consultation
regulation at provincial
and river basin levels
(PTPA/PPTPA), with
involvement of
stakeholders
0



No.          AGENDA                           ACTIVITY                        RESPONSIBLE PARTY                  OUTPUT            COM-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _P L E T E D
1.3.2 Joininig PTPA & Provincial Irrigation  MOHA, Provincial Government    Academic paper       11/99
Committee
1.3.3. Improvement of PTPA/PPTPA,         WATSAL Task Force                 Draft improvement    11/99
covering scope of tasks, working                                       of PTPA/PPTPA
mechanisrn, membership, etc.                                           Regulations
1.3.4. Dissemination                      MOHA, Provincial Government       Report                12/99
1.3.5. Prepare Implementation and Technical   MOHA, Provincial Government   Decree of             03/00
Guidelines for PTPA & PPTPA with                                        Governor,
Stakeholder representation in about 8                                  Implementation &
Provinces                                                              Technical Guidelines
1.4.  Improve National Water    1.4.1. Prepare information system and
Resources Information         database for National Water Resources
and Decision Support          Network
Systems (DDS)                 a. Formulate concept for information  WATSAL Task Force                 Academic paper       07/99
system and network architecture for
Database on National Water
Resources
b. Inter-agency review and finalization    WATSAL Task Force           Report               08/99
of Concept
c. Finalization of concept and       Coordination Team                 Draft of Final        11/99
Coordination Team Plan                                               System Design
1.4.2 Management 1informationi System (MIS)
for DGWRD
a.  Carry out study and preparation of    WATSAL Task Force             Study report &        09/99
detailed structural design and MIS                                  concept of system
Network, Database and DSS                                           design
b.  Inter-agency review and finalization  WATSAL Task Force             Final system design    10/99       d
_______ __         _of Database and MIS design          __                                 __
4.n
0



No.          AGENDA                          ACTIVITY                        RESPONSIBLE PARTY                 OUTPUT            COM-
PLETED
c.  Develop network and improve      DGWRD                             Database Network &   10/99
database and MIS.                                                  Data/Information
Management System
1.5.  Improve National         1.5.1 Assess existing hydrology institutions    WATSAL Task Force          Academic paper       10/99
Hydrological and Water       responsible for surface and ground water
Quality Data Collection      (organization, administration, financing,
and Management System        etc.)
1.5.2 Prepare guidelines for inter-agency  WATSAL Task Force               Academic paper       10/99
relations and formation of National
Hydrology Network
1.5.3 Prepare draft Ministerial Decree on  WATSAL Task Force               Draft Decree of the    11/99
Hydrology                                                             Minister
C7\
1.5.4 Issue guideline for PERDA for      WATSAL Task Force                 Guideline            11/99
Provincial Hydrology Units in about 8
provinces
1.5.5 Ministerial Decree for establishment of   WATSAL Task Force          Ministerial Decree    03/00
National Water Quality Network
, >
tn
L_n
0
I-



NSo. |       AGENDA                           ACTIVITY                       RESPONSIBLE PARTY                 OUTPUT            COM-
T 1 .  _    _ .                   | .               .   PLETED
Objective 2: Improve Organizational and Financial Framework for River Basin Management
2.1   Establish Balai PSDA for  2.1.1 Prepare Implementation and Technical   WATSAL Task Force, Balai PSDA    Concept &         09/99
water allocation and waste    Guidelines                                                            Implementation &
water discharge                                                                                     Technical Guidelines
monitoring system and
conjunctive use of ground
water and surface water    2.1.2 Discuss Regional Regulations     WATSAL Task Force                 Regional Regulation,  12/99
Gubernatorial Decree
2.1.3. Prepare personnel, equipment and  Regional Administration           Availability of      Continues
financing for operations                                              personnel,           after
equipment, financing   12/99
2.1.4. Train personnel & staff           DGWRD, Regional Administration    Operationalization of  Continues
Balai               after
12/99
2.2.  Develop sustainable
corporate framework for
management of strategic
river basins
a. Prepare organizational   2.2a. I Study options for corporate   WATSAL Task Force                 Academic paper       06/99
and financial               financing
framework for river
basin management      2.2a.2 Review and revise PP 6/8 1Io       WATSAL Task Force                 Draft revision of PP   07/99
corporations in line        management by government and                                          6/81
with the Law on             BUMN
Regional
Administrationi
2.2a.3 Issuance of Replacement PP for PP  WATSAL Task Force                Replacement PP for   09/99
6/81                                                                  PP 6/81
Ul
0



No.          AGENDA                            ACTIVITY                        RESPONSIBLE PARTY                  OUTPUT             COM-
PLETED
2.2a.4 Prepare supporting regulations     WATSAL Task Force                  KEPPRES &            09/99
Ministerial Decree &
Regional Regulations
b. Strengthen            2.2b. l Prepare academic paper             WATSAL Task Force                  Academic paper       06/99
arrangements for
corporate financing    2.2b.2 Dissemination                       WATSAL Task Force                 Report                07/99
from bulk water supply
service fees and waste   2.2b.3 Prepare draft of KEPPRES &        WATSAL Task Force                  Draft KEPPRES &      09/99
water discharge fees         Ministerial Decree                                                     and Ministerial
Decree
2.2b.4.1ssuance of KEPPRES & Ministerial    WATSAL Task Force                KEPPRES,              10/99
Decree                                                                  Ministerial Decree &
Regional Regulations
c. Revise legal basis for    2.2c. I Analyze framework for comprehensive   WATSAL Task Force           Academic paper       09/99
river basin management       PWS corporation
corporation
2.2c.2 Carry out study on structure of financial WATSAL Task Force           Academic paper        09/99
management, for revising PP 5/90
(PJT) and PP 42/90 (POJ)
2.2c.3 Prepare draft Regulations for Perum/    WATSAL Task Force             Draft revised PP and   11/99
Perumda on1 River Basins and revise PP                                 PP on basin
5/90 (PJT) and PP 42/90 (POJ)                                          corporations
2.2c.4 lssuance of PP (POJ & PJT) & new PP   WATSAL Task Force               Revise PP (POJ &      03/00
PJT), new PP
0
I-.



No.          AGENDA                           ACTIVITY                        RESPONSIBLE PARTY                  OUTPUT            COM-
PLETED
d. Establishment of river   2.2d. 1 .Issuance of KEPPRES establishing  WATSAL Task Force              Academic paper       09/99
basin corporations in 4     branches of PJT
river basins (PJT, in
Jeneberang, Bengawan   2.2d.2 Issuance of implementation and     WATSAL Task Force                 Draft PP, Ministerial  09/99
Solo, Jratunseluna and       technical guidelines                                                  Regulation,
Serayu-Bogowonto)                                                                                  Gubernatorial Decree
2.2d.3 Issuance of regulations            WATSAL Task Force                 PP, Ministerial       09/99
Regulation,
Gubernatorial Decree
2.3   Prepare framework for    2.3.1 Carry out study on water use rights for    WATSAL Task Force           Academic paper        12/99
equitable and efficient       surface and ground water allocation
water allocation
2.3.2 Prepare draft Regulations &         WATSAL Task Force                 Draft PP, Ministerial  01/00
Implementation & Technical Guidelines                                  Regulation,
Gubernatorial Decree
2.3.3 Issuance of regulations             WATSAL Task Force                 PP, Ministerial       03/00
Regulation,
Gubernatorial Decree
2.3.4 Guideline for PERDA on water use    WATSAL Task Force                 Guidelines            03/00
rights
03
0



No. |        AGENDA           |                ACTIVITY                  |     RESPONSIBLE PARTY                  OUTPUT            COM-
|              | ~~PLETED
Objective 3: Improve Regional Water Quality Management Regulatory Institutions and Implementation
3.1   Establish an effective and   3.1.1 Revise PP 20/90, issue PP about water    WATSAL Task Force,         Issue revised PP No.   10/99
enforceable national          pollution control and management and    KLH - Bapedal                    20/90 & Government
regulatory framework for      revise KEPMEN PU 45/PRT/90                                               Regulations on water
Water Pollution Control                                                                                quality management
(WPC) & Water Quality                                                                                  & control
Management (WQM)
3.1.2 Development and issuance of         WATSAL Task Force,                 Technical Guidelines  03/00
administrative, legal and technical  KLH - Bapedal                      for revisions in PP
guidelines for implementation of PP                                     No. 20/90 on water
provisions about WPC & WQM                                              quality control &
management
3.1.3 Improve revisions and/or develop    WATSAL Task Force,                 Regional Regulations  03/00
regional regulations for implementation   KLH - Bapedal                 to implement WPC &
of water quality control and management                                 WQM
provisions for PP20/90
3.2   Integrated Water Quality   3.2.1 Development, enforcement and
Management implemented        compliance with master plan:
in six strategic river        1. Strengthen waste water discharge   WATSAL Task Force,                 Draft master plan     10/99
basins                         permit program (national level)    KLH - Bapedal
2. Strengthen financing system        WATSAL Task Force,                Permit & payment    03/00
KLH - Bapedal                     system
3.2.2 Strengtiheni incenitive framework for
industry, mining and municipalities for
water abstraction permits:
I. Prepare draft Guideline            WATSAL Task Force,                 Draft Guideline      10/99
KLH - Bapedal, DGWRD, MME,
MOHA-Bangda
0
Th
.I.o 



No.          AGENDA                            ACTIVITY                        RESPONSIBLE PARTY                  OUTPUT            COM-
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .P L E T E D
2. Issuance of Guideline              WATSAL Task Force,                 Completion &         11/99
KLH - Bapedal, DGWRD, MME,    issuance of final
MOHA-Bangda                       Guideline
3. Disseminate Guideline               KLH - Bapedal                     Dissemination         03/00
Objective 4: Improve Irrigation Management Policy, Institutions and Regulations
4.1   Improve irrigation        4.1.1 Coordination Team meeting            WATSAL Task Force                 Presidential         03/99
governance, transparency                                                                              Announcement
and accountability through
farmer empowerment and   4.1.2 Prepare Presidential Instruction     WATSAL Task Force                 Draft INPRES          04/99
management transfer
4.1.3 Issue Presidential Instruction      Minister of MPW                    INPRES               04/99
4.1.4 Prepare draft MOHA & MPW            WATSAL Task Force                  Draft Regulations    05/99
Regulations
4.1.5 Issuance of Irrigation Management   Minister of MPW                    Ministerial Decree   06/99
Policy Reform Regulation
4.1.6 Workshop on draft MORA Regulation    WATSAL Task Force                 Revised draft        08/99
Regulation
4.1.7 Issuance of MOHA Regulation         Minister of MOHA                   Ministerial          10/99
Regulation
0



No.          AGENDA                            ACTIVITY                        RESPONSIBLE PARTY                  OUTPUT            COM-
PLETED
4.2   Improve regional          4.2.1 Identify regulations and provisions  WATSAL Task Force                 Academic paper        06/99
government irrigation         which need to be revised
services
4.2.2 Formulate and prepare revision of   WATSAL Task Force                  Academic paper        09/99
government regulations
4.2.3 Issuance of new regulations         WATSAL Task Force                  New Government        03/00
Regulations
4.2.4 Formulate and prepare Guidelines for  WATSAL Task Force                Draft Guidelines      03/00
Reorganization of Irrigation Agencies
4.2.5 Issuance of Guidelines for          WATSAL Task Force                  Final Guidelines      03/00
Reorganization
of Irrigation Agencies
WATSAL Task Force                 Academic paper        09/99
4.2.6 Formulate concept for Scheme Level
Management Fora
WATSAL Task Force                 MOHA decree           11/99
4.2.7 Prepare Guidelines for Scheme Level                                                                        o
Management Fora
WATSAL Task Force                 Formation of Scheme  Continues
4.2.8 Establish Scheme Level Management                                      Level Management    from
Fora                                                                    Fora                  06/00
4.3   Ensure fiscal             4.3.1 Review Regulations regarding ISF,    WATSAL Task Force                 Academic paper        05/99
sustainability and            O&M & rehabilitation
efficiency of O&M and
rehabilitation of irrigation   4.3.2 Prepare draft Regulation regarding ISF,   WATSAL Task Force       Draft Ministerial     12/99
schemes                       O&M & rehabilitation                                                     Regulation
4.3.3 Issuance of revised Regulation       WATSAL Task Force                 Joint Ministerial     03/99
Regulation
0
ht 



-69 -                              Annex 6
Page lof 4
WATSAL: SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
The World Bank plans to assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) with budget support which is
linked to policy reforms in the water sector. The reforms consist of changes in the regulatory
frameworks and the institutional arrangements for managing water resources, irrigation and
related infrastructure. The reform aims to enhance the effectiveness of investments in the sector,
by improving notably the transparency, accountability and integration in the planning, and hence
the sustainability and social welfare.
Sectoral adjustment loans such as this are subject to a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA)
prepared by GOI with World Bank assistance. Most of the policy reforms proposed, however, are
precisely intended to enhance water management with regard to environmental sustainability and
social welfare. The SEA provides a qualitative narrative of the risks expected to be associated
with the reform, and proposes possible mitigation options.
As an integral part of the SEA process, a public consultation has been conducted with
representative stakeholders with the aim of disseminating information concerning the proposed
policy reforms, eliciting responses on the likely positive and negative impacts as perceived by the
stakeholders, and sharing the results of the SEA preparation with the same consulted groups at a
follow-up meeting. These consultations were conducted primarily by nationalNGOs, with local
facilitators, and held in three selected provinces (West Sumatra, West Java and South Sulawesi)
at three levels: provincial, kabupaten and local, in order to reflect opinions from different levels
of civil society and government. Consultations were also held at the national level, and with
NGOs in each of the provinces.
The SEA also looks at the current Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) procedures applied
for water sector interventions, and the on-going revisions being proposed by GOI to ensure more
transparent, impartial and objective evaluation of the EIA reports and management of the
recommendations contained therein.
The SEA was conducted under the overall responsibility of BAPPENAS and the Inter-agency
Task Force on Water Sector Policy Reform which was established to prepare the WATSAL
reforms.
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS OF THE CONSULTATION PROCESS
The public consultations proved to be very valuable in identifying the concerns of both the
existing government institutions and of water users in general. The use ofNGOs as facilitators of
the consultations proved to be successful, but the inclusion of locally hired facilitators in each
province is an important factor. For really successful consultations at village level, however, it is
recommended to utilize grass-roots organizations that already have the confidence of the people.
The facilitators need to have a comprehensive understanding of the issues concerned, and at least
one at each meeting should understand the more technical issues (this could be a government
official). Adequate preparation is of key importance, with distribution of the proposed reform
materials to invited participants well in advance of the meetings, and the solicitation of written
responses and one-to-one interviews may also be useful techniques.
From the viewpoint of the organizers, there may be fewer direct benefits from the second round
of consultations, especially in a reform process such as WATSAL (in contrast to the
environmental assessment of a physical construction project, where the draft EIA would form the
basis for further discussion). Nevertheless the second round, held with mostly the same



- 70 -                                Annex 6
Page 2of 4
participants as the first, is considered to be extremely important, in order to demonstrate that the
participants are indeed partners in a planning process, and that their input has been appreciated
and incorporated.
Mostly the issues that were raised were precisely the negative impacts of the 'without-project'
situation that WATSAL is designed to address, such as, for example:
*  lack of coordination in water resource management,
*  lack of transparency in managing water rights and levies,
* weaker users disadvantaged by more powerful stakeholders.
Most of the discussions focused on social and institutional issues. With respect to the proposed
reforms, concerns were expressed in some quarters about:
*  the introduction of additional institutions, based on the weak performance of some that
already exist, notwithstanding the fact that the new institutions (such as the National Apex
Body, or new River Basin Authorities) are designed to overcome such weaknesses and
improve overall coordination;
*  the proliferation of village-level institutions in different sectors (many of which are managed
by the same individuals or village leaders), which causes confusion, especially as many do
not function well;
*  the strength of the existing Water Users Associations (WUAs) and their readiness and
capacity to take over the rights and responsibilities that are to be transferred to them in the
management of Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) and of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of
irrigation networks at tertiary up to secondary network level;
*  the different configuration of modern and traditional heirarchies of village level management
in different regions of Indonesia, and their impact on the transfer of irrigation management to
WUAs.
The results of these consultations have provided veiy useful inputs to the on-going deliberations
of the inter-agency WATSAL Task Force, but relatively few environmental issues were raised.
The meetings with NGOs, who have as their main concern the environmental sustainability and
well-being of Indonesia's natural resources and its people, proved to be especially enlightening,
and demonstrated a clearly articulated understanding on the part ofNGOs of the issues in policy
reforms in the water sector. Mostly, however, the NGO meetings focussed on the same social and
institutional issues as the other meetings.
The more significant negative environmental impacts, therefore, have mainly been assessed by
the experts assigned to the SEA, including the NGOs conducting the public consultations.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
The following are the key environmental, issues that have been identified, which need to be
addressed at either the preparation or implementation stages of WATSAL:
* The overall weakness in implementation of the environmental regulations is widely
recognized, and is largely outside the mandate of reforms being prepared through WATSAL.
At this time it remains uncertain to what extent the institutional and regulatory changes being
introduced by GOI will improve the level of environmental management. However, it is clear
from the consultations that NGOs have a sound understanding of the weaknesses of the
system. The act of including civil society, probably in the form of NGOs as permanent
advisory members, in the evaluation and monitoring activities of the newly established



- 71-                                  Annex 6
Page 3of 4
regional environmental agencies (BAPEDALDA), would probably have immediate beneficial
results, merely through introducing transparency and accountability; it may also assist in
improving technical capabilities.
*  Environmental management may be neglected in the drive to maximize revenues as a
result of the granting of greater autonomy at all levels, from River Basin Authorities down to
Water Users Associations. WATSAL will introduce an institutional framework that should
facilitate adherence to environmental regulations, although evenNGOs may be unwilling to
tackle violations when committed by farmer groups.
*  Overlapping regulations, issued by a plethora of different sectoral and regional institutions,
and sometimes overlapping of authority, are a major source of confusion, especially in the
fields of issuance of licenses and allocations of water rights. The need for a thorough
review is inherent in the implementation of the WATSAL reforms, and the only risk is that
this may not be as comprehensive as required. The acquisition of water rights by powerful
stakeholders, often to the detriment or even total disregard of the weaker or traditional water
users, proved to be a source of serious discontent during the consultations, emphasizing the
urgency of this item of the reform agenda.
*  Far too little attention has hitherto been paid to the natural water storage capacity of
watersheds, groundwater recharge zones and wetlands, and institutionally there is a lack of
coordination between utilization and conservation of the water resource. Institutions
managing the water sector have no authority in the management of either watersheds or the
coastal zone (mainly under the Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops), nor in the issuance of
licenses for land-based development activities such as industrial or urban development, or for
commercial tree crop development in coastal swamplands. The water requirements and the
rights to discharge waste are rarely taken into consideration by the agencies concerned.
Numerous examples of the results of poor planning emerged during the consultations.
*  Indeed recommendations by the regional government are sometimes over-ruled by sectoral
or higher levels of authority, although it is expected that such practices will decrease as the
present policy reforms favouring regional autonomy and decentralization come into force.
*  Coordination of planning, and of management in both the conservation and utilization of
the resource, as a major positive impact of the WATSAL reforms, was clearly regarded as a
key issue at the consultations. It is emphasized that the dual functions of regional spatial
plans (both in their technical quality and in their implementation) and of theenvironmental
(AMDAL) regulations provide a double line of defense against incorrect or poorly
coordinated planning decisions. The establishment or strengthening of institutions under
WATSAL (national apex body, regional and basin committees, etc.), together with continuing
development of capacity and transparency in environmental management (BAPEDALDA),
with the support of civil society (e.g. NGOs), will provide the institutional basis to achieve
such coordination.
* A key recommendation from the national consultation was for regional AMDAL studies to
be prepared in river basins of strategic importance, incorporating present land cover and land
use, the spatial plans, and plans for the conservation and utilization of water basin-wide. A
preferred title might be "Masterplans for coordinated development and environmental
management of river basins".
* In relation to the management of hydrological and meteorological data, there is concern that
the quality of data collection will remain unsatisfactory, unless the development of the MIS
is accompanied by substantial strengthening of human resources and data collection systems,
especially in outlying regions. The importance of good data is considered to be of paramount
importance in the coordinated planning and management of water resources. It will become



- 72 -                               Annex 6
Page 4of 4
even more crucial if the evident declines in total rainfall, as apparent from a separate study,
prove to be part of a significant trend.
* There was much discussion concerning the capacity of Water Users Associations to handle
the roles and responsibilities that will be assigned to them, with complaints that there are too
many village-level institutions that are sectorally orientated and often ineffective in operation.
The concerns arose mainly from government personnel rather than the farmers themselves,
and may stem partly from a lack of understanding of the nature of the new autonomous role
of the WUAs. Nevertheless it is evident that the National Apex Body and basin organizations
should implement a process of continuous review and revision, so that the process becomes
systematized. Phased hand-over may be necessary in accordance with the capacity of the
existing institutions.
* Finally, it seems barely necessary to emphasize the vital importance of transparency and
accountability in all items of reform, at all phases of implementation. The development or
strengthening of new institutions at all levels might provide new or different opportunities for
the more powerful stakeholders to acquire dominant roles. While a main focus of reform is
the provision of more equitable management of the water resource, close and careful
monitoring must be institutionalized, for example with the mandatory publication, in the
public domain, of annual reports on activities, financing and work plans.



- 73  -                                          ANNEX  7
EIDONESIA: Key Economic & Exposure Indicators - Base Case
FY96/97   FY97/98   FY98/99   FY99/00   FYOO/O1    FY01/02
Actual  Estimated            - Projected --
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Growth rates:
Real GDP                                            8.3       1.4     -15.6       -1.0        3.0         5.0
Consumption                                        8.0        3.9       -5.0      -0.9        3.5         3.6
Investment( GDFI)                                 12.1      -16.5     -64.5        6.2        9.1        30.2
Real GDP per capita                                5.5       -0.1      -16.8      -2.4        1.6         3.6
Consumption per capita                             5.3        2.4       -6.4      -2.3        2.1         2.3
Share of GDP:
Investment                                        32.3       29.5       14.3      14.4       15.2        18.2
National Private Savings                          22.2       22.9       16.7      16.8       15.9        14.7
Government Deficit(-)/GDP id                        1.1       0.9       -2.5      -5.8       -5.0        -2.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export volume growth rate (Merch. FOB)               6.2       13.2      -3.8        1.8        3.3        5.9
Import volume growth rate (Merch. CIF)              10.4       -3.7     -26.4        5.9        7.2       15.0
Exports (Merch. FOB) (USSBillion)                   52.1       56.2      48.7       51.6       56.2       61.5
Imports (Merch. CIF) (US$Billion)                   50.9       47.5      36.3       39.5       43.7       51.5
Non-oil merch. export growth rate in US$(%)         5.8      16.6       -8.8       6.5        7.2         9.7
Export growth rate (FOB, % p.a. US$)                 9.0       8.0      -13.3       6.0        8.9         9.4
Importgrowthrate(CIF,%p.a.US$)                      10.3      -6.5      -23.5        8.7      10.8        17.8
Current Account Balance (US$Billion)                -7.8       -1.6       4.5        4.0        3.0        1.0
Current Account Balance/GDP (%)                     -3.4       -1.1       4.1        2.4        1.7        0.5
Gross Reserves (months imports GNFS)                 5.6        3.9       7.4        7.6        7.4        6.2
EXTERNAL DEBT
Total DOD (USSBillion) 2/                          128.9      136.2     150.9      144.0      138.0      134.0
M&LT+IMF DOD (USSBillion)                         96.7       97.8      121.9     115.0      109.0       105.0
Public & Publicly Guaranteed Debt (US$Billion)    60.0       55.9       67.3      72.1       73.5        71.5
Total Debt/GDP (%)                                  55.5       91.0     139.1       85.7       77.7       70.0
Debt Service Paid (M&LT+IMF+STXUS$Billion) 3/       21.5       23.7      20.8       20.1       21.1       20.4
Amortization Paid (USSBillion) -3/                 14.9      17.0       14.7      12.9       13.7        13.3
Interest Burden (US$Billion)                        6.6       6.7        6.1       7.2        7.4         7.1
Total Debt Service Paid/Exports(GNFS) (%)           37.1       38.3      37.3       34.3       33.4       29.6
EXPOSURE INDICATORS
TDO/XGS (%)                                      214.0      211.1      210.4     193.0      171.7       152.5
Concessional/TDO (%)                               4.0        3.6        3.6       3.9        4.0         4.1
IBRD exposure indicators
IBRD DS/public DS (%)                              19.1      20.7       17.9      25.4       18.2        12.9
IBRD DS/total DS (%)                               10.4       9.4        6.0       8.1        6.8         6.7
Preffered creditor DS/public DS (%)               35.9       30.2       30.6      46.3       37.6        52.4
IBRD DS/XGS (%)                                     3.7       2.9        2.3       2.5        1.9         1.7
IBRDTDO(US$Billion)                                11.1      10.0       10.7      12.2       13.1        13.3
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)                       10.2        9.3        9.2       9.6        9.5         9.2
IBRD TDO/TDO (%)                                    8.6       7.3        7.1       8.5        9.5         9.9
IDA TDO (US$Million)                             735.5      715.2      694.2     733.9      852.1       978.8
.1 Incorporates available Government fiscal data as of March 1999.
2/ Includes IMF purchases.
3/ Includes August 1998 Paris Club Agreement and estimatedLondon Club Agreement.
Source: Government of Indonesia and World Bank staff estimates.



-  74-                                      ANNEX  8
INDONESIA: Balance of Payments (US$ Billion)
FY96/97  FY97/98   FY98/99 FY99/00 FYOO/O1  FY01/02
Actual Estimated         -    Projected-
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                        52.1     56.2       48.7    51.6    56.2        61.5
Oil & Gas Exports                              12.8      10.4        7.1      7.3      8.8      9.3
Non Oil & Gas Exports                          39.3      45.8       41.6    44.3    47.5       52.1
Nonfactor Services                                6.0      5.7        7.0      7.0      6.9       7.6
Exports of GNFS                                   58.1     61.9       55.7    58.6    63.2        68.9
Merchandise Imports (fob)                       41.5      42.8       32.7    35.6    39.4        46.4
Merchandise Imports (CIF)                       -50.9    -47.5       -36.3   -39.5   -43.7    -51.5
Nonfactor Services                               -6.1     -5.9        -5.1    -5.5    -6.2       -6.8
Imports of GNFS                                  -57.0    -53.4      -41.A   -45.0   -49.9    -58.3
Resource Balance                                   1.1      8.6       14.2    13.6    13.2        10.6
Net Factor Income and Transfers                   -8.9    -10.1        -9.7    -9.7   -10.2       -9.6
Current Account Balance                           -7.8     -1.6        4.5      4.0      3.0       1.0
Capital Account Balance (excl. net MF)            14.0     -8.6        -2.7    -2.1    -1.5        0.7
Net Disbursment of Govt M&LT debt                0.0      1.2        5.0      2.6      0.3      -1.0
Disbursments                                    6.4      5.3        9.1      6.2      5.8       5.0
Amortization                                   6.4       4.1        4.1      3.4      5.5       6.0
Foreign Direct Investment (equity) *             2.0       0.5        0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3
Net Other Capital (incl. priv. debt&portfolio)  12.1    -10.3        -7.8    -5.0    -2.1        1.4
Change in Net Foreign Assets (- = increase)       -6.2     10.2        -1.8    -1.9    -1.5       -1.7
Memo Items:
Current Account Balance/GDP(%)                  -3.4     -1.1        4.1      2.4      1.7       0.5
Export real growth rate (Merch FOB) (%)          6.2     13.2       -3.8      1.8      3.3       5.9
Non-oil merch. export growth rate in US$ (/)   5.8      16.6       -8.8      6.5      7.2      9.7
Import real growth rate (Merch CIF) (%)         10.4     -3.7      -26.4      5.9      7.2      15.0
* In FY96/97 an estimated 70% ofthis is actually international borrowing by local participants;
in the projected years this borrowing is included in M&LT borrowing.
Source: Government of Indonesia and World Bank staff estimates.



- 75 -                                          ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
Indonesia at a glance
East   Lower-
POVERTY and Sf0IAL                                           Asia &   middle-
Indonesia    Pacific  income      Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (mil/ions)                     200.1     1753      2,282                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  1,110      970      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    222.1     1,707     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (S)                                        1.6       1.3       1.2
Labor force (%j                                       2.5Z      1.4       1.3     GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199147)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationat poverty line)
Urban population (% of totW population)               37        32        42
Life expectanoy at birth (years)                      65        68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              47        38        36
Chid malnutrition (16 of children under 5)            40         16                        Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                62        84        84
liSteracy (% of population age 15+)                   16         17       19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  114     118       114              1ndonesIa
Male                                               117       120       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             112       119       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       i996     1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                          39.3    79.9      227.4    215.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP               24.1    26.7       32.1      30.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           24.5    20.2       25.8      28.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  27.1     26.3      31.5      30.6
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..      2..      Z87       26.2
Current account balance/GDP                    .. ..           -3.5      .0.8     Domestic
Interest payrnentslGDP                       1.2      310       2.2       2.4     Saving                      Investment
Total debtGOP                               35;6    53.7       56.7      SS.4    SavingsA
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..      35.8      30.7
Present value of debt/GDP                      .       .          ..     59.8
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..        ..    199.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 6.7      7.8      7.8       4.9                    -Indonesia
GNP per capita                      4.1      6.2      T.6       2,7        ..              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      -1.7      8.9      8.2       7.8        ..   l
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996     1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 29.7    24.3       15.4      14.8 6   5 -
Industry                                    34.1     33.8      43.0      43.3     1,
Manufacturing                             10.4    16.8       24.7      25.1
Services                                    36.3    41.9       41.6      41.9     o
0
Private consumption                         63.5    62.6       62.1      63.1           92   93   94   95   96   97
General govemment consumption                9.4    11.1        7.7       7.3                    GDI       e  GDP
Imports of goods and services               21.5    20.5       29.4      32.2   |
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  4.1      3.2       3.3       0.7    25
Industry                                     6.5    10.0       10.7       5.6    20
Manufacturing                             14.5    11.0       11.7       6.4    15
Services                                     8.7      7.9       6.6       5.7    10
Private consumption                         10.0      8.1      19.1       6.6     s
General govemmentconsumption                 9.2      3.8       0.7       0.1     o
Gross domestic investment                   10.8    11.0       12.9       8.6           92   93   94   95   98   97
Imports of goods and services                7.3    11.7       17.2      14.7                  Exports    e*Imports
Gross national product                       6.2      8.0       9.3       4.3
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete. t On the basis of Government of Indonesia data (BPS,BI), April 1999.



- 76 -                                         ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1976    1986       1996     1997      lnftUon%
(% change)                                                                        1s
Consumer prices                                ..      5.7       6.6      11.6    10___
Implicit GDP deflator                        1S.4    -0.2        9.0      11.7     s
Government finance
(% of GOP, Includes current grants)                                                o
Current revenue                                ..    15.9       16.5      15.9            92   93   r4   015    0        97
Current budget balance                                -4.6       7.0       5.5                   GOP deflator    :  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..       1.1       0.9                                        ....
TRADE
1976    1986       1996     1997       Export and Import levels (US$ mililons)
(US$ mllions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  13,673    49,815   53,547    soooo
Commodity 1                                   ..   6,964    11,722    11,603    sooo 
Commodity 2                                   ..    752       1,894    1,505     40,fli
Manufactures                                  ..   2,747    21,210    18,568     4
Total imports (ci                               ..  12,760    42,929   41,680      30,000
Food                                         ..  711  4,357  3,796  20,000   m                      m       i ii
Fuel and energy                               ..   2.375      3,607    3,924     10ioo
Capital goods                                 .. 5.005    19,973    19,558 
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..                                             92  93  r4   rso   97
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..        ..        ..                   Exorts     N Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..        .._.._L
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                             1976    1986        1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..      ..   59.129   62,997       0
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..   54,167   50,124
Resource balance                                ..      ..    4,962    12.873      1
Net income                                      ..      ..  -12,781   -11,297
Net current transfers                          ..       ..      -250    -3,275    -2               l      i i
Current account balance                        ..       ..   -8.069    -1,699    -3
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..   14,169   -11,601
Changes in net reserves                        ..       ..   -6,100    13,300      4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..
Conversion rate (DEC, localWlS$)            415.0  1,282.6   2,342.3   2,909.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       14,010   42,916   128,941   136,174                        A: 9,991
ISRI                                       213    5,058    11,139      9.991                              B:715
IDA                                        418      857        736      715         G: 36,004       _        C: 2,970
Total debt service                          1,340    5,984    21,539    19,736                                      5,094
IBRD                                         4      636      2,249     1,848
IDA                                          2       12         26       26
@ill    l  _      ~~~~E: 26,725
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   E 
Official grants                             59      136        190      183
Official creditors                         839    1,016       -792      535
Private creditors                         1,314     528      6,874     5,888
Foreign direct investment                    ..
Portfolio equity                             0        0      3,099      298
World Bank program                                                                             F: 54,675
Commitments                                                                      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              257      828        905      899      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         1      236      1,429     1,165     C-IMF                        G-Short-term
Net flows                                  256      592       -523      -266           _
Interest payments                            6      411        646      709
Net transfers                              250      181    -1,370      -975
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                      4126/99



Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.       Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 216
Active Projects
ID-PE-3977      1991   GOI                               THIRD JABOTABEK URB                      61.00        0.00        6.24         5.45        11.70        1.31       S          S
ID-PE-3997      1992   GOI                               TELECOM IV                             375.00         0.00       50.08        47.02        97.09        7.01       S          S
ID-PE-3916      1992                                     SURALAYA THERMAL POW                   423.60         0.00      132.20        23.61      150.'70        7.98       U          S
ID-PE-3860      1992   GOI                               TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE                     87.60        0.00        9.30        l1.59       20.11         0.00       S          S
ID-PE-7969      1992   GOI                               PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACH                     36.60        0.00        3.20         2.75         5.95        0.00       S          S
ID-PF-4009      1993   GOI                               INTEGRATED PEST MGMT                     32.00        0.00        5.50         4.00         9.49         .59       S          S
TD-PE-4006      1993   GOT                               E.iNDONESIA KABUPATE                    155.00        0.00        0.00        15.16        15.13        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3990      1993   GOI                               WTR G SANI FOR LOW I                     80.00        0.00       17.00        26.17       37.19         0.00       S          U
ID-PE-3914      1993   GOI                               THIRD COMM HEALTH &                      93.50        0.00       76.00         6.54       17.02         0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3999      1993   GOI                               GROUNDWATER DEVT.                        54.00        0.00       24.94         1.86       19.60         1.80      U           U
ID-PE-4007      1993   GOI                               POWER (CIRATA II)                       104.00        0.00       26.00        16.04        41.08       -4.28       U          S
ID-PE-4020      1994   GOI                               KABUPATEN ROADS V                       101.50        0.00        0.00        14.80        13.78        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-4010      1994   GOI                               DAM SAFETY                               55.00        0.00        8.00        23.99       23.94         0.00       S          U
ID-PE-3985      1994   GO                               WTRSHED CONSERVATION                     56.50        0.00        0.00        41.76       27.80         0.00      HU          U
ID-PE-3945      1994   GOI                               HIGHWAY SECTOR II                      350.00         0.00       40.00       124.19      150.18      -185.83       S          S
ID-PE-3910      1994   GO                               SUMATERA & KAI,IMAN P                  260.50         0.00       20.00       165.52      156.02        12.23       U          S
ID-PE-3954      1994   GOI                               JAVA IRR IMP & W R M .                 165.70         0.00       22.00        67.81       56.48         0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3998      1994   GOI                               SURABAYA URBAN                         175.00         0.00       30.00        68.96       81.03        17.21       S          U
ID-PE-3890      1994   GOI                               SEMARANG-SUJRAKARTA U                  174.00         0.00       18.67        66.66        63.07       18.45       S          S
ID-PE-3937      1994   GOI                               INTEGRATED SWAMPS                        65.00        0.00        0.00        29.20        18.07        0.00       U          U
ID-PE-4017      1994   GOI                               UNIV.RESEARCH FOR GR                     58.90        0.00       11.23        18.11       20.46         0.00       S          S
ID-PE-39754     1995                                     TA FOR INFRA. II                         28.00        0.00        0.00        23.01       20.22         3.56       S          S
ID-PE-4001      1995   GOI                               TELECOM SECTOR MODER                   325.00         0.00       50.00       188.66      143.66         0.00      HS          S
ID-PE-3984      1995   GOI                               LAND ADMINISTRATION                      80.00        0.00       16.50        28.12       26.92         0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3972      1995   GOI                               AG. RESEARCH II                          63.00        0.00       14.10        36.46        34.06        -.78       S          S
ID-PE-3968      1995                                     DOOK & READING DEV                      132.50        0.00       31.50        76.04       29.79        -6.04       S          S
ID-PE-396b      1995   GOI                               HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT                     88.00        0.00       20.00        49.08       27.58         5.07       S          S
ID-PE-395]      1995   GOI                               KALIMANTAN UDP                         136.00         0.00        0.00        59.22       52.72         0.00      S           S
ID-PE-4019      1995   GO0                               ACCOUNTANCY DEV II                       25.00        0.00        3.30        10.17       12.25         0.00       S          S
ID-PE-3988      1995   GOI                               PHRD II                                  69.00        0.00        0.00        28.41       10.39         0.00       S          S
ID-PE-41896     1996   0OC                              HN  CAPACITY BUILDTNG                     20.00        0.00        3.60        14.83       10.94         0.00      NA         NA
ID-PE-39643     1996   GOI                               STD/AIDS                                24.80         0.00       19.80         1.69       20.10         0.00      NA         NA
ID-PE-39312     1996   GOI                               SECOND E. JAVA UDP                     142.70         0.00       25.70        94.65      107.65         0.00       S          S
ID-PFE-37097    1996   GO                               E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                         99.00        0.00        0.00        80.23       10.23         0.00       S          S
ID-PE-4021      1996   GO0                               POW. TRANS & DIST II                   373.00         0.00       80.00       180.43      207.42      -12.60       U           U
ID-PE-4016      1996   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA             STRATEGTC URB. RDS I                    86.90         0.00       10.00        63.98       35.58         0.00      S           U
ID-PE-40]4      1996   0OI                               XERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                     19.10         0.00        0.00        17.44        6.22         0.00      S           S
ID-PE-4011      1996   Gal                               SULAWESI AGRI AREA                      26.80        0.00         3.70        15.61        1.25       -1.75       U           U 0    d
ID-PE-4008      1996   GOI                               NUSA TENGGARA DEV.                      27.00        0.00         4.90        14.18        3.69       -2.15       U           U     lb  ,
ID-PE-4004      1996   GOI                               HIGHER EDUC SUP. (11I                   65.00        0.00         6.85        33.93       -1.98         0.00      S           S     (D 1t
ID-PE-4003      1996   GOI                               SECONDARY SCHOOL TEA                    60.40        0.00        30.00        19.22       31.23         0.00      S           S
ID-FE-3978      1996   GOI                               IND'L TECHNOLOGY DEV                    47.00        0.00         6.00        24.13       22.57         6.58      U           U
ID-PE-49051     1997                                     BEPEKA AUJDIT MODER P                   16.40        0.00          .90        13.05        2.79         0.00      S           S     o  
ID-PE-42540     1997                                     IODINE DEF. CONTROL                     28.50        0.00         2.50        23.19        3.19        0.00       S           S     Fh
ID-PE-41894     1997   GOI                               SUMATRA SEC EDUC                        98.00        0.00        0.00         83.29        7.28        0.00       S           S
Generated by the Operations Inforrmation System (OIS)



Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.       Undisb.      Orig    Frrs Rev'd   Dev Obj   Isp Prog
ID-PE-40521    1997   GOT                                VILLAGE INFRA 1I                       140.10        0.00         0.00        7 4 .23     4 7 .89     13.17       S          S
ID-PE-40195    1997   GOI                                QUAL OF UNDERGRAD ED                    71.20        0.00         9.89        53.86        6.05        0.00       S          S
ID-PE-36053    1997   GOI                                SULAWESI UDP II                        155.00         0.00       42.05        94.44       66.80        6.45       S          S
ID-PE-36047     1997   GOI                               BALI URBAN INFRAST.                    110.00         0.00       15.00        89.52        2.82        0.00       S           S
ID-PE-35544    1997   GOI                                SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS                      20.00         0.00        2.50        17.50        5.50        0.00       U          U
ID-PE-4026      1997   GOI/PERUMKA                       RLWY EFFICIENCY                        105.00         0.00        0.00       103.60       32.10        0.00       S           U
ID-PE-3987      1997                                     C.INDONESIA SEC.EDU.                   104.00         0.00        0.00        96.50       28.79        0.00       S           S
ID-PE-55755    1998   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA              BANKING REFORM ASST.                    20.00         0.00        0.00        13.73       13.73        0.00       S           U
ID-PE-48715    1998                                      IIDP                                    34.50         0.00        8.50        24.64        7.66        8.89       S           S
ID-PE-45337    1998   GOI                                KECAMATAN DEV FUND                     225.00         0.00        0.00       212.13        -.37        0.00       HS          S
ID-PE-40061    1998   GOI                                BENGKULU REG DEV                        20.50         0.00        0.00        19.90        1.60        0.00       S           S
ID-PE-39644     1998   GOI                               W.JAVA BASIC EDUC.                     103.50         0.00        0.00       100.50       -1.50        0.00       S           S
ID-PE-37095    1998   GOI                                MALUKU REG. DEV                         16.30         0.00        0.00        15.65          .65       0.00       S           S
ID-PE-36956    1998   GOI                                SAFE MOTHERHOOD                         42.50         0.00        6.00        34.56        6.55        -.11       S           S
ID-PE-36048     1998   GOI                               CORAL REEF MGM REHAB                      6.90        0.00        0.00         6.40         .30          .10      S           S
ID-PE-3993      1998   GOI                               N.SUMATRA REG. ROADS                   234.00         0.00      50.00        184.00        6.00        2.50       S          U
ID-PE-63732     1999                                     CORPORATE RESTRUCTRG                    31.50         0.00        0.00        31.50        0.00        0.00
ID-PE-56074     1999   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA             MUNICIPAL INNOVATION                     5.00         0.00        0.00         5.00        0.00        0.00       S           S
ID-PE-41895    1999   GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA            SULAWESI BASIC EDUC.                    47.90       15.90         0.00        63.80        0.00        0.00
ID-PE-40196    1999   GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA            SUMATRA BASIC EDUCA.                    54.50       20.10         0.00        74.60        0.00        0.00
ID-PE-36049    1999   GOI                                EARLY CHILD DEVELOPM                    21.50         0.00        0.00        20.40       -1.10        0.00       S           S
ID-PE-3967      1999   GOI                               FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                    44.70         0.00        0.00        43.66         .30        0.00       S          S
Total                                                                                         6,659.10       36.00      897.65    3,340.33   2,087.41    -100.64
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               2,457.15           17,834.21           20,291.36
of which has been repaid:                 49.18            8,422.38            8,471.56
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               5,748.23            9,545.62           15,293.85
Amount sold                      :                0.00               88.08                88.08
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               88.08               88.08
Total Undisbursed                :            3,340.33              133.82            3,474.15
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
0 0
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



