E 267
WATER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(WATSAL)
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Government of Indonesia
Inter-Agency Task Force             March 1999
On Water Sector Policy Reform



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
The World Bank plans to assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) with budget support which is
linked to policy reforms in the water sector. The reforms consist of chanses in the regulatorv
frameworks and the institutional arrangements for managing water resources, irrigation and
related infrastructure. The reform aims to enhance the effectiveness of investments in the sector,
by improving notably the transparency, accountability and integration in the planning, and hence
the sustainability and social welfare.
Sectoral adjustment loans such as this are subject to a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA)
prepared bv GOI with World Bank assistance. Most of the policy reforrns proposed, however, are
precisely intended to enhance water management with regard to environmental sustainability and
social welfare. The SEA provides a qualitative narrative of the risks expected to be associated
with the reform, and proposes possible mitigation options.
As an integral part of the SEA process, a public consultation has been conducted with
representative stakeholders with the aim of disseminating information concerning the proposed
policy reforms, eliciting responses on the likely positive and negative impacts as perceived by the
stakeholders, and sharing the results of the SEA preparation with the same consulted groups at a
follow-up meeting. These consultations were conducted primarily by nationalNGOs, with local
facilitators, and held in three selected provinces (West Sumatra, West Java and South Sulawesi)
at three levels: provincial, kabupaten and local, in order to reflect opinions from different levels
of civil society and government. Consultations were also held at the national level, and with
NGOs in each of the provinces.
The SEA also looks at the current Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) procedures applied
for water sector interventions, and the on-going revisions being proposed by GOI to ensure more
transparent, impartial and objective evaluation of the EIA reports and management of the
recommendations contained therein.
The SEA was conducted under the overall responsibility of BAPPENAS and the Inter-agency
Task Force on Water Sector Policy Reform which was established to prepare the WATSAL
reformns.
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS OF THE CONSULTATION PROCESS
The public consultations proved to be very valuable in identifying the concerns of both the
existing government institutions and of water users in general. The use ofNGOs as facilitators of
the consultations proved to be successful, but the inclusion of locally hired facilitators in each
province is an important factor. For really successful consultations at village level, however, it is
recommended to utilize grass-roots organizations that already have the confidence of the people.
The facilitators need to have a comprehensive understanding of the issues concerned, and at least
one at each meeting should understand the more technical issues (this could be a government
official). Adequate preparation is of key importance, with distribution of the proposed reform
materials to invited participants well in advance of the meetings, and the solicitation of written
responses and one-to-one interviews may also be useful techniques.
From the viewpoint of the organizers, there may be fewer direct benefits from the second round
of consultations, especially in a reform process such as WATSAL (in contrast to the
environmental assessment of a physical construction project, where the draft EIA would form the
File: DA4/HWatsal/Sea_summ. doc 26 Feb 1999                                        i



basis for further discussion). Nevertheless the second round, held with mostly the same
participants as the first, is considered to be extremely important, in order to demonstrate that the
participants are indeed partners in a planning process, and that their input has been appreciated
and incorporated.
Mostly the issues that were raised were precisely the negative impacts of the 'without-project'
situation that WATSAL is designed to address, such as, for example:
* lack of coordination in water resource management,
* lack of transparency in managing water rights and levies,
* weaker users disadvantaged by more powerful stakeholders.
Most of the discussions focused on social and institutional issues. With respect to the proposed
reforms, concerns were expressed in some quarters about:
*  the introduction of additional institutions, based on the weak performance of some that
already exist, notwithstanding the fact that the new institutions (such as the National Apex
Body, or new River Basin Authorities) are designed to overcome such weaknesses and
improve overall coordination;
*  the proliferation of village-level institutions in different sectors (manv of which are managed
by the same individuals or village leaders), which causes confusion, especially as many do
not function well;
e  the strength of the existing Water Users Associations (WLUAs) and their readiness and
capacity to take over the rights and responsibilities that are to be transferred to them in the
management of Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) and of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of
irrigation networks at tertiary up to secondary network level;
*  the different configuration of modern and traditional hierarchies of village level management
in different regions of Indonesia, and their impact on the transfer of irrigation management to
WUAs.
The results of these consultations have provided very useful inputs to the on-going deliberations
of the inter-agency WATSAL Task Force, but relatively few environmental issues were raised.
The meetings with NGOs, who have as their main concern the environmental sustainability and
well-being of Indonesia's natural resources and its people, proved to be especially enlightening,
and demonstrated a clearly articulated understanding on the part ofNGOs of the issues in policy
reforms in the water sector. Mostly, however, the NGO meetings focussed on the same social and
institutional issues as the other meetings.
The more significant negative environmental impacts, therefore, have mainly been assessed by
the experts assigned to the SEA, including the NGOs conducting the public consultations.
With the proven value of the participatory process, the recommendation is made that
communities should have a greater participatory role in decision making at every level, in
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, including environmental assessment and
monitoring, through NGO facilitation.
File: DAH/Watsal/Sea_summ.doc 26 Feb 1999                                           ii



ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
The following are the key environmental issues that have been identified, which need to be
addressed at either the preparation or implementation stages of WATSAL:
*  The overall weakness in implementation of the environmental regulations is widely
recognized, and is largely outside the mandate of reforms being prepared through WATSAL.
At this time it remains uncertain to what extent the institutional and regulatory changes being
introduced by GOI will improve the level of environmental management. However, it is clear
from the consultations that NGOs have a sound understanding of the weaknesses of the
system. The act of including civil societv, probably in the form of NGOs as permanent
advisory members, in the evaluation and monitoring activities of the newly established
regional environmental agencies (BAPEDALDA), would probably have immediate beneficial
results, merely through introducing transparency and accountability; it may also assist in
improving technical capabilities.
*  Environmental management may be neglected in the drive to maximize revenues as a
result of the granting of greater autonomy at all levels, from River Basin Authorities down to
Water Users Associations. WATSAL will introduce an institutional framework that should
facilitate adherence to environmental regulations, although evenNGOs may be unwilling to
tackle violations when committed by farmer groups.
-  Overlapping regulations, issued by a plethora of different sectoral and regional institutions,
and sometimes overlapping of authority, are a major source of confusion, especially in the
fields of issuance of licenses and allocations of water rights. The need for a thorough
review is inherent in the implementation of the WATSAL reforms, and the only risk is that
this may not be as comprehensive as required. The acquisition of water rights by powerful
stakeholders, often to the detriment or even total disregard of the weaker or traditional water
users, proved to be a source of serious discontent during the consultations, emphasizing the
urgency of this item of the reform agenda.
*  Far too little attention has hitherto been paid to the natural water storage capacity of
watersheds, groundwater recharge zones and wetlands, and institutionally there is a lack of
coordination between utilization and conservation of the water resource. Institutions
managing the water sector have no authority in the management of either watersheds or the
coastal zone (mainly under the Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops), nor in the issuance of
licenses for land-based development activities such as industrial or urban development, or for
commercial tree crop development in coastal swamplands. The water requirements and the
rights to discharge waste are rarely taken into consideration by the agencies concerned.
Numerous examples of the results of poor planning emerged during the consultations.
*  Indeed recommendations by the regional government are sometimes over-ruled by sectoral
or higher levels of authority, although it is expected that such practices will decrease as the
present policy reforms come into force favouring regional autonomy, decentralization, and
increasing community control of government policy.
*  Coordination of planning, and of management in both the conservation and utilization of
the resource, as a major positive impact of the WATSAL reforms, was clearly regarded as a
key issue at the consultations. It is emphasized that the dual functions of regional spatial
plans (both in their technical quality and in their implementation) and of theenvironmental
(AMDAL) regulations provide a double line of defense against incorrect or poorly
coordinated planning decisions. The establishment or strengthening of institutions under
File: DAH/Watsal/Sea_summ.doc 26 Feb 1999                                         iii



WATSAL (national apex body, regional and basin committees, etc.), together with
continuing development of capacity and transparency in environmental management
(BAPEDALDA), with the support of civil society (e.g. NGOs), will provide the institutional
basis to achieve such coordination.
*  A key recommendation from the national consultation was for regional AMDAL studies to
be prepared in river basins of strategic importance, incorporating present land cover and land
use, the spatial plans, and plans for the conservation and utilization of water basin-wide. A
preferred title might be "Masterplans for coordinated development and environmental
management of river basins".
*  In relation to the management of hydrological and meteorological data, there is concern that
the quality of data collection will remain unsatisfactorv, unless the development of the MIS
is accompanied by substantial strengthening of human resources and data collection systems.
especially in outlying regions. The importance of good data is considered to be of paramount
importance in the coordinated planning and management of water resources. It will become
even more crucial if the evident declines in total rainfall, as apparent from a separate study.
prove to be part of a significant trend.
*  There was much discussion concerning the capacity of Water Users Associations to handle
the roles and responsibilities that will be assigned to them, with complaints that there are too
many village-level institutions that are sectorally orientated and often ineffective in
operation. The concerns arose mainly from government personnel rather than the farmers
themselves, and may stem partly from a lack of understanding of the nature of the new
autonomous role of the WlUAs. Nevertheless it is evident that the National Apex Body and
basin organizations should implement a process of continuous review and revision, so that
the process becomes systematized. Phased hand-over may be necessary in accordance with
the capacity of the existing institutions and their progress of empowerment.
*  Finally, it seems barely necessary to emphasize the vital importance of transparency and
accountabilitv in all items of reform, at all phases of implementation. The development or
strengthening of new institutions at all levels might provide new or different opportunities for
the more powerful stakeholders to acquire dominant roles. While a main focus of reform is
the provision of more equitable management of the water resource, close and careful
monitoring must be institutionalized, for example with the mandatorypublication of annual
reports, in the public domain, on activities, financing and work plans, and for independent
auditing bodies where required.
File: DAH/Watsal/Sea_summ.doc 26 Feb 1999                                          iv



Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
List of contents
1.    Introduction and Methodology
1.1 The Water Sector Adjustment Loan and its Sectoral Environmental
Assessment
1.2 Methodology
1.3 Purpose and Target Groups of the SEA
2.     The Background to Water and its Management in Indonesia
2.1 The Background                                                      4
2.2 Introducing the Proposed WATSAL Policy Reforms                      D
3.     Organization of the Public Consultation                                 9
3.1 Approach
3.2 Experience of the Public Consultation Process and Recommendations   6
for Future Community Participation                                   10
3.3 Rationale for the 3 Provinces selected for the Public Consultation Process  11
3.3 Proposal for Further Public Consultations during Preparation for Second
Tranche of WATSAL                                                    12
4.     Summary of Risk Assessments and Outcome of Consultations                13
4.1 Predicted Negative Impacts of the Proposed Policy Reform Items      13
4.2 Summary of the Risk Assessments                                     15
Table 4.1 Summary of Risk Analysis                                      19-23
5.    Environmental Management                                                 24
5.1 Evaluation of the AMDAL Report                                      24
5.2 Environmental Management and Monitoring                             25
File: D4H/Walsal/Sea_summ.doc 26 Feb 1999                                          v



Annex 1. Review of Key Policy Reform Items and Their Environmental and Social
Impacts                                                                  A-I
1.1 Establishment of National Apex Body                                  A-I
1.2 Strengthening of Provincial and River Basin Water Resources Management   A-5
Committees and Basin Management Units
1.3 Create New River Basin Management Agencies                           A-8
1.4 Introduce Water Rights                                               A-10
1.5 Provide for a Framework and Mechanisms to Address Water Pollution    A-12
1.6 Set up a Management Information System                               A-15
1.7 Irrigation Reform, and Transfer of Secondary Canals to Water Users   A- 17
Associations
Annex 2. The Public Consultation Process                                         A-21
2.1 Province Selection                                                  A-2 1
2.2 Participants Invited to the Public Consultations                    A-25
2.3 Proposal for Additional Provinces for Public Consultations          A-26
Annex 3. Results of the Public Consultations (First Round)                       A-30
3.1 Establishment of a National Apex Body                                A-30
3.2 Strengthening of Provincial and River Basin Water Resources Management   A-32
Committees and Basin Management Units
3.3 Autonomous River Basin Management                                    A-36
3.4 Framework for Water Rights                                           A-37
3.5 Provide for a Framework and Mechanisms to Address Water Pollution    A-40
3.6 Set Up a Management Information System (MIS)                         A-42
3.7 Irrigation Reform, and Transfer of Secondarv Canals to Water User    A-43
Associations
3.8 Other issues                                                         A-49
Annex 4. Results of the Public Consultations (Second Round)                      A-50
4.1 General Issues of WATSAL and Establishment of a National Apex Body   A-50
4.2 Strengthening of Provincial and River Basin Water Resources Management   A-5 1
Committees and Basin Management Units
4.3 Autonomous River Basin Management                                     A-S2
4.4 Framework for Water Rights                                            A-53
File: DAH/Watsal/Sea_summ.doc 26 Feb 1999                                           vi



4.5 Provide for a Framework and Mechanisms to Address Water Pollution     A-53
4.6 Set Up a Management Information System (MIS)                          A-54
4.7 Irrigation Reform, and Transfer of Secondarv Canals to Water User     A-54
Associations
Annex 5. Results of the Public Consultations (National Level)                     A-57
Annex 6 Results of the Public Consultations (NGOs)                                A-59
6.1 NGOs in West Sumatra                                                  A-59
6.2 NGOs in West Java                                                      A-63
6.3 NGOs in South Sulawesi                                                 A-66
Annex 7. Environmental Impact Assessment Procedures in Indonesia                  A-70
7.1 The AMDAL (EIA) Legislation                                           A-70
7.2 A sample AMDAL Report                                                A-72
File: DAH/Watsal/Sea_summ.doc 26 Feb 1999                                            vii



WATER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (WATSAL)
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
MAIN REPORT
Government of Indonesia
Inter-Agency Task Force               March 1999
On Water Sector Policy Reform



1. INTRODUCTION AND METHODOLOGY
1.    The Water Sector Adjustment Loan and its Sectoral Environmental Assessment
The World Bank plans to assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) with budget support which is
linked to policy reforms in the water sector (Water Sector Adjustment Loan - WATSAL). The
reforms consist of changes in the regulatory frameworks and the institutional arrangements for
managing water resources, irrigation and related infrastructure (in this context the water "sector"
excludes most of the water management within the cities and industries, such as water
distribution and drainage). The reform aims to enhance the effectiveness of investments in the
sector, by improving notably the transparency, accountability and integration in the planning, and
hence the sustainability and social welfare.
The proposed policy reforms pertain to seven key points, including coordination of management,
planning and operations at national and regional level, together with strengthening of overall
stakeholder participation; a framework to abate water pollution; a national water resources MIS
and data base; establishment of a national water rights system; and the establishment of a
framework to enable operation and management of irrigation canals up to secondary network
level by independent Water User Associations (see Chapter 2.2).
For this sectoral adjustrnent loan a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) was prepared by
GOI with World Bank assistance. The SEA follows the format and guidelines of the World Bank,
which are consistent with those of GOI. The SEA must assess the risk for possible environmental
and social impacts in the "with-WATSAL" and "without-WATSAL" situations and propose
alternatives and mitigation options where negative impacts are anticipated. Most of the policv
reforms proposed, however, are precisely intended to enhance water management in Indonesia
with regard to environmental sustainability and social welfare.
For the purposes of the World Bank, the environmental assessment includes not only "physical"
or natural environmental impacts, but also those of a social nature (as well as those pertaining to
the cultural heritage).
1.2    Methodology
This sectoral loan is not linked to a sector investment program and therefore the SEA cannot be
based upon a technical assessment of physical project interventions as is the case in a
conventional EA. Instead, the SEA provides a qualitative narrative of the risks expected to be
associated with the reform, and proposes possible mitigation options (see Chapter 4 and also
Annex 1).
As an integral part of the SEA process, the World Bank requires a public consultation, and
dissemination of the results. The consultation process here comprised two phases: (i) at the
beginning, consulted groups were informed of the purpose and process of the envisaged loan and
policy reform; possible impacts were identified through a "scoping" exercise; and the groups'
substantive inputs were solicited; and (ii) at the end of the SEA preparation, the results were
shared with the same consulted groups, and final recommendations sought. Differences of
opinion were recorded.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.



The consultations were held during the period December 1998 to February 1999 at selected
representative provinces at three levels: provincial, kabupaten and local (field), in order to reflect
opinions from different levels of civil society and government. A consultation was also held at
the national level. The rationale for province selection is described in Chapter 3, together with a
description of the process, and the results are presented in Annexes 3 to 6. The national
consultations consisted of a meeting with NGOs and academics with an environmental expertise
or interest (Bandung), and one with a broad selection of representative government and non-
government entities.
The selection and execution process was organized to maximize the representativeness of the
consultations. As "water" affects all individuals and most activities in the country, it is obviously
verv difficult to establish a truly exhaustive inventory of EA issues. This SEA, therefore, does not
claim to be exhaustive, yet makes an attempt at analyzing the risks of possible impacts, notably
through these consultations. Importantly, it intends to demonstrate the value of public
consultations as a tool in environmental assessment and policy refornm
"Environmental" consultations with NGOs were added in each province as it had been found in
the course of the first phase consultations that the approach and organization structure tended to
create a bias towards the social and economic impacts of the reforms.
The SEA also looks at the current Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) (AMDAL)
procedures applied for water sector interventions, in terms of both EIA initiatives and
responsibilities of the water agencies at the national level and, in accordance with the new
national policy of far-going decentralization, to those at provincial and kabupaten levels. It
examines on-going revisions being proposed by GOI to ensure more transparent, impartial and
objective evaluation of the EIA reports and management of the recommendations contained
therein (see Chapter 5 and Annex 7).
The SEA was conducted under the overall responsibility of the Inter-agency Task Force on Water
Sector Policy Reform which was established to prepare the WATSAL reforms. This Task Force
operated under the joint chairmanship of BAPPENAS and the Public Works Ministry (PU) and
included the following members: representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Public Works,
Mining and Energy, Forestry, and Agriculture, as well as of the two existing river basin
organizations, two provincial Public Works Departments, the research organization LIPI (the
Indonesian Institute of Sciences), and two NGOs: LP3ES and SKEPFHI.
The consultation process was designed by the Task Force and the two NGOs, with the assistance
of one international expert and the World Bank team. The NGOs were assigned to organize the
consultations and facilitate them, with Task Force members of different agencies attending. The
process was financed by GOI funds and a contribution from a World Bank Trust Fund. The local
consultations in the provinces were each time organized with the support and direct involvement
of one or more local NGOs and/or academic groups with field experience, to maximize the local
representativeness and quality of information.
File: DAH/WA TSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                            2



1.3    Purpose and Target Groups of the SEA
This SEA reflects on a policy and regulatory change process, and thus cannot directly specify
concrete, time-bound actions. The SEA is meant to collect information and recommendations
from other government agencies and civil society, to i) help the water reform process become
better targeted, ii) assess whether the WATSAL indeed has a net positive social and
environmental impact, and iii) highlight possible key risks and constraints that would be
introduced by WATSAL, including possible mitigation efforts.
The target groups are, firstly, the GOI Inter-agency Task Force for Water Sector Reforrn. The
consultations under the SEA yielded recommendations that have been directly incorporated in the
GOI Sector Policy Letter. Secondly, the SEA is addressed to the bodies and organizations (apex
body, river basin organizations, etc) that will be set up to improve integrated water management.
Thirdly, the SEA will be made public and disseminated, to allow representatives of civil society
to review overall progress.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                              3



2.  THIE BACKGROUND TO WATER AND ITS MANAGEMENT IN INDONESIA
2.1    The Background
Water, of course, is not a sector, it is a resource, just as land is a resource. This is reflected in the
way that Indonesians refer to their homeland as Tanah Air Kita, "Our Land and Water".
Traditionally also, it has always been regarded as a free resource, as is the case in most regions of
the World where it has (hitherto) not been limiting. Nevertheless, its value is and has always been
appreciated, and strong community customs surround it in many areas. For example there are
sound scientific principles behind the custom in many places to treat as sacred not only natural
springs but also the groves of trees that commonly surround them. Rural Indonesia to a large
extent is still very traditional.
In desert regions, the value of water is fully appreciated, especially when considered in the
context of the immense cost in terms of human labour in the construction of water delivery
systems. Through much of Indonesia, by contrast, when rainfall alone is not sufficient for the
required purpose, delivery has often consisted in merely diverting water to flow down the crest of
a ridge rather than allowing it to find its quickest course to the bottom of a valley. However, as
the demand for water increased, especially in relation to the development of rice-based farming
systems to supply rapidly expanding populations, the need arose for the delivery systems to
become more sophisticated. Water delivery became synonymous with irrigation, but the water
itself remained free to the user.
As competition for water increases, and indeed as the commodity becomes increasingly scarce,
for a variety of mostly anthropogenic reasons, it is now becoming as valuable as its counterpart,
land. Yet the concept of water as being unlimiting tends to remain ingrained in the minds of both
the community and the government. As a result, a variety of rather uncoordinated government
institutions has evolved to undertake the role of serving a range of mainly narrow sectoral
interests.
DG Water Resources Development is the service provider for irrigation, perhaps the most
conspicuous user, but has the responsibility only for surface water resources. DG Mines has
authority over groundwater but has very little responsibility in its management. Para-govemment
service industries such as those providing drinking water (Perusahan Daerah Air Minum,
PDAM) or hydro-electricity (Perusahan Listrik Tenaga Air, PLTA) often do not pay for the basic
commodity although they charge for the service. All forms of development that occupy land (for
example industry, housing, estate crops) require a permit to use that land (izin lokasi), from a
vertically structured government agency (Badan Pertanahlan Nasional, BPN) that does not have a
mandate for considering the needs for that development to abstract and to discharge water. Just as
all users assume free rights to abstract water, so they discharge their polluted waste into the
water, whether they be the most humble dwelling or the biggest and dirtiest industry. Nowhere
are the multiple functions of water, as a free resource, more apparent than along almost any river
in Kalimantan, where floating latrines alternate with floating bathing and washing platforms
along the banks for the length of every village.
None of the institutions named above, public or private, are charged with the responsibility for
managing the conservation of the water that they so freely utilize. Watershed management, of
indirect but such supreme importance to the majority of stakeholders, is mainly under the
authority of the Ministry of Forestry. On Java and Nusatenggara, responsibility for forest
File: DAHIWATSAIJSEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                                4



management rests with the para-govemment Perum Perhutani, that commercializes the
management of these forests. Water conservation may be part of their mandate, but as a rule it
takes only incidental second place to their major role of managing the forests or, occasionally,
implementing soil conservation. [At the downstream limits also, it is the Ministry of Forestry that
has the mandate for technical guidance in the management of mangroves].
The anthropogenic impacts of watershed degradation and the development of urban and industrial
estates cause increasing instability of hydrological regimes, with the result that floods and low
flows become more pronounced. The perceived increase in severity of floods in Jakarta, for
example, following storms of only average intensity, has been quite dramatic. Besides this, the
evident process of global climatic change, or at least increasing climatic variability over
Indonesia, has resulted in significant variations in the rainfall received, particularly decreasing
rainfall at a number of locations, over recent decades.
It is in the context of this changing physical environment, and the currently evolving socio-
political environment, that this WATSAL is planned to be introduced.
2.2   Introducing the Proposed WATSAIL Policy Reforms
The urgency for reform in the water sector is based on two broad issues, (i) the shift of
orientation in water resources development from a predominantly agricultural perspective to
wider ranging objectives, and (ii) the shift in the evaluation of the water resource from a mainly
social function to an economic commodity. The reform will focus upon improvements in
government regulations and institutions, and the strengthening of the position of the public and
community participation in the management of water resources. There are seven proposed reform
items, as outlined with their policy objectives below:
1. The establishment of a national water council or apex coordinating body, and the formulation
of a national water resources policy and action plan.
Water resources support multi-sectoral activities, and are becoming increasingly valuable in the
context of conflicting demands, especially from the aspects of urban and industrial sectors,
limited availability, and problems in maintaining adequate water quality. Sectoral agencies are
not effective in handling the competing interests in water resources development and
management (WRDM). A national coordinating body would have a degree of independence from
sectoral interests, enabling it to:
i. monitor WRDM to ensure sustainability,
ii. review broader issues of concern in WRDM,
iii. improve efficiency in water use and satisfy socio-economic concerns in allocation,
iv. promote effective use of financial resources through priority allocation among sectors,
and
v. provide a national platform for key stakeholder participation in WRDM.
The body would comprise a council of ministers/directors-general from all agencies concerned
with water resources management, supported by an advisory group comprising key stakeholders,
national NGOs, experts and citizen representatives.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                              5



The action plan would be formally adopted as binding on all ministries and agencies
having water resources functions, from upper watershed to lowland and coastal areas, and
to issue or amend laws or regulations necessary to implement the policy.
As a result of a shifting emphasis in water use from a predominantly rural environment to
increasing urbanization and industrialization, combined with limitations of availability, there are
increasingly complex issues of allocation, and demands are leading to serious environmental
degradation in respect to water quality in the more highly developed and strategic river basins. In
order to achieve synchronization of water related activities at the planning level, it is proposed to
include policies:
a) to improve effectiveness and efficiency in water utilization and allocation conducive to
development and environmental sustainabilitv,
b) to improve water quality levels conducive to development and environmenta]
sustainability,
c) for prioritized river basin planning integrated with spatial planning and based on a
participatory framework,
d) to enhance stakeholder involvement in water resources activities including enabling
mechanisms for private and community participation in financing,
e) on rural and urban water sector activities related to raw water supply, waste water
discharge, and flood management,
f) on wetland management and sustainabilitv of swampland development,
g) on watershed management especially to improve coordination between forestry,
agriculture and water resources sectors in critical watersheds, and for developing
community watershed management,
h) on planning, programming  and  budgeting  to  support regional autonomy  and
decentralization, and
i) to create a national and regional organizational structure to support integrated water
resources management in a river basin context.
2. The integration of water management at the regional and river basin level.
The government is in the process of setting up Basin Management Units (Balai PSDA) for
operations and Basin Water Resources Management Committees (PPTPAs) for coordination, but
they require stakeholder participation. Functional committees will be established in all provinces
and designated river basin units. PTPA will be combined with Provincial Irrigation Committees.
Balai PSDA will be formed in all river basins of eight provinces to implement comprehensive
regulation of water allocation and management.
It is proposed:
a) to strengthen arrangements for corporate financing from bulk water supply and pollution
discharge fees,
b) to formulate a model management concession contract and a model charter of accounts,
c) to revise the legal basis for existing corporations, and develop new corporations in
strategic basins,
d) to provide for stakeholder participation in PTPAs and PPTPAs,
e) to combine functions of PTPAs with Provincial Irrigation Committees (PIC),
File: DAH/WA TSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                             6



f) to improve comprehensive regulation of water allocation and discharge, integration of
groundwater and surface water management, and drought management, and
g) to define the roles of districts in water resources management.
3. The effective management of strategic river basins through the establishment of autonomous
basin management corporations.
It is proposed to revise the legal basis for Perum Jasa Tirta (PJT) Brantas and Perum Otorita
Jatiluhur (POJ) to strengthen financial management and provincial role and functions in
governance of the corporations, together with the formation of four river basin corporations
(Jeneberang, Bengawan-Solo, Jratunseluna and Serayu-Bogowonto basins) based on the PJT
model.
It is proposed:
a) to strengthen arrangements for corporate financing from bulk water supply and pollution
discharge fees,
b) to formulate a model management concession contract and a model charter of accounts,
c) to revise the legal basis for existing corporations, and develop new corporations in
strategic basins,
d) to provide for stakeholder participation in PTPAs and PPTPAs,
e) to combine functions of PTPAs with Provincial Irrigation Committees (PIC),
t) to improve comprehensive regulation of water allocation and discharge, integration of
groundwater and surface water management, and drought management, and
g) to define the roles of districts in water resources management.
4. The establishment of a system of water rights that is guaranteed, efficient and fair.
Effective water management requires a system of allocation and rights that recognizes a private
use of a public resource. As demands become more competitive, public regulation based on
recognized rights is required.
5. Development of a framework to abate river and reservoir pollution by industrial and urban
effluents.
While industrial pollution control has received attention (e.g. PROKASIH and PROPER), it is
still poorly coordinated and ineffective, while human and solid waste from urban sources has
become very serious. PP23/97 on Environmental Management provides a good framework for
improved regulation and enforcement of water quality standards, but needs to be implemented,
and supplemented by regulations and guidelines. Incentives need to be created for industries and
municipalities to comply with quality standards.
File: DAHI/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                          7



6. Development of a national water resources management information system and database.-
At present, water resources data management is weak and is not adequate for the sound planning.
development and planning of the resource. A sustainable national water resources MIS and data
network will be developed together with improved institutional and logistical support for a
reliable national hydrologic data collection and processing system. The network will link local,
basin, provincial and national levels.
7.  Establishment of an institutional and fiscal framework to enable operation and management
of secondary and tertiarv irrigation canals by independent Water User Associations (WTUAs).
To devolve decision-making power and operation and maintenance responsibilities to the level of
the water users, in order to improve planning, and the generation and management of finance for
operation and maintenance.
File: DAH/WATSALJSEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                              8



3.     ORGANIZATION OF TLE PUBLIC CONSULTATION
3.1    Approach
The WATSAL aims at policy and legal changes that affect all Indonesians. Because of the
breadth of the issues concerned, and the fact that the SEA covers "social" as well as "natural"
environmental impacts, the SEA was conceived as a consultation process aimed at highlighting
key (positive and negative) impacts and issues, and establishing a risk of the negative ones.
The procedure was as follows:
Input from the NGOs contracted to manage the consultations:
* LP3ES (Lembaga Penelitian, Pendidikan dan Penerangan Ekonomi dan Sosial - Institute
for Social and Economic Research, Education and Information), and
*  SKEPHI (Sekretariat Kerjasama Pelestarian Hutan Indonesia - the Indonesia NGOs
Network for Forest Conservation).
Both NGOs, which are well established national NGOs of high caliber, were also members of
the GOI Inter-Agency Task Force on Water Sector Reform. They draw extensively upon a
network of a variety of local NGOs and university departments. Originally WALHI, a
reputed "green" NGO, was also a member, but although consistently invited, decided as a
matter of policy to not join GOI initiatives.
*  The strategy for the consultation was discussed with a number of other NGOs in October
1998.
*  Three provinces were selected for consultation at the three levels of:
a) province (tingkat 1),
b) one kabupaten or regency (tingkat I1) in each province (two in West Java), and
c) a few villages in the selected kabupatens (at a single forum).
Each meeting lasted a full day, occasionally longer. Each level was visited at least twice: for
preparation, and for the first consultation. A third visit was made to each of the provinces, for
the feed-back and discussion of the WATSAL progress and preliminary SEA, and some
kabupaten level participants were also invited. All visits were organized by the LP3ES and
SKEPHI with their local NGO or academic partners. All visits were conducted by the
organizing NGOs (as facilitators) and members of the Task Force. All meetings were held
with a mix of people's representatives and local government officials, except the meetings at
village level which did not have local government officials.
*  In at least one province (West Java), written comments were invited, either at the Preparation
phase (to be returned at the first round) or during the first round and subsequently faxed to
the facilitator.
*  One consultation at national level in Jakarta (22 February 1999) in which WATSAL
principles and progress, and the preliminary SEA were discussed with representatives of
related government agencies, and invited participants from NGOs (national and
international), organizations such as the Chamber of Commerce and Consumers Association,
and academics.
*  One full-day consultation was also held in each province, during the course of the second
round, with local NGOs and academics, at an informal venue. Many of the NGOs had a
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                            9



special background in environmental affairs, but others were principally community-
orientated. At these meetings, no government representatives participated. At the West Java
NGO meeting in Bandung, some national NGOs from Jakarta and Bogor also participated.
Annex 2 lists the agencies and organizations attending the meetings. Annex I provides a review
of the estimated environmental impacts of the key policy items, and Annexes 3 to 6 list the issues
raised during the respective meetings. The results of the consultation process are also being
prepared in the Indonesian language.
This SEA is also a requirement to allow the World Bank to proceed with negotiation of the loan,
which constrains the amount of time that can be devoted to the exercise. GOI, however, will
continue the consultation process in additional provinces during the Second Tranche of the
WATSAL (April 1999 - March 2000) (see Section 3.3).
3.2    Experience of the public consultation process and recommendations for future
community participation.
A few conclusions can be made concerning the success of the process conducted for WATSAL
and recommendations for future procedures:
*  It was considered to be very useful that NGOs were employed to facilitate the consultations,
because they demonstrated clear empathy with the participants, especially at lower levels of
government and with the weaker stakeholders.
*  Nevertheless the presence of government officials at each meeting lent credence to the
procedure, and there is no reason why government itself might not facilitate the process,
although preferably with NGO support.
e  As the same NGOs were members of the Task Force, they had a clear understanding of the
policy reforrns under active preparation. This was an obvious advantage.
*  Although the NGO facilitators need not be technical specialists in the issues under
discussion, it is recommended that at least one member of each consultation team
understands these issues, so that time (and face) is not lost in elucidating technical meanings.
*  The process of inviting written comment is considered very useful; especially if the
participant is given adequate time to prepare his comments (i.e. not on the day of giving out
the proforma).
*  The poor attendance at some meetings of the main national NGOs and non-government
invitees was a disappointment. One reason may be that 'water' is not considered sufficiently
important to attract their attention at this time of social and economic crisis. Alternatively,
there may persist an inherent reluctance to sit down at a formal consultation alongside
government, because the concept of government and the community sitting down together to
seek solutions is still alien. This may result from bad memories in the past, and a more
favourable environment will hopefully evolve in the future.
*  However, the meetings held specifically for civil society andNGOs in an informal setting in
the provinces were well attended. During the WATSAL consultations, particular emphasis
was paid to inviting 'green' NGOs, but it is also useful to focus on the more socially
orientated NGOs accustomed to handling the issues at rural grass-root levels.
*  Possibly greater attention needs to be given to attracting participation at this grass-roots level,
in a truly informal village environment. It is inevitable that the natural leaders are likely to be
File: DAH/WA TSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                             10



the most vocal, and indeed this is their expected role, especially when government officials
are present at the same meeting. It would be advantageous, however, to hire the services of
local grass-roots NGOs, whom the villagers already trust, to facilitate village level meetings
and elicit wider responses. An adequate lead-in time for promotion and preparation would be
essential.
* Consideration should be given to a process of one-on-one interviews with selected NGOs.
* Although there may be fewer direct benefits derived from the second round consultations, it
is considered to be extremely important to persevere with these, in order to demonstrate that
the participants are indeed partners in the planning process and that their input has been
appreciated and incorporated. Clearly the facilitators must go back with a revised matrix that
shows that this is the case.
* As was predicted, the consultations focussed on the social and institutional aspects of the
policy reforns. Indeed they demonstrated a strong perception of the shortcomings of the
existing statits quo which WATSAL is designed to address. Clearly it is important to allow
all participants to have their say; in many cases, this will amount to airing their grievances.
The facilitators did not deter this, but where possible, time should be made available to elicit
discussions on how the participants might propose solutions to their problems.
* Overall, as a pilot project in community participation, the process has been successful, and
very valuable lessons have been learnt which can be built upon in the future.
* In the future, it is recommended that the participatory approach be expanded to include the
facilitation by NGOs of community participation in decision making at every level (planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation). This would also include participation in
environmental assessment.
3.3    Rationale for the three provinces selected for the Public Consultation process.
Time and budget considerations dictated that three provinces should be selected for the process of
public consultations. These provinces should be as representative as possible of the varying
institutional, social and physical environment of Indonesia. In consultation with the NGOs, the
Government of Indonesia selected the following provinces and kabupatens:
1. West Sumatra (Kabupaten Tanab Datar).
2. West Java (Kabupaten Karawang and Serang).
3. South Sulawesi (Kabupaten Gowa and Maros)
Annex Table I presents a summary of the key resource issues for discussion at the Public
Consultations, and includes a very subjective ranking of the importance of each in every province
of Indonesia. The three selected provinces are high-lighted in bold font. Not included in this table
are the following two issues:
i. Transfer of schemes to WUA. It is assumed that issues relating to this component apply to all
irrigated regions equally, and they are not further discussed here. This component was
expected to become a main discussion point at all levels of consultation, and varying systems
of WUA management and development were expected to be identified in different provinces.
ii. Land acquisition. Acquisition for minor developments (eg linear developments) was not
considered to be an area-specific problem, and is not further discussed here. However, it is a
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                              11



very important issue in any major construction programme. Resettlement would also be a
very significant issue locally (e.g. Jatigede, Jeneberang; see below).
For this stage of project preparation, it was obviously important to select three provinces that are
densely populated, have wide areas of intensive irrigated agriculture, have varying degrees of
social development and assimilation, have increasing multi-purpose functions of the water
resource (specifically industrial use and large cities), and have river basins of significant size,
importance and management level. While any selection will inevitably be somewhat arbitrary, it
is seen from Annex Table 1 that the three selected provinces are all rated significant in the major
issues, and two of them have an existing or proposed basin authority. It is also advantageous to
have one province selected from each of three. major islands.
The environmental issues that are considered to be important in each of the three provinces are
outlined further in Annex 2. It should be emphasized however that these were not necessarily the
issues that received emphasis during the first-round consultations, where the focus was to elicit
the perceptions of the people attending. Indeed there are several issues listed in Annex 2 that did
not receive any discussion. Some of these, however, were raised at the second round of
consultations, when separate meetings were held specifically with local NGOs and university
institutions.
3.4    Proposal for further public consultations during preparation for Second Tranche of
WATSAL.
It will have been observed that very little attention has so far been paid to the issue of swamps, in
the context of impacts of drainage and reclamation, or of the environmental services provided in
their natural state either as swamp forest or as seasonal floodzones. Although there are swamp
drainage projects in the selected provinces of both West Sumatra and South Sulawesi, these have
mostly not come under the authority of Directorate Swamps, and are not generally associated as
being comparable with the swamp settlements of eastern Sumatra or Kalimantan.
Likewise, no province has been selected for consultations in Indonesia's dry zone, where there
are intense problems of competition for a very scarce and unreliable resource.
Both these environments have been regarded as somewhat peripheral to the main problems of
water resource management that are being addressed by WATSAL. Nevertheless swamps are
much too widespread and important to ignore, while the total population dependent upon the
scant water supplies in Nusatenggara is quite high. It is consequently recommended that during
the preparation for the second tranche of WATSAL, between April 1999 and March 2000, the
process of public consultation should continue. The process has been shown to be effective, and
the momentum for its further development should be actively pursued. Two provinces are
proposed for further consultations, to be selected from either South Kalimantan or South Sumatra
(for swamps issues) and Nusa Tenggara Barat (dry zone). The rationale for these provinces is
explained further in Annex 2.
File: DAH/WA TSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                            12



4 SUMMARY OF RISK ASSESSMENTS AND OUTCOME OF CONSULTATIONS.
Annex 1 takes each of the proposed policy reform items in turn, and analyzes the likely positive
impacts and possible negative impacts that may occur, while Annexes 3 to 6 summarize the
issues raised at the public consultations. Many of the potential negative impacts are in fact
common to several of the reform items, and are repeated, sometimes under slightly different
forrnat, under each. Table 4.1 summarizes the risk analysis.
4.1 Predicted Negative Impacts of the Proposed Policy Reform Items
While the proposed reforms are precisely intended to improve the environmental issues in water
resource management, there are certain risks that may be incurred through inappropriate
implementation of the reforms or inadequate preparation. The more urgent of these have been
communicated to the Task Force and incorporated into the formulation of the reform agenda.
Only a precis of some of the key issues, with discussion of mitigation measures, is included here
for each item. The full assessment if presented in Annex 1.
i. Establishment of a national apex body.
There is a general lack of awareness, among both civil society and government, that water is a
finite resource, and one of the shortcomings of the without project situation is the lack of
coordination between utilization and conservation of the water resource. The concept of
conservation is difficult to instill into the public, and it is recommended that emphasis is given to
media campaigns that focus on "saving water".
The problem of conservation in general, and of watershed management in particular, is much
more difficult to address, but the establishment of a national apex body will greatly facilitate the
capacity of government to identify the areas and issues of strategic importance, and to guide
those institutions that have the authority for management to develop policies that will tackle the
problems.
At the downstream end, many development projects in wetland sites are implemented by agencies
outside the water sector (for example, estate crops in coastal swamps), and the apex body needs
to ensure that the importance of the storage function of swamps and other areas of recharge are
taken into consideration in the forrnulation of revisions to the provincial spatial plans. In this
context, the recommendation is made that national leveiNGOs should be encouraged to play a
strong role as advisers to the national apex body, particularly in issues of environmental concern.
ii. Strengthening of provincial and river basin water resources management committees and basin
management units.
Broadly the potential negative impacts are the same, but at a different level of authority, as those
for the previous item, such as inadequate concerns for environmental issues, or insufficient
capacity to prioritize water conservation. Sectoral egoism may become more difficult to handle at
this level. However, in the shift of coordination and management to provincial or regional level, it
is the issues that will arise at this level to which increased emphasis must be given, such as the
representation of the weaker stakeholders especially, and issues of accountability. Concern is also
expressed that these agencies will be poorly motivated to handle the "tail-end" issues of the
coastal zone and river mouths.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA doc 26 Feb 1999.                                              13



iii. Create new river basin management agencies.
Here again, the issues are very similar, except that the autonomous status presents a considerable
risk that the prioritization of revenue generation will be a strong incentive to overlook the
importance of environmental concerns or the needs of the less powerful stakeholders. The latter
may be particularly relevant in very large agencies run as national corporations, and the
suggestion was made that there is no necessity for these to be national rather than provincial
agencies. Even where a river crosses two or more provinces, the provincial agencies can establish
inter-provincial committees. Transparency and accountability will of course be a main concern,
and there is a requirement for the involvement of stakeholders and for annual reports to be
published in the public domain.
As the river basins concerned will all be classified as strategic, watershed management will be of
key importance, but it is unlikely that the revenues generated will be sufficient to finance the
conservation activities that will be required. This is an instance where the national apex body
would recommend to central government for budgetary support.
iv. Introduce water rights.
The question of water rights engendered a lot of discussion at the public consultations, focussing
especially on the problems of the traditional and weaker water users in an environment of
increasing urban and industrial demands. Over this issue, especially, dissatisfaction was
expressed concernina the confusion generated by unclear authority in handling rights and
overlapping regulations.
v. Provide for a framework and mechanisms to address water pollution.
Pollution issues inevitably focus on the strengthening of the BAPEDALDAs (the regional
environmental management agencies that are under development), and their authority (and
political will) to implement the laws (which are also under revision) and to apply sanctions.
However, while industrial pollution can be readily pin-pointed, general urban pollution from
household waste and the impacts of agricultural chemicals are much more insidious, requiring
long-term programmes of institutional and infrastructure development as well as training and
promotion programmes (urban households, integrated pest management).
vi. Set up a management information system.
While the need for sound systems of routine (rather than project-based) data collection and
management is well recognized, perhaps insufficient attention has been paid to the serious
deficiencies of the present systems, such as poor motivation at the field collection level, and
underfunding. These constraints may not be easy to overcome quickly. There may also be issues
relating to the monopolization and commercialization of data, although there is no reason to
assume that these will increase in the with-project situation, as the acquisition of data has always
been problematic.
vii. Irrigation reform and transfer of secondary canals to water user associations.
This reform item was the source of the most intensive discussion especially at local levels,
particularly concerning the plethora of sectoral village institutions, many of which do not
function well. Concerns were expressed (mainly by government officials rather than the farmers
themselves) about the capacity of the WUAs to handle the responsibilities, and the varying
patterns of community leadership between the regions. To handle these problems, there must be a
continuous process of review and revision in the transfer procedure, which should be phased in
accordance with capacity.
File: DAH/WATSAL/SEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                              14



4.2 Summary of the Risk Assessments
Some of the potential negative impacts discussed above, and described in more detail in Annex 1,
are specific to individual reform items, but many are generic to the entire reform process. They
relate to the problems that are inherent to the management of natural resources in general, and to
the systems of governance that have prevailed up to the present time. It will become apparent that
the handling of these problems will be one key to the success of the WATSAL programme, but
that ultimately this must depend on the success of the process of political reform, the
empowerment of regional governments and of local communities, and improved accountability at
all levels of governance, that are currently the focus of concern in Indonesia.
From an environmental standpoint, there is a risk inherent at every level of management, from the
National Apex Body down to the most humble Water Users Association, that the drive for
maximizing revenue, at regional or basin level as well as at farmner level, will create a situation
in which environmental externalities are overlooked. However, it must be emphasized that the
risk of this is at least as pronounced in the without-project situation, and indeed more so, and that
WATSAL will introduce an institutional framework that should facilitate adherence to
environmental laws and considerations. Moreover, the regional bodies that have the mandate for
enforcing these laws (BAPEDALDA) are under active development and strengthening (Master
Plan for Capacity Building in BAPEDALDA, ADB TA No. 2598 - INO). At the same time,
NGOs should be actively encouraged to monitor and participate in the deliberations at several
levels of governance. Indeed a strong recommendation is made that NGOs have an
institutionalized role in environmental monitoring through the newly formed BAPEDALDAs.
However, even NGOs may be unwilling to tackle violations of environmental regulations when
committed by farmer groups.
Likewise the need for a review of areas of institutional overlap and/or gaps in responsibility,
and more especially of areas of duplication and contradiction in the many laws and regulations
that have been passed by different agencies and levels of govermnent, especially relating to water
rights and levies, is emphasized under several of the reform items. Here again, the need for such
a review is inherent to the implementation of the entire WATSAL process, and the only risk is
that it may not be as comprehensive as necessary.
There are situations in which areas of overlap in practice result in a gap in responsibilities. In the
plethora of acronyms relating to coordinating and management bodies (National Apex Body or
BAN, PTPA, PPTPA, BPSDA, POJ, WUA, to name a few), care must be taken to ensure that
divisions of responsibility and authority are explicitly defined, to avoid both overlaps and gaps.
It is perhaps important to emphasize that water-related institutions presently have very little
responsibility in two key environments, the watersheds and the coastal zone. Here, as in so many
other instances of spatially related responsibilities, there are overlapping spheres of authority,
with the Ministry of Forestry taking the lead. The absolute necessity of maintaining watershed
quality, especially in those of the more 'strategic' river basins, cannot be sufficiently
emphasized, while at the same time the expected impacts and effectiveness of interventions made
to reduce erosion and sedimentation may be questionable. The best option is to prevent new or
further damage occurring in the first place (there are many watersheds that are still relatively
intact), and here the Ministry of Forestry must indeed be held accountable to the nation. The
second option would be to allow natural regeneration to occur in deforested and degraded
landscapes as rapidly as possible, but the social implications of such a programme effectively
render the option generally invalid. This leaves, as the third option, the complex inter-sectoral
File: DAHIWA TSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                            15



social and physical programmes of watershed management that are commonly so difficult to
implement, and with such variable results.
The all-important issues of watershed management, necessary in order to conserve a diminishing
resource, are likely to be beyond the capacity of WATSAL to address. Nevertheless the
institutional framework will be emplaced that will encourage a much greater emphasis to be
given to the problem, with focus on the urgency being directed at the highest levels of
government. Far too little attention has hitherto been paid to maintaining the natural water
storage capacity of watersheds, of groundwater recharge zones (resapan air), and of wetlands
and the downstream swamp zones generally.
While upstream water resource conservation will always remain a primary focus, at the same
time the importance of coastal zone management should not be overlooked. Management
bodies at all levels may feel a decreasing sense of concern or responsibility progressively
downstream. They may take the view that maintenance of quality and quantity is important only
in far as is necessary to address the needs of the majority of stakeholders. In general the relatively
few stakeholders along the coast and in the coastal swamps may be considered as of less urgent
importance, while the traditional attitude of treating water as a medium for disposal of waste may
still prevail. From the viewpoint of environmental quality, the coordination of institutional
responsibilities in coastal zone land allocations must also be addressed (for example, mangroves
converted to fishponds, or swamps converted to industrial crops), particularly in view of the role
played by swamps and mangroves in their natural state.
Many of the negative impacts of development result from inadequate attention to spatial plans,
or in some cases incorrect spatial plans that are not based on sufficiently accurate physical data. It
is not identified in the risk analysis in Table 4.1, because it is not a risk specifically associated
with WATSAL. However, it needs to be re-emphasized here, in the context of inter-sectoral
water resource planning, that many problems in the water sector have resulted from this cause.
Cited examples are the construction of housing estates in upland areas designated for
groundwater recharge, or of factories in river floodplains, or the conversion of prime irrigated
riceland to industrial estates. Outside the faulty planning procedures quoted above, there is also
the deliberate flouting of the spatial plan, as in the case of the Puncak bungalows (the hill resort
above Jakarta), which is many times mentioned in the media although action rarely seems to be
taken.
Indeed, the compilation of technically sound provincial spatial plans, which would be assisted
through the institutionalization of the Land Resources Evaluation Project of LREP (formerly
funded through an ADB loan), and professionalism in their implementation, would be a major
step in improving the conservation of water resources. The government's environmental
legislation (the AMDAL process) would then provide a second line of defense against
inappropriate developments in land utilization.
For the more strategic river basins (in the first instance), the preparation of a regionalAA'LDAL
was recommended at the national level consultation, especially focussing on a master plan for
water use. It seems likely, however, that several basin masterplans that have already been
prepared have not been properly implemented because they are sectoral plans, and that future
basin-level planning should take the form of an environmental audit together with a fully
integrated land and water use plan. [It is presently uncertain whether the Regional or Sectoral
AMDAL procedure will still exist as a method under the new environmental regulations presently
being formulated, owing to the failure to implement such studies hitherto. Consequently it would
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feh 1999.                                              16



be better to propose "Masterplans for coordinated development and environmental management
of river basins"].
Inadequate conformance with spatial plans is sometimes a result of over-rule of one institution's
authority by a higher level institution. Thus a kabupaten level refusal to approve a license for,
say, a factory or housing estate, may be over-ruled by the provincial level government or by a
central government line ministry. Such occurrences mav decrease, now that decentralization is
accepted government policy, with new laws and decrees being finalized to transfer authoritv and
responsibilities to local governments on a scale that might only recentlv have seemed
inconceivable.
There is evidence from a separate study under preparation by the World Bank in Jakarta that
there has been a significant change in rainfall patterns over Indonesia in recent decades, with
increased severity and frequency of drought, and in several regions a decrease in mean annual
rainfall. While the significance of such changes, and the expected impacts if the assumed cycle
continues, remain unclear at the present time, the need for sound data collection and management
becomes of paramount importance. There is a concern, however, that the quality of hydrological
and meteorological data collection will remain unsatisfactory, unless the development of the
MIS is accompanied by substantial strengthening of human resources and data collection
systems, especially in outlying regions.
The Government, through support from WATSAL, now proposes to take decentralization to the
level of empowering the local communities in the management of their own physical
infrastructure and institutional organization, through Water Users Associations. This is the
agenda item that initiated the greatest response in the Public Consultations, and the implications
are clearly far-reaching and a source of concern to many parties. Doubts were commonly
expressed concerning the readiness of the village institutions to accept such responsibilities, and
these issues will require thorough review, with adjustments where necessary, throughout the
preparation stage and beyond.
A risk that is inherent to all institutional reforms is that of misuse of authority and lack of
accountability to the community in general. The empowerment of new institutions will
inevitably create new opportunities, which is why so much emphasis is given in the risk analvsis
tables to the need for public accountability, through regularly published accounts of activities
and independent auditing where required. The weaker stakeholders, the traditional users, and
the tail-enders are repeatedly mentioned throughout this document, and indeed throughout the
WATSAL agenda, in the endeavour to create a just civil society in which the most humble
fisherman in the coastal swamps has a say in the manner in which his or her environment is
managed. The Public Consultations conducted during this environmental assessment are a
significant step in this process.
To the team's surprise, in only one case specific concern was raised about resettlement issues,
and compensation for appropriated land. Yet, both the provinces of West Java and South
Sulawesi (and in the latter, the selected kabupaten) scored high on 'expected input' on this
matter. It should be noted, however, that the preparation for the new Bili-Bili dam in South
Sulawesi follows very different procedures and principles than were used in earlier highly
publicized dam projects in Indonesia, such as Kedung Ombo (Central Java). WATSAL does not
specifically address resettlement as it is the subject of a separate ADB-financed policy reform
(ADB TA 2684-INO, July 1998).
File: DAH/WATSAL/SEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                              17



Table 4.1 summarizes risks that have been identified during the evaluation. This is not a repeat of
the assessment that has been carried out for each item of the agenda. Instead it attempts to focus
on the key issues that are considered significant in the overall programme, bearing in mind the
statement made in the Introduction that the policy reforms proposed are "precisely intended to
enhance water management in Indonesia with regard to environmental sustainability and social
welfare". The assessments reflect the discussions held during the public consultations, the input
from the NGOs, and from the international consultant.
Table 4.1 identifies:
*  the problems (and strengths) associated with the current situation "without project";
*  the improvements (and weaknesses) "with project (WATSAL)", the risk of negative impacts,
possible mitigation or follow-up, and an estimate of the net impact of the project on the items
specified;
*  the time scale for and actions to whom the proposed mitigation measures pertain.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                                 18



TABLE 4.1 WATSAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT. SUMMARY OF RISK ANALYSIS
WITHOUT PROJECT                                           WITH PROJECT                                                  FOLLOW-UP, TIME SCALE,
D ____________________________________________________________ACTORS
ii           I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MTIAINOF NEGATIVE                        NET
POSITIVE IMPACT        RISK OF NEGATIVE IMPACT            IMPAC                 IMPACT
POLICY REFORM 1. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL APEX BODY
Poor inslitulionalized      Improved awareness and      Concept of conservation     Conservation campaigns in       PP    Short-term and long-term; Apex
awareness of need for water   institulionalized mechanism to  difficult to Instill  media; strengthen GOI Policy           body, basin organizations, and
resource conservation       address this                                            Declaration (WATSAL)                   existing bodies.
Continuing watershed        Improved political will to focus  Poor institutional capacity of Capacity building, stronger   WATSAL and GOI Policy
degradation with related    on urgent social and physical   watershed management    legislation for land resources         Declaration sharpened in Task
downstream impacts on a     problems of watersheds.     agencies to prioritize water   management. Prioritize              Force Meeting 27 Jan 1999.
national level.                                         conservation                budgets for waler conservation
Increasing problems of (clean)  Planning of all modes of water  Sectoral institutions reluctant to Major structural adjustment of  PP
waler availability          (including groundwater) under  relinquish authority     institutions is inherent to the
one umbrella.                                           WATSAL package
Confusing and overlapping   Review of all regulations   Incornplele review, incidents of Ensure comprehensive review  P    Iong-term; apex body, basin
regulations                 related to water sector.    overlap may still be found  and cancellation of overlapping        organizations
______________________  _    ___             ____________________________  regulations
Projects planned without    Improved awareness and      Failure to appreciate       Ensure that Min of              PP    MoE represented in apex body.
consideration of impacts on    coordination with "green"  environmental values      Environment and "green"                WATSAL now calls for NGO
biodiversity                NGOs.                       adequately                  NGOs fully represented on              representation in PTPA and
advisory group.                        PPTPA (Task Force meeling 27
Jan 1999)
Responsibility for coastal zone  Coastal zone better    A grey zone between "land-    Coordinate with National       P     Long-lerm. apex body and
management very diffuse.    incorporated into water     based" water management and Marine Council (Dewan                  basin agencies
resources management;       marine resources management Kelautan Nasional).
WATSAL now provides
institutions that allow
_________________    nrdin 4tinn                 ._____________    _________________________________
Major risks shown in bold type
Net impact: N = Negative; 0 = Neutral or no impact; P = Some positive impact; PP = major positive impact; PPP = very large positive impact.



TABLE 4.1 WATSAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT. SUMMARY OF RISK ANALYSIS
WITHOUT PROJECT                                            WITH PROJECT                                                   FOLL    ACTOIESC        l
POSITIVE IMPACT       | RiSK OF NEGATIVE IMPACT |  MITIGATION OF NEGATIVE          NET
IMPACT             IMPACT
POLICY REFORM 2. STRENGTHEN PTPA, PPTPA & BPSDA
Split between management of  Procedures for coordination;    Sectoral Institutions reluctant Major structural adjustment of  P/PP    Long term;
surface and ground water.   possibility for integration at    to relinquish authority  institutions is inherent to the       apex body and basin
operational level.                                       WATSAL package;                        organizations;
Strengthened GOI Water Policy          National water policy.
Declaration (Task Force
meeting 27 Jan 1999);
Continued lack of coordination  Improved coordination at  Problems in developing      Prepare integration of surface  P/PP
between utilization and     regional and provincial level.   coordination between agencies and groundwater management.
conservation.                                            with a sectoral focus.
Continuing watershed        Improved political will to focus  Poor institutional capacity of   Capacity building, stronger  P  short and long term;
degradation with related    on urgent social and physical   watershed management     legislation for land resources          apex body, basin organizations,
downstream impacts on a basin problems of strategic      agencies to prioritize water  management, better                   inational water policy.
level,                       watersheds,                 conservation, limited        coordinalion of land and waler
effectiveness of measures.    use.
Revenues from water levies not Budgets focussed on water    "Leakage of budget funds to   Mandatory publication of annual    PP    Short tern. Basin organizations.
used in the water sector.   sector, especially conservation  activities outside water sector.  reports on activities, finances,  apex body; irrigation O&M
aspects.                                                 and work plan.                         transfer
No accountability or        Mechanism for accountability   Lack of accountability and    Strengthened GOi Water Policy       |modalities.
transparency                and transparency.            transpareFIcy hI practice,   Declaration (Task Force
Overlapping and confusion in   Coordination of authority for    mechanism  not used.  meeting 27 Jan 1999).                  Procedures for independent
issuing of permits          issuance of permits.                                      Implement decentralized water          auditing to be put in place if
management and check                   necessary.
accountability.
No coordination between water A framework for coordination   Inadequate concerns for  Ensure close coordination with   P     Long teim; apex body, PTPA,
utilization and environmental   will exist. Basin organizations   environmental Issues In the   BAPEDALDA and NGOs.          PPTPA.
issues                      take responsibility for water    Implementation.          Keep conservation high on the
quality and water conservation.                          agenda.                                I
Responsibility for coastal zone  Coastal zone better     A grey zone between "land-    Ensure all important coastal    P     Long term. Apex body, basin
management very diffuse,    incorporated into river basin    based" water management and stretches are fully included        organizations, national water
management                  marine resources management within regional / basin                 policy.
conimittees or agencies.
Major risks shown In bold type
Net Impact: N = Negative; 0 = Neutral or no impact; P = Some positive impact; PP = major positive impact; PPP = very large positive impact



TABLE 4.1 WATSAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT. SUMMARY OF RISK ANALYSIS
WITHOUT PROJECT                                          WITH PROJECT                                                FOLLOW-UP, TIME SCALE,
ACTORS
POSITIVE IMPACT      i RISK OF NEGATIVE IMPACT | MITIGATION OF NEGATIVE         NET
PIS                                   IMPACT            IMPACT
POLICY REFORM 3. CREATE NEW RIVER BASIN MANAGEMENT AGENCIES
Poorly coordinated planning and Autonomy in management and  Large bodies of this nature may Full autonomy must be  PPP    Long term. apex body, PTPA
management of strategic river  maximum local coordination    be subject to local interference  established in law; publication of  and PPTPA, NGOs and others
basins having high level of                            from politicians or powertul    regular reports of activities.
competing demands.                                     groups.
Sometimes counter-productive
interference from central
government.
Minimal interest in        Mechanism for conservation,   Environmental Issues      Systematic public scrutiny.     P     Long term. apex body, MoE,
environmental aspects      water pollution control, and land overlooked In drive to                                      BAPEDALDA, NGOs and
use (upper catchment),     maximize revenue                                                  others.
Weaker water users lack voice, Weaker stakeholders better    Risk of bias towards more  Systematic public scrutiny and  P  Long term apex body, MoE,
and large body may not be  represented                 powerful stakeholders       clarified social function of          BAPEDALDA, NGOs and
responsive to local needs                                                          managemnent                           others.
Revenue from water levies and Full autonomy            Lack of accountability and    Publication of arnual reports on    PP    short and long term. Apex body.
taxes not returned to water                            transparency                activities, finances, work plan.      PTPA and PPTPA, Water User
sector management                                                                  Facility for independent              Associations, NGOs and others
auditing,
Inisufficient budgets      tetter allocations of budgets   Budget may be lisufficlenlt   Watershed conservation is a  P  Long termi Apex body. PTPA
for requirements, especially  policy of national importance,     and PPTPA, Water User
conservation. Lack of      which may need budgetary              Associations; accountancy
transparency in financial  support from central                  organizations; national
flows.                     government.                           government
Enhance transparency.
POLICY REFORM 4. INTRODUCE WATER RIGHTS
Confusing and overlapping  Review of all regulations related Incomplete review, incidents of Ensure comprehensive review  PP    Short and long term. Apex
regulations.               to water use and rights,    overlap may still be found. Poor and continuing streamlining of   body, national water policy:
mechanisms to resolve      implementationiof coniflict  regulations; capacity building       basin organiizations
.conmpaliin                resolutinn                                                        l
Small andlor traditional users   Allocations to become more    Water rights mnay continue to Define customary rights in each  P  Short and long term Apex
commonly disadvantaged by   transparent and fair.      be captured by more powerful basin: regulatory framework and      body; basin organization; PTPA
more powerful stakeholders                             groups                      review function; procedures for       & PPTPA.
l                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~optimal utilization; ensure
I ________________________   _______________________   ransoarencv                 I__trans arenc
Major risks shown In bold type
Net impact N = Negative, 0 = Neutral or no impact; P = Some positive impact; PP = major positive impact, PPP = very large positive impact



TABLE 4.1 WATSAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT. SUMMARY OF RISK ANALYSIS
WITHOUT PROJECT                                            WITH PROJECT                                                  FOLLOW-UP, TIME SCALE,
WITH PROJECT  I                                     ~~~~~~ACTORS
POSITIVE IMPACT        RISK OF NEGATIVE IMPACT              MIFNPACT             IMPACT
POLICY REFORM 5. FRAMEWORK AND MECHANISMS TO ADDRESS WATER POLLUTION.
Incomplete regulations. Despite improved regulations and  Weaknesses may continue    Programmes of strengthening      PP    Short and long term. Apex
regulations, pollution still occurs systems for enforcement.  especially until BAPEDALDA    BAPEDALDA must continue;         body; national water policy;
widely and sanctions are rarely  Strategy to better plan and  becomes fully functional and    regular reporting to confirm   PTPSA and PPTPA; NGOs and
applied. Minimal enforcement  support investment in priority   competent.            accountability and                      others.
and implementation capacity.  treatment plants. Legal basis to                       transparency.
No legal basis, institutions or   require industries,
strategy to deal with municipal  municipalities to control their
sewage.                     polution.
Pollution from agricultural  Continue efforts to develop
sources difficult to address.    Integrated Pest Management
Limited coverage of sewerage  systems as widely as possible.
in cities. Much non-point   Through WUAs ensure wise
pollution. Groundwater pollution practice in fertilizer use. Assist
more difficult to monitor.  municipablies in sewage
Political pressure to limit  drainage. Strengthen
enforcement.                groundwater monitoring Set up
strong institutions.
POLICY REFORM 6. SET UP MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM.
Essential data often project-   Establishment of a sound  Poor motivation or incentives Review need for human         P      Long term. Apex body; river
based; data collection not  national framework for      to field staff may result in    resource capacity building, and      basin organizations, PTPA and
continued at end of project;    systematic data collection and  continued unreliability of  procedures for data collection   PPTPA.
concerns of quality, updating,  dissemination            data                        especially at remote locations
accessibility
Data can be monopolized or    System of transparency and
inappropriately commercialized, appropriate levels of
risk of nianipulation to bias  commercialization to be
decision making             prepared by national apex body
Major risks shown in bold type
Net impact N = Negative; 0 = Neutral or no impact; P = Some positive impact; PP = major positive impact; PPP = very large positive impact
Fll  nHlAp/pRfK yl 26 Feb 1999



TABLE 4.1 WATSAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT. SUMMARY OF RISK ANALYSIS
| VVITHOUT PROJECT    |                                  WITH PROJECT                                              || FOLLOW-UP, TIME SCALE,
WITHOUT PROJECT    l       POSITIVE IMPACT        RISK OF NEGATIVE IMPACT  MITIGATION|OFNEG           E           j          A COTR
I                 I      ~     ~~~~~IMPACT     IMPACT
POLICY REFORM 7. IRRIGATION REFORM, TRANSFER OF SECONDARY NETWORKS TO WATER USERS ASSOCIATIONS
Inadequate O&M on part of    Farmers will acquire control of  Capacity to manage O&M  Owing to the social dimensions  PP    Short term apex body; basin
national and regional      routine O&M. which will ensure may not be adequately    of this major policy reform, the      organizations; MoHA; NGOs
institutions, rehabilitation project ull beneficiary participation,    developed   National Apex Body and basin          and others (international
based                      Infrastructure more sustainable.                        organizations should                  support agencies for capacity
Introduction of Irrigation Service  UAs will take the sole  Capacity to handle ISF may  institute a process of continuous  building).
Fees (ISF) has not contributed  responsibility to collect, manage not be adequately developed  review and revision, so that the
to improved O&M, regarded as and disburse ISF for routine                          process becomes systematized
just another government levy   O&M. Fairer and more                                Phased handover may be
transparent management.                                necessary
Lack of sense of ownership on  Farmers will become fully  Capacity to handle routine    according to capacity of existing
part of farmers. 'government   responsible to manage their   operations may not be  institutions.
must provide' attitude,    own secondary and tertiary    adequately developed
networks. Environment
stimulates taking initiatives.
Unclear mechanism of water   WUA allocates water based on Capacity to address competitioni Build capacity of WUAs and of  PP    Long term Apex body; basin
allocation.                true demand and according to  may not be developed. Rent   government staff as facilitators.  organizations.
agreed rules.              seeking.
Poor O&M across the country.  Improved O&M across the  Management may break down Organizational structure of      PP    Short term, apex body: basin
country.                   locally because approach    WUAs should be sufficiently           organizations.
does not allow for regional  flexible to accomodate regional
variations In traditional  social variations
village patterns
Environmental agencies and    BAPEDAL has a duly to ensure  P    Long term. apex body.
NGOs may be reluctant to    that the environmental laws are       BAPEDAL(DA); basin
monitor or expose violations    adhered to at every level of     organizations, PTPA & PPTPA.
enacted by groups at local    society                             NGOs
community level
WUAs may become            Prepare explicit rules for      P      Short term. National Water
monopolized by powerful    elections and functioning of           Policy
stakeholders               operations
Too many village institutions    Streamlining of village  Still top-down and overlapping  Ensure that WUAs will be run  PP    Long term. apex body: national
imposed from above, political in institutions, more village-based. institutions,   by the farmers for the farmers.       waler policy
nature, ineffective in operation
Major risks shown in bold type
Net impact- N = Negative; 0 .= Neutral or no impact; P = Some positive impact; PP = mnajor positive impact. PPP = very large positive impact.
-i .rA-M)iICV 91- 03A C-h 1000]



5.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT.
The environmental legislation of the Government of Indonesia (known under the Indonesian
acronym of AMDAL) is actually at least as comprehensive as the regulations of the World Bank,
and theoretically should be sufficient to address most of the issues of environmental sustainabilitv
that are expected to arise from any development activity (the regulations are summarized briefly
in Annex 7). The problems lie in strengthening the institutional and human resources capacity to
achieve proper compliance. Each new regulation strengthens the previous one, and the newest
Law on the Environment, passed in 1997, provides for steeply increased sanctions for violations,
and calls for much more open participation of civil society.
5.1    Evaluation of the AMDAL Report
During previous studies by the SEA compiler in the irrigation, highways and agricultural sectors
over the last year or two, discussions have been held with officials from a variety of institutions,
including the ministerial central commissions (komisipusat) and their technical teams, staff at
BAPEDAL, and staff from the provincial and kabupaten environmental bureaus. There is
obviously wide acknowledgement that implementation of theAAlEDAL legislation remains rather
ineffective. There are several reasons for this, mainly institutional and budgetary, with
development of human resources capacity being seen as the biggest requirement, but up to now
an inadequate political will or transparency must also bear a large share of the blame. The
AADAL legislation is commonly seen as merely another bureaucratic hurdle in an already
complex process of obtaining a license for a development activity. The AMDAL report
(comprising the Evaluation or ANDAL, the Management Plan orRKL, and the Monitoring Plan or
RPL) very often becomes an 'end product' that is rarely referred to again.
The environmental evaluation is generally undertaken by a consultant company, selected from a
list of government approved AMDAL consultants (if the project is funded by an international
donor, a foreign company may be employed). However, experience has shown that local
consultant companies often do not have sufficient capacity to meet the standards required in the
broad field of environmental assessment. Their expertise rarely extends to sufficient depth in any
particular field, with the result that their capacity is inadequate to anticipate possible important
elements, or to communicate with the specialist institutions or persons who may have the
information. The necessary skills may equally be lacking in the technical teams in each
department that advise the central commissions.
Furthermore, the structure of theAAMDAL report is firrnly laid down by guidelines issued by each
ministry, which is an attempt to ensure that every environmental component is covered. For
example, the 'Project', 'Ecological', 'Social' and 'Administrative' Boundaries must be clearly
defined, although the objectives for doing this may not be clearly understood. The adherence to
the report fornat commonly results in equal emphasis being given to every component,
regardless of relevance, with the result that the really significant impacts are apt to be obscured.
With both the consultant (the "student") and the commission (the "board of examiners") striving
to observe the requisite forrnat, the exercise becomes very much one of observing "the letter but
not the spirit of the law". In their anxiety to satisfy the examiners, the students adopt a
conservative approach.
The presence on the commission of members from related agencies in the process of evaluating
and approving AMDAL reports should in theory ensure that related technical issues are covered.
Of course this will only occur if the reports are distributed in sufficient time and the technical
File: DAH/WA7SAL'SEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                           24



staff are available. However, while central level staff may have the technical competence to
handle generic issues, they will commonly not have the regional knowledge that is so essential in
analyzing specific local impacts. Province and kabupaten level staff must play a role. In theory,
there is a Regional Commission (KomisiDaerah) in BAPPEDA, supported by the environmental
bureau (BLH) of the provincial govemment, who review AMDAL reports relevant to their region
and attend the presentation before the Komisi Pusat in Jakarta. There should be two or three staff
attending, one from the Komisi Daerah, one from the related provincial sectoral agency, and one
from the kabupaten. Commonly, however, this essential input does not materialize. A very
common complaint in the provinces was that the invitations are sent by standard mail and arrive
too late, or even after the date of the meeting. Often the provincial staff would not even be aware
that a presentation was taking place.
In the rare cases when there is sufficient time for evaluation and the comments are submitted to
Jakarta, there is no response or feedback. Many copies of the reports would be required for
proper evaluation by all parties, but few copies are sent, and probably the budget for
photocopying additional copies would not be available.
A further complaint in the provinces was that the consultants preparing theAAMDAL do not bother
to make contact with the provincial environmental institutions, where it might be expected that
relevant information would be available. It would seem that the relevant social and environmental
NGOs,. either local or national, or the environmental study centres of the local universities, are
likewise rarely contacted. Province-level consultants with the requisite local knowledge are
usually hired only for those small projects that are handled by the provincial government.
National consultants do not think to employ staff locally.
In summary, while it is the specific local negative impacts that would result from a project that
are important, it is often mostly the generic impacts that are handled. In illustration, anAMDAL
study for a road project in Lampung was examined, together with three other samples (see Annex
7.2) in the water sector. It will be seen that depth of coverage varies considerably, with a
tendency for massive documents on projects that have very minor impacts. A poor understanding
of the concepts necessitates uninteresting and voluminous reports that waste resources on
irrelevant issues. There is a risk that the really significant issues are masked in verbiage or even
overlooked altogether.
5.2    Environmental Management and Monitoring
As noted in Annex 7, the responsibility of the Central Commission ceases with its
recommendation to the Minister to accept the AMDAL report. Provincial experience shows that
there is often no monitoring at all of the RKL and RPL by the provincial authorities. The final
AM)DAL reports, if they reach the province at all, may go to the relevant Kanwil office (the
central ministry's provincial office, not the corresponding regional government's office) but not
to the Regional Commission. The routine budgets are typically inadequate for monitoring the
developing agency's compliance, and sanctions are never applied for non-compliance.
Monitoring would of course be open to collusive practices. Few developers will bother to send
the requisite quarterly reports on RKL implementation to the provincial environmental authority.
Thus the constraint of poor capacity in EIA preparation is overshadowed by sometimes complete
failure in implementation, although experience is reported to vary considerably between the
executing agencies, and compliance probably improves with increasing size and sensitivity of the
project.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                            25



However, it would be inappropriate for this SEA to make recommendations at this time, with so
many reforns under current preparation and implementation. The weakness in implementation of
the very sound legislation is fully realized, and continuous efforts are being made to overcome
the problems and develop the capacity at all levels of society to manage and monitor the
environment. The on-going strengthening of the voice of the community, and readiness to hold
consultations with the community and with NGOs, is seen as being a major step towards
achieving this goal. At the same time, there is an on-going programme to strengthen the
BAPEDALDA through ADB funding (Master Plan for Capacity Building in BAPEDALDA,
ADB TA No. 2598-INO), and it would be inappropriate for this WATSAL SEA to investigate
this process further.
It is strongly recommended that NGOs should be institutionalized to have a permanent role in the
BAPEDALDA, in both evaluating EIA and in monitoring the implementation of environmental
management. As noted in Chapter 3.2, NGOs may be mobilized to facilitate community
participation in environmental assessment and monitoring.NGOs, however, will also need to go
through a learning process, to adopt a role of working with government rather than opposing, and
they may not necessarily contribute to technical capacity. They would. however, greatly
strengthen the transparency of the AMAMDL process, which has been seen as one of the main
constraints hitherto.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_doc 26 Feb 1999.                                            26



WATER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (WATSAL)
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 1- THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Government of Indonesia
Inter-Agency Task Force            March 1999
On Water Sector Policy Reform



ANNEX 1. REVIEW OF KEY POLICY REFORM ITEMS AND THEIR
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Seven main reform items are proposed under WATSAL. Each is outlined below, and as a
component of the social and environmental assessment, some of the negative impacts of the
present without-project situation are presented as "rationale" for the reform. The public
consultation process that was conducted as part of the Environmental Assessment has provided
strong indications of the negative social and environmental impacts that are occurring in the
water sector under the present policies, institutional arrangements and managerial organization.
Broadly these are the negative impacts that WATSAL is being designed to handle, but it is useful
to briefly summarize some of these. While many of these negative impacts emerged as issues
during the public consultation process, others are derived directly frorl, evaluation by the
environmental expert.
Annex 1.1    Establishment of a National Apex Body
Annex 1.1.a   Rationale
Most parts of Indonesia benefit from plentiful rainfall, and water has hitherto generally not been a
limiting resource. However, in common with other natural resources, water is becoming
increasingly scarce and valuable, consequent upon a growing population's dependence upon
these resources, the rapid development of water-demanding industrial and urban centres,
increasing pollution, and increasing degradation of catchment areas. Water resources support
multi-sectoral activities and improved coordination between the many stakeholders becomes
imperative.
The generic issues relating to conservation, both of water and land resources and of aquatic
biodiversity, are covered by each of the first three reform items, but are included here because
these issues range from purely local to national or even global levels of concern.
Coordination and conservation of water resources.
*  There is little concept among the population at large of the real value of water as an essential
commodity that is not inexhaustible. Even the government has paid little attention to instilling
such a concept. The assumption is made by both government institutions and the public that
water is plentiful and that therefore there is no cause for concern (or to pay water levies).
This assumption must be revised, especially in view of the continuing reduction in water
supplies "that threaten the very existence of mankind" (quotation from public consultation).
The function of water is seen by the regional government merely as a source of increasing
revenue, and they do not balance supply with demand.
*  Yet there is commonly an awareness locally that the availability is decreasing, this awareness
being most remarked by farmers, especially those downstream from the offtakes of public
utilities.
*  Utilization of the water resource is not integrated with its conservation, and the two functions
are institutionally separated. In the catchment areas the Ministry of Forestry (MoF) has the
main responsibility for managing the natural resources (Perum Perhutani in Java and
Nusatenggara), but its agenda is not primarily focussed upon water.
*  Responsibilities for protecting catchment area forests are not well defined or budgeted, and
there is often a lack of political will to prevent forest degradation or clearance along new
access roads. In the southern regions of West Java, there has been a reduction in water even
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A-l



in the conservation area, owing to illegal destruction of the forest and inadequate
management by Perum Perhutani.
* The policy of monoculture tree crops by Perum Perhutani has negative impacts because the
soft wood plantations (coniferous trees in the genus Pinus) have very high demands on
groundwater, similar to Eucalyptus plantations around Lake Toba to which the substantial fall
in the lake surface is attributed. The monocultures also have significant negative impacts on
biodiversity.
* For example, in West Java MoF institutions that are responsible for water conservation exist
only at kabupaten level (Dinas Perhutanan dan Konservasi Tanah), and not in all kabupatens;
there is no equivalent body at provincial 1evel.
* There is no river basin in which the water resource is managed as a single entitv from
catchment to river mouth.
* In the same way that the functions are institutionally separated, so the revenues derived from
water taxes and levies are not allocated to budgets for conservation.
* The soil and vegetation of many upland regions has already become degraded, and the
process is continuing without restraint, with serious detrimental impacts on the downstream
hydrological regime.
-  There is a lack of awareness at govemment level of the extent of climatic change that may be
occurring over the Indonesian region, and the impacts that this may have on water
availability at the regional and national level.
Aquatic Biodiversity.
* The infrastructure for water diversion, for example for irrigation or electricity generation,
commonly restricts the free passage of aquatic biota, particularly freshwater fish. Such
structures, as well as flood protection dykes or 'river normalization' projects, may also
reduce the available habitat for aquatic biota. This may take the forn of reduced river flow
(impact on river fish), or the sometimes less obvious impact of upstream diversions on
swamp or floodplain hydrology downstream (impact on bird habitats).
* For example, in West Sumatra, construction of a hydro-electric scheme on Lake Maninjau
has interrupted the life cycle of several fish species, including endemics (source: Batang
Antokan Irrigation Project Environmental Assessment, ADB TA 2588-INO). [Issues of
aquaculture and introduced species, including cultural aspects specific to brackish-water fish
and prawn ponds, or tambaks, are beyond the scope of this review].
* Water pollution is having negative impacts on aquatic biota. These may be obvious and
dramatic in the case of polluted water bodies downstream from urban areas and industries,
but pollution from the use of agricultural chemicals is generally more insidious. [Issues of
pesticide use, and the various programmes being implemented to encourage integrated pest
management practices, are beyond the scope of this review, except in as far that they may
interact with the process of the development of farming enterprises through irrigation
transfer].
* Swamp reclamation projects have obvious, major and immediate impacts on swamp biota, as
well as less direct impacts on the aquatic biota downstream from the project. [Issues of the
non-sustainable exploitation of water birds, which has had a major impact on bird
populations, are beyond the scope of this review. Example are the shallow floodplain lakes or
lebaks of South Sumatra, the lakes and swamps of the Kapuas, Barito and Mahakam rivers of
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                       A -2



Kalimantan, the Tempe lake system of South Sulawesi, and the swamp regions of Karawang
and Indramayu (Citarum and Cimanuk rivers) in West Java].
Many swamp reclamation projects are not planned by water sector institutions. Especially
important may be conversions (or applications for permits, Hak Guna Usaha) in the private
estates sector, in areas where development may have serious negative impacts on biodiversity
(e.g. Lunang swamps of West Sumatra, Rawa Tenuk in Lampung, coastal swamps of Riau,
Jambi and South Sumatra), or on the livelihood of traditional swamp users (Barito swamps of
South Kalimantan).
Annex 1.1.b  Policy objective of proposed WATSAL component.
To set up a national, multi-sectoral coordinating entity that will bring together all ministries and
key agencies, as well as representatives of civil society and Non-governmental Organizations
(NGOs), that are important stakeholders in the water sector. The apex body will be chaired by a
neutral high-level organization that does not have a direct vested interest in using water (such as.
for example, BAPPENAS). The apex body will (i) identify and address all important sectoral
issues; (ii) set national priorities and policies for the water sector; (iii) assist in the resolution of
conflicts between water using sectors; (iv) provide a communication channel with society; and
(v) assist in the planning, implementation and coordination of the policies and activities of the
different ministries and agencies that relate to the water sector.
Annex 1.1.c   Potential positive impacts
1. Conflicts and the consequences of poor coordination should be reduced or minimized.
2. Communication between policy making and implementing ministries, agencies, and local
governments (provincial and kabupaten) will be enhanced. There will be improved
coordination between ministries and agencies responsible for the water resource and
environmental management.
3. The apex body is expected to ensure improved coordination in the allocation both of
resources, through its priorities and policies, and of investments, through better evaluation of
appropriate investment levels.
4. Through coordination with the national hydrological database and MIS, there will be earlier
identification of emerging problems, such as demands escalating beyond capacity, trends of
increasing pollution, predictions of drought, and longer term variations in flow. There will
also be coordination with agencies engaged in research into climatic trends and rainfall
variation (BMG, LIPI, Ministry of Science & Technology).
5. The body can develop a forum for dissemination of information on water resources data and
predictions to the regions and all stakeholders (for example monthly or quarterly rainfall
prediction to farmers and those managing food stocks).
6. Improved coordination is expected to enhance conservation of resources, not only water, but
also land and forest resources. Through inter-agency coordination the national body will be
enabled to focus on issues of land degradation particularly in the upstream (watershed)
regions and consequent problems of downstream management and sedimentation.
7. For example coordination will enable the serious problem of catchment deforestation to be
addressed. This ongoing problem is greatly exacerbated when road access is provided or
improved in forested terrain, in the government effort to bring outlying communities into the
mainstream of development. A national apex body will have the means to enable a much
higher level of concem to be devoted to this problem.
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -3



8. Also included here would be the social issues of farmers who are currently engaged in
destructive practices in watershed areas, through lack of opportunity or incentive for more
sustainable systems of land use.
9. A forum will be created that can discuss the social implications of water sector management,
such as land acquisition and resettlement policies.
10. The risk of narrow-focussed or unilateral policies or developments that would benefit
individual or unrepresentative interests will be reduced. Investments in infrastructure in one
sector will be designed to provide multi-sectoral benefits.
11. The body would be enabled to evaluate, alternative strategies or solutions that have lower
environmental and/or social costs.
12. Issues of protection of biodiversitv will be addressed through multi-sectoral coordination at a
national level.
Annex 1.1.d   Potential negative impacts
a) By its hierarchical nature the apex body could reduce the authority of provincial (Level 1)
and kabupaten (Level 2) Governments.
b) Individual agencies may be tempted to delay urgent mitigation measures in their mandate and
defer to the higher authority.
c) Key users on the advisory group may dominate.
d) Under the next reform item below, attention is drawn to the possibility of an overlap in
responsibilities for the coastal zone, which effectively may result in a gap in management
between 'land-based' water resources and the marine environment.
e) Insufficient interest may be generated in conservation of the biodiversity and the protection
of environmental values generally.
f) The National Apex Body, or regional/basin management agencies (under reform item 2) may
not be effective in coordinating development with conservation needs, including protection of
biodiversity, when projects are planned by other sectors (such as estates, timber plantations,
transmigration).
g) The concept of water resource conservation is difficult to instill in the general public.
Annex 1.1.e   Mitigation of the negative impacts
Items a, b & c.
i. Ensure adequate representation of provincial and kabupaten Governments in the apex body; a
budget must be available to enable officials from the regions to attend meetings that pertain
to their areas of responsibility.
ii. Ensure effective communication channels for information and conflict resolution between the
apex body and concerned Local Governments.
iii. Ensure transparency in the respective mandates of the apex body, the technical line
Ministries, basin committees or authorities and Local Government, and determine how each
can hold the other accountable.
iv. Ensure that Local Government has its own areas of authority at the level of a river basin or
sub-basin, to balance the power of the apex body. This should include a balanced
File: DAH/WASALIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                       A -4



proportional representation in a democratic process of decision making, a mechanism for
transparency, and a method of evaluation concerning the representing capability of each
representative.
Items d, e & f
v. Good coordination must be established at both the scientific and operational level between
the national apex body for 'land-based' water resources and the National Marine Council
(Dewan Kelautan Nasional, DKV).
vi. It must be ensured that the advisory group to the apex body includes main stakeholders and
NGOs, including 'green' NGOs. Implement international conventions to which Indonesia is
signatory, notably the Ramsar Convention (on protection of wetlands), Agenda 21, and on
National Parks.
vii. Coordination of all wetland developments, whether within or outside the water sector, should
be undertaken by the Council.
viii.The National Apex Body should prioritize the importance of watershed management; a
concerted effort is required at national level to seek the political, institutional, physical and
social means for carrying out this urgent activity, which will have important repercussions in
all sectors of highland society.
ix. Specifically for item f), planning for development in all wetland environments, whether or
not the planning is through a water management institution, should be included in the
coordination functions of the National Apex Body, and its advisory groups.
Item gy.
x. Frequent media campaigns will slowly have an impact in instilling an awareness of the
importance of water conservation in the general public. Campaigns should be similar to the
"'save energy" (hemat energi), domestic waste disposal, and mosquito prevention campaigns
already used on TV.
Annex 1.2    Strengthening of Provincial and River Basin Water Resources Management
Committees (PTPA and PPTPA) and Basin Management Units (Balai PSDA)
Annex 1.2.a   Rationale
Many of the negative issues relating to poor inter-sectoral coordination consequent upon the
current without-project situation are the same as those outlined above. Here the rationale focuses
upon more area-specific issues.
Lack of coordination in water resource management.
*  Planning functions are commonly fragmented between different departments, levels, bodies
and committees, while the same agencies may have overlapping operational functions. Most
management institutions follow narrow sectoral interests.
*  Within the water sector, and apart from the issues of utilization and conservation identified
above, coordination in management is lacking. For example, Department of Mines has the
authority to issue a licence to extract groundwater but does not manage this resource, while
DG Cipta Karya handles waste water.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A-5



* On the receiving side, management of rainfall data is entrusted to the Meteorological and
Geophysical Institute (Badan Meteorologi dan Geofisika, BMG) which is under the Ministry
of Communications, although research is also conducted by the Science Institute (LIPI) and
the Ministry for Science and Technology. Many agencies besides BMG collect rainfall data
(Agriculture, Water Resources, local government), but BMG has the mandate to collect,
compile and evaluate the data.
*  Likewise the National Land Agency or BPN issues a building permit (izin bangunan) for a
housing estate but the Department of Mines must issue the licence to sink groundwater wells.
Neither coordinate with water management authorities.
* Lowering of groundwater table as a result of excessive (and increasing) extraction is a source
of major concern. In the same context, areas designated for water storage (resapan air) in the
spatial plan get covered by urban construction. The water table in Bandung is reported to
have dropped 76 m, from a combination of these causes. Some of this groundwater is of
fossil origin, and non-renewable, or else the subsoil horizons are weak (the pores collapse or
become clogged when dry, with the result that there is reduced capacity to absorb water.
Saltwater intrusion is occurring in major coastal cities such as Jakarta, as a result of
abstraction of fresh groundwater.
*  Licences for development activities (e.g. industry, housing) are issued bysectoral institutions
that do not consider the aspects of water requirements and waste disposal related to that
development.
* There are further instances reported of lack of coordination with the provincial spatial plans.
For example, factories were built on the floodplain of the Ciujung River, West Java, which
has increased the frequency of severe flooding of ricefields upstream (there was a major
flood at the time of the public consultations in January 1999). In this instance, the rejection of
licence applications by the kabupaten government was over-ruled by a higher level authoritv.
The comment was also received, however, that some kabupaten governments 'amend their
spatial plans nearly every year'.
*  Likewise areas of productive agriculture, including areas under technical irrigation whose
function is supposedly protected by presidential decree, are often alienated to housing or
industrial development.
* The water requirements of such developments are commonly not coordinated with the
management institutions and their plans, so that downstream users experience decreasing
availability for their previously established enterprises, such as rice irrigation or fish ponds.
* A river basin management body (in whatever form) must encompass the entire basin, in other
words the river from its source to its mouth. At present neither the source, i.e. the catchment
area, nor the river mouth are effectively managed.
* A further example of poor management is the extensive extraction of sand and gravel (galian
C minerals) from rivers especially in the heavy utilized regions such as West Java. This is
mainly a case of poor law enforcement (or perhaps the lack of political will for law
enforcement in view of the social consequences on an impoverished labour force).
* Water resources are managed through a project approach, with the result that heavy
equipment used on a project is not maintained through lack of maintenance funds; eventually
it becomes scrap iron. Management should be through routine budgets, block grants, or if
necessary through Regional Budget (APBD).
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -6



Annex 1.2.b   Policy objective of proposed WATSAL component.
The proposed reforn is designed to strengthen the integrated management of water resources at
regional level, clarify the roles of different agencies, combine the functions of Provincial
Irrigation Committees with that of the PTPA, ensure stakeholder participation in management,
ensure comprehensive regulation of allocation and discharge, and improve monitoring and
control of abstraction and pollution.
Annex 1.2.c   Potential positive impacts
1. Enhance the integration of different potentially conflicting interests in water use and
management: regional interests; of groundwater and surface water; of different waterusers;
of different interests for water quality; etc.
2. Reduce the risk of partial or biased policies which do not properly serve the public interest.
3. Create a mechanism for iterative, joint decision-making.
4. Enhance the possibilities for local monitoring and regulation.
5. Tariff policies can be made more transparent and more equitable and, hence, have a higher
likelihood of being successful.
6. Create a mechanism for deciding on (local) compensation issues.
Annex 1.2.d   Potential negative impacts
a) May not be effective to regulate and restrain large industrial polluters, or large unruly water
users, as such users may not play by the rules.
b) Will not be effective to represent the interests of parties outside the group, or of
"stakeholders" that do not possess a strong voice. This can include, for instance, the down-
stream users, and the interests of the coastal zones, estuaries or local ecological systems.
c) Groups that have differing characteristics may be inadequately represented, such as
minorities, vulnerable groups. The Council may be biased towards the more powerful and
vocal interests.
d) Insufficient interest may be generated in conservation of the biodiversity and the protection
of environmental values generally.
e) Even with either the formation of new management agencies, or the upgrading of those
already existing, it seems unlikely that they will have the full motivation or political will to
manage the coastal zone (there will be a tendency for their responsibility to end with the last
tail-end tertiary network).
f) Poor institutional capacity of agencies having the responsibility for watershed management to
understand the nature of the problems involved and to have the capability to plan and
implement effective programmes.
g) The Councils may be driven by narrow production interests at the expense of longer-term
sustainability concerns.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                          A -7



Annex 1.2.e   Mitigation of the negative impacts
Item a, b, c &.
i. Work out Election Rules and By-laws for the Councils that avoid or minimize these risks.
ii. Identify the stakeholders who are not represented and provide for mechanisms to have their
interests represented.
iii. Derive mechanisms from community participation to ensure that all stakeholders not only
participate but engage in every level of the decision making process.
Item d, e, & f.
iv. Implement international conventions to which Indonesia is signatory, notably the Ramsar
Convention (on protection of wetlands), Agenda 21, and on National Parks. Ensure 'green'
NGOs are represented.
v. Ensure that institutions concerned with coastal resources are fully represented, and that
boundaries of river basins adequately incorporate all the coastal zone.
vi. Define the boundaries of catchments or basins in such a way that these risks are minimized.
Annex 1.3.   Create New River Basin Management Agencies
Annex 1.3.a   Rationale
The many complex issues and problems relating to river basin management and water resource
conservation and allocation are magnified in those strategic basins of major rivers that serve areas
of high population density and intensive multi-purpose water utilization. The negative impacts of
the current 'without-project' situation are broadly the same as those outlined above, but they
acquire an increased urgency in the context of strategic basins.
Annex 1.3.b  Policy objective of proposed WATSAL component.
Building upon the positive experiences of the PT Jasa Tirta (PJT) agency that manages the
operation and maintenance components of the Brantas river basin in East Java, the policy reforrn
will extend this to three or four other "strategic" basins (initially three in Java and one in South
Sulawesi). The purpose is to bring the managerial aspects of a large river basin under one
umbrella, to better coordinate decision-making on water use and on the integration of water and
land use, and to identify and resolve the competition for water between the various stakeholders.
This latter aspect relates especially to the competition between upstream and downstream users,
and between agricultural and industrial users.
Annex 1.3.c   Potential positive impacts
There will be:
1. Higher technical and managerial competence for water management.
2. More optimal use of the hydraulic infrastructure, and better operation and management.
3. Better allocation of water to different users.
4. More transparent and more effective mechanisms for cost-sharing and cross-subsidization.
5. More transparency and accountability in resettlement and land acquisition.
File: DAH/WA7SALJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A -8



6. It is important to register that the river basin having the highest concentration of polluting
industries in the upstream region, the Citarum of West Java, is also the river that provides
Jakarta's domestic water supply; this will be one of the proposed agencies (a revised POJ).
Annex 1.3.d   Potential negative impacts
a) The agency may be driven by revenue generation to maximize income or profit, to the extent
that it neglects the externalities of its decisions.
b) The agency may have an undue bias towards the more powerful stakeholders in the basin, at
the expense of meeting its social service obligations.
c) The agency may overwhelm the River Basin Council (PTPA) representing the different basin
stakeholders, because of its higher level of competence.
d) As the agency oversees a comparatively large territory, it may be less responsive to local
needs and conditions. This would be especially the case if the new agencies would be
organized as a national corporations, in effect managing the basins from Jakarta.
e) The agency may lack an incentive to take a protective or cautious approach with regard to the
physical or biological environment.
f) The agency may be ineffective because it remains subordinate to political interference, or is
underfunded.
g) Revenues are likely to be insufficient to finance the implementation of programmes that will
be necessary in the watershed management sector.
Annex 1.3.e   Mitigation of Potential negative impacts
i. Clarify and codify the social function of water management and of the basin management
(items a & b).
ii. Clarify the financing aspect of the social function (items a & b).
iii. Ensure a balance of power by strengthening public scrutiny, notably by the River Basin
Council (PTPA), and other broadly representative bodies (item c).
iv. Provide technical support when necessary to the Basin Council, and clarify responsibilities
(item c).
v. Ensure that the basin agencies oversee territories that are not unduly large. It is not essential
that the agencies should be national (BUf), except in the case of river basins that cross
provincial borders (such as the Musi in Bengkulu and South Sumatra, the Batang Hari in
West Sumatra and Jambi, or the Kampar in West Sumatra and Riau); they could be regional
agencies (BUMD) (item d).
vi. Ensure oversight, regulation and systematic monitoring by the national apex body, the
Ministry of Environment, and the provincial BAPEDALDA (items a & e).
vii. Organize a reasonable degree of public accountability, with the accounts published and
disseminated at regular predetermined intervals (items b & f). A framework should be
available for an independent auditing body.
viii.Ensure that the more significant initiatives of the agency are subjected to proper
Environmental Impact Assessments (in accordance with the AMDAL regulations), carried
out by impartial third parties (item e).
File: DAH/WATSALJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -9



ix. The benefits of having a more efficient and competent management are likely to outweigh, at
least temporarily, the possibility that the basin agency may operate top-down with less
transparency in decision-making, and with a positive bias towards the more powerful
stakeholders in the basin (items c & d).
x. Watershed management is an issue of national importance, and is likely to require budgetary
and institutional support from central government (item g).
xi. A good model of provincial level management, not subordinated to political interests, was the
forrner Provincial Water Management Agency (Badan Pengelola Air Propinsi) in West Java
(in this province only), which had authoritv for all water permits and conservation of water
resources at provincial level. It had its own office paid for by the provincial government and
full authority in policy setting. Even the Governor could not bypass the policies set by the
agency.
Annex 1.4.   Introduce Water Rights
Annex 1.4.a   Rationale
Effective water management requires a system of allocation and rights that recognize a private
use of a public resource. As demands become more competitive, public regulation based on
recognized rights is required. In the without-project situation:
Overlapping regulations and authorities.
-  In the same way that the functions of water resource management are institutionally
separated, so the revenues derived from water taxes and levies are not allocated to budgets
for conservation.
-  There are very many existing regulations related to the water sector from  different
institutions, for example regulations may be issued by the government departments handling
water resources, mines, forestry, agriculture, industry, housing, home affairs, cooperatives,
the environment, the national land agency, and provincial and kabupaten level governments.
Sometimes these regulations overlap or they are contradictory, and they are very confusing to
stakeholders.
*  Such confusion may benefit dishonest officials or lead to collusive practices.
Allocation of rights.
*  On the basis that "the biggest payer gets the most water", the rights of local and/or traditional
users are often not considered. Also, the principal of priority to "the first in line" has a
detrimental impact on end-users.
*  For example, public corporations such as PLN (State Electricity Board) or PDAM (Regional
Drinking Water Corporation) will generally assume the status of a government institution in
seeking rights to a water supply, to the detriment of existing users.
*  The rights or customary management practices of traditional societies tend to be over-ruled
by allocations to other purposes. For example a private water company may compensate only
the landowners of a spring, to the disadvantage of downstream users. [The comment was also
made that the water is resold in bottles at a cost which is higher than that of petrol].
*  Traditional users are disadvantaged by rights allocations in newly emerging or developing
districts.
File: DAHI/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A-10



* Permits to draw water are not integrated with the discharge of waste water. Downstream
users may experience not only a deficit, but also increased pollution.
* At the time of preparation of this report, the Jakarta Post carried a complaint (I February)
from farmers at Kabupaten Sleman, Yogyakarta, that developers of housing estates around
the city are extracting water from a spring at the foot of Mount Merapi, to the detriment of
rice farmers. This timely report illustrates well the kind of problems that are occurring. A
footnote might be added that probably the residents of the housing estates would not even be
aware of the source of their water and of the problems that their supply was causing to nearby
farmers.
*  Poor enforcment of regulations also has negative impacts. Cases were quoted from West Java
where industries were licenced to sink 5 bores for water abstraction, but 30 were sunk.
Control has been merely a pretence, because the audits are falsely prepared through
corruption and collusion.
Annex 1.4.b   Policy objective of proposed WATSAL component.
Water rights represent the right or licence that a water user has received to abstract water, use
water, and/or discharge (polluted) water. Water rights are granted by government. Rights may
require a fee, and may be limited as to duration or use. Water rights can be granted to farmers
(usually through their associations), water supply companies, factories, etc. Water rights are
centrally registered and entitle their owners to unobstructed and continued access to the water
resource of the specified quantity and quality. Water rights create the possibility of trading of
rights in an open market that would reflect the true opportunity cost of the resource.
Annex 1.4.c   Potential positive impacts
1. Water rights provide a more transparent and comprehensive system for access to the water
resource.
2. Water rights are designed to recognize and describe customary rights.
3. Systems of water rights permit integration of the management of groundwater and surface
water, and provide a mechanism to put a value on water quality.
4. Water rights facilitate more optimal water allocation, as well as re-allocation, without large
transaction costs and burdensome regulations.
5. Water rights enhance transparency in matters of compensation.
Annex 1.4.d   Potential negative impacts
a) Water rights may continue to be captured by powerful groups, to the detriment of the rights
of weaker or less vocal interests, customary rights holders, and environmental requirements.
b) Transfer of rights may be driven exclusively by productive uses with the narrow objective of
maximizing revenue, to the detriment of other users.
c) Regulation of the granting of rights requires careful and transparent administration and
monitoring, in the absence of which the system may encourage dishonest practices.
d) Even after review of overlapping regulations, some may still be overlooked (especially
regulations issued at kabupaten level).
File: DAH/WATSAL/SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A-11



Annex 1.4.e   Mitigation of negative impacts
i. Provide for an appropriate regulatory framework and review function, possibly through the
River Basin Agencies and the related Committees (PTPA and PPTPA), and for regular
monitoring by the national apex body (items a, b & c).
ii. Establish definitions for customary rights that are acceptable to all parties in any one river
basin in order to facilitate monitoring that these rights are observed (items a, b & c). Prepare
regulations conceming customary rights related to the definition and legal acknowledgement
at differing levels of application, so that any party can fully understand and evaluate its
implementation.
iii. Implement procedures to determine environmental requirements, such as optimal levels of
downstream flow, acceptable standards of water quality, etc (items a & b).
iv. Ensure that there is a comprehensive review of overlapping regulations in the water sector,
with revocation of existing regulations where necessary (item d).
Annex 1.5.    Provide for a Framework and Mechanisms to Address Water Pollution
Annex 1.5.a   Rationale
Many sections of Indonesian rivers are now polluted to the point that the usefulness of the water
is impaired. Programs for pollution control focus primarily on industrial pollution, but drinking
water supplies in many urban areas are experiencing difficulties, in some cases because of
scarcity but more often because the water quality is deteriorating at an alarming rate. Similarly,
large reservoirs are becoming polluted (anaerobic, or eutrophic), with negative impacts on
multiple uses, e.g. hydropower turbines risk faster erosion, fisheries suffer reduced production,
and irrigation operation is hindered by floating weeds and algae, such as the Water Hyacinth.
This underscores the need for water quality management.
*  Water pollution is having negative impacts on aquatic biota. These may be obvious and
dramatic in the case of polluted water bodies downstream from urban areas and industries,
but pollution from the use of agricultural chemicals is generally more insidious. [Issues of
pesticide use, and the various programmes being implemented to encourage integrated pest
management practices, are beyond the scope of this review, except in as far that they may
interact with the process of irrigation transfer to farmer management].
*  Despite the enaction of many regulations on pollution, there are still numerous cases of
industrial pollution, and the legal process for applying sanctions to violators is not yet
effective. It is much more difficult to identify and control sources of pollution in other
sectors, i.e. urban (household waste) and agricultural (run-off from application of farm
chemicals).
*  In the agricultural sector, there may be already intensive pesticide and fertilizer use in the
catchment areas, upstream of the majority of water users, especially in the case of highland
regions on fertile young volcanic soils (for example the vegetable-growing regions of
Bandung and Garut in West Java, Rejang Lebong in Bengkulu, and Karo and Dairi in North
Sumatra).
*  The Citarum river of West Java has three reservoirs, the Cirata, Saguling and Jatiluhur. The
Cirata and Saguling have already been affected by pollution, and this will continue to
increase. This is a severe problem, because of its impact on the drinking water supplies
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                       A -12



downstream, which includes Jakarta. There may be other industrial cities in the upstream
regions (daerah hulu) of Indonesia, but Bandung is certainly the biggest, and perhaps
creating the most pollution. This is especially poignant in that theCitarum is the water supply
for the capital at Jakarta. Out of 23,000 industries in West Java, some 2000 are located in the
Bandung region. The seriously polluting industries are textiles, paper, cartons and shoes.
These industries earn foreign exchange and provide employment, but there are also have very
heavy negative impacts. They use both ground and surface water, and discharge their
pollution to the river. Floods, pollution and decreasing biodiversity result. Although thev
apply water treatment to achieve quality standards, these standards vary between industries,
and the quality is far below requirements.
*  The Citarum  perhaps has special importance for pollution control because of both the
abundant sources and the downstream utilization.
*  A typical example of industrial pollution was the mass deaths of fish in brackish-water
fishponds downstream from paper factories on the Ciujung river in West Java. On a
smallholder fish pond scheme in Kabupaten Karawang (Tambak Inti Rakyat), prawn
production has fallen substantially, reportedly owing to pesticide residues in the fresh water
supply and heavy metals in the salt water.
Annex 1.5.b   Policy objective of proposed WATSAL component.
This involves two main approaches: (1) improving the regulations, and their enforcement, for
wastewater discharges; and (2) developing a strategy to invest in priority wastewater treatment
and to provide co-financing and/or subsidies to local governments that need to control their
pollution.
Annex 1.5.c   Potential positive impacts
1. Reduced pollution will increase the availability of water of good quality, which in tum will
reduce the net costs for different water uses and improve environmental health.
2. The external costs of pollution (i.e. the costs resulting from the reduced range of uses of
water downstream from the point of pollution) can be internalized. The principle that "the
polluter pays" can be better implemented.
3. The water resource will be managed in a more sustainable way, with improved opportunities
for recycling and use by all sectors.
Annex 1.5.d   Potential negative impacts
a) Poor prioritization of efforts. In an extreme case, there is a risk that decision-makers may be
over-sensitive to water pollution and attribute excess emphasis to regulation and investment
to curb it, at the expense of more urgent initiatives.
b) Weak institutional ownership by local agencies, notably BAPEDALDA. The responsible
local agencies may not (yet) be sufficiently strong to assume these tasks, nor have the
technical competence to prosecute in a court of law. Without adequate monitoring, it mav not
be possible to determine who is responsible for a case of pollution and who should pay to
repair the damage.
c) PROKASIH, and similar new award programs (e.g. PROPER) that intend to stimulate local
governments and industries to curb their pollution, are too easily manipulated, because of
criteria that are poorly specified or biased. These programs may use a disproportional portion
of the regional budget.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -13



d) PROKASIH and related award programs may have a too narrow focus with emphasis only on
industry or another single segment of what is a broader problem.
e) The more insidious impacts of pollution resulting from the use of agricultural chemicals are
difficult to pin-point and may be ignored or overlooked when compared with the more
obvious impacts from urban and industrial pollution. They are relevant particularly to large
'rice bowls', especially those upstream of important water resource sites (lakes, swamp
projects, coastal fisheries etc.), but are also relevant to intensive dryland farming in the
highlands.
f) It will be difficult to introduce the concept of the 'blue water' movement for rivers to
communities (private houses, restaurants, home industries), who are accustomed to use rivers
for waste disposal.
Annex 1.5.e   Mitigation of negative impacts
Item a.
i. Ensure that investment and management planning is carried out in an integrated way that
balances interests, in a transparent fashion. Water resources management and water quality
management need to be brought closer together. This can be achieved through the river basin
management agencies (Sections Annex 1.2 and Annex 1.3).
ii. Governmental regulations assign the responsibility for evacuating wastewater (sewage and
drainage), and for treating it (wastewater treatment plants), mainly to local government (Tk.
II). However, most major wastewater infrastructure investment is financed by the national
government (DG Cipta Karva, Ministry of Public Works). Therefore, when there are river
basin authorities answering to national government, the task of investment planning can be
delegated to these agencies. This would facilitate integrated planning. Management of
investment in wastewater infrastructure, other than very large projects, should be transferred
to provincial governments.
Item b.
iii. BAPEDALDAs will require time to develop the strength required for the proper conduct of
their responsibilities. However, they tend to be stronger in those provinces which have
experienced rapid industrialization and which consequently have more pollution problems.
BAPEDALDAs answer to the Provincial Governor, who would be empowered to delegate
part of their operational tasks to a river basin agency. This will enhance integrated planning
of investment, and the management of both water quality and quantity. Similarly, the basin
agency can also accept assignments on behalf of BAPEDALDA. It can be assumed that both
the basin agency and BAPEDALDA have a strong incentive to improve the water quality
within the territory of the catchment.
Items c & d.
iv. New award programs, which provide positive incentives to industries and municipalities to
improve the quality of their wastewater discharges, are likely to continue in the future.
Greater transparency and accountability in these programs can be instilled through the more
integrated water management at the basin level, the involvement of the basin councils (PTPA
and PPTPA), and the strengthened role of the BAPEDALDA.
v. New programs should become more targeted to improve the welfare of the more vulnerable
and less vocal groups, notably those in the peri-urban and downstream areas.
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                   A -14



vi. PROKASIH should be performed based upon participatory assessment by involving the
community or the basin council. The community concerned would know all aspects of the
production process of a company and the negative impacts that arise. They should be
assigned as an evaluation council, and would have the powers to make recommendations to
changes in the environmental law.
Item e.
vii. Promote policies that encourage integrated pest management in all sectors of intensive
cropping. The Water Users Associations can provide a medium for encouraging this in
irrigated land. However, since dryland arable crops and most tree crops lie outside the water
sector, strong intersectoral coordination is required through the national and regional level
management bodies.
Item f.
viii.Promote policies of education and awareness.
Annex 1.6    Set Up a Management Information System (MIS)
Annex 1.6.a   Rationale
There is currently no coherent system for data collection, management and dissemination. Much
of the data collection is project-based, and is often available only at the project location. Some
types of data may be collected by several agencies, with poor coordination in collection and
storage. There is no systematic practice for storage and retrieval. When a project is completed,
there is generally no commitment to continuation, and quality control may be lacking through
insufficient funding, poor motivation or understanding of objectives. Data users often do not
know where to obtain data, and may have little confidence in the quality of the data that are
available.
*  The data that are so important in planning the conservation and utilization of water are either
not available or of inadequate quality.
*  Data collection at present tends to be project-orientated, and quickly lapses when project
funding finishes, or continues but with poor motivation and quality control. There is no
incentive to manage the data.
*  Management of rainfall data is entrusted to the Meteorological and Geophysical Institute
(Badan Meteorologi dan Geofisika, BMG) which is under the Ministry of Communications.
Many agencies besides BMG collect rainfall data (Agriculture, Water Resources, local
government), but BMG has the mandate to collect, compile and evaluate the data. However,
many of these non-BMG stations are extremely tardy in submitting data; the data when
submitted are very incomplete, and therefore unreliable; and the data are commonly
transcribed by hand, with errors (such as in the decimal place) repeated through to the
database.
*  Examination of rainfall data and drought analysis has recently identified a significant trend of
decreasing average rainfall (e.g. by an average of 30 mm per year at one station in Sumatra
that was selected for analysis) and an increase in the frequency, severity and geographical
extent of droughts associated with the El Nino phenomenon (source: ongoing study, the
World Bank). The lack of a sound database and system for retrieval has hampered such
analysis, which is extremely important in river basin management.
File: DAH/WATSALJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                   A -15



Annex 1.6.b  Policy objective of proposed WATSAL component.
The reform program will provide the framework to develop a more effective and comprehensive
data collection and management system. This will encompass notably hydrological and
meteorological data from all regions in the country, but also information on water use and on
related economics. This system will enable better and longer-term planning of water allocation,
and of investments plans.
Annex 1.6.c  Potential positive impacts
1. Improved motivation of staff and understanding of objectives.
2. Major gaps and deficiencies in information can be easily detected and remedial action taken.
Data are presently compiled by many different agencies with a narrow perspective, and there
is consequently no system for detection of gaps.
3. Improved quality control of hydrological data base. Development of a MIS will provide the
opportunity to improve the systems of data transfer and monitoring.
4. The new system  should improve quality and increase benefits from  allowing better
information sharing, with the data being accessible to all stakeholders.
5. Decision-making on water management and investments will be of better quality. The lack of
a comprehensive and reliable hydrological database has been a serious constraint to planning.
Annex 1.6.d  Potential negative impacts
a) While a major focus of the water sector reform is the decentralization of management, the
establishment of a national database may be seen as a move towards central government
control.
b) The information can be monopolized, and used to re-inforce a top-down management
approach. There might be no improvement in data availability to potential users.
c) The information can be biased to favor certain types of decision; data can be manipulated.
d) Data can create a feeling of over-confidence, which would limit critical analysis and quality
control.
e) Some parts of the data collection and management assignments can become the subject of
inappropriate or poorly regulated commercialization.
f) It will be difficult to provide sufficient motivation and incentives to staff engaged in
collecting routine data, especially in remote areas, particularly if they fail to understand the
importance of their work.
Annex 1.6.e   Mitigation of negative impacts
Items a & b.
i. A database only supports management, at all levels of government, and needs to be set up at
a national level. However, there must be network links between the national and regional
levels, as well as links between suppliers and users.
ii. Restricted ownership of information is a major problem in the without-project situation and
contributes directly to top-down management. Accompanying the establishment of a national
database, methods of dissemination of data to potential users should also be implemented.
File: DAH/WATSAL'SEA Annex.doc I March 1999                                   A -16



This should include networking with major users such as river basin agencies, and with,the
major data suppliers.
iii. With the decentralization that accompanies the water sector reform, the local water
management entities (river basin agencies, investment planners, water user/farmer
associations) become better equipped to use appropriate data. Because the success of their
local water management depends on good data, they will exert pressure to ensure that they
get access to the information. Conversely, they will be encouraged to ensure that the locally
generated information is equally shared with other organizations.
iv. The national apex body would be required to review the effectiveness of the data collection
regularly, and monitor its availability and'use in water management at all levels.
Items c, d & e.
v. The national apex body, or an organization assigned by it, will need to set up a data
management and quality control mechanism. Consensus should be sought as to which types
of information should be collected, in order to avoid duplication or significant gaps. A level
should be determined at which data would not be required as part of a national database, but
care must be taken that future requirements are not jeopardized.
vi. Regular review, including survey of the way that the information affects the water managers
and users, will be necessary to check quality and effectiveness of the information. Data
manipulation may occur equally, or with greater facility, in the without-project situation.
vii. Consideration should be given to issues of ownership, such as data supplied by the private
sector (who may also be data users).
viii.Commercialization of parts of the information system needs to be carefully prepared under
the aegis of the national apex body, if it is considered to be useful. Release of data on the
national water resource should not be regarded as a threat to security, but decisions should be
taken on which parts of the database might be disseminated on a commercial basis through a
fully open and transparent system. The Statistical Data Centre (Badan Pusat Statistic or BPS)
system might forn a model.
Item f.
ix. Staff in the more humble roles of data collection in the field must be given adequate logistic
support to perform their tasks effectively, and should be included in programmes designed to
strengthen human resources in the whole field of data collection and data management.
Annex 1.7    Irrigation Reform, and Transfer of Secondarv Canals to Water User
Associations
Annex 1.7.a   Rationale
The secondary irrigation canals (and related infrastructure) are currently managed, operated and
maintained by the local offices of the national Ministry of Public Works. This situation entrusts a
disproportionate level of authority and responsibility to the national institution, which is
insufficiently responsive to local needs. Irrigation rehabilitation has been expensive, and has been
project-based rather than routine. It has been accompanied with inadequate beneficiary
participation and insufficient operation and maintenance (O&M) to promote sustainability.
Turnover programmes to transfer responsibilities to farmers were intended to reduce government
budget for O&M, but they did not ensure the farmers' support and capacity to undertake O&M.
File: DAH/WATSAL/SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -17



The introduction of Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) has not been conducted with transparency and
accountability and has been regarded merely as an additional irric,ation tax. It currently provides
less than 1% of the total national funding for O&M.
Much of the discussion in the Public Consultations focused on this reform issue, and only a very
brief summary of the problems is given here:
* Reasons for failure of the system of Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) are cost of collection, lack
of transparency, and failure to utilize the fund so obtained for the purpose of irrigation
Operations and Maintenance (O&M).
*  Many conflicting opinions were expressed concerning the readiness or otherwise for farmer
groups (Water User's Associations or WUA's) to take over the management of secondary
networks (in addition to tertiary), to undertake the collection and management of ISF, and to
have the ability to carry out necessary rehabilitation.
* As an illustrative example of dissatisfaction with ISF, farmers in Kabupaten Karawang
formerly paid an annual levy of 25 kg/ha of unhulled rice to the WUA to pay for tertiary
network O&M. Since 1995 this was replaced by ISF which was paid by the Village Head into
the Dispenda. However the funds were no longer used for O&M with the result that the
tertiary network broke down.
Annex-1.7.b   Policy objective of proposed WATSAL component.
The reforrn will divest the O&M responsibility to local associations of water users/farmers, who
will be empowered to collect and manage ISF for this purpose, and who will have the autonomy
and authority to manage irrigation services.
Annex 1.7.c   Potential positive impacts
1. The farmers will have a higher degree of "ownership" of the infrastructure: they get the
benefit of a better and more responsive management of the system, and will feel more
responsible to ensure that the system will remain well maintained. They will also have a
sense of ownership of their association, rather than the WUA becoming an instrument of
government.
2. By recognizing the interests of each water user, the transfer will facilitate stakeholders'
involvement in the planning and management of water use, thereby increasing transparency
and accountability.
3. Opportunities for the misuse of the collected funds will be reduced. The funds will be used
for O&M within the service area in which they are collected.
4. The reform will lead to more equitable distribution of water and its related benefits, including
enhanced yields, provided the associations are set up according to appropriate rules, and are
well organized.
5. Through the organizational structure, the farmers will get better access to services (financial,
social, technical etc.). Government officials will be more willing to recognize WUA leaders
as legitimate representatives of farmers.
6. WUAs can provide a structure for participation in basin water resource management, dealing
with problems such as reallocation and water quality.
7. There will be better allocation of water within each irrigation zone, and economically more
efficient use of the water which will be customized to local demand.
File: DAH/WATSAL1SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                       A -18



8. Stronger incentives and better organizational arrangements will encourage preventive as well
as remedial maintenance to be conducted.
9. WUAs set in place a mechanism that can facilitate conflict resolution relating to water
resources.
10. The required organizational structure that is available offers the possibility to develop
business enterprises (such as joint purchase and marketing cooperatives, fisheries, electric
power generation etc.).
11. WUAs and other farmer organizations can be more readily encouraged to introduce
integrated pest management programmes under their own initiatives.
12. Farmer management offers the possibility to adjust crop selection and diversification to social
and environmental conditions.
13. Farmer management offers an incentive to farmers to improve land management
14. Successful WUAs strengthen the development of local organizational formats which will
support the development of civil societv and democracy at the local level, provided they are
set up according to appropriate rules that facilitate cooperative action.
Annex 1.7.d   Potential negative impacts
a) The capacity of WUAs to manage O&M, to handle ISF, and to handle routine operations,
will vary widely between different associations, between different irrigation schemes, and
between different social and ethnic groups; in many instances the existing WUAs may be so
weak that handover would not be possible.
b) A unified WJUA structure may be encouraged or imposed that does not respond to widely
varying social conditions and traditional systems of village leadership and customary rights
and obligations, leading to conflict or failure in the management of the network.
c) The association could be monopolized by existing powerful individuals or groups, to the
detriment of the representation of weaker or disadvantaged groups, such as tail-enders, poor
farmers, women (e.g. families without a male head of household), indigenous groups, etc.
d) If WUAs are not truly autonomous, farmers may still not feel at liberty to diversify cropping
patterns.
e) The associations may emphasize productive uses of land and water at the detriment of
environmental values, for example by increasing the use of pesticides, fertilizer, etc.
f) Infrastructural development may be implemented without adequate environmental evaluation
and safeguards. NGOs and even BAPEDALDA may be less willing to monitor or expose
non-observance of environmental regulations or incorrect environmental management when
local communities are concerned.
g) Poor planning and management may result in failure to achieve the yield increases that would
be expected consequent upon sound water management.
h) Government may withdraw completely from support to the farmers and WUAs. This could
include failure of Government to respond to natural disasters such as destruction of irrigation
infrastructure through floods, tectonic activity etc.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -19



Annex 1.7.e   Mitigation of negative impacts
Item a & b.
i. The social dimensions of this major policy reform are so far-reaching that there must be a
continuous process of review and revision, both at the WATSAL second tranche stage of
project preparation and through the National Apex Body once this is formed. The review
process should be systematized, and the introduction of transfer should be sufficiently
flexible, and if necessary phased, to accomodate the capabilities and aspirations of the
communities concerned (item a).
ii. A monitoring system should be set up to review the proper implementation and management
of the associations (items a & b).
iii. Great care should be given to developing explicit and comprehensive rules for the election of
representatives, and for the functioning of the association in general (items a, b & d).
iv. A mechanism is to be provided to allow redressing inappropriate situations (items a, b & d) .
v. The organizational structure of WUAs should be sufficiently flexible to permit variations in
management style according to patterns of traditional hierarchy and customary mores extant
in the different regions of Indonesia (item a & d).
vi. Monitoring and regulation to be carried out by appropriate agencies such as river basin
agencies, Dinas Pertanian (fertilizer use), Integrated Pest Management programme (pesticide
use), BAPEDALDA (monitoring of quality of recharre/run-off water) (items e & f).
vii. River basin agencies and BAPEDALDA must ensure that the AMDAL regulations are
followed for all development activities. NGOs should cooperate with WUAs in managing and
monitoring environmental issues (items e & f).
viii.National apex body to evaluate regularly whether farmers and associations receive
appropriate degree of support. River basin agencies to be mobilized to monitor damage at
times of natural disasters, and to hold sufficient funds to undertake repairs that are beyond
the capacity of the farmers/water users groups. Government would be expected to have a
disaster relief fund available for emergency repairs following natural disasters (item g).
File: DAH/WATSAL'SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -20



WATER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (WATSAL)
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 2
THE PUBLIC CONSULTATION PROCESS
Government of Indonesia
Inter-Agency Task Force           March 1999
On Water Sector Policy Reform



ANNEX 2.  THE PUBLIC CONSULATION PROCESS
Annex 2.1    Provinces selection
Environmental issues specific to each province are outlined below, and the matrix table (Annex
Table 1) compares these issues with every other province of Indonesia.
West Java
Province level
*  Competition for water. This is a major issue in a province of high rural and urban population,
particularly concerning transfer of water 'to DKI (Jatiluhur). What proportion of Jatiluhur is
reserved for DKI? Also high demand for industry, as well as for irrigation of northern coastal
plains with their rather long dry season.
*  Balance of surface water / groundwater extraction. Excessive and uncontrolled extraction of
groundwater in cities such as Jakarta and Bandung is having serious negative impacts (lower
water tables, saline intrusions), which may be felt especially by the urban poor. Everv dry
season, there is a spate of deepening of private wells in South Jakarta, how long can this
continue? Should the domestic users pay to extract groundwater?
*  Land conversions, agricultural to urban-industrial - it seems to be always the best quality
riceland that gets converted; why?
* Flooding, especially in the Karawang - Indramayu plains. Heavy utilization of watersheds is
one causative factor. The Bandung plain is also flood-prone.
*  Water deficits - especially the same regions as those subject to flooding, including all the
northern coastal plain. Did competition from non-agricultural users exacerbate the shortage
during the 19.97 El Nino? This is an important issue because we can expect more droughts of
the severity of 1997.
*  New storage capacity. Jatigede (Cimanuk basin) is planned for early development; what other
plans are there? We need to be aware of likely increased need for storage, due to less
reliability of rainfall and continuing watershed damage.
*  Watershed problems. This is a major issue in West Java. Most watersheds are severely
damaged e.g. Cimanuk (subject of major World Bank-funded initiative, but do we really
expect to see results in terms of improved stability of river flow, longer life of Jatigede
reservoir, or will results be mainly in poverty alleviation among watershed residents?). With
whom should the initiatives lie (what institution)?
*  Biodiversity. Probably difficult to discuss this in the context of the water resource. The
annual (and unsustainable) harvest of waterbirds in the swampy coastal plains of Karawang-
Indramayu might form a discussion point (Wetlands International have a project there to
manage this harvest - is this still continuing?).
*  Pollution. A major issue in this province. Apart from industrial pollution, it is also necessary
to consider run-off from agricultural land (fertilizer and pesticide use, impacts on fisheries),
drainage from urban areas (especially Bandung because this is a major upstream city and
industrial area).
*  Coastal zone. Most mangrove forests in this province have now been converted to tambaks.
From over 28,000 ha in the province in the 1970s, there are now less than 5,000 ha of
mangroves. Private developments in the fisheries sector are having serious negative impacts
File: DAH/WATSAL/SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                        A -21



on inshore fisheries (one of the poorest rural communities). Do coastal communities benefit
from private tambaks? Do tambaks suffer water shortage from upstream extraction, or is
there sufficient recharge flow? What is the impact of El Nino drought on tambaks?
*  Very heavy sediment loads of rivers, which combined with chemical pollution is responsible
for severe damage to coral reefs, especially in Jakarta Bay and the Thousand Islands. Are the
sediment loads of rivers in the downstream/coastal zone regarded favourably by farmers as a
source of fertility?
*  Resettlement. What is the experience from the existing major storage reservoirs? What will
be the impacts of Jatigede, and how should these be resolved?
Kabupaten Karawang.
* Is Jatiluhur the main source of irrigation water in this kabupaten? Urban / rural competition
will be a main issue, and pollution (Bandung lies in its catchment area). Are there also issues
of rural I rural or inland / coastal competition?
*  Flooding and water shortage are major problems.
*  Coastal issues (see above).
*  Impacts of POJ management on stakeholders and users in Kabupaten Karawang.
Kabupaten Serang and Pandeglang.
An additional consultation was held at TK II and local level at Serang, in order to ascertain any
difference in response from the Ciujung basin, where there is no river basin authority such as
POJ.
West Sumatra
Province level
Generally the issues will be the same as for West Java but at lower intensity, owing to:
* higher rainfall with more equitable distribution;
* less competition especially from urban/industrial users (mainly an agricultural province);
* watersheds less damaged;
* coastal issues may not be of concern (lack of brackish water fish ponds, mangrove zones,
coral reefs);
* possibly strong sense of 'ownership' by well-defined ethnic group, low proportion of
immigrants.
Perhaps should focus on:
*  Competition among rural users. One example might be wasteful water use by upstream
farmers on the Batang Antokan irrigation project, leaving tail-end deficits.
*  Competition using as an example PLN / irrigation (PLTA Maninjau Hydropower Station on
Danau Malinjau and irrigation from Batang Antokan is potential source of conflict at some
seasons - was the conflict exacerbated by the 1997 drought?).
*  Impacts of conversion of coastal swamps, including deep peats, to tree crops, especially oil
palm estates - what are negative impacts of these, and external impacts? Example is the big
new estate on Lunang swamps of Pesisir Selatan - has this been successful?
File: DAHI/WATSAL/SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -22



* [The debate should avoid issues of land rights, and allocations to tree crop estates (HGUs),
which lie outside the WATSAL briefl.
* Flooding. This is perhaps especially relevant to the swamp transmigration settlements of
Pesisir Selatan, which lie on mainly fertile land (in contrast to the nearbyoilpalm estates) but
have very high susceptibility to flooding.
* What was the impact of the 1997 El Nino drought? This is important because such droughts
can be expected to recur. Is there a need for further storage reservoirs?
* Watersheds - West Sumatra is the catchment area for some major rivers of the eastem
Sumatra plains (eg Rokan Kiri, Kampar, Kuantan, Batang Hari). What are the negative
impacts of watershed damage in highly populated West Sumatra on downstream areas
outside the province?
* The Batang Hari is classified by GOI as one of 22 'supercritical' watersheds, and Jambi is
now reporting more irregular river flows and increased flooding (besides the normal annual
river flooding), and probably also higher sedimentation (source: recent World Bank-funded
environmental study for Jambi Regional Development Project Preparation). This is an
excellent example of a major river basin/critical watershed that crosses provincial boundaries.
Does West Sumatra give low priority to watershed management because negative impacts
occur outside their province? [It should be noted however that a recent Jambi PU study
considers that watershed damage is not responsible for high rates of sedimentation at Jambi
city].
* [Coastal. West Sumatra has a sandy oceanic coastline, with few issues concerning loss of
mangroves, damage to coral reefs, fishpond developments].
* Biodiversity. The loss of the remaining coastal swamp forests, especially to oil palm estates
(probably marginally successful, perhaps unsuccessful), is a major source of concem.
Although perhaps not widely recognized as important, the former Lunang swamp forests
were probably extremely significant to biodiversity (e.g. White-winged Wood Duck Cairina
scutulata and Storm's Stork Ciconia stormii, two bird species for which Indonesia has a
major global responsibility). The remaining forests there are probably still important.
* Biodiversity. Protected and/or endemic freshwater fishes of Danau Maninjau may be a
discussion point with NGOs: Homaloptera gymnopgaster (Selusur or Dendung), Notopterus
sp. (Balida Jawa), Puntius microps (Wader Goa or Garieng). These might not be endemic,
but probably all have suffered from the hydropower station (there is no fish ladder and even
the original spillway never functions), and likewise eels (ikan belut) have declined in this
river system. In the Jakarta Post of February 2 1999, reference is made to the mass death of
an endemic fish species in Danau Singkarak, although this was attributed to natural causes
(such as volcanic sulphur deposits - similar events have occurred on Danau Maninjau).
* Freshwater fisheries play a major role in the Maninjau lake economy, with imported species
(including cage breeding) probably having a negative impact on the endemic species. The
local communities on the Antokan irrigation scheme practice a self-regulating system of fish
captures (ikan larangan), a unique local adat custom that might become strengthened
through the implementation of WUAs.
* Issues of Water Hyacinth Eichhornia crassipes (eg Danau Maninjau).
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -23



Kabupaten level.
Few of the issues mentioned above relate to Tanah Datar. Despite the name, this is a rather
mountainous kabupaten, with wetland rice restricted to valleys. Another crater lake, Danau
Singkarak, lies partly within the kabupaten. The issues of water rights, irrigation transfer, and
water users associations are likely to take priority here.
South Sulawesi.
A very diverse province with important rice-growing areas. Although the south has a verv
strongly monsoonal climate (but seasons vary in a pronounced fashion according to coastal
exposure), nearly all irrigation is run-of-river; with very little storage capacity. There is thus very
little dry-season rice cropping. A storage reservoir is proposed for the Jeneberang, with
consequent issues of resettlement arising. This river basin is also proposed for autonomous
management, the only such basin currently proposed that lies outside Java. Coastal issues,
freshwater fisheries, and watershed degradation are all very important.
Province level.
* Competition. Rural/urban competition is perhaps not important (except around Ujung
Pandang), and upstream/downstream and inlandlcoastal competition may be more significant.
There are very extensive brackish water fishponds in the south, especially in Maros, adjacent
to the intensive (but seasonal) riceplains - are there conflicts for water here?
* Groundwater - to what extent are groundwater resources developed, and is there good
potential in the monsoonal plains?
*  Flooding. This is perhaps not a very important issue in the province, except perhaps in the
newly developed plains of Mamuju - Pasangkayu. The Tempe lakes form a naturally flooding
basin (see below).
*  Water deficits. Most irrigation is run-of-river, without dry season cropping, and perhaps
subject to major deficits in dry years. With its reliance on the annual monsoon (eg Ujung
Pandang, Gowa), the failure of the monsoon in 1997/98 may have had major impacts. This
could become a very important issue in future years. There will surely be a need to develop
storage capacity.
*  Watershed problems. The Jeneberang catchment is moderately or even very degraded, but the
catchments of the Sadang and Mapili rivers are in a severely degraded state since historical
times. The Sadang especially is very important for irrigation. In view of decreasing stability
of rainfall, watershed damage may become increasingly significant.
*  Pollution. Agricultural pollution will be the main problem (eutrophication, pesticides). This
may be very significant for the Tempe Lakes fisheries.
*  Biodiversity. The shallow, partially seasonal Tempe Lakes basin supports a unique and rather
intensive freshwater fishery, using 'artificial' floating islands, that must be extremely
sensitive to chemical degradation from the surrounding ricelands that drain into the basin.
The lakes, together with swamps at the Mapili mouth and also on the east coast, form a very
important habitat system for large numbers of waterbirds (non-endemic). These will also
suffer from pollution.
*  The island of Sulawesi in general has very high rates of biological endemism, and in this
context, the loss of some of the last remaining lowland forests on the island, which still occur
in Mamuju and Pasangkayu, is a source of major concern.
File: DAH/WATSALJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                         A -24



*  Coastal issues are extremely important. The province has seen phenomenal conversion of
mangroves to tambaks, with deliberate government encouragement, to the extent that from
over 66,000 ha of mangroves in the 1970s, 50% have now been cut down. The loss of
biodiversity and fish breeding grounds, and the replacement of utilization of naturally diverse
resources and smallholder inshore fishery by private tambaks, may be having severe impacts.
The coastal plain of Maros has been converted to tambaks since historic times.
*  There are important areas of coral in the province, including the manv islands of the
Spernonde Archipelago (off Ujung Pandang). It is probable that deliberately harmful fishing
techniques (explosives, poisons) and perhaps mining as a building material are having more
serious impacts than pollution, but sedimentation is likely to be increasing also. There are
also significant seagrass beds in the same region.
*  Resettlement. This is expected to become a major issue if the Bili-Bili dam is implemented.
Kabupaten Gowa.
Gowa borders kotamadya Ujung Pandang and there may be urban/rural conflicts. From the above
list, the following issues may be relevant locally:
* Competition (urban / rural, inland / coastal).
* Water deficits (but perhaps not flooding).
* Pollution (agricultural pollution and sedimentation, with impacts in coastal zone).
* Watershed damage in Jeneberang.
* Resettlement consequent upon Jeneberang dam at Bili-Bili.
Annex 2.2 Participants Invited to the Public Consultations
At the provincial level consultations, it was primarily the provincial level government institutions
(Dinas) who were invited, such as the Agricultural, Fisheries, Forestry, and Public Works
including Water Resources, together with the Regional Planning Office (BAPPEDA), some
regional offices of national ministries (Kanwil) such as Mines and Forestry, the local
environmental bureau (Bureau Lingkungan Hidup), and representatives of quasi-government
organizations such as those supplying the domestic water supply (PDAM) and electricity (PLN),
Real Estate Indonesia, and officials from industrial estates.
At the kabupaten level, the Tingkat II level officials of many of the above institutions attended,
but there was a greater emphasis towards social services (for example the local Health service,
and Cipta Karya), and towards civil society (especially the housing and industrial sectors). At the
local level, the emphasis was almost entirely on representatives from villages, especially Water
User Associations, but also representatives of local industries such as a privately sponsored
smallholder fishpond organisation (Perusahan Inti Rakyat Tambak), and individual industrial
concerns.
This is only a brief summary of the participants. The Indonesian language report on the
consultations carries the full lists. It is striking to observe, however, that locaINGOs and those
who speak on behalf of local communities (such as university study centres, teacher
organizations, etc) were conspicuously absent from several of the meetings. There may be
different reasons, but one could be that "water" is not a sector that ranks high on their lists of
priorities when other issues (social safety net, crisis-induced poverty, forestry issues, etc) are
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annea.doc I March 1999                                     A-25



perceived to be more urgent. Secondly, there may be still some remnant reluctance from an
earlier period of government for NGOs to sit down alongside government.
As a consequence of this, particular attention was given during the second round consultations to
organizing a separate forum for NGOs, university groups etc. in each province, in a non-official
environment. The results of these NGO meetings are given in Annex 6.
Annex 2.3 Proposal for further public consultations during preparation for Second
Tranche.
Two provinces are proposed for further consultations. Provisionally these will be selected from
either South Kalimantan or South Sumatra (for swamps issues) and Nusa Tenggara Barat (for the
dry zone). The environmental issues specific to each of these are outlined below:
1. South Kalimantan.
This province is recommended because:
* It is the best example of traditional (Banjarese and Buginese) systems of swamp
management, with deep-water rice varieties; also intensive buffalo husbandry and duck
breeding.
* It is one of two provinces in which swamp reclamation (so-called tidal irrigation) schemes
were first pioneered during the modem era, under transmigrant settlement, with varying
degrees of success.
* There is intensive and mainly unsustainable exploitation of swamp resources (timber, e.g. for
the furniture industry at Amuntai, fisheries, hunting of wetland birds), with serious negative
impacts on the natural fauna.
*  Within a single river basin (for example the Negara river), there are contiguous zones of
intensive use under different management systems, from irrigated rice upstream to deep-
water swamp rice downstream. There are likely to be unusual forms of competition, or
perhaps of mutually supportive practices that might be jeopardized by insensitive
development. In particular, a substantial area of the swamps downstream from the cultivated
zones has been cleared for tree crops estates, or are under application for licence. It is feared
that such developments may have very serious negative impacts on both the upstream and
downstream users.
* The province also has a major problem of a storage reservoir (Riam Kanan), where there is
almost no watershed management and indeed watershed degradation is actively continuing;
the yield of the reservoir in terms of irrigation command, domestic water supply in
Banjarmasin, and hydro-electricity, is seriously deficient in the recent repeated droughts that
have affected the region.
* The Barito is an example of a trans-provincial river basin.
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex doc I March 1999                                        A -26



2. South Sumatra.
As an alternative to South Kalimantan, South Sumatra has been proposed as representative for a
'swamp province'. It has the following characteristics:
* It has only limited areas of coastal zone traditional swamp cultivation (the east coast of
Sumatra has extensive areas of spontaneous settlement of Buginese migrants, but these are
more concentrated in Riau and Jambi).
* There are very extensive swamp reclamation ('tidal irrigation') schemes, constructed under a
different system from that in South Kalimantan (there was a competition in the 1970s
between ITB and Gajahmada Universities' in the design of such schemes), again with varving
degrees of success. Further settlements such as Air Padang - Air Sugihan lie closer to the peat
zone and have met with less success.
* Recent swamp schemes have also been the site for human - wild animal conflicts. most
notably interactions with elephants in the Air Sugihan settlement.
* The province does not have contiguous zones of irrigation and swamp use, and indeed there
are rather limited areas of irrigation in the province. However the seasonal lake systems
(lebaks) along the Ogan and Komering rivers (tributaries of the Musi upstream from
Palembang) are intensively used for fisheries as well as rice. As in South Kalimantan they are
also important for wetland avifauna.
* In contrast to South Kalimantan, where the swamp avifauna has already been seriously
depleted, there still remain important areas in South Sumatra that would justify protection
status, both for large wetland birds breeding in the swamp forests and mangroves, and also
the tidal mudflats of the Banyuasin which are used by tens of thousands of migratory
shorebirds.
- The main sources of industrial pollution in the province (Palembang city, coal mines, etc.) lie
upstream of the swamps (in South Kalimantan, they are mostly downstream of the utilized
terrain).
- The Musi river is a good example of a strategic river basin which crosses two provinces. Its
upstream areas are intensively utilized in Bengkulu province.
It is emphasized that the public consultations in the selected swamp province should not focus
upon the technical issues of swamp management, which are indeed very complex, but upon the
social and institutional implications of management.
3. Nusatenggara Barat.
One of the main problems of water distribution in the dry zone of SE Indonesia is conflicts
between upstream and downstream users. Where surface water is so limiting, clearly those
upstream benefit. This is very pronounced in Manggarai, on the island of Flores, where the
uplands are much more intensively occupied than the drier lowlands. There are well established
customary rights and traditions throughout the region, although these may vary from place to
place, but they are in danger of breaking down in the process of modern development.
It is proposed to select Nusatenggara Barat for the process of public consultation in the dry zone,
provisionally focussing on kabupaten Lombok Timor which has a significantly drier climate than
Lombok Barat, and quite intensive irrigation systems (technical and village) on somewhat porous
soils. Local traditions were at least forrnerly strongly developed.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -27



ANNEX TABLE 1. WATSAL-SEA. MATRIX OF MAJOR ISSUES BY PROVINCE
(In bold: the three selected provinces)
GENERIC ISSUE   SPECIFIC PROBLEM    ACEH    N. SUM    W. SUM         RIAU     JAMBI   S. SUM    BENGK    LAMP.   W. JAVA   C. JAVA   E. JAVA          BALI
_(mainland)                                         w.DKI   w.YOGJA               __
Presence of major river Basin authority exists  0    0         0         0         0        0         0          0        XXX       XXX       XXX        0
basins             or proposed.
Major inter-provincial  0        0        XXX       XXX       XXX       XXX       XXX        0         0         0          0         0
basins
Major intra-provincial  XX      XX         X         x         X        XX         X        XxX       Xxx       xxx       XxX         X
basins                                                                                                         _ . _
Competition for    rural/rural            X         XX         X        0         0         X         0              xx        xxx X      xx       xxX  XXX
water
rural/urban            X        XxX        X         0         0         X         0         X        XXx       xxx        xxX       xxX
ruraV/industrial       X        XXX        X         0         0         X         0         X        XxX        XX        XXx        x
inland/coastal         0         XX        0         0         0         0         0         X        Xxx        XXX       XXx        x
Major swamp schemes                       X         X          X       XXX       XXX       XXX        XX       XXX         0         0         0         0
Flooding                                  XX        xx        XX         X         X         X         0         X        xxx       xxX       xXX        x
Water deficits                            7?        7?        XX         x         0         x         X        XX        Xxx       xxx       xxx        xx
Storage capacity                                               X        0         0         0          O        XX        Xxx       xxX       xxx        X
insufficient
Watershed problems  deforestation         XX       XXX        XX        XX        Xx        XX        XX        XXX       XXX       xXX       XxX        xx
erosion/sedimentation  X        XXX       XXX        X         X         XX        XX        XX        XXX       XxX       XxX       Xx
flooding               X         XX        XX        X         x         x         X         X         XXX       xxx       XXx        X
low base flows         X         XX        X         0         0         0         0         X         Xxx       xxX       xxx       xxx
Biodiversity       areas (montane)       XXX       XXX        XXX        X         X         X        XXX       XXX       XXX        xx        xx        X
areas (lowland/coast)  XX        X         XX        xX       xxx        XX        X         XX         X        xx         x         x
other                  X         X         XX        X         X         x         X         X          x         X         x       x
Pollution          agricultural           X         Xx        XX         x         X         x         X        XX        xxx       xxx       xxx        xxx
industrial             ?        xxx        xX       XxX        xX       xxx        X        XXX        xxx       xxx       xxx        x
urban                  X        XXX        X         X         X         XX        0          X        Xxx       xxX       xxx        x
Coastal            tambaks                xx         x         0         0         x         x         0        XX         xx        xx       xxx         x
mangroves              XX        XX        0        xxX       xxx       xxx        0         Xx        xx         x         xx        x
coral reefs            X         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          x         x         X         xx
Resettlement       Proposed dams          0          0         X         0         0         0         0         X        XXX       XXX        XXX        X
Irrigation transfer and land acquisition are not listed here as they are common to all provinces (that have irrigation schemes)



ANNEX TABLE 1. WATSAL-SEA. MATRIX OF MAJOR ISSUES BY PROVINCE
(in bold: the three selected provinces)
GENERIC ISSUE   SPECIFIC PROBLEM    NTB         NTT    E. TIMOR   W. KAL    C KAL    S. KAL    E. KAL    N. SUL    C. SUL    S. SUL    SE. SUL  MALUKU    IRJA
Presence ot major river Basin authority exists  0   0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        XXX        0         0         0
basins             or proposed.
Major inter-provincial  0        0        0         0         XX       XX         0         0         X         X         0         0         0
basins
Major intra-provincial  X        X        X         XX        XX       XX        XX         X         X        XX         X         X        Xx
basins             I__  _ _                                 _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
Competition tor    rural/rural           XXX       XXX       XX        X         X         XX        X         X        XX        XX         X         X         0
water
rurallurban            0         0        0         XX        X        XXX        X         7         X        XX         X         0         0
rural/industrial       0         0        0         X         x         XX       XX         0         0         X         X         0         X
inland/coastal        XX        XX        XX        0         0         0         0         7         7        xX         x         0         0
Major swamp schemes                       0         0         0       XXX       XxX       XXX        X         0         X         X         X         0        XX
Flooding                                  X         X         X         X        X         Xx        X         X         x        XXX        X         0         X
Water deficits                           XXX       XXX       XXX        X        XX       XXX        XX        XX        XX       XXX        XX       XXX        XX
Storage capacity                         xx        XX        xX         0        0         xx        0         ?         ??       xxx        X         X         x
insufficient
Watershed problems  deforestation        XXX       XxX       XXX       XX        XX       XXX        XX        X         XX       XxX        Xx        XX        XX
erosion/sedimentation  XX'      XX        XX        XX        XX       XXX       XX        XX         XX       XXX        X         X        XX
flooding               X         X         X         X        X         X         X         X         X        XxX        X         X         X
low base flows        XXX       XXX      XXX        x         XX        xX       xx         X         X        XXX       xX        xX         x
Biodiversity       areas (montane)       XX        Xxx       XXX       XX        XX        X         XX       XXX       XxX       XXX        XX       xxx        xxX
areas (lowland/coast)  0         X         x        XX        XX        x         XX        X         Xx        XX        xx       xx        xxX
other                  X         X         X         X        X         X         x         X         x        Xxx        x         X         X
Pollution          agricultural          XX         X         X         x        X         XX        x         X         X         XX        x         X         x
industrial             X         0         0        xx        XX        x         xx        xx        x         xx        x         x         x
urban                  X         X         0         X        X         XX        XX        X         0         xx        0         0         x
Coastal           tambaks                 0         0         7         x        0         X         xx        X         X        xxx        xx        x         x
mangroves              0         X         X       xXX        xX        XX       XXX        X         xx       XXX        xx        xx        xxX
coral reefs           XX        XXX       Xx         0        0         X         xX       XxX        xx       XxX        Xx       xxx       xXx
Resettlement       Proposed dams          x         X         0         0        0         XX        0         0         0        xxx        0         0         x
Irrigation transfer and land acquisition are not listed here as they are common to all provinces (that have irrigation schemes)
nfl- I. Ch~i ) 2A   1000



WATER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (WATSAL)
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 3
THE PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS
(FIRST ROUND)
Government of Indonesia
Inter-Agency Task Force               March 1999
On Water Sector Policy Reform



ANNEX 3.   RESULTS OF THE PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS (FIRST ROUND).
This annex presents the results of the first round of public consultations, based on a translation
from the Indonesian language. The various points raised in each of the three provinces are here
compiled into a single document, and a result of this is that the sequence, emphasis and even to
some extent the precise contents may differ from the Indonesian language versions presented as a
separate document.
As in Annex 1, issues are subdivided into policy reform item, although there is inevitablv some
overlap and duplication. Important environmental impacts identified at the consultations have
already been incorporated into Annex 1. In, general the aspirations of the participants at the
consultations, as presented here, will have greater utility as an input into the on-going
deliberations of the WATSAL Task Force in project preparation, than in seeking measures to
mitigate environmental impacts.
Annex 3.1     Establishment of a National Apex Body
Conservation
*  There is not yet any integration between water conservation and water utilization. An
important issue not yet in the agenda is that of regulations and agencies for conservation of
water. Without serious discussion of this issue, all the following seven issues have limited
value; the resource will become scarce if it is not closelv monitored. While there are many
agencies that manage water use, it is not clear who manages conservation; this is one urgent
reason for an independent body for national water management.
*  In West Java, for example, there is no agency at province level responsible for water resource
conservation (such as at kabupaten level there is Dinas PKT). Perum Perhutani was expected
to implement conservation in the forested portions of thecatchment area, but its approach has
been primarily commercial. It was recommended that the Governnent transfers forest
management, that has been allocated to Perum Perhutani, back to the provincial government,
so that Pemda can take over the responsibility for water resource conservation. [This issue is
taken up further under the next policy reform item].
Coordination
*  Conservation and utilization of water needs to be implemented not sectorally but in a
comprehensive and integrated fashion. If this body is formed, it must have authority over the
planning, conservation and utilization of water, although operations would be performed by
the existing technical institutions. Currently there is a mixing of functions, planning with
servicing, and it is better to separate these activities. As long as the planning function is
fragmented, there will be overlapping activities. The organization of national water policies
and planning activities by all institutions concerned with functions of water resources, from
watershed to coastal plains, should become a priority.
*  If such a body is formned, it must have interdepartmental authority and a strong authority in
planning, perrnits and organization; sectoral agencies must be united under this coordinating
institution and no longer follow sectoral interests. Formation of the national body must
include all related agencies, such as Ministries of Forestry, Environment, Agriculture,
National Land Agency, Department of Security and Defence (Hankam), Meteorological
Agency etc. It will also have authority directly under the president.
* There are overlapping regulations concerning water management between national,
provincial and departmental bodies. Coordination will be improved between central,
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -30



provincial and kabupaten institutions. Up to now, policies have been put in place by several
departments, promoting much complexity.
* The need for agencies to handle resolution of conflicts remains, in view of the fact that
competition in the irrigation sector is becoming increasingly tough. At the local level, such
conflicts should be submitted to the Public Works Service which has an arbitration function.
* Service orientation of government institutions up to now has focussed towards the
requirements of the 'service provider' rather than the 'end users'. An umbrella organization
will be able to organize fairly and consistently concerning the needs of water resources in the
framework of industrial, agricultural and domestic sectors.
* It must be concerned not only with surface water but also with groundwater, springs, lakes
etc. under one umbrella.
* Handling of water resources requires accountability and professionalism as well as full
coordination of implementation.
*  At the national level the planned fornation of the body must be integrated with the changing
paradigm for irrigation, by which the social function becomes an economic function.
Contra:
* Creation of agency should be carefully thought out because there is a tendency to settle each
problem by establishing a new institution; many institutions have been founded in rural
administration like LKMD, Farmer Groups, Village Cooperatives, Water Users (WUA), but
most do not function well. Even if well functioning, their management has been always in the
same hands. The number of institutions should be decreased, or instead the existing
institutions should be revitalized. [West Sumatra].
*  From the many institutions planned, not even one has been established so far; e.g. BPSDA,
Bapedalda. A problem of new institutions is their relationships with the existing ones. New
institutions will alter the interaction patterns, division of tasks, and the constellation of
existing interrelations. The government has often established institutions without due
consideration of their operational consequences, for example mechanisms of financing and
ensuring continuity. Such institutions should anticipate a boost from the self-supporting
regional government or NGOs. The central government claim over-riding the regional
government could result in the formulation of fictive development projects. [West Sumatra].
* Many existing agencies give the impression that they have merely been project addresses
with very little empowerment. For example, the LKMD has so far been under-utilized, except
as an extension of central or regional govemments - even when burdened with heavy
programmes such as Social Safety Net (IPS). [West Sumatra].
* The causes of stagnation of any programme should be considered more carefully. Not all
weaknesses are handled through institutionalization. Weakness so far has generally arisen at
the management level in the execution of the program. [West Sumatra].
* There are concerns that sectoral egoism comes to the fore in the creation of the new
institutions.
* There is contradiction between UW 5/74 concerning principals of regional government, and
PP 45/1992 (which gives wider autonomy to the regions, with communications from centre to
region being more consultative and less instructive). [West Java].
File: DAH/WATSAL1SEA_Annec.doc I March 1999                                      A -31



*  It would be sufficient to empower Bapedal, Bapedalda I and II with the authority for
coordination in professional management. [West Java].
*  There must be a strong prerequisite to abolish the sectoral needs; the possibility for
materialization of a national body is very confusing. [West Java].
*  Especially for a river that does not cross several kabupatens, TK II should have full
autonomy and responsibility over that river.
Annex 3.2    Strengthening of Provincial and River Basin Water Resources Management
Committees (PTPA and PPTPA) and Basin Management Units (Balai PSDA)
Conservation
*  Watershed management up to now is limited to water utilization without taking conservation
into account. Institutional organization needs to be integrated into an umbrella organization
that is functional in managing both conservation and utilization of water resources. Each river
basin (Daerah Aliran Sungai or DAS), under whatever form of management body, must be
handled throughout, from catchment to river mouth. However it is important to recognize the
various needs of different islands and provinces for a water management body, as each
region has its own characteristics. For example, in some the watershed is far from the sea, in
others it is close.
*  To take the Ciujung-Ciliman basin (West Java) as an example, this is a river basin (DAS)
composed of several rivers that cross Kabupatens Serang, Lebak and Pandeglang. Agencies
managing water use are Dinas Pengairan Serang, Cabang Dinas Pengairan Lebak and
Pandeglang, PIPWS (Projek Induk Pengembangan Wilayah Sungai), BPSDA and PIJB
(Projek Irigasi Jawa Barat). Agencies handling conservation are Perum Perhutani Wilayah I
Banten, Dinas PKT Serang, Pandeglang and Lebak, and Proyck Konservasi Sumberdaya Air-
PIPWS. Problem is that over the past five years, since 1994, there has been a water deficit,
because of changes in the watershed.
*  In West Sumatra, Padang uses the most water, yet development and protection of its
watershed is inadequate. This must be included in a scale of program priorities. Programmes
for watershed management are needed, such as Batang Kuranji, Sijunjung, Tanah Datar,
Ulubilin, Bukit Agam, and Bukit Anai. Needs a budget for watershed rehabilitation.
*  There is no masterplan for water resources as there is for a region. BAPPEDA should
become the leading sector in this. In this the stakeholders should participate and feel
'bonded'. But first, we need profiles of each river basin or region (Satuan Wilavah Sungai or
SWS). PTPA should give information about water availability, and about the depth and
characteristics of rivers.
*  Many upland areas have become barren, but these are water catchment areas and it is
important to restore their fertility. Tanah Datar has a rain shadow region and the people have
insufficient water in the dry season. There is a need for water storage to avoid this.
*  Construction of a dam upstream reduces the downstream flow, which may cause annihilation
of the life cycle of biota (such as fish) in the downstream reaches. Likewise construction of
dykes along a river for flood control may reduce the habitat for the life cycle of fish - the
breeding ground is destroyed, such as ikan garing and sidat. Bridge pillars with large
foundations also disturb the fish.
File: DAH/WATSAILSEA_Anner.doc I March 1999                                    A -32



* Permits for industries, factories, drinking water facilities and housing are given by the
relevant government agency. Industries placed on a river floodplain is one cause of flooding,
which is a consequence of inadequate planning (example: Ciujung-Ciliman, flooding in early
January 1999). Likewise the siting of housing estates in areas of productive agriculture are
also indicative of inadequate attention to land capability, especially irrigation potential. There
appears to be poor coordination by the licencing agency in the framework of spatial planning
and a poor understanding of the environment in the long-term.
Coordination
*  Integration is urgently needed to face the serious problems of competition. For example,
abstraction by PDAMI in West Sumatra has caused problems, especially in the dry season, to
the extent that residents/farners see the water debit decreasing. Integration is needed not
only among the users, but also among those who utilize the various functions of a river; e.g.
the Batang Umbilin River, where there is conflict between those who take the water for
irrigation and those for electricity, or who use the river to dispose of industrial waste.
*  As an example of a very local issue of poor coordination, end-users in Kabupaten Karawang
experienced flooding, which they attributed to the construction of a spiral dam for supplying
brackish-water fishponds. No action was taken despite repeated representation to both the
local government, the DPR and sectoral ministries, so eventually they took the law into their
own hands; they did not have the capacity to break down the dam, so they broke down a
section of dyke, in order to return their fields to productive use. [However, it was pointed out
at the Second-round Consultation at provincial level that the reason for this flooding is not
the spiral dam, but the accumulation of sediment along the river, and the planting of
vegetables on the river banks and of rice within the river area. This item from the Public
Consultation I in Karawang should have been discussed with Puslitbang Air (provincial water
research and development office) before including it in the report].
* There are overlapping institutional arrangements, both in granting licences, supervision and
operations. Based on SK Mendagri 179, management of water resources in a river basin will
be implemented in a more integrated way with upgrading of coordination.
* There are different interpretations of Presidential Decrees or local government regulations.
For example there is the Presidential Instruction that technical irrigated rice cannot be
converted to other uses, but many irrigated areas have been readily converted to other uses.
Or technically irrigated areas have been allowed to dry up intentionally so that the area could
be converted into a housing or industrial estate.
* An urgent problem for integrated management is the constraints due to the antagonistic
policies between services, or even the internal policies within one service. For example, in
the agriculture service, attention is paid only to agronomy, not to the fishery sector that has
intensive water requirements (e.g. fishponds).
*  Handling of surface water problems must involve more than one kabupaten. Often one
kabupaten that has a river does not have an industrial zone, so that commercialisation is not
optimal. A large DAS may lie in several administrative areas with widely differing issues and
capabilities.
*  There is a problem in handling DAS Citarum because of the existence of POJ that was
formed in accordance with PP 42/1990, but its existence is only temporary.
*  A master plan should be prepared for DAS Ciujung-Ciliman to facilitate preparation of
policies.
File: DA4HI/WATSALJSEA_Anner.doc I March 1999                                     A -33



*  Existing bodies and project orientations need to be clarified and integrated under a single
regional coordinating body. This should include the Irrigation Committee from Tk I.
*  Present organization of water resource management is orientated to the needs of central
government and not the regional needs and end users. A regional watershed management
body needs to involve stakeholders, especially those that represent the needs of end users. In
each watershed there will be a PPTPA involving all stakeholders. There is a need to add a
team of users from the relevant districts so that in deciding policies, they will include the
important perspective of users. Also need to add the relevant Dinas Pengairan Tk II.
*  The existing PTPA, PPTPA and Balai PSDA should be reviewed, because they do not have
authority in the application of policies. There is a need to change to bodies that are not only
coordinating, but also have full authority especially towards provision of services. An agency
that has the authority to manage a DAS should also provide guarantees to the users.
*  PTPA, PPTPA and BPSDA should be upgraded, from the aspects of quality and quantity of
human resources and budgets, and the cessation of duplication with sectoral institutions at the
regional level.
*  PPTPA must include the Camats within the basin, because as the direct district heads they
well understand the conditions of their area.
*  Conflicts between traditional rights and modem demands do not always have a ready solution
(as experienced by PDAM in Solok, Pasaman and Agam, and by Cipta Karya). There is a
need for a coordinating body at central level, but first the existing agencies should be
strengthened. For example PTPA still functions only part-time and is neither yet fully formned
nor has a budget for full activity.
*  The hierarchy of organization and institutions in the irrigation sector needs to be clarified
through the Forum Koordinasi at provincial level, that has the authority in coordination,
PPTPA, PTPA and interprovincial communications.
*  Under the autonomous management of the Jeneberang basin (South Sulawesi), it is to be
hoped that Pemda TkII Gowa will experience direct benefits. For this reason there should be
direct lines of communication between the autonomous body and Pemda, especially in the
context of collection of water tax. The form of cooperation and division of authority between
the water body/corporation and the local government needs to be formulated.
*  There is not yet clarity or criteria concerning which basins will be managed byBalai PSDA
or by public corporation, with a result that there will be different interpretations according to
Dinas Pengairan Tk I / Governor over the establishment of basin level institutions.
*  Permen PU 48/PRT/1990 needs to be revised especially for those river basins lying wholly
within one province or within one kabupaten. Often one watershed will cover several
kabupatens or government administrative regions, and in this situation there must be integrity
in clarification of authority for decision making within the basin.
*  Need to consider system of scale of priorities especially directed to areas or watersheds
having the most needs for water, although all basins need to be organized. There is a need to
clarify criteria for strategic basins at Tk I and II that need upgrading of management.
*  Management bodies at regional and basin level must have strong authority and transparent
regulations so that all stakeholders have a clear understanding. Such management body
needs:
File: D4H/WATSAL1SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -34



*  availability of data that is complete, accurate and reliable (see Issue no. 6);
*  understanding of the behaviour, needs and problems of stakeholders, especially
endusers;
*  capacity to anticipate changes in the ecosystem and the formulation of solutions;
*  the capacity to guide the endusers and to control changing situations so that the
overall capacity of the resource is preserved.
*  In contrast to the national level of coordination, provincial coordination should concentrate
on river management. This needs to be done through coordination with WUA.
*  Under reformation, PPTPA would become the smallest management unit, but the stake-
holders and WUA need to be strengthened first. The strengthening already carried out has not
been systematic and only relates to management. Further, the authority to represent the
interests of farmers and stakeholders is delegated to the PTPA, which gives rise to suspicion
on the part of stakeholder, while the management of WUAs is easy to manipulate.
Other
* In 1992, the availability and utilisation of clean water in West Sumatra (available 25 mega
m3) was deemed sufficient, except for Padang, Bukit Tinggi and Solok. Yet when trying to
allocate more water to towns, became insufficient, to the stage of conflicts so that channels
were destroyed by the public.There are actually sufficient resources available for drinking
water, but PDAM does not wish to draw water from far because their budget is too low.
Water resources at any given place are decreasing because of utilization by several
companies such as PDAM, PLTA; every year the reliable discharge decreases, perhaps
because of deforestation.
* T'he Irrigation Committee is not a 'water committee', as it manages only irrigation water.
* Under PTPA, the fisheries service should be included in the PTPA. The river mouths are also
important, where changes causes disturbance to fishermen, and to navigation channels (e.g. at
Suranti, Muara Gadang). The responsibility for river mouth management needs to be
clarified, and included within PTPA.
* Water resource management should be through the 'hydrological' approach, preferably
funded through routine budgets or block grants, or if necessary APBD. As the project
approach depends on DUP/DIP, often the heavy equipment used in each project is not
maintained, due to lack of maintenance funds. The equipment is ultimately wasted as scrap
iron.
Contra:
* Do not agree, because PTPA, PPTPA, BPSDA only constrain coordination [Serang].
* Coordination between related agencies does not run well because [Serang]:
*  those on the committee are top managers who are too busy to attend meetings;
*  source of funds for coordination are not clear;
*  lead sector is not yet clear.
* Do not agree, because in implementation Pemda Tk II often does not follow the policy
decisions concerning management of surface water.
File: DAH/WA7SALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -35



*  Under management based on river basins, a consequence will be that the kabupaten
government will experience decreasing autonomy and power.
Annex 3.3.   Autonomous River Basin Management
Conservation
*  There is need for basin management such as POJ but must encompass everything, both
conservation and utilization. At present, handling is limited only to utilization, but there
should also be responsibility for conservation. perhaps facilitated by water charges? It should
also include groundwater, the conservation and utilization of which is presently only under
one department (Mines). A further responsibility must also be for water treatment and waste
water treatment.
*  Prior to the implementation of autonomous management operations, it is important to make
the community aware now that the natural water availability is limited, especially in terms of
potential for economic develop. Starting from this awareness, the community might better
understand that water should be managed in an organized way.
*  Erosion along the Jeneberang continues to increase and will influence the life of the Bili-Bili
dam.
Coordination
* Overlapping regulations between sectors and managing agencies need to be integrated.
Central government regulations should not be concerned just with central affairs but also to
support conservation and the well-being of the entire basin.
B Besides incorporating existing agencies, it must include the role of users.
* The formation of the body will enable it to become a BUMD with the opportunitv for the
public to purchase shares.
*  Such a body must consider the issue of the benefits obtained by the Pemda Tk II related to
that river. An opportunity should be given to Pemda Tk II Gowa to own shares, so that the
local government experiences direct benefits from the water resources in its region.
* Basin Authorities must be scaled according to the size and condition of each basin.
Those less of the same opinion:
*  Control of water standards at Bili-Bili dam should be implemented by PDAM since that is the
body that manages control of water quality.
*  Recommendations for an organizing framework for river basins with special authority such
as POJ will increase the complexity of water resource management; for this reason POJ itself
should be reviewed. [West Java].
*  Presently there is no clear division of work between Dinas and POJ, because of PP 42/1990;
users are not included in the general governance (permits, fees etc. must go to Dinas but how
to comply with PP 14/1987 which gives these matters to Tk I and Tk II?) [West Java].
*  For rivers within a single kabupaten, decisions for organizational framework and
management of all payments is held by the Kepala Daerah Tk II. It is better that such
functions are transferred to this level in order to facilitate coordination and management. It is
recommended that besides APBD there will be local budgets. [West Java].
File: DAH/WA7SAL/SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -36



*  PP5/1990 and PP42/1990 should be withdrawn so that they do not have the impression of a
'state within a state'. [West Java].
*  For water taxes, PDAM does not agree if there are still arrangements concerning fees under
Perda Tk I and Tk II. The formation of such a body will make things difficult for water users
such as PDAM. [Sulawesi Selatan].
Contra:
*  Important in managing the river is appreciation of the traditional role in river management.
The traditional organizations function well because they are supported by the communities
that still respect their customs. It is hoped, that there will not be any conceptual or engineered
pressures that contradict the realities in the field. [West Sumatra].
*  The conceptual or engineering pressures cited above have been empirically proven by the
failure of the clean water facility project (Sarana AirBersih) at the level of kecamatan capital
(Ibukota Kecamatan, better known as 'IKK projects') - funded by billions of rupiah, and
already reached implementation. The failure was due to denying the existence of the
communal property rights over the relevant land and water sources. The community has still
not realized the benefits or compensation, which was the cause for the cancellation. [West
Sumatra].
*  Regional Ordinance (Perda) No.4 duly appreciates the communal rights to land (and water
sources). But this regulation actually contradicts other laws that state 'that land and water
shall be controlled by the state'. There is a similar case in the Spatial Planning Act that states
'that land within 100 meters from the lake shores shall be controlled by the state', whereas in
fact the community has existed there long before the said law was declared. Such issues
should be considered before planning the formation of a Managing Corporation for strategic
river basins. [West Sumatra].
Annex 3.4.   Framework for Water Rights
Regulations
* There is a need for clarification, confirmation and consistency concerning the application of
the law in the use of water, so that allocation is guaranteed, fair and efficient.
*  Water has many complex functions, competition is becoming intense, and its economic value
is increasing. Therefore water rights must be clarified. Up to now the community holds to
the principle that first in line, first in rights; those that get the water first hold the rights.
*  Guaranteed fair and efficient allocation will not occur if there are too many departments
handling it such as PLN, PDAM, PTPA, PPTPA, BPSDA, POJ, Mines etc.
*  The existing Perda at Tk I and II require revision, and overlapping regulations must
immediately be revoked. Central government regulations must consider the aspirations of the
regions. There is an urgent need to conduct studies of the regulations at central, provincial
and kabupaten level objectively and inter-sectorally, so that there is no overlap between
sectors. Furthernore, the existing regulations must be correlated with present needs, and
systems for handling water rights must be arranged explicitly through the regulations.
*  Must clarify management such as agencies for surface water and clean water.
File: DAH/lIATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -37



*  Need for regulations and limitations concerned with waterutilisation to be clear and explicit,
so that people are not too burdened by regulations that they do not understand.
Allocation
*  In carrying out fair water allocation, we should refer to the existing traditional wisdom or
prior knowledge of the village elders. Guaranteed fair and efficient allocation has been
carried out so far by Tuo Banda and Vlu Banda with all their 'apparatus'. In Rintau (West
Sumatra), there is an organization called Paraku assigned to allocate water fairly that has
classified, and has special terms for, the volume of water allocated for certain parties, e.g.
those who possess more land would obtain more water.
*  Generally, the community cannot accept the commercialization of water being practiced by
PDAM, let alone by private water companies that sell water at a higher price than petrol. In
this case, the Rural Government benefits from the contribution to the Regional Revenue
without considering the views of the community. The allocation of water must include the
involvement of institutions having conflicting interests, e.g. PDAM, mining, irrigation,
electrical power etc., besides the (traditional) community organizations.
*  Up to now, techniques and principals of water allocation do not match the traditional customs
of allocation practiced by the community. For example, traditional customs in constructing
irrigation dikes use earth piling and not concrete. This is so designed that water can be evenly
absorbed by the farmning land and the ground water level is maintained.
*  The response of the government to traditional law and community rights is not appropriate.
As an example, PDAM just deals with families that own the water source in determining how
much water they need, whereas those water resources contribute to the rivers and there are
many other stakeholders in the use of that water. The voice of these stakeholders has never
been considered by PDAM.
*  Even WUA have not been invited to negotiate should the water of their rivers be utilized by
industries, despite the fact that WUAs are the organizations expected to play a role in
representing the interests of the users. This has happened, for instance, atBatang Mengkawas
(West Sumatra) where the water debit was just 40% in the dry season, and very sensitive to
changes in volume or quality.
*  Awareness of the quality of water in relation to its use is still not understood, especially by
government officials. The people have always used the spring water for drinking, and river
water for washing, but water taken from the spring by PDAM is not only for drinking. There
is still a dichotomy between the term 'drinking water' and 'clean water'.
*  To maintain a fair water distributing regime, the society also has traditional and unwritten
sanctions, set out by traditional customs.
*  Conditions vary between districts regarding water affairs, so there will be varying
prioritization (as per UU 11/1974). For example the priority in urban areas is for drinking
water, in rural areas it is for agriculture. Priorities also change over time. Decisions
concerning priorities of water distribution for different users must be made through
deliberation and consensus.
*  The guarantee of water for non-agricultural use should be sufficient with a water licence or
SIPA (Surat Izin Pengambilan Air), but there are still many users without SIPA, besides
which there are many diversions for which it is not clear who is responsible.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                         A -38



* For newly developing districts with emerging requirements for water, it is important to
guarantee water allocation from the start for both the existing users and the potential new
users.
* There is a need for a water certificate just as there is a land certificate. In issuing this
certificate, the proportions of water and irrigated land owned by the applicant must be
considered. If the water rights exist the user will feel more secure.
* Permits issued by the government to the party up to now have not been participative. In the
Philippines, for example, the issue of water rights to any party must be publicized first, and it
is processed only if there is no protest.
* Management and arrangement of water rights should not be discriminative concerning
stakeholders (especially the general public and farmers); other stakeholders such as PLN,
PLTA, PDAM should be treated in the same way. The problem is how to implement Pasal 33
UUD'45. If authority for natural resources rests with the state, does a BUMN have a right to
exploit them? PLN should pay for the water it uses, because as a limited company it is listed
on the stock market.
* However, although all stakeholders should pay for the water they use, we must also consider
water as a social commodity. There needs to be a principle of discrimination about pricing,
especially for the poor. Other parties such as Aqua (private bottled water company) only pay
for the location permit, not for the water they draw. If there is a standard for water consumed,
then golf courses should also pay for what they use at the market price.
* As another alternative, water rights can be managed by a collective management unit and not
by individuals. Annually they must pay for the licence, but not for ISF. At this time the cost
of collection of ISF is higher than the total collected.
* A study is needed of the traditional regulations that enable negotiations between traditional
rights holders upstream and downstream. Such negotiation can end with one party giving a
tribute in accordance with custom. For this the customary conditions must be followed to the
full, so that transfer of traditional rights can proceed. For example someone downstream who
will cultivate fisheries: through negotiation, upstream users might agree that they do not plant
rice but only palawija, and upstream water is not dammed which would cause a deficit
downstream.
* There are possibilities for a practical mechanism of compensation in communal custom under
transferable water rights (except for padi planters under the principle 'first in line ---', in
which case, the transfer may be difficult). There is a need for a deeper study concerning
transferable rights among communities.
* There has been a change in the river flow from Hulu Kuantan to Sungai Sialang; one reason
is the construction of PLTA Singkarak and the presence of many waterwheels (kincir air) -
67 units - which result in a decrease in discharge. When the PLTA was planned, the existence
of the waterwheels was not taken into consideration, which resulted in protests from the
community. Eventually PLTA agreed to pay Rp 500,000 in compensation for each
waterwheel, but this compensation did not resolve the problem of how the communities could
sustain their livelihood.
* Companies relating to water always operate in the name of the government in obtaining their
allocation, or with the approach of providing important public facilities such as a mosque, but
they give little compensation to farmers. Such compensation is merely an ad hoc action that
does not resolve the problem of continuing utilisation by the community.
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -39



*  Companies that utilize, or buy or sell water, derive income from their activities. Need aPerda
for such companies so that a percentage of this is returned to water resource conservation
activities, and to the traditional communities that look after the resources.
*  However there is a need for reform so that tax paid to Tk I comes back to Tk II, especially
the water tax paid by companies such as Coca Cola, PDAM, hotels. At Tk II water is
managed by local government; but the water tax from a single river that crosses several
kabupatens is still without any regulation.
*  Water use by farmers and by companies (such as PDAMI) not yet organized well. At the
farmer level, water is required for sawah, livestock and tree crops, but companies use without
agreed arrangements. As a result, activities such as fish ponds, for example, have been
converted back to vegetable plots.
*  In Kec Sungai Tarok, PDAM takes water from a spring owned by a traditional community
that is controlled by the village elders. It was claimed that this was on the understanding of a
government instruction. However the water is taken without repayment except to village
officials and family members of PDAM staff. There is no compensation to the community,
and pipes were placed without their agreement; the government likewise does not
compensate the people. The kabupaten government of Tanah Datar receives only Rp 2
million annually from PDAM, and PDAM does not use river water but only the spring water
which was under traditional management. Likewise at Kec Rambatan, there was formerly
sufficient water but now it has declined. Companies such as PDAM should not be permitted
to commercialize the value of water.
-  In 1960, Sungai Tampo was never dry, but now the river becomes dry even after only a week
without rain. Yet PDAM wishes to extract water from it. The decline in debit also results
from construction works for which the community did not give permission, but there was
never any discussion.
-  For public taps, hospitals, schools and mosques the people permit to draw water from the
sources, and pipes were placed by UNICEF. However, as a result, after three months without
rain, water from Sungai Lubuk Jantan until Tapi Selok is dry, and sawahs dry up.
*  In the dry season, PDAM promises to reduce the water abstraction from the springs; but in
practice, if water availability is deficient, customers continue to increase, along with their
payments.
Annex 3.5.   Provide for a Framework and Mechanisms to Address Water Pollution
Regulations and guidelines
*  There is a need for guidelines conceming water and waste water quality, fair law
enforcement, and separation or confirmation of authority of Dinas PU and BAPEDALDA in
the handling of water pollution so that there is no overlap. A basic strong law is required with
an implementing agency that has the capacity to apply sanctions on polluters.
*  Problems of pollution are complex. Permits for waste disposal are only granted from the
governor, and not yet functioning well, but pollution was occurring before the regulations
were made. Despite admonitions from the governor and plans for managing the environment,
pollution continues.
File: DAH/WATSALJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A -40



*  Despite adequate regulations from the Ministry of Environment, and also Perda Tk 1, many
cases of pollution continue. However, the regulations tend to be based only on the
perspective of the regulator. For example, DAS Ciujung-Ciliman has already issued SK Gub
3411996 for handling pollution.
*  There is a need to strengthen the process of environmental assessment (AMDAL) at regional,
island and basin level, and to implement the Management and Monitoring Plans (RKL and
RPL) effectively. The procedure, mechanism and institution that has the AMDAL authority
must be objective, professional and transparent. AMDAL and BLH (Bureau Lingkungan
Hidup) need more professionalism in technical skills and management in handling water
quality.
* There need to be clear regulations for water users especially concerning their rights and
obligations, and sanctions; sanctions need to be explicit.
Coordination
*  Division of responsibility must be clarified between Dinas and BAPEDALDA; presently the
authority of Dinas is limited to water bodies and springs (the demarcation of which is
authorized in Perda 20/1995).
*  Water management by a Coordination Team is perceived to be inefficient and there seems to
be no authority to handle problems of infractions etc. Such team does not have the capacity to
determine guidelines for water and waste water quality.
*  The agencies that issue permits should have more responsibility in handling water quality.
For example, permits given to industry are not contingent upon management of waste. The
licensing agency should be coordinated effectively with the agency that manages water
quality. In the case of industries and industrial pollution, the issuance of location and
operational permits should be transferred to the local government at Tk II - up to now it is
issued by BPN which is a central (vertically structured) institution.
*  Water quality requires periodical monitoring, from upstream to downstream, with control
implemented by one body that has full authority. But the budget is insufficient for monitoring
industrial waste that causes pollution.
*  Even when BAPEDALDA becomes a reality, there will be a lack of funds; regular
monitoring is always blocked by lack of funds.
*  For anticipating pollution in each basin, rivers should be classified as A, B & C according to
quality of waste that can be discharged.
Application of the regulations / sanctions
*  Water quality problems will become increasingly critical. It is necessary to develop a
mechanism to sanction violators and reward those who successfully manage the quality of
their waste. The latter industries need incentives to encourage them to sustain their
performance and serve as a model to other industries.
*  Pollution problems affect three environments: urban, industrial and rural. Each has its own
characteristics, such as domestic waste, chemical waste and pollution from fertilizers and
pesticides. For example, in the Jeneberang, there are four sources of pollution: industry, sand
extraction (galian C), domestic waste and agricultural sources, and the treatment must be
appropriate to the source.
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -41



*  Must develop a system based on the fair concept that the polluter pays, and those who
experience negative impacts are compensated.
*  If there is pollution, who is responsible for paying for the clean-up? This is a problem
because there is no monitoring of who is responsible for causing the pollution.
Annex 3.6    Set Up a Management Information System (MIS)
Data-base
*  The MIS must be computerized, accurate, continuously up-dated, and professionally
managed at a national level. Data from related agencies must also be up-to-date, accurate and
of uniform consistency. Too often the available data are out-of-date.
*  Sound data are urgently needed for planning the conservation, management, regulation and
utilization of water. Management agencies need to have the capacity to understand the
importance of the data and its direct implications.
* The MIS should begin with complete identification concerning river basins and supporting
components as well as the characteristics of the problems and users. There is a need for a
masterplan for each Basin, that has the capacity to anticipate the level of needs of all
stakeholders.
*  Lack of a sound data base is a major weakness of the Dinas Pengairan Tk I, with the result
that they do not yet have the competence for management of water and water sources atTk I
/ II; consequently it is very difficult to obtain budget from APBD that is integrated with
operational activities in the framework of preparing data.
* Data management could be coordinated by BAPPEDA and the Central Bureau of Statistics
(BPS) should not monopolize data management.
Data availability
* Very important to make available information concerning the water balance in any area,
because presently there are many differences between irrigation, agriculture and BAPPEDA,
which creates mistaken policies. The MIS must incorporate Tk II, Tk I and Central levels
with an integrated system of monitoring.
*  MIS needs to have a clear framework, for example orientated to water users, industries,
agriculture and the community. Implementation should not start from a sectoral approach.
The MIS needs to be handled transparently, bottom-up from village level up to province.
*  Data should also be easily available to related agencies through a central MIS, but under the
coordination of water users.
*  For example accurate data are urgently required for development of real estate; if there is no
information about flood risk, there could be major losses to the developer if floods are found
to occur only after development. [This was denied at the second round consultation in the
same province, where it was stated that there is flood information available, in the form a
hundred benchmarks. It would also indicate poor site planning on the part of the developer].
*  Some conflicts arise because of the transformation from a state system to a desa system, or
between upstream and downstream users (for example a dam may reduce the downstream
flow, with a consequence that communities have damaged the weirs). In view of such
conflicts it is better that a system of state management is reinstated, as inPasaman. However,
File: DAH/WATSALJSEA_Annex.doc 1 March 1999                                    A 42



such conflicts would be reduced if management is based on accurate hydrographic data. The
government should become an 'associate' in the study of data needed by the people in river
management. In this way water allocation can be carried out comprehensively so that it can
be made available for all purposes.
*  There needs to be an institution specifically to handle communication to the public and
farmers of issues relating to water resources.
*  Water utilization is very competitive, and there needs to be fair distribution of the total
volume from the existing capacity (so that sawahs do not dry out in the drv season). For this,
we need to study the potential existing resources in Tanah Datar. Information would then be
disseminated and utilization arranged with the community and stakeholders.
*  Empirical field data about the use of information from the lower level of the community is
seen in how the government establishes the schedule of crop seasons. Two months prior to
the seasons, WUA usually have to present the information on cropping pattern. This will be
collected at Kecamatan level, and the Bupati will issue a decision (SK) on establishing the
cropping schedule. However, the procedures of decision making are indirect and very time-
consuming, so that when the SK is issued, the growing season has already passed. This is an
indication of too much bureaucratic intervention and inappropriate procedures.
Annex 3.7    Irrigation Reform, and Transfer of Secondary Canals to Water User
Associations
Organization, rights and responsibilities
*  There is a need to clarify rights and obligations of farmers concerning regulating water and
irrigation. WUA must understand rights and responsibilities, so that they do not only demand
rights without accepting the responsibilities.
*  The transfer concept must be clear about the role, authority and responsibility given to each
level. Transfer should be made to the level of WTJA Groups, which will strengthen the
capacity of WUA in carrying out economic activities.
*  The transfer will affect schemes of 500 - 1000 ha. But some participants proposed to transfer
scheme management for bigger schemes so that WUA become more competent and
responsible. To increase their sense of ownership and responsibility ("by and for the
farmer"), they need to be given more trust in the management of wider networks or
secondary systems. With the power to handle this vital infrastructure, the farmers will be able
to strengthen their farming activities.
*  Management of the irrigation network should be implemented jointly by WUA and Pemda.
*  PP23/1982 needs to be revised.
*  It is important to clearly define duties and responsibilities. In a large scheme, the dam and
primary network is managed by central government, the secondary network byTk I, and sub-
secondary and tertiary downwards by Tk II and WUA. But although the PU networks would
be managed by agencies such as Dinas Pengairan, there should still be bottom-up planning.
Irrigation at level of Tk II that will be managed by BPSDA needs to be reconsidered.
*  WUA that already have the capacity for the larger schemes should be given full authority, but
with strengthening their responsibility and capability. Human resources in WUA need to be
File: DAH/WATSAL/SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -43



upgraded both in leadership and awareness. Farmers and WUAs need to be prepared before
handover.
*  Local irrigation officials (Jurupengairan, penjaga bendung and gate keepers) still have the
status of daily paid staff (non-established posts). A continous role and function should be
considered for them. There is a need for an irrigation official at the village level.
*  Forum of WUA Groups should be at the regional or kecamatan level.
*  For scheme management, the people still have a minor role. Need to consider the mechanism
of the role, whether based on customary systems or as a government unit. There have been
many seminars concerning this, but not yet with clear conclusions. However, better that
existing organizations are strengthened first, and budgeted for their functioning.
*  The small role of the people in scheme management differs between regions, eg what can be
achieved in East Java may be relatively difficult to achieve in West Sumatra.
*  Need for synergy from three angles: professional mediation agency, government and farners.
As such, government regulations form a bridge between the government and the farmers as
the controlling party.
*  Will develop the potential of WUA; to support this, government needs to provide an
opportunity for WUA to develop integrated activities in agriculture and irrigation such as
'provision' of fertilizer, pesticide, or freshwater fish.
*  Capability of farmers must begin from the angle of economy, for example availability of
agricultural inputs and sale of products. Need to provide subsidy for the price of fertilizer,
seed, pesticides and to ensure O&M by government.
* Activities of Balai Benih Ikan need to become more productive, to assist in upgrading the
income of fishermen. Fish nurseries at Rao are active and productive because there is a Perda
that protects water for fishery. Strengthening of farmers/WUA is not only in the context of
water resources sector but also needs to be integrated with all stakeholders in one unit for
development of farmer's economy generally, as in Pasaman.
*  The strategy of development of WUA agribusiness should distinguish between agribusiness
based on water (fisheries, ducks) from others. For this O&M should be managed by WUA in
an autonomous fashion, because they develop businesses that are based on water.
*  However transfer should be effected in appropriate phases, recalling that a project that has
been held by government for 32 years is now being returned to the people. In the transfer of
irrigation assets, there needs to be time for adaptation; recalling that traditional (hak
adat/ulayat) or farmers rights have long been taken by government, but now in the era of
reform suddenly these are being returned to the people and communities. Here too the
principle of a budget being provided as a stimulant is now unworkable. The people see that in
the implementation of programmes such as JPS, PID and PKID the budget is characterized as
being not functional.
*  The element of success of WUA in Bonjo (West Sumatra) is the symbiosis of traditional,
customary leadership with modern management. WUAs in Bonjo have gained awards on
several occasions for their achievement in rendering services to the public. This is because
most of the WUA boards are represented by the system of "kerapatan adat nagari' (KAN -
the solidarity of the national tradition). The chairman of WUA in Bonjo is the chairman of
the KAN council, and the relationship between members, the board, and the chairman is
File: DAHI/WATSALSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -44



based on customary rules [the chairman is also an expert in plant diseases and pests,
especially rats].
*  There are three community groups that can be involved in WUA: town communities, farner
and transmigrant communities, and traditional communities. Because of this polarization, it
becomes very important that there is clarification about the tvpe of farmer group that will be
given the authority for managing WIUAs. If a traditional group is given this authoritv, where
customary practices are still in force, it must be recalled that some 70% ofdesas no longer
follow such systems.
*  The handover of irrigation and water resource management to WUA need not only be to the
tertiary level. It can be done in stages, from tertiary up to secondary, as far as the people can
handle, with a 'learning process'. PU should conceive a process so that it can concede
responsibility in phases. However there is need for discussion between the government
bureaucracy and WUA, as to where the responsibilities lie between PU and WUA. Besides
that problem, is the bureaucracy ready for 'scaling down', or to continue only on a
bureaucratic level? Is there a bargaining process between the government and the farmers? Is
the government ready to conceive a partnership pattern?
-  Farmers generally still have little participation in management of canals; for this the
government needs to come back to considering the traditional concept, wherein non-formal
leaders can guide the people, such as in canal cleaning. The charisma of such leaders is still
sufficiently strong, but their role has been destroyed by the desa svstem.
=  It is important that each WUA has a representative in a national as well as regional
coordinating institution, so that the 'voice' of the farmers is not 'swamped' by the technical
institutions. This is important, and there needs to be the involvement of many representatives
from various kinds of stakeholders in any coordinating institution.
-  Up to now WUAs have not developed as expected. What is the problem? - method of
strengthening may not be applicable, or the wrong approach, insufficient budget? If the
budget is increased, there is no certainty of results. Maybe it is necessary to change the
orientation of the WUA, so that it is not only involved in water management; even if this
means joining with farner groups. There are several possibilities, but finally there is a need
to review the concept of irrigation transfer, because WUA can have a role as an autonomous
business unit. Need to re-capitulize WUA, maybe through revolving fund or guaranteed bank
credit, because WUA can become strong if it is based upon a reliable budget. Variations in
business activities will emerge because stakeholders in each river basin are different.
*  The process of WUA development needs to continue, with elaboration of what seems to be
wrong or inadequate up to now, such as what assistance needs to be formulated, such as seed
or capital to be allocated, at the same time ensuring that farmers do not become spoilt or their
participation reduced. We must know what are the objectives for assistance, because
motivation may need moral, not physical support.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -45



Rehabilitation
*  In the case of O&M there seems to be no consistency in the policy of self-management
delegated to the local government at Tk II. It is based on the requests for support for the large
irrigation projects (over Rp 300 million) which are still retained byTk I. For example, repairs
to canals of over 5 meters are difficult because they have to wait for a central government
decision. Reform has not yet been consistent.
*  Must develop a process of bottom-up planning so that there is knowledge of the needs of
WUA and areas that require rehabilitation. WUA participates in farmer rehabilitation works,
and from the project angle must decide whether WUA becomes as subcontractor or works as
primary contractor.
* Need to review regulations that direct the rehabilitation and development of irrigation by
third parties, meaning activities to be done by WUA.
*  Farmers need O&M not only for tertiaries but for also primaries and secondaries. Payment
for O&M needs to be considered because up to now it has been minimal, despite a 100%
increase. The reason is that in each case there is a big need for rehabiliation.
*  Revenue from Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) not yet balanced with O&M needs because it
needs a new formula. If needed, implementation of O&M might be transferred to the private
sector, which would be more efficient and transparent. But farmers will feel increased sense
of responsibility if given full and unhampered authority to handle the budget of O&M.
Finance
*  ISF needs to be immediately handled by WUA alone in accordance with SK from DG PUOD
and no longer by government. However, must quickly agree a mechanism for accountabilitv
and the status of ISF in the context of budget for O&M at primary and secondary level.
Without management criteria, it is not possible for WUA to use the ISF funds for the tertiary
level. Transparent scheme management will increase confidence in the users.
*  Policies and arrangements for applying ISF are not consistent and will cause difficulties in
implementation; formerly managed by Dispenda and now by WUA. ISF funds presently go
into the Local Budget with the consequence that they are often not used, or not sufficiently
used, for allocation to O&M.
*  To assist the upgrading of functions and role of WUA in payment for O&M, must facilitate
access of WUA to the banking sector. There is a need to formulate a model for farmer
contributions in irrigation management.
*  To assist in payment of network O&M implemented by WUA, better that they should be
given INPRES similar to village government.
*  Constraints of WUA are personnel and legal constitution. For good O&M WUA needs the
latter. There is a need for a pilot project in the development of WUA. At this moment Small
Irrigation Project (PIK) hand-over rights needs to be followed-up with calculation of
structure of PIK expenses, for example component of registration of source of tax and
operational costs. PIK tranferred so far is quite high but an economic profile has not yet been
calculated.
*  There is much discussion and criticism concerning WUA, that they need development,
upgrading, strengthening but at present the most urgent need is for implementation and
technical guidelines for management of O&M.
File: DAH/WA TSAIJSEA_Annex. doc I March 1999                                  A -46



Contra:
* WUA Mitra Cai (Serang) are concerned that management of secondaries in Pamaravan
scheme is experiencing many problems and conflicts. For example, staff (petugas) are
indolent in overcoming problems of regulating, so that farmers operate the gates themselves
without coordination. The limits of responsibility of upstream and downstream users is not
clear. The strengthening of WUAs so that they can function efficiently in regulating,
operating and monitoring schemes is still not happening.
*  Farmers are not yet capable to manage primary and secondary networks and some therefore
do not agree to transfer. WUAs need to be strengthened first. The technical capabilitv and
financial capacity of farmers are still veiy limited so they should not be burdened with the
management of schemes. Transfers should not be made where agricultural production is still
low.
*  Primary network cannot be managed by WUA because the cost of O&M is too high and the
capacity of the WUA to collect funds is very low. Often encounter leakage from secondaries.
and cost of caring for this is high.
*  Collection of ISF by WUA is still very difficult; upgrading of awareness not yet satisfactorv.
Management of ISF should be integrated with LKMD, taking care that LKMD becomes
active.
*  In the case of private water pumps, farners should be disciplined in making payment because
this is bound up with the entire issue of provision of water.
the current role of WUA at managing the tertiary level or small-scale irrigation is still not
efficient, so to transfer the management up to secondary level will increase the burden for
WUA, with detrimental effect on management efficiency.
*  There are many farrners organization such as farmer groups, WUA or kelompencapir that
confuses the farmers; there should be just a single farmer organization. Through the
development of WUAs over more than 27 years, there are only 13% presently active. It
would be better for services of the village community to be carried out under 'one roof'.
*  Need to carry out a classification of the capability level ofWUAs before upgrading to WUA
Groups, so that the good ones do not regress.
* Some argue that ISF collection will increase the burden for farrners.
* The food producers are small farmers, so that they do not yet set aside money for payment of
taxes. Farmers also regard water availability as the responsibility of the government. As a
result, economical and effective water use is not yet in their conception. Generally they do
not feel there is a shortage of water, because rainfall is more or less widespread in all
seasons. Latterly, although yields of food crops are considered quite good, they are still not
yet inclined to pay taxes.
* Efforts to transfer irrigation assets, especially of small-scale irrigation, has already been
implemented, yet results are far from the expectations of the farmers. WUAs have a problem
of inadequate human resources. It must be also remembered that the livelihood of rice
farmers is not yet guaranteed.
* Out of 254 WUA at Tk II (Tanah Datar), only 52 are active. Reasons for being inactive are
changes in management from traditional customs to the approach of desa government.
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -47



*  Too many WUAs, so that system of working needs to be reformed. At Batang Tampo there
are 58 small irrigation scheme, that were formerly handled as only 5 schemes. They are now
managed by village government through WUAs. So how many WUAs are needed? At the
same time there is an irrigation committee that only takes care of each scheme and not of a
working system between groups of WUAs and other irrigation water users. This is creating
problems, for example, water gates on Batang Tampo were destroyed by the people. For such
problems, it is not the Irrigation Committee who finds a solution, butDinas Pengairan. [West
Sumatra].
* The presence and role of WUA in the community is still questionable, considering that there
is a traditional organization functioning sufficiently well to address the needs of water users.
It is necessary to make an analysis of the problems and effectiveness of WUAs to pave the
way for improvement. [West Sumatra].
* The existence of WUA is considered impractical and inefficient, at least in the case ofTanah
Datar, where the 56 WUA only manage small irrigation schemes. The question is who takes
care of the main canal? Even the federation already established has produced few results
because there are so many problems concerning the existence and effectiveness of WUA.
[West Sumatra].
*  Currently, the credibility of WUA in handling the problems of farmers is decreasing. WUA
do not have the funds to cope with technical problems, such as when the sluice and dike are
damaged. The levies do not work well. To "mobilize the resources" the people finally use the
traditional way of mutual cooperation (gotong-royong). [West Sumatra].
* The collection of WUA levies is considered very difficult because of several factors, such as
a poor understanding of the levies and how the money is used. In the community it is felt that
the levies collected by the Dinas Pendapatan Daerah (Local Income Service) are considered
as 'illegal levies', because the fund is not returned to the community for the management of
WUA. [It is suspected that the fund is used for the purchase of cars that are unrelated to
irrigation. It is a fact that there are eight levies that have been withdrawn since 'reformasi',
and it is asked why there is still collection of levies?] [West Sumatra].
File: DAH/WATSAL'SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A -48



Annex 3.8    Other issues
* Perspective of users (Serang meeting); three main problems:
*  deficiency of water in agricultural areas. Many such areas in Kec Kaseman and
Pontang, maybe others, are deficient throughout the year. Farmers plant rice three
times but failure because of limited availability of water, and also pests.
* Flooding in the areas of riceland, industry and settlements; PT Cipta Paperia has had
to temporarily close down because of flooding.
*  Pollution. Fish died in the tambaks in the dry season because of pollution in Ciujung,
what is the institutional procedure to handle this?
Resettlement issues (Bili-Bili):
*  For those affected by resettlement, there should now be provision of new opportunities with
constant attention to work of the community, so that there is no loss of employment
opportunity
-  Resettlement models used at Bili-Bili are:
Local transmigration
Individual resettlement with compensation
- Community provides land at the location of project preparation?
*  Resettlement model should use a model 'not too far removed from original'.
File: DAH/WA TSALISEA Annex. doc I March 1999                                    A 49



WATER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (WATSAL)
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 4
THE PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS
(SECOND ROUND)
Government of Indonesia
Inter-Agency Task Force               March 1999
On Water Sector Policy Reform



ANNEX 4.   RESULTS OF TME PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS (SECOND ROUND).
Annex 4.1     General Issues of WATSAL, and the Establishment of a National Apex
Body.
The WATSAL program is quite fundamental, for instance, in its redefinition of institutional
policies, roles, and responsibilities. It is necessarv to establish a schedule of priorities of
activities in order to achieve these changes successfully. Some of these activities will require
time, such as the preparation for the data collection needed to compile the water balance.
Hitherto there has been little enthusiasm in central government for data collection whereas it
needs to be a continuous activity. For priority activities, the local government must prepare
the financial plan, while the central government must be serious in its preparation of the
allocation of funds.
*  The consequence of WATSAL will be institutional changes and changes in the relationships
between institutions, including mergers. These changes must always consider the existing,
organizations and their relationships.
* The management of water resources should be integrated into the entirety of development
planning. Due to the lack of integration, industry is forced to develop in areas of agricultural
potential, such as in Java. With its population being 66% of the national total, and its water
resources only 22%, Java will bear a heavy burden if it has to accept more industry. By
contrast, Sumatra and Kalimantan, respectively having 12% and 22% of Indonesia's water
resources, do not have sufficient industrial programs, which could encourage transfer of
population and a more balanced carrying capacity.
* Over the past decade huge areas of agricultural lands have been converted into other uses.
Such realities demand integrated planning from institutions likeBappenas that have a cross-
sectoral role. Thus in future water resources problems will no longer be handled by just one
department.
*  Formerly industry was concentrated on Java because wage rates were relatively lower than
on other islands, which is why the population of Java does not decrease. During the current
monetary crisis and industrial stagnation, the labor cannot return to farming, since there is no
more land for agriculture. Therefore, the number of poor in Java has grown from 25 to 80
million people. Such factors need to be taken into consideration in the planning of water
resources.
* The low price of rice is not the cause of the shift from farming to industry or of the collapse
of rice self-sufficiency. This is a result of macro-policies that do not support agriculture or of
haphazard industrial allocation. It should be emphasized that farmers only sell 30% of their
produce and consume 70% themselves. Thus an increase in the price of rice is not a major
factor in maintaining the agricultural sector (unlike Japan, for example, where the farming
sector comprises only 5 or 10%.
* Besides, there is a rapidly expanding commercialization of water owing to the mineral water
business. This is happening especially on Java, which has relatively less abundant water
resources, with the result that companies in this business outside Java have been unable to
compete. Thus there is an urgent need for coordination in water utilization.
* Acquisition of agricultural land by payment of compensation when required for non-
agricultural uses requires closer attention. The developers and conglomerates consider only
economic aspects. While farming will not provide large profits, the land does provide long-
File: DAH/WA TSA4LSEA4_4nne_. doc I MVtarch 1999                                 A -50



term and life-sustaining benefits, and the actual price of the land should not be used a
measure. Moreover, the compensation money is used for consumptive purposes (such as I
pilgrimage, new houses, cars etc). In time, all the agricultural land will be sold, yet
economic value could even increase if the farmers have additional jobs besides farming.
*  In practice, before land is converted, according to the regulation a "Mix Team" is forrr
(this appears to be the Land Acquisition Committee or "Committee of Nine" -ed.). TI
team must give its recommendation on whether the land is suitable for conversion, such
for real estate. Yet, this recommendation is often ignored from above. Clearly there are err,
in management. Many subordinates who try to be consistent in applying the regulations;
transferred to other jobs. It is hoped that-the reforms will correct such instances of incorr,
application of policies.
*  It is advisable to change the name from Badan Air Nasional as this has the same acrony
(BAN) as the Badan Akreditasi Nasional (Ministry of Education and Culture).
*  Under the 1945 Constitution, Article 33, water management for the public welfare
delegated to the Ministry of Public Works (Directorate General of Irrigation).
*  There is confusion about the function of the national agency, on one hand being proposed
a facility, on the other it is recommended to have clear authority, starting from plannir
conservation and utilization of water. It would be more appropriate if it functions as a facilii
*  Will the function and role of the agency be similar to that of the National Land Agency
BPN (although their characteristics and objectives are different)?
Annex 4.2    Strengthening of Provincial and River Basin Water Resources Managemen
Committees and Basin Management Units
*  The integrity and involvement of the various institutional sectors should be applied not on
at the planning or policy formulation stage but also at the stage of action. Thus a sector
involvement should begin from the central level to the regional (or service) level. This wi
reduce sectoral egoism. For example the sector of irrigation should involve other sectors suc
as fisheries. This is important because river improvement does not concern just constructioi
but should also consider ecological and biological issues.
*  [If such coordination is properly followed, then for example the degradation of water qualit
in the Maninjau and Singkarak lakes of West Sumatra should never occur again. Research i
also important, for example in the instances of mass fish mortality in those two lakes. Th
assumption is that the deaths resulted from up-welling of sulphur that had accumulated on tht
lake bed due to changes in specific gravity; it was related to volcanic activity. However, thes
are only assumptions, not based on any real research. The problem on Lake Singkarak arose
only after construction of the PLTA hydroelectric generator (was there not the same
occurrence on the Saguling dam and Cirata dams?). The case of Lake Maninjau may have
little connection with vulcanism, since the existing volcano is no longer active. The mos
likely explanation is that there, is movement of soil around the lake margins as a result o
local earthquakes or erosion. Probably deforestation around the shores has reduced the watei
absorption capacity. This could be related to the declining water volumes in the- lake. Al
these issues require study and resolution. Weak regulations that contradict the situation or
site may hiso have a negative impact. Under regional regulations, for example, 100 meters
from the lake margin should be protected, but in reality, before this regulation was made, tht
community lands (ulayat) around the lake were already cultivated].
File: DAH/WA7SALISEA Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -51



* The concept of resource mobilization by a corporation must be clear, and also the position of
agencies such as PDAM, Perhutani and PLN, as consumers or as managers.
* Establishment of a Corporation might add to the burden of expenditures of PLN, as
experienced by PLTA Bakaru which was charged levies by several District Administrations.
This occurred when Law 19/1997 conceming Regional Retribution and Tax came into force.
Whereas PLTA argues that it only utilizes water without reducing the river flow.
Annex 4.4.    Framework for Water Rights
* The issue of water utilization licenses must be socialized to various levels of users.
* The bureaucratic procedure for licensing of spring water management is unclear, and it has
been without a clear orientation for too long.
* Many agencies have not paid water retribution (e.g. PLN, POJ) and the proceeds of
retribution have not been utilized for water management.
* Water allocation must also involve the Fishery and Agricultural Offices.
* For water resource management in Cisurupan, Kecamatan Ujungberung, PDAM Bandung
has experienced difficulty in obtaining a license, because of lack of clarity concerning which
agency has the authority.
* There is no need to change the scale of priorities for the utilization of water as stated in one
Article of Law No.1 1/1974. Change in priority is needed at times of conflict or in accordance
with local requirements.
* The old paradigm of the social function of water should be maintained, "because water
resources are abundant". "The Government should even supply water free of charge, as in
Saudi Arabia where resources are inadequate but yet the government supplies water free of
charge with guaranteed quaiity and quantity".
Annex 4.5.    Provide for a Framework and Mechanisms to Address Water Pollution
* Pollution parameters up to now are based on chemical and physical indicators. They should
also incorporate biological indicators, such as plankton, benthos etc. (for example, the
population of the sapu fish increased quite sharply in the Citarum river in the Sapan area,
which was an indicator of the level of pollution).
* The morphology and geometry of rivers are significant in considering problems of pollution.
Pollution caused by mining cannot be ignored.
* Conservation of biodiversity must not only be carried out in the forest, but it should also be
focussed on rivers and lakes (the higher the level of pollution, the lower the biodiversity).
* Pollution cases have not been handled effectively. Stricter regulations must be prepared, and
if necessary these may need to include inter-regional regulations.
* The main pollutant of water resources in urban areas is domestic waste, because of very
weak town planning. This problem must be handled systematically.
* It is necessary to formulate a preventive concept for water quality maintenance, especially in
industrial zones.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -53



* It is necessary to monitor the quality of drinking water every six months.
Annex 4.6    Set Up a Management Information System (MIS)
* The intrusion of seawater in Padang cannot be monitored owing to the lack of reliable data
and a hydrology map. The water from wells around Air Tawas is not suitable for
consumption, and many households now rely on the PDAM Water Company. This
emphasizes the need for the conservation of water resources and forest protection.
Annex 4.7    Irrigation Reform, and Transfer of Secondary Canals to Water User
Associations
*  It is necessary to simplify the method of collecting levies from the farmers, because these are
collected by several agencies such as PBB, IPAIR, P3A. But it is also necessary to have
clear information about utilization of the fund, because from experience it is seen that
farmers are willing to pay the higher levy for pump irrigation.
*  It is time to give full authority to WUA in the management of irrigation networks, but
technical guidance is still necessary. This is important, because they have never previously
had this authority.
*  The problem with WUAs is that we have not put enough trust in the farmers and we regulate
too much. An example is the case of irrigation pumps at Semani (West Sumatra). On handing
over the pumps, it was stated that the facility still belonged to PU, while the WUA was only
to manage it. As a result, the farmers took back their savings that had been initially intended
for replacing pumps that became damaged.
-  In the half-hearted manner of transfer of irrigation networks (PIK), PU generally undertakes
repairs prior to transfer. As a result, farmers become spoilt, and will report to PU even for
small problems. This tends to occur because the system is project-oriented; this must be
totally eliminated if we wish to make the farmers the subject.
*  There are many organizations operating at the village level that urgently need to be
regularized. Those who attend every meeting, whether from Farmers Group, Cooperative, or
Kelompencapir, are always the same persons. For example, one village in West Java has no
less than 63 organizations, with their personnel appointed top-down. Moreover, organizations
such as WUA were implemented top-down, although the community had not felt the need for
them. In some regions the communities still experience no problems concerning water, but
they were instructed to form WUAs. The same was true for village cooperatives (KUD), so
that 200 KUDs were formed in a single year in West Java. It is felt that the establishment of
WUA or KUD is merely a target of the sectoral ministries.
*  Not all WUAs are 'careless' about the irrigation networks that are still "government-owned".
Where there is clear ownership, as in transmigration settlements and urban areas, the WUA is
already functioning although not very effectively. However, in West Sumatra, where the
agricultural lands are communally owned (ulayat), the WUA is not functioning well. The
shift from the traditional (nagari) system into a village government system created confusion
for the traditional community in the management of the nagari assets that had been divided
by the new system. The farmers are more comfortable with the former nagari system. The
Governor once issued a local regulation for the village government to apply the nagari
mechanism, and in this case the WUA operated very well. Thus, if we expect active
File: DAHIWA TSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A -54



participation from the community and WUAs, especially those with a strong traditional
background such as in West Sumatra, we must consider these variable social conditions.
* If it should be proposed that the WUA return to the nagari management system, this must be
synchronized with government programs for reviving that system. Without this, the solving
of WUA problems will not be optimal.
* After returning to the nagari system, it is necessary to encourage the re-emergence of the
trust and the community's sense of belonging, so that they can feel a real sense of ownership
of the irrigation system. This would no longer be called 'assistance', and can be realized only
if the rights of ownership and management are really delegated to the farmers. Such
delegation should be carried out in phases, with a transitional period for group empowerment,
during which other sectors or services should be involved, to avoid confusion.
*  An urgent problem is how to regulate the Farmer Groups (kelompok tani) and WUA. The
former is still needed to strengthen food self-sufficiency. Each Group is intended to consist of
30-40 farmers, covering 20-30 ha. However, WUA usually cover some 150 ha at tertiary
level. There will be many technical problems if the Farmer Groups and WUA are combined,
for example in receiving the Farming Business Credit (KUT). If the area is, say, 150 ha, then
there will be, say, 450 farmers to receive credit. In such a case the number of KUT for each
Group will be insufficient. Such aspects must be considered.
*  WATSAL is concerned with water management, ranging from decreasing water discharge to
inter-sectoral competition. The WUA is expected to have an active role in collecting the
operational fund for such management through water levies. The problem is how to make
WATSAL care not only for the management, but also for the conservation of water
resources. On this basis, WiUA should be involved in issues of forest protection. The role of
the forestry sector is really significant. Moreover, the management is emphasized only while
the water discharge is normal; we are not able to manage high flows and floods.
*  WUAs have failed because they are only concerned with the collection of water levies.
However, if we take a look at what happens in farming, there is really a surplus of rice. So,
the main challenge for WIUA is how the collected levies can be developed and utilized. If the
levies can be collected smoothly, then we can say that WUA is successful. So, the problem is
how to broaden the farmers' perspective and how to strengthen their economy.
*  To maintain rice cultivation, a price standard that is profitable for the farmer should be
established, otherwise farmers may be tempted to shift to tree crops. The fertilizer price must
also be taken into account, because it is a major factor in production costs. In the structure of
foodstuff trade, the farmer's profit is very small compared with the profits to be made by
those selling cooked rice.
*  The main problem of WUAs is the ownership crisis. To solve this problem, the Irrigation
Service of kabupaten Tanah Datar together with WUAs were about to execute a KSO plan
(kerjasama operasi, a joint operation). However, when about to commence, the job was
suddenly contracted out to another party. Employees that had been prepared were even taken
illegally by the developer. The resulting discontent caused a new dam to be destroyed and
other damage. These are the results of deviation from the pre-determined irrigation structure
specification.
*  The complicated WUA administration structure has reached an unrealistic level. For
example, P3A must provide visitor books, inventory lists, membership cards, contribution
File: DAHI/WATSAISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -55



cards, etc. This is a heavy burden for WUA, whose farmers have their own routine burden in
working their lands. The administration should be simplified.
*  Insufficient intensity of interest on the part of the kabupaten Irrigation Service is one of the
causes of WUA's failure. The Tk II assisting team should be stronger. Presently the Team
comes only when there is a problem, as seen for example in the case of the Semani pumping
project. Only the Public Works' Irrigation Department played an active role while theTk II
government contributed very little. That is why the income from water levies collected byTk
II has been reduced to nothing.
* A partnership system is the best way to bridge the relationship between the government and
farmers. However, the method is not clear so that we do not know how far we can transfer to
WUA without intervention in the local system. It is hoped that the partnership activities will
not discourage the initiative of the farmers and local communities. Because the partnership
program is not clearly defined, the role of the partners has no meaning and the target cannot
be accomplished. The formulation of the partnership should be reconsidered.
* Another weakness of WUA is their difficulty in adapting to external events, such as
globalization. Therefore, the most important need is to prepare the farmers to face the
globalization era and to optimize the benefit of their assets in improving their quality of life.
There will need to be diversification in the institutional function. WUA can be an economic
board, executive board, or any sort of board that takes care of water exploitation. They must
also realize that there is real economic and agricultural competition. In order to intensify their
capacity, WUAs must not spoil what they have already. In anticipation of such changes, they
must widen their knowledge in the fields of economy, management, law and the ability to
fight for their rights.
File. DAfHlWA 7SALJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A -56



WATER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (WATSAL)
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 5
THE PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS
(NATIONAL LEVEL)
Government of Indonesia
Inter-Agency Task Force                March 1999
On Water Sector Policy Reform



ANNEX 5.   RESULTS OF THE PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS (NATIONAL LEVEL).
The national level consultation was held on 22 February 1999 at Bappenas, and attended by 45
participants. Although nearly as many invitations were sent to members of civil society (NGOs,
research institutes, business associations) as to Government officials, rather few attended, so that
the latter predominated. The main discussion points were as follows:
In the implementation of the regional/river basin approach to water resources management.
it is necessary to:
*  Carry out a Regional AMDAL that incorporates the spatial plan, land use and water use.
Besides the supply approach (supply -driven) to management, it is necessary to develop a
demand approach. So the basin plan considers both supply and demand. The aspect of
demand for the community needs will encourage the need for activities to conserve
water.
*  Socialize the basin approach to the provincial and district apparatus, so that they have
consistency in discipline to applying the basin approach in dealing with problems in
management.
- Integrative thinking from upstream to downstream in the implementation of the basin
approach will encourage the community to be aware of the need for conservation. In order
that the community can be encouraged to be responsible directly and extensively, the cost
allocation for the community participation can be implemented by the community
themselves. To support the community-based approach in water resource conservation, it is
necessary to determine the distribution of roles of the government (top-down) and the
community (bottom-up).
* It appears that the WATSAL activities are still planning orientated, but in their
implementation, it is not clear which approach will be used. While the implementation of
WATSAL activities is expected to be orientated to consumer-based development, which can
improve water quality, timely service etc., but to achieve this a project-based approach would
be recommended.
* It is necessary to strengthen the institution of the WUAs, not merely before the transfer of
irrigation management but also continue following transfer.
*  It is necessary to develop clearer biological parameters in efforts to maintain water quality
and quantity. However, it is also necessary to study geology and soil factors, in the handling
of deep groundwater problems, such as occurred at Bandung.
* Besides coordinating the activities of various sectors in water resource management, the
National Water Committee must also have authority in the formulation of management
policy. Thereby it will have clear authority and at the same time be capable of coordinating
all institutions in the framework of effective water resource management.
* At the regional level, there will be integration of groundwater and surface water
management. This is very important because the two cannot be separated in the hydrological
cycle. Hence this integration must still be based on the basin approach.
* To develop a system of fair water allocation, we can learn from Japanese experience, based
upon principles (history?) of water usage. With this approach, the water user will get timely
and serious attention.
File: DAH/WA TSAL/SEA_Anne-.doc I March 1999                                    A -57



*  One method for implementing activities for water conservation and the maintenance of water
quality is to apply the AMDAL methodology, but this appears to be not very effective.
Therefore it is necessary to adopt an Environmental Audit approach, so that the
environmental performance can be periodically ascertained. It is also necessary to develop a
system for checking water quality in the river, not just at each factory outlet. [It was however
pointed out at the meeting that environmental audits tend to be owned privately and not
released to the public domain - this was the case with the audit carried out by PTIndorayon,
for example].
* In developing the data system, it is necessary to have the same definitions in each sector.
Also, to support its development, it is necessary to have a monitoring system in a basin at the
border of every district or town, so that the flow on entry is in a normal condition in
accordance with agreed standards.
*  If the policy reforms proposed by WATSAL are implemented as a project proposal, then one
of the important activities will be to review the results of all previously existing projects in
the water sector, in order to learn from experience and avoid inefficiency and duplication.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -58



WATER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (WATSAL)
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 6
THE PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS
(NGOs)
Government of Indonesia
Inter-Agency Task Force              March 1999
On Water Sector Policy Reform



ANNEX 6.   RESULTS OF THE PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS (NGOs).
Separate meetings were held with NGOs in each province (especially but not only 'green'
NGOs). These were expected to reveal rather different perceptions, with emphasis on issues of
conservation, biodiversity, pollution and social welfare. In fact, although there was indeed this
emphasis, the issues tended to be very similar to those that were raised at the regional
consultations. As in the case of the latter consultations, the concerns of theNGOs were genuine
and very real, but tended to again confirm the negative impacts of the present (without-
WATSAL) situation and the need for reform. Some of the points of discussion have been taken
up in Annex I (Assessment of key environmental issues). The points are itemized separately
here, in order to illustrate the change in focus and emphasis.
Annex 6.1    NGOs in West Sumatra
* One thing that must be explained is "who actually has the right to manage water?"
Conceptually it is clear. For example, Article 33 of the 1945 Constitution states that "land
and water are controlled by the government and utilized to the maximum for the welfare of
the people". The question is, has this concept been translated into real application in the
implementation of our development? Furthermore, authority is divided, e.g. Forestry, Mining,
Public Works etc. The interests of each sector continue to grow, so that water management is
not coordinated. The institutions having authority, rights and responsibilities must be clear
(including in the issuance of licenses), and disciplines must be enforced.
* The most important agenda for water resource reforrnation is how to translate Article 33 of
the 1945 Constitution into real policy. This article gives power to the state, but does not
stipulate how it should be implemented. The state finally just does as it pleases, with power
eventually being given to those close to the government. Urban bias is also found in water
management. For example, development of PDAM by the Regional Administration of
kabupaten Padang Pariaman takes water from Sicincin, as a result of which the fishery
seeding enterprise of the community lost its function; owing to shortage of water inSicincin,
farmers are fighting with each other.
A main source of confusion is the mixed-up legislative and executive functions in deciding
on projects. Public Works as the technical ministry can issue various government regulations
and ministerial decrees concerning water, but at the same time they represent technical
institutions which execute projects. It can be understood that legislation issued by Public
Works is merely justification, to support the execution of projects in a collusive fashion. The
idea to establish a National Water Council must be able to separate the legislative from the
executive function, and the planning from the service function. The National Water Council
must become a "water parliament" (as in France), with PTPA and PPTPA at the district and
basin levels. All stakeholders and NGOs must become members of the "water parliament".
So whatever is done in the water sector must be discussed in the open "water parliament"
session. If the National Water Council refuses to approve a project, then that project must be
immediately stopped. This is a manifestation of the bargaining position mentioned elsewhere.
* Another problem of legislative institutions is membership. Presently the PTPA and PPTPA
are dominated by representatives from technical ministries. This must be reformed so that
NGOs and others, together with farmers' representatives, will become members. Ideally only
50% should represent the government. Through this balance decisions will have a strong
File: DAH/WAT7SALJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A -59



legitimacy, or on the other hand, if there is no compromise, it will not be possible to
undertake any activities by one side only.
In general, the current legislation does not take the side of people's sovereigntv, equity and
justice. These regulations must be changed. This process in reformation may be difficult to
implement, as we will face corrosive bureaucratic behaviour. Bureaucracy develops the ethic
that those who dissent (or disobey their codes) can be expelled from the domain of the
bureaucrats. The bureaucrats will consider that there will be no problems if there is no
disagreement. There is a special art in handling this on the part of NGOs.
* The National and Regional Water Councils are expected to have the authority and power to
influence the policy of the institutions un'der them, i.e. the central and regional government.
This council will be the realization of public sovereignty over water. After the general
election, it is hoped that this expectation can b'e realized.
* The National Water and Regional Water Council which will be established must be able to
prove to the other institutions that they have strong bargaining power. Also the composition
of its members must reflect the aspirations of all parties, and it must be confirmed in a
bottom-up way how far the community needs this institution, because up to now they still
consider new institutions like this as merely bureaucratic projects.
*  The need for a clear authority can be seen in the case of the development of the Singkarak
hydro-electric plant. The water of the lake has been traditionally used by farmers, fisherrnen
and the people who live along the Batang Ombilin river. Yet, when the power plant was
constructed, it looked as if the lake belongs to them. Those who were dependent on the lake
are ignored. There were clear environmental impacts, such as the extinction of at least four
species of valuable endemic fish (e.g. ikan Garing), and of the Labi (Soft Turtle - this was
exported to Singapore and fetched a price of Rp 50,000/kg). The power plant behaves as if it
owns the lake, without any control from other institutions, and can open and close water
gates at their convenience, without informing the farmers downstream.
* The pollution which caused fish mortality in the Maninjau and Singkarak Lakes has caused
apprehension. Provisionally it was suspected that volcanic sulphur was the cause but accurate
studies are required.
*  The value of water must be considered in view of its increasing commercialization. This
means that whoever uses water for profit must pay some form of levy. The levy would be
low if the water is used for subsistence, such as a rice crops for own consumption, but high
for drinking water companies and others who sell water at a high price. They should also
share the profits they generate from water. Thus it is not ethical for Aqua to pay only for the
location permit. There should be no exception even to PDAM, as a Regional Government-
owned company. Likewise PLTA/PLN must be willing to pay because they generate profit
by using water, even though they do not consume it directly. [For example the PLTA scheme
at Kotopanjang has created deep environmental and social impacts, such as the inundation of
farming areas].
* In the management and use of water, it is important to determine which institution has the
authority and how far this can extend to the power of bargaining in policy making. Without
this, it can only make an inventory of the problems, without any capacity to seek their
resolution. For example, if after evaluation the institution recommends that PLTASingkarak
should cease operations, it should obey. Presently many institutions are studying the
File: DAH/WATSAL/SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A -60



problems of the Padang Cement factory and also the Industrial Park, but they can only
perform fact-finding.
*  The problem of licenses, particularly in environmentally sensitive sectors, must be given
special attention. For example, there is a problem about a license given to an obsidian
mining company. The open-cast mining is poorly managed and has caused environmental
damage, particularly erosion and thick sedimentation in the rivers and canals. Water that
carries obsidian tailings has attacked and destroyed irrigation structures. There is a dispute
between the Regional Government and the company about who should be responsible to
make the repairs, so that they are being constantly postponed. There is a lack in proper
project planning, and weakness in the license mechanism.
*  Forrnerly it was often said that if there is one commodity without economic value, it is water.
Yet, we are also aware that water is the artery of life. With the growing population and rate of
development, this traditional attitude must be changed..
*  Besides having economic value, the problems of water have become complex, such as
conservation, quality, quantity, pollution. Water must also be classified into types of use: for
example, drinking water, flushing water, pond water, and water for washing cars would be of
different quality. Furthermore, we should also consider the concept of the value of water.
Much has happened when water acquired an economic value, not always with an explanation.
*  As a daily occurrence in the city of Padang, while many cars are being washed using fresh
water, there are many families washing their kitchenware with water from the drainage ditch.
There is a lack of justice in the distribution of clean water. The communitv itself is still
questioning how to classify various forms of water usage, from drinking water to irrigation
water, and how it should be managed.
*  Such problems are common in West Sumatra. They become conspicuous if we study
programs to bridge farmer's institutions and institutions for watershed management. The
urgent problem is to formulate water rights legally, so that problems can be overcome at the
farmer's level. Currently the environmental regulations are ineffective. The EIA can be pre-
arranged to have a satisfactory result (e.g. the EIA of a company operating in the Anai
valley). At the same time, the institution responsible for monitoring the environment has no
authority. Reforms must be carried out to balance the implementation and controlling
institutions. Without this, the role of NGOs and others as control institutions will have no
meaning. It is merely a waste of time to make inventories of the problems for discussion,
without having any solutions (for example the legal NGO Lembaga Bantuan Hukum in
Padang with its obsidian problem).
*  Attention to the environment in a project is very important, but again it depends on the
capacity of the monitoring institution. If it only monitors it is wasting energy. For example, in
the construction of PLTA Singkarak, it was agreed that this would begin only after
reforestation of the area around the lake had been completed. In the event, the reforestation
failed, yet the construction continued. The reason, it was stated, was that it was a matter of
investment (the World Bank), and that implementation was urgent. The World Bank seemed
to be profit-oriented, willing to ignore the environment for the sake of processing the loan.
Therefore when NGOs in West Sumatra were offered the opportunity to monitor JPS
(jaringan pengamanan sosial - social security network), "we just listened - if it is only to
monitor without any authority, what is the use?"
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -61



* Every abuse of water usage must be subject to legal sanction (e.g. the use of drinking quality
water for car washing). This is important, because some communities have to walk verv far
to get water. Fixing a price for water, and its proper and economic use, must be introduced to
the public. Padang, with a population of 400,000, has started to feel scarcity, which indicates
that allocation must be given consideration.
* Fixing a price for water is urgent from the view point of developing cross subsidies. Many
poor communities do not get fresh water supplies because the government cannot afford it.
Once the price is determined, with the heavy consumers paying more, then the government
revenues will be sufficient to expand the service to poor communities. This is especially the
case for PLN, PDAM and bottled water companies. The key for an effective cross subsidy is
that rates of levies will vary, with a lower price for subsistence needs than commercial rates,
which can be based on market price.
* Violation of agreements between local communities and companies about river borders has
often occurred e.g. in kabupaten Pesisir Selatan. For example, provisions that a certain width
along the riverbanks would be free from plantations have been violated. which has ultimately
caused a deterioration in water quality of the river and the quantity of ground water in the
area. Likewise in kabupaten Lima Puluh Kota, a waterfall in the Arau valley dries up in the
dry season, supposedly because of excessive water usage at a gambier plantation along the
river upstream.
 In the matter of responsibility, both communities and companies have responsibility. Some
communities have developed advanced systems of management, such as the Subak system on
Bali, whereas others do not consider it important. For example the community is more
involved than the company with the gambier plantation in the Arau valley.
* Concern by the community is the basis to provide adequate quantity and quality of water.
Lack of this concern will result in a poor awareness of the consequences of development. For
example, the development of the Andalas university campus has caused a deterioration in
water quality, and the loss of fish. Local people than made keramba for fish (cage culture?),
but these caused pollution, and skin irritation after bathing. There is a need to socialize the
importance of water and to create an approach to develop responsibility among even the
lower levels of community. Perhaps it is time to have "water police", like the forest police.
* Government and private projects pay insufficient attention to the interest of the community.
One micro-hydro power station did not function because the river flow was hampered by new
projects in the watershed. Several families lost the opportunities to enjoy electricity for which
they had waited for years. There is no institution in the community which can overcome
conflicts and competition in the watershed.
* Besides technical discussion, it is basic to socialize the importance of water problems in
every sector. Every concerned technical ministry should establish a division to study and
collect data of water problems related to their sector. Thereby every technical ministry must
have autonomy in order to be able to predict environmental impacts of each policy decision
in a long term perspective. This can happen if the importance of water is acknowledged as a
bargaining position in making interventions.
 Environmental problems also result from a lack of quality standards which can be measured
and used as a technical standard by all ministries. The Office of the State Minister of
Environment/KLH has determined a quality standard, but this is a state ministry and its
products can only be used for reference. Basically the policy of KLH is one of appeal only,
File. DAH/WATSAL'SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -62



and it has no technical power in regulating the activities of the executing ministries. As a
result, each ministry develops its own environmental standards independently. We hope that
such problems do not occur in the reformation of the water sector, with Bappenas and Public
Works lacking synchrony in their reformation formulations.
Annex 6.2     NGOs in West Java.
*  The Citarum river has three reservoirs, the Cirata, Saguling and Jatiluhur. The Cirata and
Saguling have already been affected by pollution, and this will continue to increase. This is a
severe problem, because of its impact on the drinking water supplies downstream, which
includes Jakarta.
*  Some 2000 industries, out of 23,000 in West Java, are located in the Bandung region. The
seriously polluting industries are textiles, paper, cartons and shoes. These industries earn
foreign exchange and provide employment, but they also have very heavy negative impacts.
*  A case of incorrect use of the spatial plan occurred in the Ciujung-Ciliman basin, which was
formnerly planned as an area for agricultural and fisheries production. However a range of
new industries has sprung up since the late-1980s, including two located on the river
floodplain. This divergence from the spatial plan occurred because the authority of the
kabupaten government, which had not agreed to the development, was over-ruled by a higher
authority. This is because the 'law of the jungle' (hukum rimba) prevails, with the strongest
authority ruling over the weaker institutions.
*  These industries use both ground and surface water, and discharge their pollution to the river.
Floods, pollution and decreasing biodiversity result. Although they apply water treatment to
achieve quality standards, these standards vary between industries, and the quality is far
below requirements.
*  The impact of incorrectly sited industries also has a social aspect. They offer employment
opportunities which bring more attractive rewards than farming, but the farm land that has
been converted leads to urbanization, unemployment, and unskilled labour. The land that is
not converted is sold to urban entrepreneurs and eventually becomes non-productive or idle
land, while the farmers become landless.
*  The lowering of groundwater table in Bandung results from pumping by industries, and
conversion of groundwater recharge areas to housing in North (high level) Bandung. If the
soil pores are dry, then there is subsidence, so that the pore space decreases, and the soil can
no longer store water. Groundwater is assumed to be renewable but this is not always the
case (sometimes it is fossil water, or the lithology is such that the pores become clogged up).
This may be the reason that groundwater is not percolating from North to central Bandung.
*  The approach to development ignores the natural seasonal water cycle: rainwater cannot be
absorbed because of the density of buildings, and soil compaction; the catchment area is
reduced, so that when the wet season arrives, flooding cannot be avoided, while water
becomes scarce in the dry season.
*  The capacity of government industries is not in harmony with community developments at
both the macro and micro level. The handling capacity in accordance with regulations is
rather difficult, because the regulations themselves overlap horizontally and vertically.
Examples are the Pemda of Bekasi or Serang which nearly every year amend their spatial
File: DAH/WATSAIJSEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -63



planning in both policies and implementation. This is integrated with the system of
government and system of politics, as well as human capabilities.
* The development of a system of government must begin with agreement between central,
provincial and kabupaten government. There is a need for a continuous process of capacity
building (not just for a year or two). The practice of over-ruling, forced from higher
authority, must be avoided.
*  A good example forrnerly was the Provincial Water Management Agency (Badan Pengelola
Air Propinsi) in West Java (in this province only), which had authority for all water permits
and conservation of water resources at provincial level. It had its own office paid for by the
provincial government and full authorityv in policy setting. Even the Governor could not
bypass the policies set by the agency. Maybe because this agency was so powerful, it was
unpopular with central government, and the agency was dismantled.
* The assumption is made by both government institutions and the public that water is plentiful
and therefore there is no cause for concern, or to pay water levies. This assumption must be
revised, owing to the lowering of the water table. Especially in view of the continuing
reduction in water supplies that threaten the very existence of mankind. The function of water
is seen by the regional government merely as a source of increasing revenue, and they do not
balance supply with demand.
*  The policy of fixing a demarcation of 100 m from a river or 100 m around a spring for
protection has little use, because the water resource is not confined to these limits but much
more widespread. Such policy is based upon human ignorance that homogenizes ecosystems
of water resources.
*  Water abstraction by industries requires tight control. For example, there have been cases in
Karawang and Bandung where a permit has been issued to draw water from 5 bores, but 30
were sunk. Up to now control has been merely a pretence, because the audits are falsely
prepared through corruption and collusion.
*  At Desa Paniis, Ciremai, Cirebon district, the public were so angry with the reduced water
supply after construction of water storage basins by PDAM that they destroyed the basins.
The extraction of sand and gravel (galian C) is also a factor. Construction of the basins took
place without discussion with the communities who have used the springs for decades. Only
the profits of PDAM and regional revenue are taken into account, not the public.
*  The policy of monoculture tree crops by Perum Perhutani must be revised, because it has a
negative impact on biodiversity. Furthermore, coniferous trees (genus Pinus) are very thirsty,
similar to Eucalyptus plantations around Lake Toba that have caused a fall in the lake
surface.
*  One NGO (POLAN) in Bandung has made an inventory of springs in Bandung Municipality.
From a list made available by the government (Food Crops Service and Town Planning
Service), out of a total of 41 springs only 23 were found. The rest had been destroyed by
building (one privately owned spring even ended up in the middle of a house). The inventory
was made because of concerns about the loss of springs and the intention to rehabilitate them.
It is questioned why such concerns had not arisen on the part of the government body that has
the mandate.
* In the southern regions of West Java (kabupaten Bandung, Garet and Cianjur), according to
Yayasan Pribumi Alam Lestari, there has been a reduction in water even in the conservation
area, owing to illegal destruction of the forest and inadequate management bv Perum
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -64



Perhutani. The surrounding communities have complained about a reduction in water for-the
last five years.
* A survey in East Kalimantan (Muara Wahau region) by FK3I concluded that the shifting
cultivation cycle had been greatly reduced; from around 20 years to only 5 now. A cause for
this is the official logging under HPH. Because of this reduced cvcle, trees are not permitted
to grow to any size, and the total forest area is reduced. Our total area of virgin forest is being
reduced, maybe to as low as 10 million ha, which completely contradicts the official figures.
* A study by Lembaga Kreativitas Pekerja Anak Indonesia, which is also concerned about
street children, showed that they were using polluted water from pumps, because of the poor
hygiene of urban communities. This causes a variety of sicknesses, reduces productivity, and
increases the cost of health care.
* There is a need to socialize the 'blue water' movement for rivers through instruction
concerning systems of disposal of waste water from homes, restaurants and home industries.
Handling recommendations
* Review the authority and management of forests by Perum Perhutani. It is better to disband
Perum Perhutani and give the authority to regional agencies such as Dinas Perhutanan
Konservasi Tanah dan Koperasi.
e The management of a river basin from top to bottom should be by one body, that includes
permits for the use of both surface and ground water. The former Badan Pengelola Air
Propinsi Jabar (see above) would be a suitable model.
* The granting of licenses for land allocation must be integrated with licenses for the water
resources that will be used. Owing to the lack of coordination up to now, industries have been
developed without considering the availability of water.
 Social institutions at the community level as well as regional governments must be
strengthened so that they accept authority and responsibility in utilizing water resources. This
would enable the balance of supply and demand to be properly anticipated and predicted. The
central government has the competence to facilitate rather than to regulate through
government or sectoral regulations. The central government does not understand the
problems of water resources that are specific to the regions.
* Central and regional spatial plans must be in harmony, must be adhered to, and must be
applied consistently. There must be absolute involvement of stakeholders and users in the
water resource management body.
*  Biodiversity needs to be protected through policies that integrate the conservation and
utilization of water resources. The policy of monoculture by Perum Perhutani must be
reviewed, with a return to the variety of trees and crops that support the protection of
biodiversity. The policy of monoculture causes soil instability, and also results in the loss of a
variety of crops that have potential for medicinal purposes. Pinus and Eucalyptus are also
very demanding on water.
* Structural planning, as used by developed countries, is urgently needed in Indonesia. This
means that the spatial plans of central, provincial and kabupaten governments must be in
harmony in the allocation of land and water resources, in the short, medium and long term.
The agreement must be adhered to, and never over-ruled.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                      A -65



Annex 63    NGOs in South Sulawesi
*  In water resources management at river level, the authority and responsibility of government
agencies is not clear, so when a problem arises, no-one accepts the responsibility to find a
solution.
*  Improvement proposal: Water resource management at river level should not be the
responsibility of a sectoral agency, but under Provincial Administration. This would avoid a
sectoral and partial approach among Kabupatens.
*  Policy improvements on water resource manacement, now under preparation in Jakarta, will
give opportunities to the regions to prepare their own policies, based on the characteristics of
each region.
*  Improvement Proposal: Water resource policy at central level should not be too detailed in
regulating the authority to the regions, in order to allow more room for regional regulations to
accommodate geographical and local socio-cultural conditions.
*  In regions with high development intensity, such as Maros District, conflicts have occurred in
water utilization. In the River Dutch, conflict occurred between the farmers and fishermen
and the Bosowa cement factory, opened in 1996. This was constructed withoutAMDAL. As a
result of the water requirements of the factorv, some of the downstream farmers experience
shortage, while the fishermen have become restless owing to problems of pollution.
Improvement Proposal: It is necessary to prepare a regional regulation concerning water
rights and the rights of allocation among the users of the river water. This is necessarv to
protect those who have been utilizing the water for a long time. NGOs should be involved in
the preparation of such Regional Regulations.
  Water availability is related to forest problems. It is necessary to develop a combined water
and forest management unit, especially for water and forest conservation problems in
upstream areas. There is cooperation between the illegal loggers and those who provide the
capital, and this has accelerated deforestation in the upstream area.
*  Improvement Proposal: It is necessary to involve local community institutions in facing this
problem. This will strengthen the control function of the community.
*  For the coastal area at Ujung Pandang, many ships enter up to the river mouth, and this is
causing pollution. The management of river transportation must be controlled by a regional
regulation.
*  Disposal of waste water/pollutant into the river is getting worse. EIAs have been prepared by
the companies, and NGOs have been involved in the EIA (AMDAL) Evaluation Team. But
this has proved insufficient, because very often the parties required to carry out the
monitoring (Bappedalda and Sectoral offices) forget about this function.
*  Improvement Proposal: NGOs should be involved as permanent members of the regional
AMVDAL Committee (komisi daerah); they currently have only non-permanent status. NGOs
should also be involved in the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation. This will
strengthen the function of the AMDAL monitoring and also maintain the neutrality of
evaluation.
*  Information about the environmental condition of the water resource is very important for the
community. Therefore it is proposed that Provincial and District Bappeda become
information centers, while NGOs should be involved in data collection.
File: DAH/WATSALJSEA_Annex.doc 1 March 1999                                   A -66



*  There needs to be a data base for watersheds as well as small rivers and tributaries, to be
collected by NGOs and Universities together with the community, and the data to be made
available to every project planner/investor who plans to enter the river zone.
*  There is a need for a provincial level policy to establish a form of independent team which
handles policies of environmental conservation, especially watersheds. The South Sulawesi
Regional Government should have the position as coordinator of water resource management
(without reliance on sectoral instructions). NGOs should become equal partners in the water
resource management process.
*  In general there is no comprehensive and sustainable planning for watershed management in
South Sulawesi. It is necessary to have anIautonomous, inter-sectoral institution for managing
the watersheds at provincial level under the coordination of the Governor. This is especially
the case when a watershed crosses several districts which have different customs towards the
environment.
*  In preparing Regional Regulations (perda) for spatial planning, water resource aspects and
socio-cultural aspects of the community must be given proper attention. The community
including NGOs should be involved every time aperda for spatial planning is prepared.
* A perda concerning River Management/Utilization is being prepared now in South Sulawesi.
A member of the Water Resource Reformation Working Group from Jakarta should insist
that the Provincial Administration/Irrigation Office involves NGOs from the province.
*  The large number of village institutions, including WUA, is confusing the community.NGOs
in South Sulawesi proposed the following improvements:
*  stop government intervention  in the development of village/farner community
institutions.
* The government through Regional Administration should continue to allocate funds for
empowerment of farmer community organizations.
*  Activities of village community organizations should be directed towards social and
economic aspects and awareness of the political rights of the people.
*  Activities for empowerment of farmer community organizations should involve NGOs.
* So far policies concerning water resource management are still weak and the environmental
damage is getting worse, with the consequence that water supply is decreasing.
*  According to the Preliminary Study Team of LAKPESDAM, the problem of water resource
environmental damage is quite complex. From the Team's findings, there are several
problems:
*  In order to increase their income, river communities take the rocks and sand, so that the
river becomes dirty and abrasion increases. Yet the river provides the livelihood for the
community.
*  The excessive use of pesticides greatly disturbs the existing ecosystem.
*  Clearance of mangroves along the beach results in coastal erosion. This would be reduced by
mangrove replanting.
*  There is poor understanding on the part of the community about the importance of water
resource conservation, particularly rivers. For example, they clear-fell the forest and trees
around the river so that landslides occur.
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A -67



*  There are no clear regulations about river usage in each sector. For example: in South
Sulawesi motor-boats with high horse-power can operate from the river mouth to the upper
reaches; this causes waves that scour the banks.
*  There is no coordination among agencies in the utilization of the river zone (there needs to be
an inter-sectoral working group).
*  Communities along the river area should be given the opportunities to manage the area
themselves when it has potential for community-based environmental tourism.
*  Local policies which are deeply rooted in the traditional community should be reviewed.
*  There should be emphasis on maintaining and developing the existing traditional village
community institutions, particularly those concerned with management of river water.
* Tanralili forest has been cleared and then turned into lots by the regional administration and
families of provincial officials, whereas the area actually should have a re-greening program.
*  Almost all groundwater recharge areas (resapan air) have been built over, without regard to
the urban spatial plans.
-  Canal and river bank areas become residential sites and the inhabitants use them for garbage
disposal, so that finally this garbage flows to the sea.
-  Small rivers, especially those in urban areas, are used as disposal areas for liquid waste from
various large industries. There is industrial waste around the Tello river, for example. It is
necessary to have an independent institution to monitor and control damage caused by
industrial waste.
  Luxury residences are developed on a land fill site (ASINDO Project). This development has
not yet had an AADAL, even though it has existed only since the 1980s, and it causes
flooding in the surrounding area.
*  There is a land fill site on Losari beach (GRITDC) (this is the popular beach in Ujung
Pandang city).
*  It is necessary to adopt a strict policy concerning theAAMAL regulations relating to business
enterprises. Commercial enterprises are always supported by the government, even though
ecologically they may not be feasible.
*  There are overlapping policies which confuse the community and which do not consider the
interests of local communities but give priority to the "white collar community". An example
is Kabupaten Sidrap, which is a rice barn region for the province formerly with good
irrigation. Now the small rivers are dry, and there are severe shortages. We need to know
why this is the case, and why there is now flooding in the north of Ujung Pandang.
* Development by the Government is considered only from the aspect of regional income
without looking at the environmental implications.
*  Swamps are water storage areas but their utilization as housing estates disrupts their natural
functions, and also increases the risk of flooding.
*  Monocropping and asupam rama (pesticide and synthetic fertilizer), large plantations and
brackish water fish ponds cause significant environmental problems. Integrated agriculture
would be a means to reduce if not eliminate completely the use of chemical fertilizer. Policies
relating to chemical use need to be reformed. For example, there should be no subsidy for
synthetic chemical material.
File: DAH/WATSALIJSEA_Anner.doc I March 1999                                     A -68



* There is no socialization of regulations concerning the water resource environmental
conservation, so that it is difficult to blame the community which violates the regulations.
* The potential impact of environmental damage is increasing in the provinces, the worst case
being Kabupaten Luwu where farmlands have been hit by floods. Meanwhile there is a
decrease in riceland near the river mouths because of sea water intrusion.
* There should be a campaign concerning the importance of the water environment.
*  Empowerment of forest squatters and shifting cultivators by establishing groups to be
developed.
*  Confirm regulations about groundwater and agricultural water utilization.
* The Law on natural resource management must be revised, so that the contents give more
attention to community interests.
* Traditional wisdom should become the base for implementing action programs.
File: DAH/WATSAL/SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -69



WATER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (WATSAL)
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 7
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES IN INDONESIA
Government of Indonesia
Inter-Agency Task Force                     March 1999
On Water Sector Policy Reform



ANNEX 7.   ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  ASSESSMENT  PROCEDURES -IN
INDONESIA.
7.1    The AMDAL (ELA) Legislation
The earlier law on environmental management (UU4/1982: Basic Provision for the Management
of the Living Environment) has been replaced and strengthened by UU 23/1997, promulgated on
19 September 1997. The environmental impact analysis orAMLDAL legislation currently in force
(PP 51/1993) is now being revised by a new regulation under active preparation to comply with
the stipulations contained in Article 15 of UU23/1997.
AMDAL is required to be an integrated project assessment process to coordinate the planning and
review of development projects, including all ecological, socio-economic and cultural
components. Development activities that are predicted to have significant impacts are described,
together with types of impacts that are considered significant. It is categorically stated that the
AMDAL process shall form part of the feasibility study for a proposed activity. It stipulates that
the expenses to prepare AMDAL documents shall be included in the budget of the proposed
activity and shall be borne by the proponent, and also that the environmental management and
monitoring costs shall be charged to the operational budget of the relevant activity.
Besides single sector evaluations, such as an irrigation project, procedures are available for
integrated / multisectoral evaluations (AMDAL Kegiatan Terpadu / Multisektoral) under the
authority of more than one technical agency (for example a multi-purpose dam), area evaluations
(AMDAL Kawasan) such as an industrial estate, and regional evaluations (AMDAL Regional)
which would include various interrelated activities under the jurisdiction of more than one
agency, lying in one zone of a regional development planning area. However, under the
Government Regulation now under preparation, multisectoral, area and regional evaluations are
no longer being considered, principally, it seems, because effectively they have barely been
implemented.
Ministerial Decree KEP-39/MENLH/8/1996 lists the development activities that requireAAMAL
studies. In the water sector, for example, full Environmental Impact Analysis (EIA) is required
for new irrigation projects of more than 1000 ha, or for the construction of new dams of greater
than 15 m height or 200 ha impounded area (see Annex Table 7.1). In addition, full EIA is
required for smaller scale projects that lie within or bordering a protected area (Appendix 2 of the
Decree). The definition of protected area is very far-reaching as it includes not only all forms of
nature conservation areas (hutan suaka alam) and protection forest (hutan lindung), but also the
more diffuse environmentally sensitive zones such as water catchment areas, peat swamps, and
the edges of rivers, lakes, marine zones etc. These categories could be interpreted as almost all-
encompassing, especially when areas of "significant social impact" are included, and careful
interpretation is required to ensure that limited budgetary and human resources are not wasted on
needless evaluations.
Full EIA includes ANDAL (Analisis Dampak Lingkungan - the environmental evaluation), and
RKL and RPL (respectively an environmental management plan and an environmental monitoring
plan - Rencana Pengelolaan Lingkungan and Rencana Pemantauan Lingkungan). Development
activities that are not required to be prepared with a full EIA, or not predicted to have significant
impacts, are required to be implemented with Environmental Management and Monitoring
Procedures (UKL and UPL - Upaya Pengelolaan Lingkungan / Upaya Pemantauan Lingkungan),
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                  A -70



in accordance with KEP-12/MENLHI3/1994. These procedures are not part of the AMDAL
process and not subject to evaluation by an AMIDAL commission. Kepmen 481/PU/1996 defines
those activities requiring UKL/UPL in the public works sector, for example, and there are similar
decrees in other sectors. The environmental aspects of lesser activities are covered by Standard
Operating Procedures (SOPs).
Guidelines for the determination of significant impacts are contained in BAPEDAL Decree
056/3/1994. In summary, these relate to criteria of number of people affected, spatial extent of
impact, duration of impact, intensity of impact, number of other components affected by impact,
cumulative nature of impact, and reversibility / irreversibility of impact. For all development
projects, a preliminary screening or scoping is required to determine the likely extent of impact,
for example on fragile or sensitive areas, and/or the need for resettlement and compensation. For
any projects with dimensions as listed in the table below, an environmental field study should be
completed (Kajian Lingkungan or KL). Where a full EIA is required under the law, or where this
study determines that significant impacts requiring full EIA are predicted, theKL will provide
inputs for the preparation of Terms of Reference for the ANDAL studv. Environmental
Management and Monitoring Plans (RKL and RPL) are prepared as separate documents together
with the ANDAL.
The AMDAL report is evaluated and approved by the associated agency, or its central AMDAL
commission (Komisi Pusat or Kompus), for example Ministry of Public Works for an irrigation
project, Ministry of Mines and Energy for a hydro-electric dam, or the Ministry of Forestry and
Estate Crops for an oil palm estate (even if the estate lies in the swamps sector). This central
commission invites members from all other associated agencies to participate in the evaluation.
Thus experts from the Kompus of Public Works will be invited to the presentation and evaluation
of an AMDAL report for a hydro-electric dam. Staff from the regional environmental commission
(Komisi Daerah or Komda) comprising all related provincial agencies including the
environmental bureau (Biro Lingkungan Hidup, or BAPEDALDA where this has been formed)
are also invited to the evaluation, and this should include both provincial andkabupaten levels.
Thereafter, however, the Kompus has no further role in monitoring the implementation of the
environmental management plan or RKL.
The developing agency is responsible for implementing and providing the budget for the RKL
and RPL, although it is generally required to work together with associated institutions for the
post-construction management. However the supervision and reporting on the implementation of
the plans is the responsibility of a team that is set up either by the responsible Minister for
national projects, or the Govemor for provincial projects. Supervision costs are borne by the
institutions comprising this team.
Monitoring of the activities under the RKL and RPL have been more systematically regulated by
BAPEDAL Decree Kep-105/1997, which assigns the responsibility for active monitoring to
BAPEDAL, BAPEDAL Wilayah and BAPEDAL Daerah, together with the proponent. In addition,
such monitoring may be undertaken in response to a request from concerned agencies, from the
public surrounding the location of the activity, or from NGOs. The costs of these activities will be
covered by a budget set aside by the Project Proponent in accordance with the requirements of
the AADAL document, together with the budget made available by the Government agency. This
latest decree is too recent to be able to judge its effectiveness, but clearly the future of the
implementation of the AMDAL process will depend to a large extent on the capabilities of the
various BAPEDAL offices, and their budgeting.
File: DAH/WATSAL/SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                    A -71



Of particular relevance to industrial waste is PP 12/1995 concerning dangerous and poisonous
waste, which is very specific in its legal requirements, although new regulations are also under
preparation for pollution also.
The environmental legislation of the Government of Indonesia is actually at least as
comprehensive as the regulations of the World Bank, and theoretically should be sufficient to
address most of the issues of environmental sustainability that are expected to arise from any
development activity.
Annex 7.2     A Sample AMDAL Report
Chapter 5 of the Main Report outlines the problems inAAMDAL preparation that are experienced
in at least the smaller to medium-scale projects. This section illustrates some of these problems.
In practice, while it is the specific local negative impacts that would result from a project that are
important, it is often mostly the generic impacts that are handled. In illustration, anAALDAL study
for a road project in Lampung was examined. This may not be in the water sector, but the
problems are common to all sectors. The report, prepared in 1995, has been accepted by the DPU
komisi pusat. The consultant was based in Bandung, and apparently did not have any Lampung-
based team members.
The road crosses mostly quite densely populated, very gently undulating, rural terrain, although
one sector lies close to the boundary of a national park. However this sector of the park has for
long been completely deforested and has little value for the conservation of biodiversity.
The methodology implies the use of highly theoretical concepts, describing complex formulae for
calculating dispersion of air pollution, noise levels, increase in water pollution, soil erosion
(Wische-meier Smith Universal Soil Loss Equation), the Summed Dominance Ratio for flora and
for fauna (using the Shanon Diversity Index) and the Simpson Diversity Index for plankton, and
population growth in the with and without project situation.
Few of these formulae are referred to again, although tables are given of calculated erosion levels
at a number of points, predicted emissions of various pollutants in both wet and dry season (for
1997 and 2010), predicted noise levels by kecamatan (1997 and 2007) for different classes of
vehicle, predicted changes in water quality, and predicted population growth by kecamatan. Often
the factors in these tables differ from those in the formulae, and the tables are neither
comprehensible to the layman, nor are the implications of the figures explained. Notwithstanding
the claimed use of technical indices for the evaluation of biodiversity, the findings are merely
lists of plants (almost entirely cultivated trees), and of a number of mammals, reptiles,
amphibians and birds, derived from the local forestry office (kanwil). These are given Indonesian
and scientific names, but many of the latter are incorrect (and most are incorrectly spelt). Indeed
several of the species do not occur in the Lampung plains, while the more significant species are
forest dwellers which are unlikely to occur anywhere near the road. Nevertheless it is claimed
that construction will have a negative impact on the fauna, although it will not threaten extinction
of any species because "they have the option to find new habitats". There is some discussion
concerning interference with elephant routes, although it seems unlikely that the road would
File: DAH/WA7SALJSEA_Annec.doc I March 1999                                      A -72



actually come close to these, and reference is also made to possible impacts on tigers, although
the reason for this is not clear.
It is felt that a meeting with the local university (LembagaPenelitian and Pusat Studi Lingkungan
at Unila university in Lampung) would have produced more meaningful findings, and it should
also have pointed the consultants to the fact that the road crosses a swamp which is believed to be
the last remaining habitat throughout Indonesia for the Bronze-wingedJacana Metopidius indicus
(this bird species is not currently listed as globally threatened but its Indonesian population is
believed to be critically endangered). Thus the highly academic approach failed to point this
national level consultant to recognize the single most important potential negative impact on the
biological environment.
Brief comments follow on three sample environmental reports in the water sector.
1. UKL and UPL for the construction of a 1.8 m high rubber dam and associated works on the
Jeneberang river, South Sulawesi (consultant: Hasanudin University, Jan 1996), to provide water
storage for PDAMI. This UKL/UPL environmental evaluation appears to be an appropriate level
of study for a project of this scale, although the 130-page single volume may be somewhat an
'overkill'. The study was made by a consultant from within the province.
2. AMDAL for the construction of small reservoirs for irrigation in East Java (local consultant,
May 1998 - Proyek Pengembangan DI Waduk Gondang, Jawa Timur). The Waduk Gondang
irrigation scheme already has 7,045 ha full technical irrigation, and there will be no newsawah
formation. But 3,667 ha semi-technical irrigation will become full technical, through
development of four additional small reservoirs. The project will require construction of tanks
with combined capacity of 265,250 m3, 700 m of main canal and 3,000 m of supply canals.
Presumably the criterion for the need for a full AMDAL is that the area of rehabilitation of
irrigation exceeds 2,000 ha (see Annex 4), but this would appear to be a clear case of gross
'overkill', with the customary 4-volume report (summary,ANDAL, RKL, RPL). The main report
(the ANDAL alone) is at least 140 pages in length, including some 65 pages of text, 32 appendix
tables, 43 pages of Curriculum Vitae of the consultants. This study was also made by a consultant
from within the province.
3. P.T. PLN. Dept. Mines and Energy. 1998. Review of ANDAL study for the Tampur hydro-
electric dam in Aceh. The capacity will be 428 MW, reservoir area 4,090 ha, on the Tampur river
(a branch of the Tamiang). The precise location of the project (in terms of geographical
coordinates) is difficult to determine, but it lies on the borders of Aceh Timur and Aceh
Tenggara, in a very steep, forested mountainous area, classified as either Protection Forest or
Limited Production Forest (by MoF's own criteria, it should probably all be Protection Forest).
Compared with the previous two reports, this would appear to be a gross case of 'underkill'.
However, this is labeled as a "Review", of ANDAL studies carried out first in 1991 by Indonesian
consultants and in 1992 by a consortium of foreign and Indonesian consultants, which produced a
full document in 1993. This has not been seen. It is not clear from the Introduction why this
review, also by one of the original consultants, is necessary (to 'update' the document already
approved in July 1994), unless this is to conforn with PP 51/1993. For a project of this scale,
with such major impacts in a relatively pristine and environmentally fragile area, the review
document of the AMDAL would indeed appear to be insufficient. However, the relationship
between this review and the original AMDAL carried out with the assistance of foreign
File. DAH/WATSAL'SEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                     A -73



consultants would need to be studied in depth, which is beyond the mandate of the present
WATSAL environmental analysis.
These examples are provided merely as samples of the AMDAL process in practice. It will be
seen that depth of coverage varies considerably, with a tendency for massive documents on
projects that have very minor impacts. A poor understanding of the concepts necessitates
uninteresting and voluminous reports that waste resources on irrelevant issues. There is a risk that
the really significant issues are masked in verbiage or even overlooked altogether.
Annex Table 7.1       Activities in various water-related sectors requiring AMDAL
Construction of dams (height)                                   >15 m
(impounded area)                             >200 ha
New irrigation projects                                         >1000 ha
Irrigation rehabilitation and upgrading                         >2000 ha
Upgrading with extension area                                   >1000 ha
Sawah formation                                                 >500 ha
Tidal swamp reclamation                                         >5000 ha
Non-tidal swamp reclamation                                     >2000 ha
Groundwater extraction (I well, or 5 within 10 ha) (mining sector)  >50 I/second
River normalization - within metropolitan area                  >3 km/5 ha
- other towns                                 >5 km
- rural area                                  >10 km
Coastal protection                                              >2 km
Flood canal - metropolitan area                                 >5 km/5 ha
- other towns                                        >10 km
- rural area                                         >25 km
Drainage canals - metropolitan area                             >5 m wide /3 km
- other towns                                     >1O m wide/5 km
Urban clean water distribution - network area                   >1500 ha
- transmission                        > 5 km
Water extraction                                                >500 I/sec
Rubbish tips - controlled landfill system, vol.                 >1000 cu.m/day
- TPA in tidal area, vol.                            >700 cu.m/day
- Transfer station, capacity                         >2000 cu.m/day
Development of housing - metropolitan area                      >100 ha
- large towns                             >50 ha
- small towns                             >25 ha
Treecrop estate (agriculture sector)                            >10,000 ha
Fishponds (agriculture sector)                                  >50 ha
Transmigration settlement                                       >1500 ha
Logging concession (HPH)                                        All
Timber plantation (HTI)                                         >10,000 ha
River dredging (transport sector)                               >50,000 cu.m
Reclamation (transport sector)                                  >25 ha/ 500,000 cu.m
Dumping (transport sector)                                      >250,000 cu.m
Industries (most varieties)                                     Nearly all
Waste treatment plant (IPLT) or installation for waste disposal (IPAL)    >10 ha
Construction of waste water pipes system (service area)         >500 ha
File: DAH/WATSALISEA_Annex.doc I March 1999                                          A -74



