                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 32665

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (SCL-44690)

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN


                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300.0 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR THE

                             WATER RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT




                                               June 29, 2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Office
East Asia and Pacific Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2001)

                                              Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
                                                   Rp. 1,000 = US$ 0.110
                                                       US$ 1 = Rp. 9000

                                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                                    July 1  June 30

                                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank                            MoSRI       Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructure
Balai PSD Balai Pengelolaan Sumber Daya Air -- River Basin              (was/is called MPW prior to 2000 and after 2004)
          Water Resources Management Unit (in Provincial    MPW         Ministry of Public Works (called MoSRI in period
          administration)                                               2000-2004)
BWRI      Bappenas Bureau of Water Resources and Irrigation Menko Ekuin Menteri Koordinasi Perekonomian ­ Coordinating
BUMD      Regional Government-owned Public Corporation                  Minister (Vice Premier) for Economic Affairs
BUMN      National Government-owned Public Corporation      NWC         National Water Council
CGI       Consultative Group for Indonesia                  Q&M         Operation and maintenance
DIC       District Irrigation Commission                    PDO         Project Development Objective
DG        Director General                                  PIC         Provincial Irrigation Commission
DGWR      Directorate General for Water Resources in MPW/   PISP        Participatory Irrigation Sector Project (an ADB loan)
          MoSRI (after 2001)
DGWRD     Directorate General for Water Resources           PJT         Perum Jasa Tirta -- River Basin Management
          Development (after 2001 Directorate General for               Corporation
          Water Resources) in MPW/ MoSRI                    PTPA        Water Resources Coordination Committee
DIMF      District Irrigation Management Fund                           (Provincial)
EU        European Union                                    PP          Peraturan Pemerintah ­ (National) Government
FAO       UN Food and Agriculture Organisation                          Regulation
GoI       Government of Indonesia                           PPTPA       Water Resources Management Committee (at
GoN       Government of the Netherlands                                 river basin level)
GTZ       German Development Cooperation Agency             PSR         Project Supervision Report (now called
IOMP 1987 1987 Irrigation Operations and Maintenance Policy             Implementation Supervision Report)
IWIRIP    Indonesia Irrigation and Water Resources Reform   QAG         Quality Assurance Group
          Implementation Project                            SECAL       Sector Adjustment Loan (now called Policy
JBIC      Japan Bank for Investment and Construction                    Development Loan DPL)
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency            SEA         Sectoral Environmental Assessment
JIWMP     Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Management SWS          Satuan Wilayah Sungai ­ river basin territory
          Project                                           UU          Undang-Undangan -- Law
LA        Loan Agreement                                    WATSAP      Water Resources Sector Adjustment Program
LoSP      Letter of Sector Policy                           WISMP       Water Resources and Irrigation Sector Management
MIS       Management Information System                                 Project
MoA       Ministry of Agriculture                           WRM         Water Resources Management
MoE       (State) Ministry of Environment                   WUA         Water User Association (at tertiary block level)
MoF       Ministry of Finance                               WUAF        Federation of Water User Associations at irrigation
MoHA      Ministry of Home Affairs and Regional Autonomy                scheme level
                                                            WUR         Water Use Right



                                            Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                          Country Director      Andrew D. Steer, EACIF
                                           Sector Manager       Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Guy J. Alaerts, EASRD

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                         INDONESIA

                 WATER RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          12
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            23
6. Sustainability                                                                28
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 30
8. Lessons Learned                                                               35
9. Partner Comments                                                              37
10. Additional Information                                                       39
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             40
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             49
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             50
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             51
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             54
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                55
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            56

Project ID: P064118                                                  Project Name: Water Resources Sector Adjusment Loan
Team Leader: Guy J. Alaerts                                          TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Water Resources Sector Adjusment Loan                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-44690
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (46%); Central government administration (35%);
                            Irrigation and drainage (19%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Pollution management and environmental health
                            (P); Rural markets (S); Macroeconomic management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/12/1998                                     Effective: 06/21/1999                06/21/1999
     Appraisal: 03/29/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/18/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2000                 11/09/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/BAPPENAS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew Steer                                   Mark Baird
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Guy J. Alaerts                                 Theodore Herman
ICR Primary Author:             Theodore Herman; Guy Alaerts


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

Note:    No Quality-at-Entry assessment was made, however, QAG evaluated Supervision in FY00; this exercise
         thus reflected on many aspects of Quality-at-Entry as the project had only just started. The rating was
         Highly Satisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Development Goals and Program Development Objectives

The Memorandum of the President (MOP) defines four general Goals and four PDOs:

         "...The proposed loan has four general goals, namely to: (a) facilitate sustained government
         support for a necessary Sector Reform Program which addresses water resources and irrigation
         sector problems and structural deficiencies through policy, legislative, regulatory and institutional
         adjustments; (b) enable the development and utilization of professional expertise within the country
         to formulate a sector reform program in line with national needs and aspirations, (c) facilitate a
         process of reaching inter-governmental consensus and internalized "ownership" of the reforms; and
         (d) improve sector management by transformation of its policies and institutions to a level that
         would mobilize the subsequent sustained and coordinated support the donor community."

The four PDOs derived from the Government of Indonesia's (GoI) Letter of Sector Policy (LoSP) and its
Policy Matrix of Monitorable Indicators. The LoSP's Policy Matrix further subdivided the four PDOs into
a total of 13 Sub-Objectives, as follows:

(a)      Improve the National Institutional Framework for Water Resources Development &
         Management, with Sub-Objectives: (i) Establish a National Water Resources Management
         Coordination Framework; (ii) Adoption of a National Policy for Water Resources Management;
         (iii) Involvement of the Private Sector in Development and Stakeholders in Basin Management
         Policy and Decision-Making; (iv) Improve National Water Resources Information and Decision
         Support Systems; and (v) Improve National Hydrological and Water Quality Data Collection and
         Management System.

(b)      Improving the Organizational and Administrative Framework for River Basin Management,
         with Sub-Objectives: (i) Improve Provincial Regulatory Management of River Basins and
         Aquifers; (ii) Develop a Sustainable Corporate Framework for Management of Strategic River
         Basins; (iii) Introduce Secure, Equitable and Efficient Water Allocation.

(c)      Improve Regional Water Quality Management Regulatory Institutions and Implementation,
         with Sub-Objectives: (i) Establish an Effective and Enforceable National Regulatory Framework
         for Water Pollution Control; and (ii) Integrated Water Quality Management Implemented in Six
         Highly Developed River Basins.

(d)      Improve Irrigation Management Policy, Institutions and Regulations, with Sub-Objectives: (i)
         Improve Irrigation Governance, Transparency, and Accountability through Farmer Empowerment
         and Management Transfer; (ii) Improve Regional Government Irrigation Services; and (iii) Ensure
         Fiscal Sustainability and Efficiency of O&M and Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes.

The PDOs all derived from the sequence of GoI studies and policy statements in the 90s (see Section 3.5),
that had not been implemented but for which there was obvious readiness among the more professional
staff in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) as well as in Bappenas' (National Planning Agency) Bureau
of Water Resources and Irrigation (BWRI), other agencies and in the increasingly vocal local governments.
Introduction of these good-practice policies had proved anathema to the technocratic and top-down
government of then-President Soeharto.       The PDOs and the Monitorable Indicators were the logical



                                                     - 2 -

outcome of very extensive discussions for over one year (1998-1999) among a broad array of stakeholders
representing national ministries, local governments, academia and NGOs in the Forum Diskusi under
Bappenas BWRI guidance.           The LoSP's call for more decentralized decision-making converged
exceedingly well with, and in turn also strengthened, the anticipated administrative and fiscal reforms that
would be codified in the "big bang" Regional Autonomy Laws of December 1999 and 2000. The Bank, as
well as most other donors, supported this sectoral reform effort by bringing in international experience and
by assisting in the articulation of the concepts, without, however, influencing the basic process. The LoSP
suggested a program of an ambition against which the Bank cautioned. Nonetheless, as this reform was
"home-grown" and, for the foreseeable future in 1998, well anchored in synergistic political and
administrative reform efforts, we would argue that the question of the appropriate size of the reform agenda
should be determined primarily by the country's own political assessment and long-term needs, not by the
disbursement scheduling of a SECAL.

The LoSP, which also became embedded in the 2000 Propenas (Five-Year National Development Strategy)
Law, remained the basis of the Borrower's commitments until its closure. Commitment to the LoSP was
reaffirmed by the successive Coordinating Ministers for Economic Affairs (Menko Ekuin) of President
Wahid's Government (1999-2001) in 2000 and again by President Megawati's Government (2001-2004).
The need for balance-of-payments support was reaffirmed repeatedly by the respective Governments,
including prior to the fourth extension.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The PDOs were not revised.

Nevertheless, during the Third Tranche (2002-2004), the Government re-considered the Irrigation
Objective principles of the LoSP, necessitating intensive dialogue and re-interpretation, and causing overall
delay (Sections 5.1 and 5.2).

By June 2003, all Tranche Release Conditions relating to the Irrigation Program Objective had been met,
substantially exceeding what was required, notably through the Government Regulation (PP) on Irrigation
No. 77 of 2001 (PP 77/01) issued under the Second Tranche in December 2001, and the complete suite of
four implementing Ministerial Decrees.            By September 2003, however, in the second, more
restoration-oriented phase of President Megawati's Government, the former MPW--by now called the
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure (MoSRI, Kimpraswil)--and hitherto a "champion" of
WATSAL--gradually questioned the concept of the "irrigation management transfer" in Sub-Objective
4.1.

MoSRI called for a moratorium on the implementation of PP 77/01 on the grounds that the majority of the
parliamentary commission debating the forthcoming new Water Resources Law interpreted "transfer" as a
definitive relinquishing of the government's ownership of irrigation, and that it regarded it as a financial
burden on poor irrigation farmers. The Ministry itself was also concerned that the rate of management
transfer to ill prepared farmers by district governments willing to shed their responsibility for irrigation,
could result in an accelerating decline of the infrastructure. It has also been suggested that MoSRI was
attempting, with tacit support of Presidential circles, to regain some of the control it lost over the irrigation
sector. The Ministries of Home Affairs (MoHA), and Agriculture (MoA), and the provincial and district
governments, having substantially contributed to the irrigation policy, objected to the moratorium (Section
5.1). The matter became a contentious political issue within the Government between September 2003 and
June 2004, and it influenced the Government's position--represented by the Minister of MoSRI--in its
debate with Parliament on the new Water Resources Law.



                                                     - 3 -

The new Water Resources Law (Law UU 7/04) was enacted on February 19, 2004. It precluded the
"transfer" (penyerahan) of irrigation management but suggested a more conditional form of delegation of
management.     1 While respecting the sovereignty of the Borrower, the Bank and other donors became
concerned about MoSRI's initial interpretation that the new law required revision of all the new national
irrigation regulations. This suggested that the government would renege on the earlier full compliance of
the Irrigation PDO, implying a PDO revision.

However, by mid-2004, GoI confirmed that a more inclusive interpretation of the law's irrigation
provisions was agreed upon internally (Letter of Deputy Chairman Bappenas and the DGs of MoSRI and
MoHA, May 28, 2004). These principles were considered by the Bank as basis for an acceptable revision
of the Government's irrigation regulations, within the meaning of the LoSP. By June 2004 it was clear that
the Loan would not be extended, and that a new, more reform-minded Government might replace the
Megawati Government by the year's end, so neither party sought to engage in the discussion whether the
PDOs needed amendment. A fundamental indicator regarding consistency with the PDOs, however, was
the willingness of GoI to commit to the Water Resources and Irrigation Sector Project (WISMP), which
was negotiated in May 2003. WISMP intended to implement the WATSAL concepts, but signing had been
put on hold awaiting the new Water Resources Law. GoI reconfirmed mid-2004 its desire to proceed with
WISMP (and, thus, the reform even after closure of WATSAL). The discussions with the Bank on the new
set of irrigation regulations continued September through December 2004, upon which basis also the DCA
of WISMP was amended. After March 2005, it has become increasingly clear that the new Yudhoyono
Government, with its new Minister and senior cadre of MoSRI, is reverting to the original LoSP
interpretations. WISMP was signed on June 24, 2005.

3.3 Original Components:

In a SECAL, there are no Components in the traditional sense. The PDOs are achieved through a series of
Tranches, described below.

Program Design

Tranche Release Conditions. The Second and Third Tranche conditions contained Outcomes from each of
the thirteen Sub-Objectives comprised in four PDOs, and specified in the Policy Matrix. The Matrix lists
27 Reform Outcomes: each of the 13 Sub-Objectives has a set of one or more Reform Outcomes (Annex
1). Each Outcome is detailed in a Monitorable Performance Indicator which consists of one or more legal
or administrative actions. The exact number, or even nature of the Indicator actions was difficult to specify
at the time of Policy Matrix preparation because of uncertainty about the forthcoming decentralization



1
         The law raised two issues. First, on substance, the Bank considered that for all practical purposes
"delegation of management", if properly implemented, would still respect the LoSP as it refers to a participatory
system that "allows transfer of irrigation management responsibility to WUAs and WUAFs above the level of
tertiary canals". The PP77/01, too, limits the extent of the "transfer", to the point that such "transfer" is in effect
"delegated management", certainly not a "transfer" of ownership. It should also be noted that the irrigation
program objectives in the Propenas Law of 2000 aims at "(3) Improved delegation of authority in irrigation
network management to communities as the water manager". Nonetheless, it was not clear how the new regulation
would be applied in practice. Second, legislators are not part of government and not bound by the LoSP. Thus,
although the successive governments had all professed their commitment to the LoSP, the current government
found its intentions, becoming equivocal itself, thwarted by legislative action.




                                                        - 4 -

legislation (see below) and other changes in the administrative and fiscal structures emanating from the
radical political shift of 1998. The Policy Matrix left much discretion to the Government to determine
outcome specifications during the implementation, subject to the Bank's satisfaction. A major uncertainty
affecting Indicator specification concerned the legal feasibility of achieving certain Outcomes prior to the
expected amendment of the existing Water Resources Development Law.

Tranche Release Conditions in the LA were defined as composite Outcomes relating to the specific Reform
Outcomes of the various Sub-Objectives. Completion of a composite Outcome was based on achievement
of all of its Performance Indicators. However, as time passed and the specifications of the regulatory
outputs needed to be adjusted to the latest developments in the legal environment, the Tranche Release
Conditions had to be amended; care was taken to bundle the amended Conditions such that a package of
equivalent weight was composed.

Design of the Process to Attain the Reform Outcomes. The Reform Outcomes are realized through the
following:

(a) New Sector Policy and Legal Framework. The expected National Water Policy and amendment of
    the existing Water Law would facilitate issuance of a new or amended framework of policies, water
    law, and regulations. A basic agreement was that no new Water Resources Development Law was
    required for establishing the new regulatory framework; indeed, it would suffice to amend a small
    number of clauses in the existing law and selected Regulations to facilitate the required outcomes, and
    the new organizations.

    A specific feature in the articulation of the Monitorable Indicators was the concern that the regional
    autonomy would fundamentally alter the authority ranking of regulatory instruments. In the centralized
    State structure up to 1999, a ministerial decree would bind all levels of local government. Under
    regional autonomy, however, specific ministerial decrees might not be binding on a local government
    on certain matters, and to achieve WATSAL Outcomes more Local Government Regulations (Perda)
    would be necessary. Indeed, in 2000 it transpired that national ministers could henceforth regulate only
    at the national-government level, and provide only guidance to local governments. Thus, the Policy
    Matrix provides for issuance of regulatory instruments as applicable at the national level, and for
    issuance of additional regulations and decrees by local governments where applicable.

(b) Establishment of New Sector Organizations. The revised policy and legal frameworks should enable
    establishment of new or enhanced national and provincial institutions, and reorganized or new agencies,
    that would "operationalize" the new regulations: (i) establishment and/or upgrading of hydrological
    units and a national hydrology management framework; (ii) establishment of provincial river basin
    management units and five river basin management corporations; (iii) establishment and/or upgrading
    of provincial water resources, and river basin management regulation committees, to include
    non-government stakeholders; (iv) gradual establishment of WUA Federations (WUAFs) and WUAF
    apex bodies; (v) an Action Plan for reorganization of the existing provincial irrigation agencies           2 to
    provide support to WUAFs and engage in participatory irrigation management (PIM); (vi) selective


2
    The eventual district government mandate for irrigation was not foreseen at Negotiations. It was assumed that
    their irrigation services would remain branches of the provincial service. Thus, under Regional Autonomy,
    district governments had to establish their own irrigation services under appropriate regulatory, administrative
    and budgetary frameworks.




                                                        - 5 -

    implementation of effluent discharge fees (which were in principle possible under existing laws but for
    which no political will had existed); and (vii) a system for sustainable collection of water quality data.
    Since the Bank's earlier sectoral experience in Indonesia was one of "unfulfilled promises",
    establishment of the above organizations was an important aspect of the WATSAL design, required by
    the East Asia Regional Operations Committee, even though this feature introduced activities that
    proved time-consuming especially in the confused aftermath of the Regional Autonomy Laws.

(c) Collaboration with the IMF Program. WATSAL formed part of a Bank-IMF macroeconomic
    recovery program within the framework of the CGI.            GoI was to issue a revised Government
    Regulation PP on Water Pollution Control under the 1998 IMF Letter of Intent. Since this task was
    not linked to broader sectoral considerations, the IMF requested it be placed under WATSAL purview.


Process Structure of Components. The MoP lays out four broad process Goals (Section 3.1). These
Goals are being pursued using the following arrangements:

(a) Inter-Ministerial Coordination Team. As part of the preparation, MPW facilitated the establishment
    of a "Ministers Coordination Team for Efficient River Utilization and River Basin Sustainability" (Tim
    Koordinasi) through a Presidential Decree in January 1999. The Tim Koordinasi would serve as the
    embryo of the desired national apex body, supervise the policy reform process, and resolve
    inter-agency conflicts as necessary. It was chaired by the Coordinating Minister of Economic Affairs (
    Menko Ekuin) with its members all Ministers having a role in the water resources and irrigation sector.
    The Decree specifies Tim Koordinasi's involvement in the planning and direction of land and water
    resources management within river basins according to national reform principles.

(b) Process Management. The LoSP does not specify details for each Outcome; this is left to the
    government. The task to determine the policy content of deliverables was left to the Government,
    provided it was satisfactory to the Bank. Simultaneously, on November 2, 1998, the Minister of
    Planning/Chairman of Bappenas issued a Decree converting the existing informal Bappenas Forum
    Diskusi (Section 3.1) into an "Inter-Agency Task Force for Reform of Water Resources Sector
    Policy" ("Task Force") under the chairmanship of Bappenas, to prepare the Reform Matrix
    deliverables for GoI approval.     The 52 Task Force's members were leading experts from eight
    Ministries, two leading provincial water resource agencies, two river basin corporations,
    representatives of two large NGOs active in the water sector, and one government policy research
    organization. The Task Force was organized into four Working Groups according to the four PDOs.
    As sign of the new transparent administrative procedures, NGO representatives were members in each
    Working Group, and one chaired the irrigation Working Group. The Task Force would report to a
    Steering Committee of Directors General of all Ministries who: (a) approved the content of the reform
    program and its implementation; and (b) took charge of the WATSAL LoSP and Policy Matrix. Final
    vetting and processing of regulatory products prepared by the Task Force lay with the responsible
    Ministry and/or the Tim Koordinasi. Thus, maximum national "ownership" of the reforms was
    ensured, facilitated by the Task Force.




                                                    - 6 -

    In order to develop domestic capacity in policy development, no structural international technical
    assistance was provided, but the Task Force was supported on demand basis to hire local experts and
    facilitate the numerous meetings. The Task Force's debates were based on the work of approximately
    300 civil servants and other Committee members (with consultants only in a supportive role), working
    part-time on the policy agenda. Any consensus reached in the Task Force would be truly "owned" by
    the Government and the other stakeholders because of its domestic roots and signature.           The
    Indonesian-speaking Bank team, selected on international and Indonesian professional experience,
    served as resource persons and as source of international "best practices". Funding for technical
    assistance in addition came from ADB (for the drafting of the water law and related instruments) and
    JBIC. For the novel topic of Water Use Rights, the Bank arranged for a Japanese grant to support
    Studies.

(c) A Long-term Reform Vision.          It was generally envisaged at the outset that completion of the
    WATSAL agenda would take up to two years, at best, but that this would only be the beginning of the
    deepening, consolidation and expansion of the reform. To foster sustained government support and
    focus, the Policy Matrix therefore included preparation of a NWRP Implementation Action Plan that
    would include the sector reform objectives and outcomes as a separate program to be included in the
    Propenas Law 2000-2004.

(d) Field Piloting of Institutional Reforms. Encouraged by the Bank, MPW/MoSRI used the on-going
    Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Management Project (JIWMP) to pilot different institutional
    approaches based on the WATSAL agenda in the four Java provinces starting in 1998. When JIWMP
    closed in December 2001, piloting was vastly expanded to an additional 8 provinces outside Java under
    a Bank-administered US$12 million Netherlands Grant "Indonesia Water Resources and Irrigation
    Reform Implementation Project" (IWIRIP).

    Piloting of new implementation modalities included: hydrology management; sustainable river basin
    planning; river basin management; and participatory irrigation management. The basin management
    pilots offered the guidance for many innovations subsequently enshrined in the 2004 Water Resources
    Law. The piloting of irrigation management reform was enabled by Presidential Instruction No.3 of
    1999, a Tranche 1 Condition. The piloting encountered strong demand at local government levels; it
    became part of a major program, fanning out into programs financed by ADB and GoI.

(e) Donor Involvement and Partnership. All donors stated their interest in improved sector performance.
    During preparation, the principal sector donors (ADB, JBIC, European Union, Government of the
    Netherlands, etc.) were frequently briefed through an informal forum about plans for WATSAL, to
    elicit their conceptual support and recommendations. This coordination, a major departure from
    pre-WATSAL habits, evolved in 2000 into a formal arrangement chaired by FAO. This donor
    partnership endorsed the WATSAL agenda, contributed valid comments, and confirmed
    appropriateness of the PDOs. Following the National GoI-Donors Workshop on Water Sector Reform
    (October 2000), ADB, JBIC, JICA EU, GoN, GTZ and the Bank began preparing reform
    implementation projects.

3.4 Revised Components:

Loan Extensions. The Loan was extended four times due to various factors. The first extension to
December 31, 2001, enabled satisfactory completion of the Second Tranche. To complete the Third
Tranche a second extension was granted to June 30, 2003 followed by a third extension to December 31,



                                                    - 7 -

2003.    Both extensions proved to be based on optimistic assumptions of the Task Force regarding
continuity of key staff and political support, and the new Water Resources Law. By the end of the third
extension, the Bank expressed its deep concern about the possible reversal in the Irrigation Objective's
outcomes (Section 4.1.2 Objective 4), and the public controversy about what was perceived as
"privatization" in the upcoming Law (Section 5.1). Nevertheless, a fourth extension was granted to
December 31, 2004, considering: (i) GoI's need for balance-of-payment support in 2004; (ii) the added
value of Bank support for the reform process and the other donors` outspoken desire that the Bank remain
constructively engaged in the WATSAL process; and (iii) to allow GoI more time to complete a substantial
part of the Third Tranche as per its request.

Revision of Program Components. The Program Components were revised in November 2001. These
amendments arose out of the rapid, unexpected and far-reaching reforms in public administration which
severely impacted on the format and nature of the deliverables. The evolving legal and administrative
environment kept raising new issues which required lengthier more numerous consultations and
negotiations than originally expected. A key argument for the restructuring was the decision of the Wahid
Government (2001), upon the then-Minister of MoSRI's insistence, to prepare a wholly new water
resources law instead of only amending selected clauses in the existing law. It was felt that the existing law
focused primarily on water resources development, and had to be replaced by a modern cross-sectoral
"framework law" that could better reflect the cross-sectoral nature of water resources management,
introduce better governance structures with stakeholder representation, and accommodate the new national
reform aspirations.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at Entry is rated Highly Satisfactory because of the considerations laid out below.

Rationale and Context for the PDOs

Macroeconomic Context. Early 1998, Indonesia was in the throes of a major economic crisis triggered by
the financial crisis in Southeast Asia. At the same time, it was also hit by one of the worst droughts of the
century. Its economy and indeed its social fabric started to buckle under past decades of weakening
institutions. The Soeharto Government collapsed amid riots and high political uncertainty in May 1998. In
order to mitigate the crisis, the Government of President Habibie embarked in May 1998 on a strategy of
policy and institutional reforms. The Government's reform agenda was supported by the Bank through an
ongoing Policy Reform Support Loan and two proposed follow-up structural adjustment operations to
begin in 1999. The overall budget deficit was estimated at 4.7 percent of GDP for FY1998/99, and a
similar amount for 1999/2000. The Bank's support would cover short-term debt obligations and provide a
buffer against the short term domestic and external risks. Hence, the WATSAL operation was included in
the Bank's commitment to the CGI's recovery program as a balance-of-payments support operation.

Water Sector Structural Adjustment Needs.           The water resources and irrigation sector is singularly
important to the Indonesia's economy: In the 1960s and 70s water sector "policy" implied only water
resource development. This has had a major positive impact on the country's economic development and
poverty alleviation. As per 1998, however, after two decades of relative inaction and negligence, the sector
was in dire need of reform to address the declining physical and fiscal sustainability of existing river and
irrigation infrastructure assets, and of the natural-resources base. Institutional deficiencies exacerbated the
poor performance: (i) absence of a mechanism for inter-sectoral coordination, safeguards, and conflict
negotiation; (ii) pervasive under-funding for asset management rectified by premature rehabilitation
investments; (iii) failure to follow through on participatory irrigation management and cost recovery,



                                                      - 8 -

necessary for more sustainable O&M (as laid down by the 1987 "Irrigation Operations & Maintenance
Policy" [IOMP 1987]); (iv) incomplete legal and regulatory frameworks, biased towards infrastructure
development; (v) incomplete water pollution regulations, which, e.g., overlooked municipal and mining
wastewater disposal; (vi) conflicting sector mandates distributed over nine ministries; (vii) reliance on an
administrative water allocation and licensing system, that was easily abused; and (viii) uncoordinated
sector investment planning in river basins.  3




By 1992, MPW contemplated the introduction of integrated water resources management, some form of
apex sector coordination institution, a national water resources policy, along with provincial river basin
management units (Balai PSDA). A seminal Workshop, supported by most donors, crystallized these
concepts ("Water Resources for Sustainable Use in Indonesia", Cisarua Seminar, October 2002).
However, by 1998, progress in policy implementation was disappointing. Particularly affected was the
Bank-supported Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Management Project (JIWMP) (Loan
3762-IND)(see ICR). An ADB-supported Capacity Building Project also failed to make headway. Also,
the recommendations of the 1991-1995 UNDP- and FAO-supported water resources policy studies were
largely disregarded although they offered a comprehensive and practical "road map" to move forward.
Bank management decided early 1997 to suspend preparation of new water sector projects in light of the
lack of political will to follow through on the reforms.

Political Reform After May 1998. In October 1998, a political and administrative reform was initiated.
This responded to the general discontent with the previous "top-down", centralized public administration.
It aimed to introduce a more democratic administrative and fiscal decentralization, combined with State
revenue-sharing with regional governments, and community empowerment. Guiding principles were: i.a.
(a) the change of the national government's role from "provider" to "enabler"; (b) regional autonomy,
limiting the central government's mandates; (c) authority of the regional governments to manage natural
resources; and (d) land to be used for the publicly-supported agriculture but by involving small enterprises
and cooperatives. These principles created a "national reform" atmosphere that found strong support with
intelligentsia, national leaders, and NGOs, and that was buoyed by popular enthusiasm across the nation.

Adapted Design of the SECAL. WATSAL differed from other macroeconomic recovery operations in the
CGI program. The other adjustment operations had a single tranche, quick-disbursement design based on
up-front completion of a few agreed actions. The use of three tranches was accepted by the East Asia
Regional Operations Committee provided that the operation contained "actions that indicate progress on the
ground", i.e., that the regulations must be actually issued and the organizations actually established.
Originally, like most SECAL operations, WATSAL's disbursement design was based on a "positive list",
specifying eligible imports such as food, to release pressure on GoI's foreign exchange position in its
efforts to recover from the effects of the 1997-1998 El Niño drought. Nevertheless, because of the
magnitude of the macroeconomic and fiscal crisis, the Regional Operations Committee decided that
WATSAL disbursements should be based only on the same "negative" Excluded Expenditure List as the
other adjustment operation. The Bank accepted that linking budgetary support to a sector reform program
in effect precluded its use as a quick-disbursement tool.




3
    On Sumatra, in one large river basin, an irrigated area was developed, after which a large irrigation dam was
constructed upstream with the support of another donor depriving the first scheme of its water. There are
numerous instances of such uncoordinated planning in the nineties.




                                                       - 9 -

Relevance of PDOs and Quality-at-Entry

(i)   Relevance to the Country.        The operation's PDOs, Sub-Objectives and Goals were acutely
      relevant to the Government's overall development priorities and fiscal needs. Aside of contributing
      to balance-of-payments needs in a time of fiscal crisis, they correctly and boldly addressed the
      country's persistent problems to improve its performance in infrastructure management and natural
      resource management. The PDOs, Sub-Objectives and Goals directly derived from a decade of
      home-grown efforts as well as international experience to reform the sector; this ensured a very
      high degree of convergence with GoI's intentions.

(ii)  Demand and "ownership" by Government and other stakeholders. The preparation process was
      driven by GoI, and skillfully managed by its Task Force, in a uniquely inclusive fashion. The
      deliberations in the Task Force's Working Groups were conducted by civil servants of all relevant
      Ministries and local government representatives, as well as academics and NGOs. Consultants
      (and scarce international TA) did support this activity, not direct it.

(iii) Embedding of the Program in broader political and administrative reforms. WATSAL was
      enabled, and, in turn, also strengthened, the far-reaching regional autonomy laws that were issued
      soon after Effectiveness. Even after five years, the congruence between the water sector reform
      principles, and the regional autonomy structure, remains apparent. It also correctly anticipated and
      responded to the drive for more transparency and better governance, and democracy.

(iv)  A robust program implementation.         The achievement of the operation's objectives and the
      realization of a new sector paradigm were accepted as an institutionally complex, but necessary
      undertaking after decades of negligence. The 1998-1999 broad reforms offered a unique window of
      opportunity.    All things considered, the Program design provided for adequate flexibility,
      preparedness and, critically, broad-based political support, to cope with most of the uncertainties
      and the, often abrupt, changes in the administrative and political environment. The design also
      allowed to capture opportunities, and build the Program in a phased, workable fashion.

(v)   Strong relevance to the CAS. The 1999 CAS focused on building foundations for a sustainable
      future by fostering sustainable management and maintaining physical assets. In line with the CAS,
      the operation sought to contribute to (a) transparent management for effective allocation and
      conservation of a key natural resource; (b) fiscal sustainability of sector services and infrastructure
      maintenance; (c) efficient and transparent public sector operations based on public-private
      partnerships and community empowerment; and (d) effective environmental management.

(vi)  Building on past experience. The Program addressed the lessons learned in the sector over the
      past decades, and in a 1997 OED PPAR of Bank water resources sector projects in the 80s and
      early 90s.    Thus, the Program objectives seek to redress the identified systemic weaknesses
      through: (a) a shift from supply (investment)-driven policies to demand-driven and locally
      responsive approaches; (b) increased authority and responsibility for provincial and district
      governments; (c) the unbundling of water service provision by spinning off operational O&M
      functions to more autonomous service-oriented entities in river basins, and to farmer water user
      associations in public irrigation schemes; (d) increased separation of operational and regulatory
      functions; and (e) emphasis on asset management and fiscal sustainability to retain the functional
      integrity of costly infrastructure and minimize premature rehabilitation.




                                                 - 10 -

(vii)   Support from the donor community. The donor community did contribute to the preparation
        process. It endorsed and actively supported the reform program, effectively putting the Bank in the
        position of sector leadership. Donors subsequently started to adjust the design of all their relevant
        projects to these new principles.

(viii)  Pioneering use of a Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA). During loan preparation (and
        before the new OP 8.60 mandated a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) for SECALs), the
        Borrower prepared an SEA on the Bank's advice. The rationale was that public consultation was
        the most appropriate channel to assess impacts of policy reforms.         The countrywide public
        consultations were very inclusive and were conducted in a newly transparent fashion by an NGO
        under the Task Force's guidance. As a result of the success of these public consultations, the Task
        Force and sector agencies decided that most key reforms would be subjected to a public
        consultation. (The principle of public consultation is now also a provision of the new Water
        Resources Law). A QAG Panel rated the SEA as Highly Satisfactory.             The Panel's overall
        assessment was that the SEA came close to best practice.

(ix)    Risk mitigation. It would be fair to say that the Government was not overly concerned with risks
        related to achieving WATSAL objectives because of the urgent need for budgetary support. The
        Bank, however, listed the risks in the MoP: (a) weakening Government commitment due to possible
        change of government; (b) non-acceptance of some reforms by some key government officials, civil
        society and NGOs; (c) implementation delays related to the complexity of the reform agenda; and
        (e) concern about the limited capacity of local government. Risk mitigation measures included the
        flexible Program management; and, importantly, the strategy of field-piloting the new paradigms
        under parallel on-going projects. The MOP also states

        "...While prior Bank water sector projects have seen many promises only partially implemented,
        this time a better outcome is expected. Both the Government and the Bank have engaged in a
        previously improbable consultation across a wide spectrum of political and technical stakeholders.
        Furthermore, the fiscal crisis and national reformation aspirations have brought forth a wide
        coalition of diverse interests in government that support a paradigm shift in water resources
        management. Accordingly, this coalition is likely to pursue a sector reform program with or
        without donor support. "

Finally, the MOP concludes that:

        "In this case, there are substantial benefits to be derived (...) Although there is a perception of
        "start-up" risk, the sustainable benefits of such a process outweigh the benefits of a risk-averse
        approach requiring conditionality of prescribed "up-front" policy actions. The latter approach
        would have a lower degree of internalized sector "ownership" and sustainability of such
        "completed" actions."




                                                    - 11 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall outcome is rated as Moderately Satisfactory (but is nominally posted as Satisfactory).

The main observation is that the Loan closed without disbursement of the Third Tranche as several
lower-order deliverables under the Third Tranche had been prepared but were not completed in time. Also,
(by November 2004) considerable uncertainty remained regarding the commitment of GoI to its original
irrigation reform concepts. This argues for an Unsatisfactory rating.

Nonetheless, there are overriding positive achievements during the WATSAL project, especially
considering that many of the outstanding half-finished deliverables are still in the Government's
implementation program and can be expected to be achieved in a reasonable time period (a criterion for
Satisfactory rating):

(a)      Of the first PDO (national regulatory framework) most of the principal water resources
         management reform outcomes have been achieved, in particular with enactment of the Water
         Resources Law that went well beyond the LoSP requirements.

(b)      On the second PDO (river basin management) a substantial part of the principal outcomes has been
         adequately prepared, but several of these drafts have not yet been issued; however, the current
         Yudhoyono Government can be reasonably expected to achieve most of the outstanding
         deliverables.

(c)      On the third PDO (water quality management) nearly all principal outcomes have been achieved, in
         particular the Government Regulation PP on "Water Pollution Control and Water Quality
         Management" along with all Ministerial Decrees with Guidelines to implement the PP.

(d)      On the fourth PDO (irrigation management) technically, all outcomes have been achieved, although
         the new Water Resources Law introduces restrictions that require revision of key parts of these
         existing regulations--however, the discussions with the Minister and higher cadre of MPW under
         the Yudhoyono Government after WATSAL Closure clarify that the revisions will be not
         fundamental.

(e)      New organizations have been properly established and are operational, for river basin management
         and irrigation management, generally exceeding targets set in the LA.

(f)      A broader and longer-term reform process was initiated, and donor support galvanized to help
         implement these reforms. Notably, GoI signed on June 24, 2005, the Water Resources and
         Irrigation Sector Management Project (WISMP) which intends to implement the WATSAL
         reforms; this implies that the impasse mentioned under (d) was satisfactorily resolved.

The PSRs until December 2004 reflected the concern that the backtracking since mid-2003 on the Irrigation
Objective might be followed by similar attention loss on other Objectives.            After the Yudhoyono
Government took over in December 2004, however, first a new Minister and then a new senior cadre was
appointed in the period through June 2005, and actions taken, which closer adherence to the original PDOs.
This development was reflected in the Updated ISR of June 27, 2005 (no. 17).




                                                   - 12 -

Specific details of the completion status of the Reform Outcomes for each Sub-Objective--based on their
individual Performance Indicators--are given below and in Annex 1.

Important additional favorable considerations are that the operation managed to contend well with rapidly
changing political and administrative environments, and that, for the first time, an intense political,
society-wide debate has been engendered putting WATSAL firmly on the map. This debate may not yet be
mature, but in any case it by far transcends the limitations of the command-and-control sector model that
prevailed in the pre-WATSAL era.        Furthermore, no other sector in Indonesia developed the vision and
political support for a similar far-going reform effort. Even in the South-East Asian region, no other nation
has gone this deep in a reform, as far as they have engaged on any meaningful reform path.

Initial Implementation Assumptions.

(i)      "The program design should specify details down to the level of guidelines for local government
         decrees". This assumption proved to be sound. It contributed to the focus on actionable, precisely
         defined outcomes, albeit introducing complexity and a time consuming list of additional actions.
         E.g., once the enabling Government Regulation PP and the Ministerial Decrees on irrigation were
         issued, rapid progress was made in the issuance of district government regulations to implement the
         irrigation reforms in 13 provinces. This was also the case for the establishment of the structural
         organizations and institutions for water resources management that are based on a governor's
         decree. In both these cases, national progress "on the ground" far exceeded the outcome level
         required by the Policy Matrix.

(ii)     "The original 18-months duration was unrealistic". Although the initial loan duration of 18 months
         was clearly inadequate, the Bank had to accept this compromise to overcome an impasse at
         Negotiations (Section 3.3). On the other hand, had the then-Minister of MoSRI, late 2000, only
         pursued amendments to the existing law as originally agreed, the law would not have gone through
         the protracted process it eventually went. Subsequent implementing regulations would have been
         issued much sooner. It is likely that the loan had fully disbursed in three to four years (with some
         waivers of lower-priority deliverables). However, the operation would then have missed the depth
         of the broad-based public involvement which the CAS feels is vital for an emerging democracy (see
         Section 5). We maintain that amending the LA to allow the new law to be prepared as a Tranche
         release outcome was the right decision for both the Government and the Bank, despite the
         operational and implementation risks of delay.        The enactment of UU 7/04 as a modern
         "framework sector law"--richer in concern for sustainable development than found in most
         neighboring countries--is a far better development outcome than insistence on the narrower focus
         of selective amendment of the existing law, with the sole aim to ensure loan disbursement for
         balance-of-payments support. Government was aware of this implication, and took the opportunity
         and accepted the risk of trying to achieve a higher goal.

(iii)    "Disbursement would be the driving force, not the reform outcomes per se". This risk, identified in
         the MoP, is negated by the decision of GoI to accept the logistic and political risks associated with
         the preparation of the Water Resources Law. Similarly, it can be argued that by not acting on the
         Bank's offer to waive some of the lesser Tranche release conditions, to achieve Third Tranche
         disbursement (Section 5), the Government remained focused on its own overall reform agenda
         irrespective of disbursement considerations.

(iv)     "Government Ministries would be too weak to pursue the reform". Across the board, national and
         local-government agencies cooperated intensively and productively in the Working Groups of the


                                                     - 13 -

        Task Forces. Especially the Ministry of Home Affairs, which emerged as champion of local
        governments, took numerous initiatives, balanced the often technocratic approach of the MoSRI/
        MPW, and emphasized the empowerment of local governments and farmers alike. On the other
        hand, the Ministry of Environment (MoE) emerged as the weakest link. Always under-funded and
        barely taken serious in Indonesia, the Ministry struggled during the crisis years to remain credible.
        Whereas MoE delegated senior staff to the Working Groups in the first two years, it re-prioritized
        its activities after 2001. Nonetheless, the main deliverable for which MoE was responsible, i.e.,
        the new Law on Water Quality and Pollution Control, was duly issued together with all its
        implementing regulations and standards, a major accomplishment.

(v)     Risk Mitigation. Some of the risks identified at appraisal increased over the operation's life, as
        reported in the PSRs.       However, the risks were properly assessed at Entry.             However,
        unanticipated risks emerged towards loan closure, i.e., that MoSRI would seek to regain control
        over irrigation management; and that the powerful, coordinating role of Bappenas (and, thus, the
        WATSAL Task Force) could be weakened by later State administration reforms. The flexible and
        very inclusive approach of the Task Force operations, and the parallel field demonstrations of
        reforms, created substantial political credit that overcame many of the obstacles.

4.1.2 Assessment by Program Development Objective (PDO)

Objective 1 - Improving the National Institutional Framework.

Achievement is assessed as Satisfactory with respect to establishing both a legal and organizational
framework since its most important outcomes, including the new Water Resources Law, and the provision
for a National Water Resources Council, were achieved. The four key draft Government Regulations PPs
derived from the new law could not be processed prior to Loan Closure due to inadequate time remaining
and the need to ensure their conformity with the revised decentralization legislation and regulations.

(a)     Establish a National Water Resources Management Coordination Framework. A Ministers
        Water Resources Coordination Team (Tim Koordinasi) was established and empowered by
        Presidential Decree under the Second Tranche as the embryo of the future National Water Council
        (NWC).       The new law now provides for the NWC having non-government stakeholder
        representation.    A Government of the Netherlands (GoN) grant is in process for technical
        assistance to the NWC Secretariat to complement the support under the forthcoming
        Bank-supported WISMP.

(b)     Adoption of a National Policy for Water Resources Management ­ Issuance of a Policy.
        "National Policy Guidelines for Water Resources" containing 75 policy items covering six policy
        areas (and based on the core policy principles listed in the Policy Matrix) have been issued by
        Menko Ekuin under the Second Tranche. The Presidential Decree establishing the Tim Koordinasi
        also sets its tasks based on these six policy areas. In effect, the early version of the Policy,
        comprising most WATSAL reform outcomes, was already mandated for implementation by
        Government under 2000-2004 Propenas Law "Regarding the National Development Program in
        2000. This Law is drafted as a Policy Implementation Plan.

(c)     Adoption of a National Policy for Water Resources Management ­ Issuance of Revised Sector
        Law and Government Regulations. Law No. 7 on "Water Resources" (UU7/04) is a modern
        sector management law, replacing the 1974 law which had an almost exclusively development
        focus. The new law is based on principles of sustainable integrated water resources management,


                                                     - 14 -

     including provisions for water use rights, improved basin planning procedures, basin management
     fees, stakeholder involvement, public consultations, community rights including the right to object
     or complain, private sector participation, and procedures for conflict resolution. It provides for a
     National Water Council with stakeholder representation as the national apex body, as well as for
     similar councils at regional government and river basin levels (to upgrade the existing Technical
     Committees to Commissions with non-government stakeholders). It incorporates the principles and
     constraints emanating from the regional autonomy laws. The depth and scope of the new law go
     beyond the overall reform intent of the LoSP. However, the law deviates somewhat from the
     LoSP with respect to the principle of "irrigation management transfer" to WUAs (see Objective 4).
     The law requires for implementation 33 Government Regulations PPs including new ones on water
     supply, sanitation, groundwater, dams, water quality management, basin planning, conservation,
     watershed management, water allocation and water use rights, etc. Issuance of the full set of PPs
     would constitute a second phase Policy Implementation Plan.

(d)  Adoption of a National Policy for Water Resources Management ­ Issuance of Implementation
     Decrees and Guidelines. Only three of the eight MPW Ministerial Decrees issued under the old
     law needed to be amended to conform to the provisions of the new law and the set of regional
     autonomy laws and regulations. Except for nationally strategic river basins and few very large
     irrigation schemes under national authority, the law must be implemented in a staggered way, with
     PPs in the form of Ministerial Guidelines guiding the issuance of provincial and district
     government regulations (Perda) and/or Provincial Governor or District Regent's implementation
     decrees.    Seven Ministerial Regulations/ Guidelines on Water Resources Management were
     prepared to facilitate regional government implementation. Due to the delay of law, and the
     October 2004 revision of the Regional Autonomy Laws, these Regulations still await issuance.

(e)  Policy on Involvement of the Private Sector in Development, and of Stakeholders in the
     Management, of Basins. The provisions of the law go substantially beyond the LoSP requirements
     for stakeholder involvement in water resources management. The law contains many significant
     provisions, i.a., for: (i) formal public consultation on, and objection to, river basin planning; (ii)
     roles for the private sector and communities in basin plans; and (iii) the public's right to
     information and complain. Regional governments must now establish Provincial Water Resources
     Councils with 50 percent non-government stakeholders as members (to replace the provincial
     PTPA committees); similarly they may establish River Basin Councils (to replace the governmental
     PPTPA committees) in basins under their authority. By Loan closure, PTPAs were established in
     18 provinces, along with 28 PPTPAs in key basins of 12 provinces. Since only 4 PTPAs and 2
     PPTPAs existed in 1999, the WATSAL exceeded its targets for creation of regional water
     resources coordination and policy oversight institutions. However, since the regulatory instruments
     and ministerial guidelines for stakeholder involvement could not yet be issued, only a few PTPA
     had a modicum of stakeholder representation. In addition, based on the provisions of PP 77/01,
     District Irrigation Commissions (DICs) with representation from WUAFs were established to
     replace (purely government) District Irrigation Committees. By March 2004, 83 DICs had been
     established in 12 provinces. Since the law restores a certain level of provincial authority over
     irrigation schemes between 1000-3000 ha, Provincial Irrigation Commissions (PICs) with WAUF
     representatives are now to be established as well to replace the older Provincial Irrigation
     Committees.




                                                 - 15 -

        The law also mandates regulation of private sector participation (PSP) in national and
        local-government sector activities. The seminal PP No. 16 on Water Supply was issued on March
        21, 2005, regulating, i.a., PSP in urban water supply, which was seriously lacking pre-WATSAL.

(f)     Improve National Water Resources Information and Decision Support Systems. All actions for a
        sector decision-support system were completed through a Director General of Water Resources
        Decree on "Establishment of a Water Resources and Data Information Unit on a Sustainable Basis
        in the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure" (MoSRI), signed by DGs and Secretary
        Generals of 11 ministries involved in the water sector.

(g)     Improve National Hydrological and Water Quality Data Collection and Management.               An
        institutional, organizational and financial framework for improved and sustainable hydrological
        data collection, processing and information retrieval for surface and groundwater management was
        created in 2001 through a Ministerial Regulation for a national hydrology management system. A
        new Sub-Directorate of Hydrology was established at the center in MoSRI's Directorate General
        of Water Resources (DGWR) to guide, supervise and monitor hydrology programs nationwide.
        Fully staffed and funded Provincial Hydrological Units (PHUs) were established in 11 provinces
        thus exceeding the WATSAL target. However, no progress was made in establishing a national
        water quality monitoring network.

Objective 2 - Improve the Organizational and Administrative Framework for River Basin
              Management

The outcome of this Objective is assessed as (Moderately) Unsatisfactory. Important achievements are
the basic legal framework for water use rights in the new law, and the establishment of new Balai PSDA
(basin management units) for which the targets were exceeded. On the other hand, key draft Government
Regulations PPs had been readied but could not be issued due to the delay in law enactment, and the need
to conform with October 2004 revisions of the decentralization legislation. Also, only one out of four
planned River Basin Management Corporations was established in time due to difficulties with the newly
autonomous district governments (see Sections 3 and 5).

(a)     Improve Provincial Regulatory Management of River Basins and Aquifers. It was not possible to
        comprehensively implement arrangements for water allocation and wastewater discharge, drought
        management, conjunctive use of groundwater and surface water, water quality monitoring and
        integrated watershed management. Since the Government Regulation PP on Water Resources
        Management, deriving from the new law, could not be issued before Loan Closure, the seven
        Ministerial Decrees with Technical Guidelines that had been prepared could not be issued either.
        Similarly, the draft PP on Groundwater that derived from the new law, and agreements relating to
        conjunctive use in basin management, await further clarification of the functional and territorial
        authority of the three government levels under the revised decentralization legislation.
        Nevertheless, 43 functional Balai PSDA were established in key basins of 12 provinces by Loan
        Closure, thus, exceeding the target­and quite an accomplishment given that there were only 4 Balai
        PSDA in April 1999, and that budgetary demands have been very high on provincial budgets
        during the crisis years.

(b)     Develop Sustainable Corporate Framework for Management of Strategic River Basins.
        Establishment of an organizational, financial and management framework for self-financing river
        basin water management corporations, compatible with regional autonomy, was not achieved


                                                   - 16 -

       despite substantial work and progress. By June 2003, drafts of Government Regulations PPs for
       Establishment of River Basin Corporations ("PJT") and for River Basin Financing had been
       prepared, but their issuance had to await the law. Consequently, draft regulations could not be
       issued to strengthen arrangements for revenue generation from (i) bulk water supply service fees
       (existing), (ii) basin management fees (introduced by the law), and, (iii) wastewater discharge fees
       (enabled by the 2001 PP on Water Pollution Control and Water Quality Management). Although
       four new PJTs were to be established, only the PJT Bengawan Solo was established in 2002 under
       a Presidential Decree.    During the preparation, the regional autonomy generated complicated
       revenue-sharing issues with district governments--technically in charge of their natural
       resources--that could not be fully anticipated in 1999. Awaiting the resolution of these issues also
       affected progress with the Jratunseluna and Serayu-Bogowonto basins in Central Java and the
       Jeneberang basin in South Sulawesi. Importantly, this process is now continued post-WATSAL,
       and with the Yudhoyono Government firmly in place, establishment of these PJTs is expected for
       2006.

       The delay in issuance of the above two Government Regulations PPs and their implementation
       regulations affected revenue improvement for the existing PJT I (Brantas river) whose corporate
       structure was already improved under the Second Tranche in 1999. With respect to PJT II
       (Citarum river), which suffered under an unsustainable revenue arrangement, its corporate
       structure was revised in 1999, that included provincial-government representation on its
       Supervisory Board. Thus, PJT II was given the potential for better governance and financial
       sustainability.

(c)    Introduce Secure, Equitable and Efficient Water Allocation. The new law introduces an enabling
       framework for water use rights (WUR) into Indonesia's legal code for the first time, and, therefore,
       the Loan Agreement was amended to make it the basic Indicator.             After ample dialogue in
       2001-2002, it was concluded that a WUR system should not be codified up-front but evolve
       gradually from field piloting. This view was supported by Bank-financed Water Use Rights
       Studies in 2003/2004.

Objective 3 - Improve Regional Water Quality Management Regulatory Institutions and
             Implementation

The outcome of this objective is rated Satisfactory in establishing a national legal and regulatory
framework (which is the weightiest outcome), but Unsatisfactory with respect to establishing its
implementation modalities.

(a)    Establish an Effective and Enforceable National Regulatory Framework for Water Pollution
       Control.    Government Regulation PP 82/01 on Water Pollution Control and Water Quality
       Management was issued in 2001 under the Second Tranche. The new PP introduces the innovation
       to also regulate municipal and mining effluents. It also provides for new arrangements to integrate
       the management of water quantity and quality. Under the Third Tranche, a suite of eight State
       Minister of Environment Decrees/ Guidelines completed the regulation (such as effluent discharge
       standards, ambient standards for rivers, sanctions, etc.). However, no progress was made with the
       framework to develop a financial incentive framework for industries, mines and municipalities to
       comply with effluent discharge licenses and standards. The task of reviewing tax and other
       regulations under decentralized government proved too complex for MoE and the Task Force in the
       time available (see Section 4.1.1, Design Assumptions, (iv)).




                                                  - 17 -

(b)      Integrated Water Quality Management Implemented in Six Highly Developed River Basins.
         Implementation of integrated water pollution control and water quality management in six river
         basins (Bengawan-Solo, Brantas, Citarum, Jenebrang, Jratunseluna and Serayu-Bogowonto)
         proved too ambitious an undertaking since only two well-established PJTs existed that were
         capable of performing the task. Since the water quality guidelines were issued only in 2003, MoE
         was unable to address this complex task, which required close cooperation with provincial
         governments and MPW, in the remaining time. As observed in many other Bank operations, water
         quality does not carry political priority, and this was certainly true during the crisis.

Objective 4 - Improve Irrigation Management Policy, Institutions and Regulations

The outcome of this Objective is rated as Satisfactory in terms of the policy, legal, regulatory and
administrative frameworks, as well as its implementation achievements nationwide. By June 2003, this
PDO had been completed in a Highly Satisfactory way. However, with the new law casting some doubt on
part of its enabling framework (see below) after February 2004, it was not clear by Loan Closure, whether
GoI would interpret the restrictive sections of the law in a way still consistent with the LoSP. At that
juncture the Bank had assessed the revised draft Irrigation Government Regulation PP and revised
Ministerial Decrees, and found them still marginally acceptable.

Since then the new Yudhoyono Government has taken over, and partly because the tsunami tragedy of
December 2004 has distracted MPW, these new regulations have not yet been issued, so that technically the
existing deliverables remain valid.     This framework constituted a fundamental change of Indonesia's
irrigation management paradigm, creating a new participatory management model, but also new institutions
at the district and at the irrigation scheme level based on the decentralized government structure. Even
though the law repealed the management "transfer", the forthcoming revised PP on Irrigation retains most
other principles and institutions originally introduced, but now conforming to the provisions of the new law.
Accordingly, it introduces a Provincial Irrigation Commission (PIC) institution similar to the DIC for those
schemes that are a provincial government responsibility. Although the participatory irrigation management
follows a less empowering form, the anticipated framework remains "satisfactory to the Bank", based on
principles agreed with the Bank in May 2004.

(a)      Improve    Irrigation    Governance,      Transparency,     and    Accountability    through Farmer
         Empowerment and Management Transfer. The policy basis of this Sub-Objective was completed
         under the First Tranche through an "Irrigation Management Reform Policy" (IMRP) publicly
         announced by the President of Indonesia on April 13, 1999, and codified by the Presidential
         Instruction No. 3 on `Irrigation Management Policy Reform" issued in April 1999. The legal and
         regulatory basis was completed in December 2001 under the Second Tranche through Government
         Regulation PP on "Irrigation" (PP 77/01) along with two key Ministerial Decrees/ Guidelines. PP
         77/01 enables village-level or tertiary network WUAs to federate into WUAFs up to the
         scheme-level and actively operate and maintain secondary or larger canals. All WUA institutions
         may be legalized entities under their own charter and maintain bank accounts; they are autonomous
         bodies. PP 77/01 exceeded Government's commitments under the LoSP, and also made provision
         for a new institution, the District Irrigation Commission (DIC) to replace District Irrigation
         Committees.     The DIC's membership is composed of both district officials and WUAFs
         representatives.

         Although the new law precludes formal "transfer" of management authority, differences of opinion
         between Ministries over the degree of delegation continued throughout 2004. The new Yuodhoyono


                                                      - 18 -

      Government however appears to require cross-sectoral consensus. The WUAF empowerment
      model of PP 77/01 is still supported by the local and provincial irrigation services familiar with the
      full empowerment model. For all practical purposes, however, it can be expected that both
      practical considerations and political pressures inside the government will tend to lead to a return
      to most of the PP77/01 concepts.

(b)   Redefine Roles, Duties and Responsibilities of Central, Provincial and District-level Irrigation
      Institutions to Focus on Reliable Water Delivery and Post-Management Transfer Services to
      WUAs/WUAFs. In June 2003 the Decree of the Minister of Home Affairs, on "Re-definition of the
      Tasks of Irrigation Management of Local Government" was issued. This Guideline was consistent
      with the "Program Activity Framework for Irrigation Management Reform" (KAK PKPI) agreed
      among the Ministries in 2002. The KAK PKPI defines the roles and responsibilities of national
      and regional government agencies and the implementation sequence of provincial and district
      five-year programs for irrigation management revision (including the local decrees; establishment
      of DICs; establishment and legalization of WUAFs; capacity building of WUAFs by Community
      Organizers; management transfer to WUAFs; and financial assistance for WUAFs under
      management transfer). Important to assessing the Outcome of this Sub-Objective (and Objective 4
      in general) is the field implementation status of irrigation management reform: between 2002 and
      Loan Closure a total of 786 WUAFs were established in 791 irrigation schemes covering and area
      of 584,762 ha, in 15 provinces and 148 districts (or around 10 percent of the nation's total area
      under irrigation). Of these WUAFs, about 604 had autonomous legal status, while secondary
      canals serving an area of 98,911 ha had been transferred to WUAF management. In 34 schemes,
      scheme-based "apex WUAFs" were functioning. This accomplishment largely exceeds the LoSP
      requirements.

(c)   Ensure Fiscal Sustainability and Efficiency of O&M and Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes.
      In June 2003, the Minister of Finance issued a Decree on "Funding of Irrigation" setting up the
      arrangements for each district to establish a "District Irrigation Management Fund" (DIMF)
      managed by the DIC. Financing of irrigation management is to be carried out with "cash and/or
      kind" contributions from the WUA organizations.               This replaces the government-imposed
      Irrigation Service Fee of the IOMP. The local government responsible for a scheme is to assist
      WUAFs to whom management has been transferred in rehabilitation using its DIMF. Under the
      revised PP, similar irrigation management funding arrangements conforming to the new
      decentralization laws, including provisions for both DIMF's and Provincial Irrigation Management
      Funds, will be introduced.

Further Considerations for the Assessment

(a)   The without-project alternative. The above detailed description shows how the deliberations were
      of a complex and unpredictable nature, and, above all, necessitated a large effort of
      inter-ministerial teams and "quality time". This suggests major accomplishments of the GoI team.
      Similarly, for the country to properly asses the value of its LoSP, it should not just compare with
      the stated PDOs-at-Entry, but notably compare the outcomes with the probable without-project
      situation. Given the sweeping reforms, the over-stretched technical staff in the Ministries, and the
      budgetary restrictions, it is quite unlikely that the sector had managed to adequately prepare for the
      regional autonomy. Without this focused reform initiative, the water resources sector would have
      ended up in a state of confusion, and poorly thought-through revised regulations.




                                                    - 19 -

(b)     Continued reform. WATSAL facilitated sustained government attention for sector adjustment;
        support continues after closure of the loan. The completion of the agenda is called "WATSAP"
        (i.e. water sector adjustment program). Some 60-70 officials from sector Ministries and regional
        sector departments who were the core members of the Task Force Working Groups, continue to be
        involved. The outstanding WATSAL deliverables were incorporated in the "Hundred-Day" Target
        Program when the new Yudhoyono Government assumed power in November 2004; the tsunami
        tragedy, however, prevented completion. In March 2005, the work program was incorporated in
        the new, legalized Five-Year Government Plan. Importantly, the follow-up WISMP project was
        signed June 24, 2005.

(c)     Donors support.       WATSAL has mobilized sustained donor support.         The ADB, and the
        Netherlands Government contributed to the ICR through letters to the Bank in May 2005 to
        emphasize that, despite shortfalls, the WATSAL has been of singular importance and has achieved
        its main objectives (Section 9). The Donor-GoI Water Resources Coordination Forum has met
        frequently since 2000 to review sector reform progress. In addition to JIWMP and IWRIP support
        to WATSAL goals, the ADB-supported DGWRD Capacity Building Project contributed to
        supporting Hydrology targets, while the ADB restructured its Northern Sumatra Integrated
        Agricultural Support Project in 2001 to implement irrigation management reforms. Key donors
        formulated projects to follow up on the WATSAL--these projects now define the sector operations
        (Section 6).

4.2 Outputs by components:

Tranche Outputs. The First and Second Tranches were completed in full compliance and are rated
Satisfactory and Highly Satisfactory, respectively.     The First Tranche contained three pre-condition
reforms: (a) establishment of an Ministers Tim Koordinasi for interim sector coordination; (b) conversion
of the failed Irrigation Service Fee into a membership fee for WUAs to be deposited in a WUA bank
account; and (c) presidential announcement and legalization of the Irrigation Management Reform Policy
(IMRP).    The Second Tranche's rating stems from full compliance of all eight (amended) release
conditions, with a weight that exceeds the original requirements. Its highlights in terms of reform and
sector adjustment were: (i) issuance of Government Regulation PP 77/01 and its Ministerial Decrees for
WUAF empowerment; (ii) issuance of Government Regulation PP 82/01 on Water Pollution Control and
Water Quality; (iii) re-establishment of an empowered Tim Koordinasi as an embryo for a national apex
body; (iv) adoption of a national water resources policy and a framework for its implementation; and (v)
improvement of the national hydrological and basic decision-support data systems.

The Third Tranche release conditions were only partially fulfilled by Loan Closure and should result in an
Unsatisfactory rating; however, since the completed and partially-completed conditions include many key
outcomes that still do contribute to achievement of the PDOs, and because the new Yudhoyono
Government has taken actions that lead to expect further achievement of outstanding conditions, the Third
Tranche is rated Moderately Satisfactory.        The Second and Third Tranche release conditions are
reproduced in Annex 1 with their current compliance status. The Third Tranche release conditions that
were partially completed, suffered from factors largely beyond the control of the Government, with the
principal reason being delay in the enactment of the Water Resources Law (see Section 5), followed by
three-quarters of a year of transition to a new Government.




                                                   - 20 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No methodology exists to calculate the ERR of reforms, by comparing economic performance prior to and
after reforms. For regulatory changes in river basin management, it requires a large database of historical
and statistical data to separate out the consequences of the regulatory improvements from the impact of the
numerous other factors that influence pre- and post-intervention expenditures. Where it concerns the
introduction of the reforms in irrigation management, the Task Team made a dedicated effort to arrive at an
estimate. At the occasion of the appraisal of the WISMP an assessment was made making use of the
extensive and well documented piloting of such reforms in five representative irrigation schemes on and off
Java. By 2003, a large field survey had been undertaken by a consortium of universities and research
organizations, describing the state of the infrastructure and of farmer incomes prior to and after the
introduction of the reforms since 1999 (Study on Process Documentation and Impact of the Implementation
of Irrigation Management Policy Reform in Indonesia, University of Gadjah Mada, Yogyakarta, March
2003).    The pilots involved the empowerment of the Farmer/Water User Associations (WUAs) and
appropriate regulatory changes (enabling environment).        Simultaneously, the local district staff were
trained as "facilitators". Although quite some variability was found in the results, these are still considered
reasonably robust and are consistent with other observations. Also, in 2002 two technical audits were
conducted in three Javanese provinces under JIWMP to assess the quality and sustainability of comparable
works carried out under the new model with WUA involvement, and under the prior conventional
government-driven model without user involvement. These data then were used to assess two types of
investments and improvements on the five schemes: those only dealing with the physical repairs and
rehabilitation; and those where both the institutions were built to achieve the active participation of the
WUAs, and the repairs were carried out. The economic analysis showed that conventional rehabilitation
projects would bring an economic rate of return of 10-18 percent, depending on the state of the assets and
the productivity of the scheme. However, when the enhanced capacity of the WUAs was factored in, the
ERR rose to 30-40 percent. The ERR over the incremental investment for the capacity building was
approximately 32 percent. This suggested that the "heart of the matter" were the social capital and
management capabilities built through the reform, whereas the works in the program were the "vehicle"
through which the institutional capacity was built.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

See Section 4.3. An earlier study (The Benefits of Preventive Maintenance in Irrigation, U. Sussex, 1996)
in which a representative sample of irrigation schemes on Sumatra was followed over a period of 6 years,
suggested that the annualized financial benefit of proper preventive maintenance, carried out by farmer
associations, amounted to approximately US$50/ha.year, thanks to avoidance of premature rehabilitation.
For the country, this would build up to around US$150-300 million per year. The WATSAL has put in
place both the regulatory and the administrative frameworks that would enable to capture these gains,
hence it is reasonable to attribute these gains to the reform.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

WATSAL's institutional development impact is rated as Substantial.             Its reform process and the
institutional reforms it established have changed the formal and informal rules governing the policy and
governance norms and implementation procedures in the sector, as well as the relationship between the key
donors and sector agencies at all levels of government. Aside of the accepted establishment of National
Water Council with stakeholder representation, similar councils for coordination and policy oversight are
now provided for at regional government and at river basin levels, while apex farmer/ water user


                                                      - 21 -

associations are represented on Provincial and District Irrigation Commissions.                  The public and
communities not only have a right to information and are to be consulted in planning and policy decisions,
but they can also submit complaints about government services and performance. It is accepted that
irrigation farmers may form autonomous water user association federations for participation in O&M of
larger canals, and receive management tasks. District and provincial governments, as well as irrigation
beneficiaries have already experienced the benefits of a serious participatory irrigation management and
will wish to continue along these lines. The concept that the National Water Council should be chaired by
a "neutral" Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs has gained acceptance and has now been practiced
for several years under the interim Ministers Tim Koordinasi. Because of the governance improvements,
the donor community is now more supportive of the sector, and willing to provide assistance to long-term
sector management and development. Their project or program designs are consistent with those of the
Government's policy.

Sector management is no longer viewed as developing and caring for only discrete projects, but is now
more viewed as part of river basin management where water quality and conservation enter the water
supply equation. In smaller basins, management is executed by Balai PSDA while large economically
developed basins are increasingly managed on behalf of Government by revenue-earning river basin
corporations. In both cases, their plans and actions are subject to oversight by River Basin Councils. A
legacy of 33 Government Regulations PPs and their Ministerial Decrees/ Guidelines are to be prepared or
finalized according to priority and processing capacity (most of these Regulations fall outside the LoSP).
This forms the basis of a nationally "owned" medium-term program for the sector, loosely termed
WATSAP, which the current Yudhoyono Government is actively supporting. WATSAL's institutional
development impact is rated as High. Its reform process and the institutional reforms it established have
changed the formal and informal rules governing the policy and governance norms and implementation
procedures in the sector, as well as the relationship between the key donors and sector agencies at all levels
of government.      Aside of the accepted establishment of National Water Council with stakeholder
representation, similar councils for coordination and policy oversight are now provided for at regional
government and at river basin levels, while apex farmer/ water user associations are represented on
Provincial and District Irrigation Commissions. The public and communities not only have a right to
information and are to be consulted in planning and policy decisions, but they can also submit complaints
about government services and performance. It is accepted that irrigation farmers may form autonomous
water user association federations for participation in O&M of larger canals, receive management tasks,
and hold water use rights. District and provincial governments, as well as irrigation beneficiaries have
already experienced the benefits of a serious participatory irrigation management and will wish to continue
along these lines.    The concept that the National Water Council should be chaired by a "neutral"
Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs has gained acceptance and has now been practiced for several
years under the interim Ministers Tim Koordinasi. Because of the governance improvements, the donor
community is now more supportive of the sector, and willing to provide assistance to long-term sector
management and development. Their project or program designs are consistent with those of the
Government's policy.

Sector management is no longer viewed as developing and caring for only discrete projects, but is now
more viewed as part of river basin management where water quality and conservation are part of the water
supply equation. In smaller basins, management is executed by Balai PSDA while large economically developed
basins are increasingly managed on behalf of Government by revenue-earning river basin corporations. In both
cases, their plans and actions are subject to oversight by River Basin Councils. A legacy of 33 Government
Regulations PPs and their Ministerial Decrees/ Guidelines are to be prepared or finalized according to priority and
processing capacity (most of these Regulations fall outside the LoSP). This forms the basis of a nationally "owned"
medium-term program for the sector, loosely termed WATSAP, which the current Yudhoyono Government is
actively supporting.



                                                       - 22 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

A series of factors outside the control of the national government, severely complicated and delayed the
government's work in completing the Program Outcomes. These factors were mostly properly and adroitly
dealt with by the WATSAL Task Force, until, mid-2003, re-centralization efforts and water-sector interests
inside government raised controversy, split the government, and thus undermined the focus and negotiation
power of government in its dealing with, notably, Parliament. These risks had been identified up-front.
After Loan Closure, however, this deviation was partly overcome again by the new Government.

Regional Autonomy: Authority Transfer over Water Resources to District Governments. The Regional
Autonomy Laws, prepared in relative secrecy in the first part of the Wahid Government (1999-2000),
represented a bold and far-reaching devolution of administrative and fiscal powers. This decentralization
responded to popular demand but its "big bang" nature caused it to suffer from many impracticalities as
well as pervasive interpretation uncertainty. These deficiencies later on (2004) led to revisions by the less
reform-minded Megawati Government. This revision, widely anticipated, caused further uncertainty, but
eventually did not alter the basic tenets of the original laws. The decision in 1999 to essentially make the
districts the second main layer of government took everyone by surprise, also the WATSAL Task Force
and the Bank.      This decentralization gave rise to concerns of operational and budget sustainability,
especially in water management where the need for economies of scale, and externality problems (as rivers
tend to exceed district sizes), are often dominant. District governments established their own District
Water Resources Service (DWRS). They often hired former national- or provincial-government staff, often
hailing from the irrigation O&M branches of the Provincial Water Resources Service (PWRS). MPW/
MoSRI down-sized its staff from 24,000 (late 2000) to around 8,000 (early 2001); the majority of these
staff were under the Directorate General Water Resources. Thus, the WATSAL Task Force had to
contend with this radical shift, leaving behind the more modest design assumptions which were based on
substantial central control with de-concentration of some operational tasks to the PWRS. When the Bank
raised the possibility of restructuring the Loan in October 2000, uncertainty prevailed in the Task Force
regarding the legal instruments. The Task force followed the October 2000 Aide memoire advice to seek
permanent legal advice from the newly established Department for Legislative Affairs in the Justice
Ministry. The Regional Autonomy Laws delayed WATSAL progress for over 18 months until sufficiently
clarified.

Local Revenue from Water Resources Complicates New River Basin Corporations (PJTs). The LoSP
raised the question whether the 4 new trans-district River Basin Corporations (PJTs) would be established
as National Corporation (BUMN), as in the case of the existing PJT I and PJT II, or whether provision
would be made for a province to establish a PJT as a Regional Corporation (BUMD). It was soon clarified
that the financial risk would be beyond the provincial financial capabilities in their current, formative years,
but that a generic Government Regulation PP on river basin corporations was required to allow this option
at a later stage. Thus, for the time being, new PJTs would be established by Presidential Decree as
branches of the relatively successful PJT I. Once this issue was resolved, this program was begun early
2001 with establishment of PJT Bengawan-Solo. Difficulties however arose with district governments
within the basin, as they demanded a 70 percent share in the gross revenues. This contentious issue was
finally reasonably resolved with the affected districts in the Bengawan-Solo; the PJT was established in
2002 under the Third Tranche.




                                                     - 23 -

This experience cautioned national and provincial governments in establishing the other 3 PJTs. even
though consensus built up that they should be BUMNs. At the same time, the Central Java PWRS,
preferred one large Corporation established under the PJT I umbrella for all three basins to find economies
of scale, even though this implied temporarily ceding provincial authority. These Corporations were
prepared through extensive consultations among all governments concerned in 2002-2005.                 The
Presidential Decree is to be issued by the end of 2005.        The fourth Corporation (Jeneberang river,
Sulawesi), however, faced more fundamental difficulties. The provincial government wished to have it
established as a Provincial BUMD. At the same time, the key asset, the Bili-Bili dam's reservoir and its
related water supply revenue was being claimed by the Gowa District Government in whose territory the
dam is situated. This issue has not yet been resolved although in 2004 a compromise was struck that the
river be managed by a BUMN. It can be expected that this PJT will be established in 2006.

Legislative Action Affects WATSAL. As mentioned before (Section 4) the Minister of MoSRI under the
Wahid Government decided in 2001 to replace the 1974 Water Resources Development Law by a more
modern, cross-sectoral framework law on Water Resources, rather than making a small number of
technical amendments for LoSP's sake. The Minister and the Task Force recognized that Parliament had
already regained its independence from the executive branch, and would not necessarily accept the
government's proposals. Later in 2000, Parliament started its impeachment of President Wahid which led
to his replacement by President Megawati mid-2001. These events disrupted parliamentary proceedings,
and only in October 2002 did the Commission IV start its deliberations in earnest.      After July 2003, in
President Megawati's second phase, the government tended to actively seek to unwind some of the
decentralization and democratization features.      MoSRI--hitherto a "champion" of WATSAL and its
irrigation objectives--questioned the irrigation management transfer.      Parliament was heavily lobbied
through anti-globalization NGOs and the press to not succumb to what was described as World Bank
meddling in internal affairs. Also, water management by entities outside the government bureaucracy, and
the introduction of water use rights, were decried as tantamount to privatization.    The Bank met twice
with legislators, upon their request, to inform them of the Bank's perspectives. The Bank further advised
the Task Force and GoI at large to take deeper interest in the legislation. In February 2004, Parliament
passed the law, upholding most of the positive aspects but repealing or downscaling some of the irrigation
reform principles. This would necessitate revision of the Government Regulation PP77 of 2001.

Revision of Regional Autonomy Laws Affects Completion of WATSAL. In order to redress some of the
administrative and fiscal deficiencies that surfaced during the implementation of regional autonomy,
Parliament made early on clear its intention to revise the 1999 laws, and did enact Laws in 2004 and 2005.
These revisions shift some power from the district to the province, and introduce de-concentration and
co-management. This can in effect re-introduce some aspects of the government administrative structure
                 4


similar to those existing before 1999.       However, the Government Regulation PP on the regulatory
principles for apportioning water sector service and management functions has not yet been issued. Also,
the new Law concerning the National Budgeting Procedures could increase the ability of the national



4    De-concentration refers the fact that the authority rests with a locally-based appointee of national
government, which still controls plan, execution and budget.       Co-management allows the higher-level
government to assign a lower-level government with the execution of specified tasks while also transferring
the funds for this to the local-government budget, implying a greater degree of autonomy.




                                                    - 24 -

government to retain some control over sector activities. These and other changes have a bearing on the
management as well as financing of water and environmental resources. Thus, although GoI had already
prepared the drafts of key Government Regulations PPs, e.g., on River Financing and Management that
were consistent with both the 1999 Regional Autonomy and the 2004 Water Resources Laws, it would
need to again re-calibrate these drafts against the new provisions. Consequently, these drafts could not be
issued by December 31, 2004, and small amendments are now being introduced to align them with the
revised decentralization and budgeting laws. The PPs can be expected to be issued by early 2006,
consistent with the LoSP.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

In the turmoil after the demise of President Soeharto and his "New Order" that had been the national
political paradigm for three decades, a new, more democratic and decentralized Indonesia needed to be
created. In light of the need to be expedient with these reforms, and the lack of experience with democratic
institutions, it was likely that these reforms would not follow a linear, orderly process, but would have an
outspoken dialectic nature, and be turbulent at times. Overall, these fundamental transitions seem to have
been managed reasonably well.           The four successive governments expressed their commitment to
WATSAL:

·        The Habibie Government (1998-late 1999) that took over from President Soeharto upon his
         resignation, and launched the WATSAL.
·        The Wahid Government (1999-mid-2001) elected through the first free elections since the early
         50s, and which followed a staunchly reformist though somewhat erratic course.
·        The Megawati Government (2001-2004) that took over after President Wahid was impeached by
         Parliament, and that followed a populist course, in its second phase starting in 2003 reversing
         several reform laws and attempting to backtrack on regional autonomy.
·        The Yudhoyono Government (December 2004-) that came to power by a series of elections spread
         out between April and October 2004. This Government is still to be tested, but is generally
         regarded as more professional, and committed to consolidating selected reforms.

Aside of the successive Governments' overall commitment to the LoSP, political and administrative
priorities of Governments sometimes furthered and sometimes delayed WATSAL progress:                   (i) the
break-up of MPW, in 1999, into an "implementation" and a regulatory ministry, which in 2000 were
merged again; (ii) the strategic decision in 2001 of the Minister of MoSRI to initiate a new water law at the
risk that this would delay progress; (iii) resistance by the Cabinet Secretariat during 2001 to issue the new
Government Regulation PP on Irrigation; (iv) poor liaison between MoE and MoSRI for the preparation of
Guidelines on water quality monitoring and management; and (v) continuing restructuring of the roles and
authorities of national and regional government.

MPW's Break-up into Two Ministries. The Wahid Government abolished the MPW and its Directorate
General for Water Resources Development (DGWRD).               Its tasks and staff were divided between a
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Development (Kimbangwil) and a smaller State Ministry of Public
Works (MeNeg PU).          Kimbangwil was responsible for housing, spatial and regional infrastructure
development (without a Water Resources DG), while MeNeg PU was responsible for sector policy and
institutional development (and retained the senior MPW staff). This arrangement proved unworkable.
Both ministries merged again by January 2001 to form the Ministry of Settlements and Regional
Infrastructure (Kimpraswil)(MoSRI) having a Directorate General for Water Resources (DGWR). This
temporary split adversely affected decision-making in the Task Force, and left the first Tim Koordinasi
immobilized with the unresolved problem as to which sector minister should take the lead. However, with
the advent of MoSRI early 2001, the Second Tranche was satisfactorily completed by December 31, 2001.



                                                     - 25 -

The Tim Koordinasi started to meet on a bi-monthly basis chaired by the Menko Ekuin, and played a major
role in resolving conflicts.

Difficulties with the Cabinet Secretariat. The new PP on Irrigation was complete on substance by early
2001 but met with resistance from the Cabinet Secretariat's Legal Bureau that claimed that its WUAF
provisions contradicted the existing 1974 water law. The Bank deemed this position not based on legal
argument and with the Task Force sought an informal legal opinion from the Ministry of Justice. It
transpired that the Task Force's premise was correct, but that in Indonesia a Cabinet Secretariat need not
follow legal opinions from the Ministry of Justice. Eventually, late 2001, a consensus was reached.

Difficulties in Preparing Guidelines for Water Quality Management. Basic differences traditionally
existed between MPW and MoE about responsibility for regional water quality management. The 1990
Ministerial Regulation of MPW on water quality proved not implementable, as generally MoE was
recognized as the authority for this matter. Under WATSAL, MoE duly completed the Government
Regulation PP 82/01 on Pollution Control as well as in June 2003 all implementation guidelines. However,
by that time MoSRI was seeking to protect its "turf", and did not give further attention to the water quality
agenda.

Delay in Revising the PP on Irrigation Due to Restructuring of Irrigation Management. In anticipation
of the revision of regional autonomy, which was likely to give a greater role to the province and return the
de-concentration mechanisms, MoSRI started to actively further its sectoral interests mid-2003 by
monopolizing Task Force work, and attempting to reclaim some of the irrigation responsibilities. By that
time, however, all Deliverables relating to the three Sub-Objectives (Section 4.1.2) under the Irrigation
Objective had been fully achieved already. Furthermore, there had been major implementation progress in
16 provinces with signs of growing salutary impact on irrigation management performance and beneficiary
satisfaction. The Ministries of Home Affairs, and of Agriculture, and most local governments as well as
the National Farmer Association, disagreed with MoSRI. Inside MoSRI, the controversy led in October
2003 to the sidelining of the Director General Water Resources, who had been MoSRI's chief
representative on the WATSAL Task Force.

To advise the Government in these matters, top representatives of the Bank, ADB, FAO and the
Netherlands Ambassador, at several occasions during 2003 met with the Menko Ekuin in his capacity of
Chairman of the Tim Koordinasi. The Country Representative of JBIC met with the Minister to express
concern. In October 2003 a meeting was held, chaired by the Minister of Finance, with the Minister of
MoSRI and the Bank's Country Director.            However, none of these high-level efforts to revive the
cross-sectoral cooperation managed to impress the Minister of MoSRI. The Menko Ekuin (a function
equivalent to Deputy Prime Minister) and the Vice Minister of National Planning, having been rebuked
several times, declined to further meet with the Minister. In effect, GoI did not any longer have a unified
position on WATSAL between mid-2003 and mid-2004. With the enactment of the Water Resources Law
in February 2004, inter-governmental debate resumed to some extent. Discussions between the Bank and
other donors resulted in a set of compromise principles on participatory irrigation management, endorsed
by Bappenas and MoHA, and within the original agreements of the LoSP. The drafting of and discussions
on the revised Government Regulation and its Guidelines in the second half of 2004, consumed all
attention. The change in Government late 2004, and then the tsunami tragedy, pre-empted early issuance of
the draft Regulation. It is very likely that the new Yudhoyono Government will want to take time to consult
with all stakeholders, and possibly re-introduce some of the earlier reform features, to ensure that the
current drafts will receive broader support.       Thus, it was the equivocal approach of the Megawati
Government to the sectoral interests of the key Ministry in 2003 that disrupted the inter-agency WATSAL
process, and, eventually, contributed to failure to complete the Third Tranche timely.



                                                     - 26 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Bappenas' role as implementing agency derived from its original mandates of policy guidance,
cross-sectoral coordination, and, importantly, overall government budget review. In 2002 and again in
2003, the Agency's leverage was drastically reduced, however, as MoF assumed all budgetary
responsibility. Bappenas' task as Chair of the Task Force became increasingly difficult. Nonetheless, up
to June 2003, Bappenas managed the Task Force effectively, in a focused and flexible fashion. It ensured
intensive coordination and motivation, so that delays and conflicts were overcome, uncertainties addressed,
and drafts delivered to the WATSAL Steering Committee and the Tim Koordinasi that were of a high
standard. Importantly, it managed to retain high-level political endorsement, as well as strong support from
local governments and civil society.

However, when mid-2003 the Megawati Government started to revise certain of the reform principles and
the regional autonomy laws, and allowed sectoral interests to re-emerge, Bappenas (quite like the Menko
Ekuin and Tim Koordinasi) proved unable to retain its leadership. It had to relinquish its initiative to
MoSRI. The Task Force ceased to be active.

The decline of the Task Force also made it virtually impossible for GoI to properly address the options for
the Outcome waivers suggested by the Bank in 2003 and 2004. The Supervision Letter of June 3, 2003,
offered the possibility of a waiver for some low-priority regulatory outcomes needed for Third Tranche
completion. The first possible waiver was replacement of issue of the National Water Resources Policy
through a Presidential Decree by acceptance of the NWRP outline issued by Menko Ekuin under the
Second Tranche. This option was triggered by the delay in issuance of the new law, which in turn delayed
establishment of the National Water Council and, by consequence, made it impossible to issue a
Presidential Decree before Loan Closure. Second, due to difficulties with the district government in the
Jeneberang river basin (South Sulawesi), the requirement to establish a river basin corporation (PJT) in
that basin could be waived. Third, it was noted that the provisions for a water use rights system in the
draft water resources law were satisfactory but that the related draft Government Regulation PP was not
yet mature, and would require more ample preparation given the sensitive and complex nature of this new
subject for the country. The Bank suggested a feasible and acceptable alternative (piloting of the system in
two river basins). Fourth, issuance of a number of downstream Local Government Regulations was
suggested for waiver as the extensive consultations would take much time without adding much to the
substance of WATSAL Outcomes.

Again, the March 2004 mission Aide memoire suggested the option of waivers in order to reduce the
number of actions needed for Third Tranche completion accepting that the new Law created a new
environment precluding normal completion, and that at the same time GoI signaled that it was converging
back to a unified policy on WATSAL. In addition to the waivers offered in June 2003, waivers could be
discussed on four low-priority outstanding actions related to the Water Quality Sub-Objectives. However,
Bappenas was unable or unwilling to get GoI to consider these waivers.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The funding provided by the WATSAL First and Second Tranches (US$150 million) helped the
Government with balance-of-payment support in its most vulnerable period (1999-2002). After four
extensions, and at Government's request the Third Tranche of US$150 million was cancelled just prior to
Loan Closure. Already early 2004, the Bank had signaled GoI it would be unwilling to consider a fifth
extension, partly because the Megawati Government had not lived up to its commitments, and partly to
avoid importing an old legacy into a new relationship with the likely new Government.


                                                    - 27 -

Funding for the Task Force and its 4 Working Groups was provided through reallocation of a total amount
of approximately US$950,000 from the Bank-supported JIWMP and approximately US$450,000 from the
IWIRIP Grant. Technical assistance to help the Task Force with preparation was provided under the
ADB-supported DGWRD Capacity Building Project and from reallocation of JBIC funds in the amounts of
about approximately US$1 million. The Water Use Rights Study in 2003-2004 was funded through two
Government of Japan Consultant Trust Funds in the amount of US$540,000.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the WATSAL--as outcomes delivered, and taking into account the on-going further work
on the remaining agenda--is rated Highly Likely. The present Yudhoyono Government is committed to
issuing all Government Regulations PPs that had not been issued prior to loan closure. In March 2005 the
"National Medium-Term Development Plan" has been signed into Law; its water resources chapter
includes a continuation of the program for:

·       Issuing the Government Regulations PPs on Water Resource Management, Rivers, Financing of
        Water resources Management, Irrigation, Basin Management Financing, and Restructuring of PJT
        I and PJT II (all outstanding WATSAL deliverables, that are nearly ready but need adjustment to
        the revisions to the regional Autonomy Laws);

·       Issuing the Presidential Regulation on "Establishment of a National Water Resources Council" (an
        outstanding WATSAL deliverable);

·       Strengthening sector institutions at the national, provincial and district/municipal levels;

·       Establishing "forums" (councils) for coordination of water resources management at central,
        provincial, district and basin levels;

·       Creating an MIS for water resources management, and preparation and operation of a decision
        support system;

·       Improving community participation in the sector;

·       Improving technical, organizational and administrative capability of the community and of WUAs
        in the development and management of irrigation.

The administrative and organizational structures are already in place to implement the above program. In
river basins, 43 functional Balai PSDA and the new PJT Bengawan-Solo have been created. The existing
PJT I and PJT II have been re-organized and are in a better financial and political position, suggesting
higher sustainability.   Two more PJTs (Serayu-Bogowonto and Jratunseluna) have been readied for
creation as branches of PJT I by late 2005 or early 2006. Importantly, local governments have been
extensively consulted and have endorsed the proposition.           All basins currently having a PPTPA
(Coordination Committee) will have the Committee converted into a Council by addition of stakeholder
representatives, probably by early 2006. Hydrology management organizations are now in place along
with a central MIS that will be linked to the data bases of other agencies. Significantly, the thousands of



                                                     - 28 -

WUAFs created under WATSAL will remain and those to whom management responsibilities have been
transferred will continue their activities under this status.

Major programs are starting to put these reforms into practice. Beside of WISMP (see Section 6.2) other
programs contribute:

·        ADB supports a Participatory Irrigation Management Project (PISP), signed in February 2005.
         PISP will implement the irrigation reform policy in 6 provinces and 25 districts over a period of 7
         years, in the same way as WISMP. PISP would also improve and expand the operation of the
         water resources information management system and facilities established in DGWR to provide
         access to quality data and information for multi-sector use.
·        The Netherlands Government provided a US$12.5 million grant 2001-2005 to help implement the
         WATSAL (Indonesia Water Resources and Irrigation Reform Implementation Project, IWIRIP),
         and co-finances WISMP ($14 million) and PISP (US$16 million). It also provides further grants
         for continued capacity building and policy dialogue.
·        ADB's Northern Sumatra Irrigation Sector Project (2001-2007) was redesigned in 2003 to apply
         the new irrigation model.
·        JBIC has severely toned down its sector involvement, partly because the WATSAL proceedings
         demonstrated the projects' poor performance in the past. JBIC launched in 2004 its Second
         Komering Project, and also applied the provisions of the WATSAL model, by emphasizing the role
         of local government, the local Balai PSDA, and the WUAFs.
·        The European Union in 1999 launched its "Good Governance in River Basins Project" Grant. An
         EU supported project administered by the Bank will apply WATSAL principles, based on the
         WISMP design, in a separate province (West Nusa Tengara).

Thus, the WATSAL concepts will be mainstreamed and will shape a substantial if not the largest part of
sector operations for the time to come.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

GoI programs as well as donor support for implementation of the WATSAL reforms are in place. The
Bank approved in June 2003 a credit/loan--co-financed by the Government of the Netherlands--for the
first phase project of the APL Water Resources & Irrigation Sector Management Program (WISMP). The
APL consists of three successive projects to implement the new policies through the new institutions and
regulatory instruments, to improve sector performance. The APL extends over a period of 12 years, in 18
provinces and 100 districts, or roughly 50 percent of the relevant national territory. The long duration is
necessary to learn "best practices" of implementation; build local institutions and capacity; and allow
replication in a phased approach. As mentioned before (Section 4) the signing of WISMP was delayed
over 2003 and 2004, to await resolution of outstanding issues on the principles of irrigation management,
which had to be incorporated in the Restated DCA (the project was signed on June 24, 2005).

The WISMP objectives are, aside of asset rehabilitation: (i) improve sector governance and accountability
by strengthening stakeholder participation institutions in basin management (60 basins) and irrigation (100
District Irrigation Commissions and Irrigation Management Funds) as well as the National Water Council;
(ii) improve sector agency capacity, skills and management quality assurance; (iii) implement cost recovery
instruments arising out of the water Resources Law and improve fiscal sustainability; and (iv) enable an
integrated approach to increasing farm incomes from irrigated agriculture through WUAs. The Program
also seeks the unbundling of basin management and irrigation services and supporting two self-financing
river basin corporations as well as 34 Balai PSDA. WUAF establishment and empowerment will be


                                                      - 29 -

supported in an overall area of about 3.5 million ha using the irrigation reform provisions of the revised PP
on irrigation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in the preparation of the reform agenda and loan has been rated by QAG as
Highly Satisfactory (in FY00). The Bank team managed to convey to the Government a sense of urgency
and purpose to fundamentally review its long-neglected sectoral policies, develop a National Water
Resources Policy, implement its program of river basin management, give more importance to water
quality management, and seek to improve on its failed IOMP 1987. The Bank mobilized trust fund
assistance for the Task Force's preparation of the key Irrigation Management Reform Policy; for its hiring
of Indonesian lawyers and experts (approved by LEGEA) to assist the GoI WATSAL Task Force in
preparing the legal indicators of the Policy Matrix; and for its preparation of an innovative Sector
Environmental Assessment (SEA). The loan was prepared and negotiated in about 12 months using 4
missions composed of mainly Indonesian-speaking specialist consultants very familiar with Indonesia's
water resources sector. The Task Team received strong support throughout from the management of the
East Asia Rural Development and Natural Resources Unit, the Indonesia Country Team, and the Regional
Vice-Presidency.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision performance is rated as Satisfactory throughout. Supervision performance was
evaluated by QAG in October 2000 under the FY00 Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) and in
October 2002 under the QSA5. The FY00 overall assessment stated:

    "The panel has found several examples of "Best Practice" supervision of this project and has,
    therefore, rated it as "highly satisfactory" overall as well as in three of the four assessment categories
    Focus on Development Effectiveness, Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects and Adequacy of
    Supervision Inputs and Processes. The rating is "Satisfactory" for the fourth category Quality and
    Realism in Reporting. The best-practice areas are:

(a)     Realism of Country Conditions and Development Objectives: The task team has shown
        extraordinary understanding of the changing political environment of the country and has
        responded ...by following up on the realignment of the functional responsibilities of the ministries
        to ensure that the development objectives are not jeopardized.

(b)     Donor Coordination: A good use has been made of the donor consultative group in the country to
        ensure that the reform agenda is supported by all development partners. The TA programs of other
        donors have been coordinated with the Bank's program to meet the needs of this adjustment
        operation. This has also helped in making the optimum use of the available resources to reform the
        water sector in Indonesia.

(c)     Management Support: The Bank management, convinced with the effectiveness of the task team's
        supervision strategy, has fully supported its recommendations and provided the funds and
        resources to implement that strategy and followed up with timely advice and approvals as needed.




                                                    - 30 -

The QSA5 team's overall assessment was Satisfactory for all four supervision assessment categories,
namely: Focus on Development Effectiveness, Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects, Adequacy of
Supervision Inputs and Processes and Realism of Project Performance Ratings. The panel stated:

    "This is a very ambitious and important project with necessary and very substantial, but risky, reforms.
    The team has built an excellent, perhaps best practice relationship with counterparts and other
    multilateral and bilateral aid agencies and has an active partnership with the government preparatory
    team. It has provided extensive and detailed comments on various draft regulations, decrees and laws.
    A sound foundation for environmental sensitivity in water resources management has been laid. A
    considerable cadre of staff competent in policy review and analysis has been established under the Task
    Force. The WATSAL process now involves significant NGO and public participation. Also, national
    level agencies have a forum for reaching decisions through discussion and consensus. However, the
    reforms are complex and not all stakeholders are agreed on key aspects. ......It is especially important
    that the remaining issues and risks of sector reform outcomes should be more clearly outlined by the
    supervision team in future PSRs. ..... While there has been substantial achievement, the Panel is
    concerned that there are significant risks that the key policy measures that were part of the framework
    envisioned at appraisal will not be in place by the third tranche release."

The Panel also observed that: "It appears that several of the development outcomes are likely to be delayed
beyond the WATSAL period (...). However, a formal mid-term review to account for changes in
government structure and the changes in prospects and timing for achieving development outcomes should
have received more attention."

The Bank team responded to this observation by noting that the political environment was so fluid and
unpredictable that formal mid-term reviews would be overtaken by the events, and that actions and overall
"support strategy" needed to be decided and reviewed on a continuous basis and as the need arose. There
was arguably no real necessity for a mid-term review as the Bank had intensively engaged in dialogue and
correspondence with the Government about the timetable for processing, the issuance of legal deliverables,
as well as on the content of each and every draft prepared by the Task Force. From the November 2002
supervision mission onwards, the Bank repeatedly cautioned the Government about completion of the Third
Tranche outcomes. The Task Team, with full management support, took a flexible approach overall,
recognizing that such deep reforms inevitably are controversial, and follow a dialectic course. In June 2003
and March 2004 it offered to waive low-priority outcomes most likely to cause delays, but these were not
taken up by the Borrower (Section 5.3). Regarding the introduction of water use rights, the Bank arranged
for experienced international experts to advise the Task Force, and work with NGOs. The Team then
arranged for Trust Fund support for an intensive two stage water rights study. This study recommended a
gradual approach to implementation, and these recommendations were agreed by GoI and Bank, and have
now been taken over by GoI for piloting under WISMP. Finally, during the controversy preceding the
enactment of the Water Resources Law, the Bank preferred to give priority to "reasonable" quality outputs
that, however, are fully "owned" by the main stakeholders, than to seek perfection.

With respect to the Panel's concern about local government representation on the Tim Koordinasi, this was
difficult to "demand" through a mid-term or any other review. The Tim Koordinasi had been set up as an
embryo for a National Water Council supported by stakeholder representation, in December 2001. It thus
met the requirements of the LoSP. Furthermore, the Bank team was also aware of the draft Law, which
would provide for such stakeholdership. In general, the Team decided to be strict on basic principles only,
not on how the Government wanted to shape the deliverable. All along, the Team took great care to not
interfere with the country's sovereign rights. From late 2002, when the draft law was submitted to


                                                     - 31 -

Parliament, the Bank was exposed to perceptions from many quarters, including anti-globalization NGOs
and nationalist legislators, that the WATSAL agenda and especially water use rights, were the Bank's
agenda and not that of the Government (Section 5.1). The sensitivity of the Bank's role precluded any
overt request for inclusion of specific stakeholders into the Tim Koordinasi. By and large, the fact that the
Bank's supervisory role was never really questioned by Government or Parliament, suggests that it has
exercised proper caution and distance and never alienated the main partners.

The Bank arranged for assistance to the Task Force by facilitating the field-piloting on large scale of
irrigation reforms on and off Java through JIWMP (and later IWIRIP). JIWMP and IWIRIP financed
establishment of Balai PSDAs, PTPAs, PPTPAs and WUAFs, to meet targets set in the LoSP. During the
WATSAL preparation and start-up period, the Bank team intensively informed the donor community about
WATSAL's agenda and elicited their support, including for TA to the Task Force by national consultants.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall, the Bank's performance is rated Satisfactory. It fielded roughly the same experienced core team
throughout the operation but regularly added fresh experts.         This team also had the advantage of
participating in both the WATSAL missions (Annex 4) and in the simultaneous supervision missions of
implementation projects piloting WATSAL reforms. It commented extensively on Task Force drafts
despite bunching and the need to arrange for working translations of key drafts.       The team developed
productive and sympathetic working relations with the successive Task Force members and its leadership,
with new GoI staff that often came in unprepared, as well as with key donors. Throughout, the Task Team
received close and continued support from EASRD, the Country Team and from the Regional Vice
Presidency. Management was acutely aware of the complexities of the process, and offered sustained
support despite budget constraints. The Task Team Leader moved to the Jakarta Office for 14 months in
2002-2003 to ensure close coordination and enhanced dialogue.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in preparation of the reform agenda (LoSP and Policy Matrix) under the
Habibie Government was Highly Satisfactory. There was maximal commitment with a major role being
played by the Minister of Public Works who suggested the establishment of a Tim Koordinasi. To add
value to the Irrigation Management Reform Policy, he arranged for it to be proclaimed by the President as
part of a National Workshop on Irrigation Management Reform. The Implementing Agency, Bappenas,
demonstrated leadership and acumen, and arranged for the appointment of a WATSAL Task Force that
included NGO representatives as full members (a significant innovation in Indonesia). The only major
concern was MoF pressure for "front-loading" and for an unrealistic short implementation period (Section
3.3). These pressures were partly overcome at Negotiations but the WATSAL Implementation Plan,
prepared by the Task Force, still allowed for an unrealistic short implementation period.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Completion of the WATSAL Agenda The overall rating for Government implementation performance is
(Moderately) Unsatisfactory:      Second Tranche compliance well in excess of commitments, is offset
because of the impasse created by internal policy divisions during the period of mid-2003 to mid-2004,
which stifled progress and in effect prevented Government from successfully completing the Third Tranche.
The implementation performance of the Wahid Government (October 1999 until July 2001) and, that of the
first phase of the Megawati Government (from August 2001 until mid-2003), were both rated Satisfactory
in the PSRs. Factors beyond their control caused delays in release of the Second Tranche (December


                                                     - 32 -

2001) (see Section 5). The period from January 2001 to December 2001 was one of intense Task Force
productivity in which major WATSAL policy decisions were made such as: the decision to draft a wholly
new water sector law; the establishment of the national apex body as a National Water Council; the
representation of stakeholders in regional water coordinating councils and District irrigation Commissions;
and the finalization of the reform principles of Government Regulation PP 77/01. During 2002, up to
GoI's delivery of a draft water resources law to Parliament, Task Force productivity was sustained. The
Ministers National Coordination Team for Water Resources (Tim Koordinasi) met numerous times
providing guidance at political and Cabinet level for the WATSAL process.

Government's implementation performance PSR ratings declined to Unsatisfactory from about mid-2003
till Loan Closure.    Subsequent to the re-organization of Bappenas in mid-April 2002, its influence
weakened. The new composition and management of the Task Force were established by Decree of the
Coordinating Minister of Economy (Menko Ekuin) in his capacity of Chair of Tim Koordinasi, only on
September 23, 2002. The changes and belated issuance of the staffing impeded significant progress. The
new staff composition caused serious loss of "process management experience". In addition, the new Task
Force constrained the contributions of NGOs and academics in the drafting process­-which had previously
proven of critical importance. During the first half of 2003, the Task Force as well as the Tim Koordinasi
further declined in standing as MoSRI's sectoral prerogatives started to prevail over cross-sectoral and
national interests.

Nonetheless, after Loan Closure and as the new Yudhoyono Government took charge, the reform principles
became re-invigorated. The cautious convergence of opinions inside Government after the enactment of the
Law in February 2004 led to a broad consensus on a re-interpretation of the Irrigation Management Policy,
in line with the new Law as well as with the LoSP, but of less reform content than the earlier Second
Tranche outputs. The litmus test showing that Government remained committed, was the agreement inn
March 2005 on the Restated DCA of the project that is to implement the WATSAL principles, i.e.,
WISMP.      Also, many of the outstanding WATSAL outputs have been picked up again for further
processing and delivery. Thus, in the Updated ISR of May 2005, the rating was upgraded to Moderately
Satisfactory.

Maintaining Satisfactory Macroeconomic Performance (Standard Condition of SECALs)

The Borrower maintained satisfactory macroeconomic performance throughout the period of the Loan
Agreement as the country moved from a fiscal crisis to macroeconomic stabilization and a return to modest
growth. Indonesia has passed the most critical stages of its--major--transition towards a democratic,
more decentralized system of governance. Much has already been achieved along this difficult journey,
including implementation of two free elections, and first direct presidential election ever, implementation of
an ambitious decentralization program, establishment of judicial independence and creation of an
anti-corruption commission, a phasing out of the military from Parliament, passage of two major public
finance laws and new government procurement laws, and establishment of a free press and a lively civil
society. Yet, much remains to be done, especially in the area of building capacity for new and existing
institutions of governance in Indonesia. Indeed, six years after the onset of reformasi, Indonesia still ranks
near the bottom of the corruption league.

Meanwhile, although macroeconomic stability has been achieved, growth, investment and jobs creation
remain lackluster. Growth of GDP was about 4 percent in 2004, not enough to create sufficient jobs for
the 2-2.5 million people entering the labor market each year. However, as the first impacts of the
Yudhoyono Government become visible, current forecasts are well above 5 percent suggesting a deeper
recovery. Nonetheless, Indonesia's recovery is lagging that of other Asian economies hit by the 1997-98


                                                    - 33 -

crisis, and GDP has only just reached pre-crisis levels. The main cause of faltering growth is slow
investment due to a weak investment climate. Investors' concerns range from a return of macroeconomic
instability to policy uncertainty, lack of legal certainty, the threat of an infrastructure crisis, and corruption
in key organizations. The new Government has started to address some of the concerns in the context of
the Economic Policy Package Pre-and Post IMF better known as the White Paper. The Government
however has embarked on a series of promising legal, regulatory, and institutional initiatives to improve
investor confidence, and re-ignite growth. While windows of opportunity for reforms emerge from time to
time in individual areas, overall improvements of the investment climate remain dependent to a significant
extent on improvements in the overall governance environment in Indonesia.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of Bappenas (the Bappenas Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs (later Infrastructure)
and his Bureau for Water Resources & Irrigation) as the implementing agency is rated Satisfactory. In
the WATSAL preparation period and up to April 2002, its performance was Highly Satisfactory due to: (i)
establishment of the Task Force and preparation of the LoSP and Policy Matrix; (ii) effective management
to provide leadership, deliver quality products, and coordinate the multi-agency WATSAL Steering
Committee, including local governments and NGOs; (iii) effective Loan amendment and extension requests;
(iv) facilitating the re-establishment and operationalization of the Tim Koordinasi as the embryo NWC;
and (v) satisfactory completion of all Second Tranche release conditions, plus far progress towards the
completion of the Third Tranche. Following the reorganization of Bappenas in April 2002, which involved
the shift of its budget oversight powers to MoF, a new BWRI team was appointed, thus greatly weakening
the Bureau till about October 2002 when the new team embraced WATSAL. The new BWRI became
quite effective in its management and coordination of WATSAL until the onset of MoSRI's efforts to
capture the policy initiative and further its sectoral interests starting mid-2003. The Task Force arranged
in creative ways for Third Tranche regulations to be issued by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of
Home Affairs respectively, resisting growing MoSRI pressure. Eventually, however, MoSRI received
critical political backing, and managed to neutralize the mainstream Government opinion as expressed by
the Task Force, the Tim Koordinasi and the Menko Ekuin, Bappenas, MoHA, MoA, local governments,
etc. Subsequently Bappenas became a reactive processor of loan management.

The leadership role of Bappenas in the Task Force did come at a cost for the agency. Although the
operation on one hand gained Bappenas much professional credibility across government as well as civil
society, at some occasions the negotiations proved hard. Partly because of this, at two instances senior
Bappenas staff at Director's and Sub-Director's level, were dismissed from the agency under external
pressure, once in February 2002, and again, with the successor team, in January 2004. Also inside MoSRI
the level of debate remained intense; in October 2003, the Director General of Water Resources, for many
years MoSRI's chief representative in the Task Force, was sidelined over his opinions. He has been
re-appointed in April 2005 as Secretary General to the Ministry of Public Works.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower's overall performance is rated (Moderately) Unsatisfactory. The achievements are: (i)
First and Second Tranches completed successfully, well beyond commitments; (ii) the Water Resources
Law representing a fundamental, very positive shift in resource management; (iiii) field implementation of
the reforms creating numerous new organizations and institutions, that decisively changed the perceptions
and rules of the sector, and exceeded LoSP expectations; and (iv) the new Yudhoyono Government (after
closure) still committed to and engaged in completing the WATSAL agenda. The negative aspects are that
(i) the Third Tranche Outcomes were partially completed, at least more than half; but the Tranche was not



                                                      - 34 -

released; and (ii) the new Law repeals the principle of irrigation management "transfer" and weakens
WUAF empowerment as compared to the Second Tranche Outcomes, even though the official Government
interpretation of the law leads to a policy that is still consistent with the LoSP. Most important, however,
is that in the period mid-2003 through mid-2004 the different stakeholders in Government did not arrive
any longer at a unified policy on WATSAL, with one, key, Ministry causing gradual deviation from the
PDOs. This led to inaction, which eventually led to failure to deliver the Third Tranche, and raised
pervasive concerns about Government commitment. Thus, despite commendable action and perseverance
of many stakeholders for most of the operation, the loss of unified policy in 2004 would suggest an overall
Moderately Unsatisfactory rating.

The Government, in its review of the WATSAL achievements (Section 9), identifies areas where the LoSP
has been too ambitious, but concludes that " ... given the reform outcomes and the institutional impact, we
consider WATSAL to be successful operation that has benefited the country." It goes on to state, however,
that "... we believe the Borrower's performance to have been satisfactory".

8. Lessons Learned


The lessons learned from Indonesia's WATSAL that can be applied to Sector Policy Development Loans
are as follows:

l Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for Ambitious, Major Sector Reforms.              Difficult policy and
    institutional reforms, of the scope of WATSAL, require four conditions to be fulfilled. These generally
    are: an overriding trigger, such as a national or sector `"crisis"; a powerful "champion" in government;
    a clearly articulated and very specific reform strategy and concept; and a conducive political-economic
    environment. In WATSAL's case, these conditions were met, and an operation could take place that
    would have been quite impossible under President Soeharto's regime of the previous thirty years, and
    indeed unlikely in many other situations. The crisis was created by the country's urgent need for
    macroeconomic support in the aftermath of the 1997 East Asian economic crisis, as well as for food
    imports because of the preceding El Niño drought. The champions were first a visionary Minister of
    the sector's powerful Ministry of Public Works who realized the need to implement adjustments and
    reforms, and thereafter key staff at the (at the beginning still powerful) National Planning Agency
    Bappenas. The strategy initially was as a collection of neglected general policies, un-implemented
    organization blueprints, and basic principles of a new irrigation management policy, which suited well
    the new era of transparency and inclusiveness. The conducive political-economic environment included
    the national reform drive, begun with the 1998 People's Consultative Assembly decreeing more
    regional autonomy, and the wide call for more transparency and less "KKN" (Corruption, Collusion,
    Nepotism). These necessary conditions were all met during the Wahid Government and at many times
    during the successor Governments.

l It is likely that at some points in time these conditions are not fulfilled anymore.       Even without a
    perfect "enabling environment", deep reforms imply shifts of discretionary power and budgets. This is
    always associated with resistance and conflict. Reform is a dialectic process. Hence, any strategy to
    support the reform, must (i) remain focused on the key principles, and notably those that are
    manageable; (ii) prioritize achieving sustainability and local "ownership", over the perfection of what
    is delivered, and over the adherence to time schedules imposed by non-essential interests (in this case,
    the Bank's SECAL procedures)--"better a "70 percent product that sticks, than a 100 percent product
    that doesn't"; (iii) convince the counterparts, by demonstrating the technical merits of the proposition,
    not by power arguments or by sticking to general principles; (iv) negotiate and convince by dissecting



                                                      - 35 -

  the argument down into often very detailed and specific aspects, over which a technical negotiation can
  take place; (v) be flexible and open enough to appreciate and respect the position of the other
  stakeholders, even if these positions do not seem "rational"; and (vi) accept that such processes can
  take time.

l Balance of Payments (BoP) Support versus Import Support. WATSAL provided balance-of-payments
  support against a "negative list" of expenditures instead of providing import support based on a
  "positive list" of eligible, sector-related imports as is more common for sector adjustment operations.
  The reason for this choice by the Country Team was that WATSAL was included in a group of Bank
  adjustment operations which formed part of a CGI program of macroeconomic recovery assistance.
  Originally, WATSAL was supposed to provide foreign exchange support for rice imports after the
  major drought. In retrospect, the positive side of BoP support was that the operation had the attention
  of the influential Ministry of Finance (MoF) and, thus, Cabinet pressure could be brought to bear on a
  Ministry, known for its own agenda, to accept reforms. This no doubt explains the "bunching" of
  reforms under WATSAL's Second Tranche.              The negative side, however, is that there is also
  inappropriate budget pressure from MoF to complete reforms quickly to enable Tranche disbursement.
  This pressure also led to Board presentation well before the Regional Autonomy Laws were passed and
  before a critical national election. Fortunately, the nature of the program was such that it fitted
  seamlessly in the plans of the incoming Government of President Wahid. Conversely, if import support
  had been selected for WATSAL, the dire need for foreign exchange would have passed quickly, and no
  Cabinet attention would have been paid to WATSAL.

  Thus, selection of the type of macroeconomic support for a sector reform operation depends on the
  context at the time of loan preparation. First, it depends on the type of foreign exchange support for
  which there is a greater need. Second, if the reform program is expected to be completed quickly,
  either type of support is suitable; however, if several years are needed to complete the program, it
  would seem that, ceteris paribus, BoP support is a safer strategy in a developing economy as it is
  likely to provide a "need" that lasts longer than the operation, and as it is more likely to sustain
  high-level political attention. Comprehensive reform agendas also take a long time, and a balance must
  be struck between the need for meaningful sector reform and the government's desire for
  macroeconomic support.

l Piloting of Reforms. Piloting of controversial or complex aspects of a reform program, prior to or
  during the loan period creates confidence and generates political support; it may also expose
  weaknesses in the original reform concept and thus trigger formulation of better alternatives before
  regulations are issued. The chances for successful reform are enhanced if untried or un-demonstrated
  concepts (e.g., irrigation management "transfer" and empowered federations of water user associations)
  are first piloted under a parallel implementation project or a Learning and Innovation Loan.

l Revision of Laws. From the perspective of Loan Performance, enactment of a law should be avoided,
  if possible, as common sense suggests. Details in a water law should be amended, rather than drafting
  an entirely new law addressing all issues and introducing new principles. Presentation of a new law to
  parliament invites extensive debate, and its uncertain outcome may conflict with and indeed scuttle the
  government's LoSP commitments. If government desires a new law instead of amending the existing
  one (as was the case with WATSAL), then a programmatic framework should be sought for the
  introduction of those reforms. The various regulations derived from the new law may be issued during
  a second Programmatic SECAL/ DPL. New concepts of the nature of a fundamental paradigm shift
  should not be imposed on a government in exchange for a loan, even though they may represent best
  international practice, unless rather uniquely qualified champions in government and parliament can


                                                   - 36 -

    ensure proper processing. Notwithstanding, it could be argued in Indonesia's case that the benefits of
    the new Water Resources Law outweigh any SECAL-related considerations--the Law puts the country
    ahead of its neighbors in the region, and it has generated a vigorous and long overdue political debate
    that introduced risks but is essential to democratic processes.

l Broad-based Preparation of Regulations.          In the WATSAL case, the drafting of the law and the
    regulations was undertaken by an inter-agency and multi-disciplinary Task Force having NGO
    representation, and appointed by the Minister of a neutral agency. The drafts were cleared by a
    Steering Committee of Sector Agency Heads (Directors General) prior to being handed over to the
    responsible line ministry for formal processing and issue. Conflicts not resolved by the Steering
    Committee were referred to the Ministerial sector apex body (Tim Koordinasi). This arrangement had
    a number of weaknesses (such as the by-passing of the Task Force when the line agency, MoSRI,
    defended the draft law in Parliament). A Task Force should preferably have the status of a high-level
    commission so as to give its output greater weight with the line ministries, enable it to defend its draft
    material at the highest levels including to parliamentary committees and State Secretariats, and ensure
    funding for its work.      Establishment of a Task Force or Commission should, if possible, be a
    conditionality of the Loan Agreement so that it cannot easily be ignored by the sector ministry that is
    formally responsible for issuance of regulations.        Furthermore, in the case of a decentralized
    government     system--or     where     such   a   system    is  expected    at   the   time   of    loan
    preparation--representation of regional stakeholders on the Task Force/Commission, should, if
    possible, be formally required under the Loan Agreement to increase participation and ownership. In
    the case of WATSAL, Task Force members included provincial government experts invited upon the
    initiative of Bappenas: the Task Force's Steering Committee and the Ministerial Tim Koordinasi did
    not include such regional stakeholders.       This omission was a continuation of the old style of
    "top-down" government; had there been such representation, especially on Tim Koordinasi, MoSRI
    may have found it more difficult to support and abet Parliament in repealing aspects of the irrigation
    reform it did not like but which were already accepted by local governments.

l Funding and Technical Assistance for Reform Preparation. For a major reform program, funding is
    needed for Task Force expenses (notably lodging for working meetings, in-country travel of many
    stakeholders, and public consultations). This budget may be derived from ongoing sector projects,
    donor contributions, or a parallel TA Loan that complements adjustment operations. Since reform
    "ownership" is crucial, preparation of reform deliverables by expatriate consultants should be
    decidedly avoided. Expatriate resource persons should be used sparingly to advise on subjects for
    which little country experience exists and to bring in international best practice (e.g., a water rights
    framework). Outcomes that are locally "owned" can be implemented, even if imperfect, and will
    achieve their purpose; they are preferable to "cutting edge" perfection derived from theory or practice.

l Bank Supervision. A multi-tranche sector reform takes time and requires higher than average Bank
    funding for supervision, and for communication and translations. In particular, for operations lasting
    more than one year, a senior team member or the Task Team Leader should be stationed in-country to
    follow-up on the reform process and facilitate troubleshooting.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Implementing Agency (Bappenas) has submitted a formal Contribution (letter of May 25, 2005, from
the Deputy Chairman, National Panning Agency), based on preparatory discussions with the Task Team on



                                                    - 37 -

the Team's draft assessment, its own internal review, and a concluding inter-agency Workshop on May 4,
2005. The Borrower concurs with the analysis of the development impacts offered in this ICR. The
comments highlight the following:

(i)      Overall, the Borrower believes that WATSAL was a successful operation and achieved its main
         objectives. Although the Borrower finds it difficult to quantify the impact, it feels that the
         operation has decidedly benefited the country.
(ii)     WATSAL has managed to properly deal with the turbulent developments and shifts in the
         country's political and administrative environments. WATSAL has introduced a new planning,
         programming and budgeting system for the sector, which is more modern and can address the
         major challenges caused by the decentralized government structure.
(iii)    The significance of the process and the benefits outweigh the narrow SECAL goals. The reform
         activities and the field implementation have laid the foundation to move forward. It is the
         government's policy to further mainstream these activities at policy and implementation levels, in
         the long-term programmatic WATSAL Program..
(iv)     The Borrower feels its performance has been Satisfactory (different from the ICR rating).

Nonetheless, the government also recognizes that the operation has had its difficult periods with lack of
coherence inside the government's policy itself, and setbacks. This is considered inevitable. Still, with
hindsight the government feels that some outcomes were ambitious, especially where it concerns
groundwater management, wetlands, and the consequences of the quite unexpected regional autonomy
legislation, because of the large number of (often new) stakeholders.

As lessons learned, the government confirms that this preparation and negotiation process has ensured a
high degree of internal ownership of the outcomes. The strong coordination of the donors also greatly
helped to keep the focus on the outcomes, along these turbulent years.

Finally, the Borrower emphasizes the critical importance of the close collaboration and support received
from the Bank--conceptually, and through the extensions granted--and its role in aligning the donors and
developing partnerships.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Although there is no formal co-financement, several bilateral donors with strong stakes in the sector have
expressed their deep appreciation for the Bank's initiative in the WATSAL context and its strong
leadership in coordinating the donors under demanding circumstances. The EU has not sent a separate
contribution to the ICR, however, it has agreed late 2004 to finance a grant (12 million), administered by
the Bank, to implement the WATSAL principles in the Nusa Tenggara Barat Province.

The ADB (letter of June 16, 2005, of the Director, Agriculture, Environment and Natural Resources
Division, Southeast Asia Department) confirmed its satisfaction with the WATSAL reforms, which "find
their roots in ADB assistance and strategies in the late eighties and nineties. (...) ADB provided technical
assistance to the Task Force, and participated in the review. (...) ADB approved in 2003 the Participatory
Irrigation Sector Project incorporating the concepts (...) from the reforms." It adds that "not all envisaged
reforms were completed (...), however, achievements were substantial (...) and will enhance sector
performance."

The Netherlands Ambassador (letter of May 23, 2005) writes that GoN has been involved in the policy
dialogue because of the importance of this sector. He adds that "Despite that WATSAL could not be



                                                    - 38 -

completed, (...) results should be considered positive. The fact alone that WATSAL existed, resulted in an
effective mechanism of donor coordination. Donors agreed from the onset that these reforms were a
necessity. It gave a clear message to GoI that there was no way back to the previous paradigm of donor
support to non-sustainable practices. (...) Management of water was elevated in discussions between
departments and stakeholders, and became part of a political process, an important step forward for the
sector." The Ambassador feels that the preparation process could have been more transparent and open [in
the last two years--GA] which could have prevented some of the backtracking noticed on irrigation
management. In conclusion, he feels that the outcomes on integrated water resources management have
become a cornerstone of the sector, and are international best practice.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

The GoI Task Force from the onset heavily involved civil society and academics in the preparation process.
However, after 2002 GoI's openness gradually waned and NGOs were barely involved in the last two years
of the operation. The Bank kept encouraging the government to work with NGOs, and the team routinely
consulted with civil society, and worked with "professional" NGOs to conduct studies (2002/2003 Impact
Study, and the 2003/2004 Water Use Rights Studies). Nonetheless, after mid-2003 these NGOs suffered
from a degree of disillusion and disenchantment as national ministries recuperated their powers. Also, their
constructive "technical" work failed to get appreciation as new anti-globalization NGOs started to
monopolize the headlines in 2003/2004 and effectively worked against the reforms. The "professional"
NGOs still perceive the Bank as a champion for transparency and governance in the sector, but they have
withdrawn, at least temporarily, from the frontlines of the sector dialogue. The "advocacy" (largely
anti-globalization) NGOs, which have strong backing from US-based organizations, feel that the
government has bowed to Bank pressure.

The local government, arguably the most central actor and stakeholder, remains a staunch supporter of
WATSAL and airs this position at many occasions.

10. Additional Information



N/A




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Note: This "Log Frame Matrix" provides further detail for Section 4. It is based on the Sub-Objectives,
Proposed Reforms and Monitorable Indicators of the revised WATSAL Policy Matrix. The revised Policy
Matrix--comprising revisions of Indicators, and reallocation of Outcomes between the Second and Third
Tranches--was agreed as part of the second Loan Extension to June 30, 2003. The completion status of
legal and other reform Indicators, as of Loan Closure on November 9, 2004, are described in the same
sequence as in the Performance Indicators column of the revised Policy Matrix. Outcome Performance
Indicators not completed by Loan Closure are described in italic font.

  Adjustment Sub-Objectives and Desired Reform                        Outcome Performance Indicators Completed or Status
                         Outcomes                                                             at Loan Closure
      (as per Letter of Sector Policy and Policy Matrix)                              (as per amended Policy Matrix)
     Objective 1 - Improve the National Institutional Framework for Water Resources Development &
                                                            Management
         Sub-Objective 1.1 - Establish a National Water Resources Management Coordination Framework
  (a) Establish an apex inter-ministerial team (Tim Koordinasi)  Apex ministerial team (Tom Koordinasi) first established by Presidential
      based on existing regulations for water sector policy      Decree No. 9 on "Coordination Team for River Utilization and Sustainable
      formulation, guidance, strategic planning, inter-agency    Watershed Management" issued on January 14, 1999 as a first tranche
      coordination and dispute resolution.                       requirement, Tim Koordinasi reestablished under Presidential Decree No.
                                                                 123 of 2001 on the "Establishment of the Coordination Team of Ministers on
                                                                 Water Resources" with all features of an envisaged apex body including
                                                                 stakeholder membership. The Tim Koordinasi, under the Coordinating
                                                                 Minister for Economic, Finance and Industry (Menko EKUIN), is responsible
                                                                 for the water resources reform process until the establishment of a national
                                                                 apex body for water resources management. Under the Water Resources
                                                                 Law No. 7 of 2004 (UU 7/04), the sector's apex body will be a National
                                                                 Water Council (NWC) with stakeholder representation: thus the Outcome
                                                                 goes beyond LoSP commitments. The NWC is to be established by a
                                                                 Presidential Decree.
  (b) Establish a Technical Secretariat of Director Generals     Technical Secretariat of DGs established by Menko EKUIN as Tim
      (DGs) for the apex body.                                   Koordinasi Chairman under Decree of No. 34/M.EKUIN/07/2000 on
                                                                 "Formation of Task Force for Water Resources Sector Policy Reform". The
                                                                 Task Force Secretariat was upgraded in December 2001 by Menko EKUIN
                                                                 under Decree No. XX to be an `Executive Secretariat for Sector Reform'
                                                                 under Tim Koordinasi comprised of the Inter-Ministerial (WATSAL) Steering
                                                                 Committee of DGs and four Technical Working Groups. The apex body
                                                                 feature of non-governmental stakeholder representation is enabled at the
                                                                 Executive Secretariat's Working Group level.
                  Sub-Objective 1.2 - Adoption of a National Policy for Water Resources Management
  (a) National Water Resources Policy (NWRP) and NWRP            (i) The Objectives & most Sub-Objectives and Outcomes of the WATSAL
      Implementation Plan to be formally adopted by              LoSP --including amendment of the existing Water Resources Development
      Government     as   binding   on    all ministries and     Law and its Government Regulations (PPs)--were nationally adopted as a de
      organizations having water resources management            facto NWRP Implementation Plan under Law No. 25 "Regarding the
      functions (inclusive of surface water, groundwater and     National    Development     Program   (Propenas)   2000-2004"   issued    in
      water quality from upper watershed to lowland and          November 2000. The `Propenas Law' included the WATSAL agenda under
      coastal areas).                                            Chapter IV, "Economic Development Program" covering , most of its
                                                                 expected reform outcomes. The Program's implementation activities were
                                                                 listed in a Program Matrix as `Performance Indicators' to be achieved by
                                                                 during the five year Program.

                                                                 (ii)   Menko EKUIN issued Decree No. KEP-14/M.EKON/12/2001 about
                                                                 "National Policy Guidelines for Water Resources" in December 10, 2001 on
                                                                 behalf of Tim Koordinasi.      This document contains 75 policy guidelines
                                                                 underlying an NWRP organized under six policy areas to be finalized and
                                                                 issued by the National Apex Body. It is consistent with the general policy
                                                                 principles given in the Policy Matrix.

                                                                 (iii) Issue of the NWRP by the national apex body through a Presidential
                                                                 Decree cannot be completed under WATSAL as this body is first to be
                                                                 established under the new water resources law.




                                                               - 40 -

Adjustment Sub-Objectives and Desired Reform                           Outcome Performance Indicators Completed or
                            Outcomes                                                   Status at Loan Closure
   Objective 1 -Improve the National Institutional Framework for Water Resources Development &
                                                     Management (continued)
        Sub-Objective 1.2 - Adoption of a National Policy for Water Resources Management (continued)
(b) Revise Law No. 11 of 1974 on Water Resources               Law No. 7 on "Water Resources" was enacted on March 18, 2004 (UU 7/04)
    Development (UU 11/74) and its existing Government         replacing UU 11/74 development focus. This law is based on sustainable and
    Regulations (PPs) to: (i) conform with proposed            integrated water resources management principles, including provisions for
    regional administration and fiscal legislation, (ii)       water use rights, stakeholder, public consultation, and community and private
    implement the proposed sector reforms, including           sector participation. It provides for a National Water Council with stakeholder
    provision for a National Apex Body for Water               representation as the national apex body, as well as providing for similar
    Resources Management at the highest national level;        councils at regional government and river basin levels. It is based on the
    and    (iii) facilitate  execution    of   the   NWRP      provisions of the decentralization laws. The depth and scope of UU 7/04 goes
    Implementation Plan.                                       beyond the reform commitments of the LoSP. UU 7/04 only deviates from
                                                               the LoSP and Policy Matrix with respect to the principle of "management
                                                               transfer" to WUAs beyond tertiary irrigation networks (see Objective 4 for
                                                               implications).    UU 7/04 provides for 33 PPs for its full implementation
                                                               including new PPs on water supply, sanitation, groundwater, dams, water
                                                               quality management, basin planning, conservation, watershed management,
                                                               water allocation and water use rights, etc.      Future issue of the 33 PPs
                                                               constitutes a second phase NWRP Implementation Plan.

                                                               To complete Outcome [1.2(b)] under the WATSAL Third Tranche, only two
                                                               new PPs consistent with UU 7/04 are needed, namely: `Water Resources
                                                               Management' (WRM) to replace PP 22/82; and, `Rivers to replace PP 35/91.
                                                               A `Cost Recovery' PP under decentralization and UU 7/04 to replace PP 6/81
                                                               is a complex operation and must wait. PP 14/87 on "Partial Hand-Over of
                                                               Government Public Works Responsibilities to the Regions" is not relevant
                                                               under the decentralization laws that regulate this matter and, already included
                                                               in UU 7/04's provisions on the water resources authority and responsibilities
                                                               of all levels of government.       The new PP on Swamps cannot be an
                                                               amendment of PP 27/91 as it requires conformity with broad environmental
                                                               and conservation provisions of UU 7/04. The NWRP Guidelines issued in
                                                               2001 add further considerations in of this PP because of the complex
                                                               environmental and institutional/inter-governmental implications of wetland
                                                               development: thus, issue of a PP on `Swamps' has not been included as a
                                                               critical Third Tranche deliverable by the Bank if UU 7/04 was issued.
                                                               Revision of PPs 5/90 and 42/90 for improving the existing river basin
                                                               corporations was already done in late 1999 under the Second Tranche.
                                                               These PPs may still require minor adjustment to conform with UU 7/04 under
                                                               a generic PP on River Basin Corporations (see Objective 2). Although drafts
                                                               consistent with UU 7/04 and decentralization laws for the two required PPs
                                                               were ready in mid- 2003, these PPs could not be issued under WATSAL by
                                                               Loan Closure. This is due to: (a) the delay of UU 7/04 enacted only in March
                                                               2004; (b) national elections and change of Government affecting the
                                                               inter-governmental and Cabinet clearance process; and,(c) the anticipated
                                                               impact of revision of the two 1999 regional autonomy and fiscal equalization
                                                               laws in late 2004.
(c) Revise relevant MPW Ministerial Regulations and            Only 2 out of 8 MPW Ministerial Regulations (PRTs) listed as Policy Matrix
    Decrees in line with regional administration and specific  Indicators can be issued anew. PRTs 57/87 & 58/87 relate to handover of
    sector reforms; and                                        MPW functions to provinces: this has been defined under UU 77/04. PRT
                                                               39/89 on River Basin Territories (SWS) is replaced by a Presidential Decree
(d) Prepare Guidelines (Pedoman) for: (i) Regional             defining new SWS boundaries after the new PP on WRM is issued. Reissue
    Government Regulations (Perda) and/or Gubernatorial        of PRT 45/90 on water quality must await a new PP on water quality. PRT
    Decrees,    and     (ii) administrative  and   technical   67/93 relates to PTPAs which have become Councils to be established by a
    guidelines (Juklak & Juknis).                              regional government; only a ministerial guideline for a provincial decree is
                                                               possible. PRTs 48/90 and 49/90 relate respectively to basin management and
                                                               water use licensing: reissue of these PRTs requires prior issue of new PPs
                                                               under UU7/04. However, these instruments can only be issued as PRTs for
                                                               large strategic basins under national authority; for SWS under regional
                                                               government authority, only Ministerial Guidelines for a regional government
                                                               regulations/decrees can be issued by a Minister. PRT42/89 regarding
                                                               handover of small irrigation schemes to WUAs is not relevant due to the PP
                                                               on Irrigation & ministerial regulations already issued under the Second
                                                               Tranche. Because of the delay of UU 7/04 and issue of its PPs, the 2 or 3
                                                               relevant deliverables could not be completed by Loan Closure: they are not
                                                               critical to the overall Outcome of Sub-Objective 1.2.




                                                             - 41 -

Adjustment Sub-Objectives and Desired Reform                        Outcome Performance Indicators Completed or
                       Outcomes                                                   Status at Loan Closure
   Objective 1 - Improve the National Institutional Framework for Water Resources Development &
                                                   Management (continued)
Sub-Objective 1.3 - Involvement of Private Sector in Development and Stakeholders in Basin Management Policy
                                                      and Decision-Making
(a) Issue Government Regulations for Involvement of the     The provisions of UU 7/04 go substantially beyond the Policy Matrix
    Public in Water Resources Development (private          Indicator of "Inclusion of relevant wording in amended UU 11/74, or
    sector and community participation) and, Water          issuance of a Government Regulation for stakeholder involvement in water
    Management Regulation (stakeholder and community        resources management".        It contains provisions for: (i) formal public
    involvement in water resources management).             consultation and objection in river basin planning while basin plans may have
                                                            programs for the private sector and communities; (ii) the public has the right
                                                            to information, convey reports or complaints on all aspects of government's
                                                            river basin management activities and levels of service, or participate. Public
                                                            participation is to be regulated by a PP. Coordinating fora for preparing
                                                            policies and strategies involve stakeholder representation staring with the
                                                            NWC. Regional governments must establish water resources councils with
                                                            50 percent stakeholder representation to replace government PTPAs;
                                                            similarly they may establish river basin councils to replace PPTPAs in
                                                            basins under their authority.
(b) Issue appropriate enabling legislation to: (i) include  (i) UU 7/04 allows regions to retain old names but the PTPA and PPTPA
    stakeholder representatives in Provincial/District and  are to have stakeholder representation.          Under UU 7/04 provisions,
    Basin Water Resources Councils (PTPA & PPTPA);          Guidelines for establishment of regional government and basin councils are
    and (ii) combine Provincial Water Resources Council     to be issued by the Minister responsible for water resources. Although a
    (PTPA) and Provincial Irrigation Committees.            draft MPW guideline regulation is available, its processing was delayed by
                                                            the late issue of UU 7/04. Given that the issue of a water resources
                                                            management PP is more important and contains reference to regional and
                                                            basin councils, GoI did not manage to issue the Guideline by Loan Closure.

                                                            (ii) Under PP 77/01 on Irrigation issued in the Second Tranche an institution
                                                            called District Irrigation Commission (DICs) having irrigator farmer
                                                            representation through apex WUAFs was established replacing the District
                                                            Irrigation Committee. So far 83 DICs have been formed. The various DICs
                                                            would be represented on the PTPA (or Provincial Water Resources Council)
                                                            under UU 7/04.        Under UU 7/04, provincial government is given
                                                            responsibilities for schemes of 1000-3000 ha even if within a District
                                                            boundary (see Objective 4). The pending revision of PP 7/04 therefore
                                                            includes Provincial Irrigation Commissions (PIC) with apex WUAF
                                                            representation that replaces the Provincial Irrigation Committees; the PICs in
                                                            turn would be represented on the Provincial Water Resources Council.
                                                            Although a formal legal instrument was not issued by Loan Closure, it was
                                                            not critical under the previous decentralization legislation because of the
                                                            weakened provincial role in irrigation; under UU 7/04             the revised
                                                            decentralization laws and revised Irrigation PP, appropriate administrative
                                                            guidelines and instruments will be needed to clarify the representational
                                                            hierarchy from: apex WUAFs to DICs and PICs; PIC/DIC on Basin
                                                            Councils; and PIC/DIC on the Provincial Water Resources Council.
(c) Establish functional PTPAs and, establish PPTPAs        (i)  By Loan closure, PTPA were established in 18 provinces along with 28
    with stakeholder representation in key river basin      PPTPA in key basins of 12 provinces. Since only 4 PTPAs and 2 PPTPAs
    territories (SWS) in about eight Provinces.             existed in 1999, the Program exceeded its targets for creation of regional
                                                            water    resources    coordination    and     policy   oversight   institutions.
                                                            Nevertheless, because of the delay in issue of UU 7/04 and its enabling
                                                            PPs and guidelines for stakeholder representation, only a few PTPA and
                                                            PPTPA had some form of stakeholder representation based on a
                                                            Governor's Decree that satisfies this Sub-Objective by Loan Closure.




                                                          - 42 -

Adjustment Sub-Objectives and Desired Reform                            Outcome Performance Indicators Completed or
                       Outcomes                                                          Status at Loan Closure
   Objective 1 -Improve the National Institutional Framework for Water Resources Development &
                                                     Management (continued)
      Sub-Objective 1.4 - Improve National Water Resources Information and Decision Support Systems
(a) Establish a sector Decision Support System for             Action completed and adopted by November 2, 2001 through: DGWR
    specified data needs using an intergovernmental            decree No. 90/KPTS/D/2001 on "Establishment of a Water Resources &
    data-sharing network utilizing agency management           Data Information Unit on a Sustainable Basis in the Ministry of Settlements
    information systems (MIS).                                 & Regional Infrastructure" (MoSRI).         The formal endorsement of the
                                                               elaborated concept of a data-sharing network was signed by DGs and
                                                               Secretary Generals of 11 ministries involved in the water sector.
Sub-Objective 1.5 - Improve National Hydrological and Water Quality Data Collection and Management System
(a) Establish sustainable institutional, organizational and    (i) Regulation by Minister of MoSRI issued on July 23, 2001 to establish a
    financial framework for improved hydrological data         national hydrology management system responsible for upgrading surface
    collection, processing and information retrieval for       and groundwater data collection networks.
    surface and groundwater management.                        (ii) Ministerial Guideline of Minister of MoSRI for establishment/upgrading of
                                                               fully staffed & funded Provincial Hydrological Units (PHUs) in Eight
                                                               Provinces issued on December 10, 2001.
                                                               (iii) By March 2004, PHUs were established in 11 provinces thus exceeding
                                                               WATSAL target.
(b) Establish a sustainable national water quality sampling    Except for some early working drafts of a Ministerial Regulation to establish
    network.                                                   the network, no further action was taken by MoE to complete the legal
                                                               framework and undertake the actions needed for establishment of the
                                                               sampling network by Loan Closure.


 Adjustment Sub-Objectives and Desired Reform                             Outcome Performance Indicators Completed or
                        Outcomes                                                           Status at Loan Closure
      (as per Letter of Sector Policy and Policy Matrix)                                (as per amended Policy Matrix)
 Objective 2 - Improve the Organizational and Administrative Framework for River Basin Management
          Sub-Objective 2.1 - Improve Provincial Regulatory Management of River Basins and Aquifers
(a) Implement regulatory arrangements for water allocation         Seven draft Minister of MoSRI Guidelines were prepared by mid-2003.
    and    wastewater    discharge,   drought    management,       However, these technical and administrative guidelines had to await issue
    conjunctive use of groundwater and surface water, water        of UU 7/04 and its key PPs regulating the action areas of this
    quality monitoring and integrated watershed management.        Sub-Objective. Better coordination with the State Ministry of Environment
                                                                   water pollution control guidelines was also required. This sub-objective was
                                                                   not completed by Loan Closure.
(b) Formation of fully functioning Provincial River Basin          Based on Provincial Regulations (Perda), 43 functioning Balai PSDA
    Management Units (Balai PSDA) in key basins in about 8         were established in key basins of 12 provinces by Loan Closure. Thus,
    provinces.                                                     the GoI commitment was exceeded for this Sub-Objective ­ especially
                                                                   given that there were only 4 Balai PSDA in 1999.
   Sub-Objective 2.2 - Develop Sustainable Corporate Framework for Management of Strategic River Basins
(a) Establish the organizational, financial and management         (i) The working draft of a generic PP to enable establishment of River Basin
    framework     for   self-financing  river   basin   water      Corporations (PJT) as either a nationally owned state enterprise (BUMN) or
    management      corporations   compatible   with  regional     provincially owned enterprise (BUMD) was ready by mid-June 2003.
    autonomy legislation.                                          Similarly, the working draft of a generic PP on River Basin Financing had
                                                                   also been prepared, but its finalization was dependent on the related
                                                                   provisions of UU 7/04. The issue of these PPs was desirable for further
                                                                   establishment of PJTs.      However, the delay of UU 7/04 and, financial
                                                                   framework uncertainties arising out of the existing decentralization legal
                                                                   framework and its anticipated revisions, prevented issue of these PPs by
                                                                   Loan Closure.

                                                                   (ii) A draft Ministerial Guideline for Provincial Government Regulations to
                                                                   establish PJTs as BUMD was ready by mid-June 2003. However, by this
                                                                   time, it was clear that no provincial government would take on the financial
                                                                   burden of such an enterprise (as opposed to a few years earlier).
                                                                   Government concluded that, in the interim, new PJTs would first be
                                                                   established as branches of the two existing PJTs which were state
                                                                   enterprises (BUMN) and, that when established and adequately
                                                                   consolidated, provincial governments could consider whether they wished
                                                                   to take them over.        Consequently, the Ministerial Guideline became
                                                                   irrelevant for the time being and was not issued before Loan Closure.




                                                            - 43 -

  Adjustment Sub-Objectives and Desired Reform                          Outcome Performance Indicators Completed or
                         Outcomes                                                          Status at Loan Closure
  Objective 2 - Improve the Organizational and Administrative Framework for River Basin Management
                                                             (continued)
Sub-Objective 2.2- Develop Sustainable Corporate Framework for Management of Strategic River Basins (continued)
 (b) Strengthen arrangements for corporate financing from        Issuance of a Ministerial Regulation/Guideline (or other appropriate
     bulk water supply service fees and wastewater discharge     regulatory instrument) to implement financing of river basin water
     fees.                                                       management corporations and Balai PSDA activities was wholly
                                                                 dependent on the river basin financing provisions of UU 7/04 and its PPs
                                                                 related to this area.       Coordination was also required with: (a) the
                                                                 provisions and Guidelines of a PP for Water Pollution Control issued
                                                                 earlier under the Second Tranche which enabled wastewater discharge
                                                                 fees; and (b) regional government revenue regulations.            Although
                                                                 working drafts were available, they could not be finalized and issued prior
                                                                 to Loan Closure because of: delay of UU 7/04; the long process of
                                                                 consultation with other ministries and regional governments; and further
                                                                 revision of decentralization's fiscal legislation.
 (c) Revise legal basis for PJT Brantas and Perum Otorita        The problematic corporate structure of PJT II was revised in 1999 by issue
     Jatiluhur (called PJT I and PJT II since 1999) to           of PP 93/99 to include provincial government representation on its
     strengthen financial management and provincial role and     Supervisory Board and removal of irrigation function from its corporate tasks.
     functions in governance of the corporations.                Thus PJT was given the potential for better governance and financial
                                                                 management along the lines of the hitherto more successful PJT Brantas.
                                                                 Nevertheless, as a BUMN, PJT I still had irrigation responsibilities under an
                                                                 earlier MPW PRT which affected its financial management. Minor
                                                                 adjustments were made to PJT II's corporate structure in 1999 under PP
                                                                 93/99. These improvements were however regarded as inadequate and
                                                                 final adjustments were to take place under the Third Tranche so that PJT I
                                                                 & II would conform to the generic corporate structure and basin financing
                                                                 arrangements provided for under UU 7/04, Since UU 7/04 and its related
                                                                 PPs were delayed and removal of PJT II's irrigation management
                                                                 responsibilities still remained problematic, revised PPs for PJT I & II were
                                                                 not issued by Loan Closure.
 (d) Formation of four River Basin Corporations (Bengawan        Only the PJT Bengawan Solo had been established by Loan Closure. This
     Solo, Jenebrang, Jratunseluna, and Serayu-Bogowonto         is a complex inter-provincial basin (east and Central Java) that must be
     river basins).                                              established as a BUMN and is currently a branch of PJT I. During its initial
                                                                 establishment in 2001-2002, decentralization generated complicated
                                                                 revenue-sharing issues with district governments that could not be
                                                                 anticipated in 1999. These issues also affected progress with the
                                                                 Jratunseluna and Serayu-Bogowonto basins in Central Java to the extent
                                                                 that their establishment will most likely be as BUMN and as branches of
                                                                 PJT I.   The Jenneberang basin's district government initially wished to
                                                                 manage its PJT as a BUMD and raised many water resources
                                                                 management governance problems over control of its key reservoir.
                                                                 Currently, it is felt that establishment of a PJT as a branch of PJT I may be
                                                                 the only way out. Final establishment of the three new PJTs will have to
                                                                 comply with UU 7/04 while the Presidential Decree establishing PJT
                                                                 Bengawan-Solo will require amendment.

                     Sub-Objective 2.3 - Introduce Secure, Equitable and Efficient Water Allocation
 (a) Introduce    Secure,  Equitable   and    Efficient Water    The revised Policy Matrix allows meeting this Sub-Objective by inclusion
     Allocation.                                                 of an enabling framework under UU 7/04, or issue of a PP on Water Use
                                                                 Rights (WUR) and amendment of existing MPW regulations. During the
                                                                 WATSAL process, it was concluded that a system of water use rights
                                                                 should evolve with practice before detailed codification. This view was
                                                                 supported by a Water Use Rights Study in 2003; it is believed that a pilot
                                                                 application in two large basins should first be undertaken and evaluated
                                                                 before proceeding to a PP. Given the insertion of basic provisions in
                                                                 UU 7/04 for water use rights and, water allocation and use licensing
                                                                 based on such a rights framework, this Sub-Objective can be
                                                                 regarded as fulfilled by Loan Closure.
                                                                 (ii) Regulations for provincial licensing and water allocation based
                                                                 on WUR are not possible under WATSAL).




                                                            - 44 -

  Adjustment Sub-Objectives and Desired Reform                           Outcome Performance Indicators Completed or
                         Outcomes                                                       Status at Loan Closure
Objective 3 - Improve Regional Water Quality Management Regulatory Institutions and Implementation
 Sub-Objective 3.1- Establish an Effective and Enforceable National Regulatory Framework for Water Pollution
                                                                 Control.
(a) Establish an effective and enforceable national regulatory      (i) PP 82/01 on "Water Pollution Control and Water Quality
    framework for water pollution control.                          Management" was issued in 2001 under the Second Tranche. The
                                                                    amended Policy Matrix of November 19, 2001 dropped the requirement
                                                                    of amendment of MPW Regulation 42/PRT/90 as it was inconsistent
                                                                    with the decentralization law UU 22/99 and the Environmental
                                                                    Management Law of 1997 (UU 23/97).

                                                                    (ii) Issue in 2003 of 8 State Minister of Environment Guidelines to
                                                                    enforce the sanction provisions of PP 82/01 (such as water quality &
                                                                    effluent discharge standards, ambient standards for rivers, etc.) These
                                                                    were: (a) Determination of the Water Quality based on Water Quality
                                                                    Analysis and Sampling Methodology (37/2003); (b) Surveillance by
                                                                    Inspectors (56/2003); Determination of the Pollution Carrying Capacity
                                                                    of a River (110/2003); (c) Issuance of Permits for Wastewater
                                                                    Discharging to Surface Water (111/2003); (d) Wastewater Standard
                                                                    for Domestic Wastewater (112/2003); (e) Wastewater Standard for
                                                                    Coal Mining Operations (113/2003); (f) Determination of the Desired
                                                                    Water Quality Class (114/2003); and (g) Determination of the Water
                                                                    Quality Class of a River (115/2003).

(b) Improve the incentive framework for industries, mines and       Issue of regulations to facilitate introduction of financial and other
    municipalities to comply with discharge licenses and effluent   incentives for on-site effluent treatment or investment in clean
    discharge standards.                                            technology was not attempted due its institutional complexity and need
                                                                    to study changing regional and national tax laws. This task was
                                                                    beyond the capacity of the WATSAL Task Force.

 Sub-Objective 3.2 - Integrated Water Quality Management Implemented in Six Highly Developed River Basins
(a) Implement integrated water pollution control and water quality  (i) The first Policy Matrix Outcome for this Sub-Objective required
    management in six river basins (Bengawan-Solo, Brantas,         issuance of Guidelines for licensing or concession arrangements from
    Citarum, Jenebrang, Jratunseluna and Serayu-Bogowonto).         provincial environmental management agencies whereby river basin
                                                                    corporations could: undertake stream and effluent discharge quality
                                                                    monitoring, collect effluent discharge fees; and operate municipal
                                                                    wastewater treatment plants. Use of Effluent Discharge Fees was a
                                                                    long-sought goal of PJT I. With the difficulties of establishing 4 new
                                                                    PJTs and the capacity limitations of PJT II because of its irrigation
                                                                    management burden, only PJT I remained a candidate for applying
                                                                    such Guidelines with the agreement of the East Java Government
                                                                    under an enabling Provincial Regulation. Nevertheless, this action
                                                                    was not attempted by Loan Closure.

                                                                    (ii) Enabling decrees of the provincial environmental management
                                                                    agencies were sought to allow the existing PJTs, as well as four new
                                                                    PJTs, to enforce water quality standards on their behalf in six
                                                                    provinces. Although Central Java prepared a draft Perda for such a
                                                                    concession, it did not proceed because of the difficulties in establishing
                                                                    the 3 PJTs in its territory. This action was not pursued further and no
                                                                    concessions were issued to either PJTI or PJT II by Loan Closure.




                                                              - 45 -

   Adjustment Sub-Objectives and Desired Reform                                      Outcome Performance Indicators Completed
                              Outcomes                                                             or Status at Loan Closure
              Objective 4 - Improve Irrigation Management Policy, Institutions and Regulations
    Sub-Objective 4.1 - Improve Irrigation Governance, Transparency, and Accountability through Farmer
                                               Empowerment and Management Transfer
(a) Establish a participatory framework for management transfer and              Irrigation Management Policy (IMPR) announced by the
    joint management based on an Irrigation Management Policy Reform             President of Indonesia on April 13, 1999, and the Presidential
    (IMPR) .                                                                     Instruction No. 3 on `Irrigation Management Policy Reform"
                                                                                 issued in April 1999.
(b) Strengthen framework to establish democratic Water User                      This Outcome was completed in December 2001 by
    Associations (WUA) & WUA Federations (WUAF) with autonomous                  issuance--based on PP No.77 of 2001 on "Irrigation" (PP
    governance and financial authority to manage irrigation networks             77/01)--of two ministerial Guidelines, namely: a Minister of
    transferred to their control.                                                MoSRI Decree on "Guidelines for Management Transfer of
                                                                                 Irrigation Networks"; and Minister of Home Affairs Decree on
                                                                                 "Guidelines for WUA Establishment and Empowerment".
                                                                                 Nevertheless, following enactment of UU 7/04 which
                                                                                 effectively abolished the `management transfer' principle as
                                                                                 applied under PP 77/01, these guidelines will have to be
                                                                                 reissued following reissue of the PP on Irrigation in compliance
                                                                                 with the law. These Guidelines have not been issued by Loan
                                                                                 Closure.    However, by Loan Closure, the Bank had held
                                                                                 extensive consultations with the Working Group drafting the
                                                                                 revised guidelines and reached general agreement on the
                                                                                 arrangements that would be applied under a forthcoming Bank
                                                                                 program to continue with WUAF establishment and its roles in
                                                                                 participatory irrigation management.

Sub-Objective 4.2 - Redefine Roles, Duties and Responsibilities of Central, Provincial and District-level Irrigation
   Institutions to Focus on Reliable Water Delivery and Post-Management Transfer Services to WUA/WUAF
(a) Redefine roles, duties and responsibilities of central, provincial and     (i) This Outcome was begun in December 2001 by the issuance
    district-level irrigation institutions to focus on reliable water delivery of PP No.77 of 2001 on "Irrigation" (PP 77/01) under the Second
    and post-management transfer services to WUA/WUAF                          Tranche. It was completed in June 2003 by issue of Decree
                                                                               22/2003 of the Minister of Home Affairs, on the "Re-definition of
                                                                               the Tasks of Irrigation Management of Local Government" This
                                                                               Decree was consistent the Program Activity Framework for
                                                                               Irrigation Management Reform (KAK PKPI) agreed in 2002. The
                                                                               KAK PKPI defines the roles and responsibilities of national and
                                                                               regional government agencies and, implementation sequence of:
                                                                               issue of Perda; establishment of District Irrigation Commissions;
                                                                               establishment and legalization of WUAFs; capacity building of
                                                                               WUAFs by Community Organizers, management transfer to
                                                                               WUAFs;       and     financial assistance   for   WUAFs       under
                                                                               management transfer.

                                                                               Following enactment of UU 7/04 which effectively abolished the
                                                                               `management transfer' principle as applied under PP 77/01, PP
                                                                               77/01 and its program implementation guidelines will have to be
                                                                               reissued following reissue of the PP on Irrigation in compliance
                                                                               with the law. By June 2004, the Bank and GoI had agreed on
                                                                               the participatory irrigation management principles expected in
                                                                               the revised PP on Irrigation which would be the basis of its
                                                                               forthcoming      APL     the  "Water   Resources      &   Irrigation
                                                                               Management         Program"    (WISMP)    and     its   companion
                                                                               ADB-supported "Participatory Irrigation Sector Project".

                                                                               (ii)  Important to assessing the Outcome of this Sub-Objective
                                                                               and Objective 4 in general is the implementation status of
                                                                               irrigation management reform in Indonesia from 2002 to Loan
                                                                               Closure in November 2004.         In 15 provinces covering 148
                                                                               districts, a total of 786 WUAFs were established in 791 irrigation
                                                                               schemes over an area covering 584,762 ha. Of these WUAFs
                                                                               about 604 had autonomous legal status, while secondary canals
                                                                               serving an area of 98,911 ha had been transferred to WUAF
                                                                               management. In 34 schemes, scheme-level management fora
                                                                               were functioning.




                                                                 - 46 -

Sub-Objective 4.3 - Ensure Fiscal Sustainability and Efficiency of O&M and Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes
(a)  Revise framework for financing of irrigation operation and                (i) This objective was achieved in September 1998 while
     maintenance by WUA/WUAF, with full authority to collect irrigation        preparing for the irrigation management reform through a
     service fees in all schemes.                                              decree of the Ministry of Home Affairs DG of Public
(b)  Create framework for government-financed Irrigation Improvement           Administration & Regional Autonomy issuing a decree to allow
     Fund for prioritized phased rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure   Irrigation Service Fees to be retained by WUAs. This principle
     directly under WUA/WUAF management control.                               was applied under the KAK PKPI Program whereby all
                                                                               legalized WUAFs had to have a bank account for deposit of
                                                                               agreed WUA membership fees.
                                                                               (ii) In July 2003, the Minister of Finance issued Decree
                                                                               298-KMK02/2003 on the "Funding of Irrigation" setting up the
                                                                               arrangements for a Irrigation Improvement Fund.


Output Indicators:
                          Tranche Conditions                                                            Compliance
                             Second Tranche
1. Maintenance of a macro-economic framework, consistent with the                                          FC
objectives of the Program
2. Issuance of a regulation on water pollution control and water quality                                   FC
management
3. Issuance of procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for the establishment of                                FC
autonomous water user associations and water user association federations
for:
   (a)  the management of irrigation networks transferred to the control of                                FC
        the associations and federations; and
   (b)  the joint management with the Government or government-owned                                       FC
        entities of irrigation schemes through scheme-level management
        fora.
4. Establishment of revised roles and responsibilities of central, provincial                             FC
and district government irrigation agencies to take into account the
Borrower's policy on decentralization
5. Establishment of an inter-ministerial coordination team with membership                                 FC
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, such membership to include
stakeholder representation, and such terms of reference to include
responsibility for the coordination of the water resources reform process until
the establishment of a national apex body for water resources management
6. Adoption of a national water resources policy and related implementation                                FC
plan, acceptable to the Bank.
7. (a)  Establishment of a national hydrology management system                                            FC
        responsible for the upgrading of surface and groundwater data
        collection networks.
   (b)  Strengthening of hydrological data collection in selected provinces                                FC
        as agreed with the Bank, including establishment of provincial
        hydrological    units  and     strengthening  of   existing provincial
        hydrological units through appropriate staffing and funding of
        activities.
8. Adoption of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for a water resources                                  FC
and irrigation decision-support system, including administrative procedures
and implementation arrangements.




                                                                 - 47 -

                               Third Tranche                                   Status Sub-Objectives in NC or PC Status
1. Maintenance of a macro-economic framework, consistent with the                FC
objectives of the Program
2. (a)  Issuance of a revised Law on Water Resources, acceptable to the          FC
        Bank, such law to include provisions for (i) the establishment of a
        national apex body for water resources management with
        membership that includes non-governmental stakeholders, and (ii)
        the establishment of provincial, basin and district water resources
        councils and provision for the participation of non-government
        stakeholders in policy and decision-making in such councils.
   (b)  Issuance of revised government regulations, acceptable to the Bank,      NC
        as required for purposes of the revised Law on Water Resources.
  (c    Issuance of revised national and provincial implementation decrees,      NC
        acceptable to the Bank, as required for purposes of the revised Law
        on Water Resources
3. (a) Establishment of a national apex body for water resources
        management.
   (b)  Establishment of provincial, basin and district water resources          PC
        councils     and   introduction    of  non-government      stakeholder
        participation in such water resources councils, in selected provinces
        agreed with the Bank
4. Establishment of Balai PSDA in selected provinces as agreed with the          FC
   Bank
5. (a) Strengthening the governance mechanisms of PIT Brantas and                FC
        Perum Otorita Jatiluhur by the introduction of provincial government
        management participation in a manner acceptable to the Bank
   (b)  Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for the            NC
        organization, financing (including financing from bulk water supply
        service fees and wastewater discharge fees) and management of
        river basin management corporations.
6. Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, on water use            PC
rights and provincial water abstraction licensing and allocation of water use
rights.
7. (a)  Establishment of a national water quality sampling network.              NC
   (b)  Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, on incentives      NC
        for corporate wastewater treatment.
   (c) Issuance of decrees and implementation guidelines, including              FC
        enforcement provisions, acceptable to the Bank, on water pollution
        control and water quality management
   (d)  Establishment of integrated water pollution control and water quality    NC
        management by provincial environmental impact control agencies in
        the Bengawan Solo river basin, Jeneberang river basin, Jratunseluna
        river basin, Serayu-Bogowonto river basin, Brantas river basin and
        Citarum river basin, through operational concessions to basin
        management corporations acceptable to the Bank.
8. Establishment of revised roles and responsibilities of central, provincial    FC
and district government irrigation agencies to provide support services to
water user associations and water user association federations.
9. Adoption of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for: (a) the financing of    FC
operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes by the Government, the
water user associations, and the water user association federations, to
ensure fiscal sustainability of maintenance and rehabilitation of irrigation
schemes; and (b) the establishment of an irrigation improvement fund for the
financing of prioritized rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation networks
managed by water user associations and water user association
federations."




                                                                - 48 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                          US$ million  US$ million
Tranche 1                                                 50.00         50.00             17
Tranche 2                                                100.00        100.00             33
Tranche 3                                                150.00        150.00             50

Total Baseline Cost                                      300.00        300.00
 Physical Contingencies                                    0.00           0.00             0
 Price Contingencies                                       0.00           0.00             0
                        Total Project Costs              300.00        300.00
                          Interest during construction     0.00           0.00          0.00
                                        Front-end fee      0.00           0.00          0.00
                  Total Financing Required               300.00        300.00




                                                - 49 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



N/A




                                      - 50 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/22/1998                7    TEAM LEADER (1); WATER
                                             QUALITY SPEC. (1); IRRIG.
                                             MGMT SPEC. (2); WATER
                                             QUALITY SPEC. (1); WATER
                                             RESOUCES SPEC. (1); FIN.
                                             MGMT SPEC. (1)
              12/02/1998              11     TEAM LEADER (1); LAWYER
                                             (1);TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             IRRIG. MGMT SPEC. (1); ENV.
                                             SPEC. (1); WATER QUALITY
                                             SPEC. (1); WATER RESOUCES
                                             SPEC. (1); IRRIG. SPEC.; (1);
                                             PUBLIC FINANCE SPEC. (1) ;
                                             WATER QUALITY SPEC. (1);
                                             WATER RESOUCES SPEC. (1);




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/25/1999                2    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             IRRG.MGMT. SPEC. (1)
              04/15/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1); LAWYER
                                             (1); WATER QUALITY SPEC.
                                             (1); IRRIGATION MGMT
                                             SPEC. (1)

 Supervision
              07/26/1999                6    TEAM LEADER (1);                   S               S
                                             WATER QUALITY
                                             SPEC.(1); IRRG.MGMT.
                                             REFORM (2); MGMT.
                                             INFO. SYSTEMS (1);
                                             WATER RES. & RIVER
                                             BASIN MGMT. SPEC. (1);
              08/13/1999                5    MISSION LEADER (1);                S               S
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             INFORMATION (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              02/25/2000                5    TEAM LEADER (1); MIS               S               S
                                             EXPERT (1); WUA
                                             SPECIALIST (1); WATER
                                             RESOURCES EXPERT (1);
                                             IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              10/12/2000                5    MISSION LEADER (1);                S               S
                                             WATER RESOURCES EXPERT



                                              - 51 -

                (1); IRRIGATION
                MANAGEMENT (1); WATER
                QUALITY (1); IRRIGATION
                REFORM (1)
03/31/2001    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                CONSULTANT, CO TTL (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                WATER RESOURCES EXPERT
                (1); IRRIGATION MGT (1);
                IRRIGATION REFORM (1)
06/16/2001    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                CONSULTANT, CO-TTL (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                WATER RESOURCES EXPERT
                (1); IRRIGATION MGT (1);
                IRRIGATION REFORM (1)
11/09/2001    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                CO-TTTL, CONSULTANT (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                WATER RESOURCE EXPERT
                (1); IRRIGATION REFORM (1)
02/04/2002    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                CO-TTL/CONSULTANT (1);
                IRRIGATION REFORM (1);
                WATER RESOURCE EXPERT
                (1)
11/22/2002    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                WATER SECTOR EXPERT (1);
                IRRIGATION REFORM (1);
                WATER RESOURCE/USE (1);
                IRRIGATION EXPERT (1);
                INSTITUTIONAL EXPERT (1)
04/17/2003    5 WATER RESOURCES (2);         S    S
                IRRIGATION ECONOMIST (1);
                IRRIGATION INSTITUTION
                (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
10/31/2003    6 WATER RESOURCES SPEC         S    U
                (2);IRRIGATION SPEC (1);
                IRRIGATION INSTIT (1);
                NAT RES ECONOMIST (1);
                PROJECT OFFICER (1)
04/05/2004    4 WATER RESOURCES SPEC         S    U
                (1); IRRIGATION SPEC (1);
                IRRIGATION INSTIT (1);
                PROJECT OFFICER (1)
06/19/2004    1 TEAM LEADER (1)              S    U
12/05/2004    4 WATER RESOURCES SPEC         U    U
                (1); IRRIGATION
                INSTITUTION (1); WATER
                RESOURCES INSTIT (1);
                PROJECT OFFICER (1)




                - 52 -

 ICR
               04/26/2005             4     TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                            WATER RESOURCES
                                            INSTIT (1); IRRG.SPEC.
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                7                          43.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    18                        289.2
  Supervision                              96                        604.0
  ICR                                       7                          33.2
  Total                                  135                        1012.6




                                            - 53 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Communiy Participation
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Governance




                                                    - 54 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 55 -

    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Report and Recommendation of the President of the       Report No. P 7304-IND, April 23, 1999
IBRD to the Executive Directors on a Proposed
Water Sector Adjustment Loan in the Amount of
US$300 Million to the Republic of Indonesia
Sectoral Environmental Assessment of WATSAL             Bappenas, Jakarta, 1999 (in Indonesian and English)
Letter of Sector Policy--Instruksi Presiden RI Nr 3     Sector Policy Document, Bappenas,
Tn 1999 Tentang Pembaharuan Kebijakan                   Jakarta, January 2000 (in Indonesian)
Pengelolaan Irigasi--Penjelasan Instruksi Presiden
RI Nr 3 Tn 1999
Water Sector Policy Reform in Indonesia                 Proceedings, National GoI-Donors Workshop,
                                                        November 2000
GoI-Donor Water Resources and Irrigation Sector         Minutes, 2001 - 2005
Coordination Forum
Technical Audit of Works in Irrigation under Java       World Bank, Jakarta, 2002 (in Indonesian)
Irrigation Improvement and Water Management
Project (Central Java)
Technical Audit of Works in Irrigation under Java       World Bank, Jakarta, 2002 (in
Irrigation Improvement and Water Management             Indonesian)
Project (East Java and Yogyakarta)
Asset Management in Irrigation, Water Supply and        Proceedings of a Seminar, September 30-October 1,
River Infrastructure                                    2002, Bali. Bappenas, Jakarta (in Indonesian)
Water Use Rights--An Option for Indonesia?              Proceedings of a Workshop, World Bank, Jakarta, 2002
Participatory Irrigation Sector Project (PISP)          Project Document, Asian Development Bank, Manila, 2003
Water Resources and Irrigation Sector Management        Project Appraisal Document, The World
Project                                                 Bank, Washington, DC, June 2003
Process Documentation and Impact Study of the           Gadjah Mada University, Yogyakarta,
Implementation of Irrigation Management Policy          March 2003 (in Indonesian, with English
Reform in Indonesia (5 Volumes)                         abstract)
Water Use Rights Study -- Phase 1                       Sanyu Int. Cons., LP3ES, and others,
                                                        Tokyo and Jakarta, 2003
Nusa Tenggara Barat--Water Resources River Basin        Project Description Document, Commission of the European
Based Poverty Alleviation Project (NTB-WRAP)            Union, Jakarta, 2004
Water Use Rights Study -- Phase 2                       Sanyu Int. Cons., LP3ES, and others,
                                                        Tokyo and Jakarta, 2005
Contribution of GoI to ICR                              Letter of Deputy Chairman Bappenas, to Mr Andrew Steer, May 25,
                                                        2005
Contribution of ADB to ICR                              Letter of Director Agriculture, Environment and Natural Resources
                                                        Div., Southeast Asia Dept., to Mr Andrew Steer, June 10, 2005
Contribution of The Netherlands Govt to ICR             Letter of the Netherlands Ambassador to Mr Andrew Steer, May 23,
                                                        2005
Legal and Regulatory Outputs                            Six files with authorized final drafts, or issued,
                                                        legal and regulatory products under WATSAL




                                                      - 56 -

- 57 -

