Page  1
December 19, 2001
His Excellency
Dr. Boediono
Minister of Finance
Department of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta 10710
Re:
Loan  Number 4469-IND
(Water Resources Sector Adjustment Loan)
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Water Resources Sector Adjustment Loan) between 
the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank), dated May 28, 1999.  We also refer to the Ministry of 
Finance’s letter dated November 26, 2001, requesting amendments to the Loan Agreement
The Bank is pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, it has agreed 
to your request to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 is amended by:
(a)
adding the word "and" at the end of sub-section (c); 
(b)
replacing the semi-colon by a period at the end of sub-section (d); and
(c)
deleting sub-sections (e) and (f).
2.
Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement is amended by replacing the date "December 
31, 2001" by the date "June 30, 2003".
3.
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read:
"SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) and (e) of this Agreement
Part A:
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
Maintenance of a macro-economic framework, consistent with the objectives of the 
Program, as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and the 
Bank.
2.
Issuance of a regulation, acceptable to the Bank, on water pollution control and 
water quality management.
3.
Issuance of procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for the establishment of 
autonomous water user associations and water user association federations for:
(a)
the management of irrigation networks transferred to the control of the 
associations and federations; and
(b)
the joint management with the Government or government-owned entities of 
irrigation schemes through scheme-level management fora.
4.
Establishment of revised roles and responsibilities of central, provincial and 
district government irrigation agencies to take into account the Borrower’s policy on 
decentralization.
Page  2
5.
Establishment of an inter-ministerial coordination team with membership and 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, such membership to include stakeholder 
representation, and such terms of reference to include responsibility for the 
coordination of the water resources reform process until the establishment of a 
national apex body for water resources management.
6.
Adoption of a national water resources policy and related implementation plan, 
acceptable to the Bank.
7.
(a)
Establishment of a national hydrology management system responsible for 
the upgrading of surface and groundwater data collection networks.
(b)
Strengthening of hydrological data collection in selected provinces as 
agreed with the Bank, including establishment of provincial hydrological units and 
strengthening of existing provincial hydrological units through appropriate staffing 
and funding of activities.
8.
Adoption of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for a water resources and 
irrigation decision-support system, including administrative procedures and 
implementation arrangements. 
Part B:
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement
1.
Maintenance of a macro-economic framework, consistent with the objectives of the 
Program, as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and the 
Bank.
2.
(a)
Issuance of a revised Law on Water Resources, acceptable to the Bank, 
such law to include provisions for (i) the establishment of a national apex body for 
water resources management with membership that includes non-governmental 
stakeholders, and (ii) the establishment of provincial, basin and district water 
resources councils and provision for the participation of non-government stakeholders 
in policy and decision-making in such councils.
(b)
Issuance of revised government regulations, acceptable to the Bank, as 
required for purposes of the revised Law on Water Resources.
(c)
Issuance of revised national and provincial implementation decrees, 
acceptable to the Bank, as required for purposes of the revised Law on Water 
Resources.
3.
(a)
Establishment of a national apex body for water resources management.
(b)
Establishment of provincial, basin and district water resources councils 
and introduction of non-government stakeholder participation in such water resources 
councils, in selected provinces agreed with the Bank.
4.
Establishment of Balai PSDA in selected provinces as agreed with the Bank.
5.
(a)
Strengthening the governance mechanisms of PJT Brantas and Perum Otorita 
Jatiluhur by the introduction of provincial government management participation in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for the 
organization, financing (including financing from bulk water supply service fees and 
wastewater discharge fees) and management of river basin management corporations.
(c)
Establishment of a river basin corporation in each of the Bengawan Solo 
river basin, Jeneberang river basin, Jratunseluna river basin, and Serayu-Bogowonto 
river basin.
6.
Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, on water use rights and 
Page  3
provincial water abstraction licensing and allocation of water use rights.
7.
(a)
Establishment of a national water quality sampling network.
(b)
Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, on incentives for 
corporate wastewater treatment.
(c)
Issuance of decrees and implementation guidelines, including enforcement 
provisions, acceptable to the Bank, on water pollution control and water quality 
management.
(d)
Establishment of integrated water pollution control and water quality 
management by provincial environmental impact control agencies in the Bengawan Solo 
river basin, Jeneberang river basin, Jratunseluna river basin, Serayu-Bogowonto river 
basin, Brantas river basin and Citarum river basin, through operational concessions to 
basin management corporations acceptable to the Bank.
8.
Establishment of revised roles and responsibilities of central, provincial and 
district government irrigation agencies to provide support services to water user 
associations and water user association federations.
9.
Adoption of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for:
(a)
the financing of operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes by the 
Government, the water user associations, and the water user association federations, 
to ensure fiscal sustainability of maintenance and rehabilitation of irrigation 
schemes; and
(b)
the establishment of an irrigation improvement fund for the financing of 
prioritized rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation networks managed by water 
user associations and water user association federations."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the 
enclosed duplicate of this letter in the spaced provided, and by returning it to us. 
The above amendment will become effective as of the date of confirmation.
Yours sincerely,
By /s/ Mark Baird
Country Director, Indonesia
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Edi Karsanto
Authorized Representative
Director of External Funds, Ministry of Finance_
Date
December 19, 2001
