Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4469 IND
Loan Agreement
(Water Resources Sector Adjustment Loan)
between 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 28, 1999  
LOAN NUMBER 4469 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank): 
WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter dated April 21, 1999, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s water sector (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, and with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Page  2
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: “Except as the Bank and the Borrower 
shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency 
of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d)         The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: “(c) Not later than six 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the 
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and  
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: the term “Balai PSDA” means a 
provincial basin management unit; the term “Deposit Account” means the account 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; the term “Perum Otorita Jatiluhur” 
means the Perum established by PP 42/1990 of August 22, 1990; the term “PJT Brantas” 
means the Perum Jasa Tirta established  by PP 5/1990 of February 12, 1990; \0cthe term 
“PPTPA” means a river basin water coordination committee; and the term “PTPA” means a 
provincial water coordination committee. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
Page  3
equivalent of $50,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program, and (ii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall  have given notice 
to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and 
taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $150,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program, and (ii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to 
the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and 
taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 
15 and October15 in each year.
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
Page  4
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V 
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Page  5
By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Julian Schweitzer
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones,
unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728.43                  -
Tobacco processing machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’
or silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and 
Page  6
concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
Page  7
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-quarters of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three-quarters of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each 
Page  8
April 15 and October15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) 
and (e) of this Agreement
Part A:
1.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement Maintenance of a 
macro-economic framework, consistent with the objectives of the Program, as determined 
on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank. Establishment of a 
framework, acceptable to the Bank, on water pollution control and water quality 
management, including incentives for corporate wastewater treatment.
2.
Issuance of procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for the establishment of 
autonomous water user associations and water user association federations for:
(a)
the management of irrigation networks transferred to the control of the 
associations and federations; and 
(b)
the joint management with the Government or government-owned entities of 
irrigation schemes through scheme-level management fora. 
3.
Establishment of a framework for water resources development which provides for 
the participation of non-government stakeholders in policy and decision-making in 
PTPAs and PPTPAs, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
4.
Adoption of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for a water resources and 
irrigation decision-support system, including administrative procedures and 
implementation arrangements.  
(a)
Establishment of a national hydrology management system responsible for 
the upgrading of surface and groundwater data collection networks. 
(b)
Strengthening of hydrological data collection in selected provinces as 
agreed with the Bank, including establishment of provincial hydrological units and 
strengthening of existing provincial hydrological units through appropriate staffing 
and funding of activities. 
5.
Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for the organization, 
financing (including financing from bulk water supply service fees and wastewater 
discharge fees) and management of river basin management corporations.
Part B:
1.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement Maintenance of a 
macro-economic framework, consistent with the objectives of the Program, as determined 
on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank. Adoption of a 
national water resources policy and related implementation plan, acceptable to the 
Bank, including provision for the establishment of a national apex body for water 
resources.
2.
Establishment of PTPAs and PPTPAs and introduction of non-government stakeholder 
participation in PTPAs and PPTPAs, in selected provinces agreed with the Bank.  
Page  9
3.
Establishment of a national water quality sampling network.
 
4.
Establishment of Balai PSDA in selected provinces as agreed with the Bank. 
5.
Strengthening the governance mechanisms of PJT Brantas and Perum Otorita 
Jatiluhur by the introduction of provincial government management participation in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank. 
6.
Establishment of a river basin corporation in each of the Bengawan Solo river 
basin, Jeneberang river basin, Jratunseluna river basin, and Serayu-Bogowonto river 
basin. 
7.
Establishment of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, on water use rights and 
provincial water abstraction licensing and allocation of water use rights. 
8.
Establishment of integrated water pollution control and water quality management 
by provincial environmental impact control agencies in the Bengawan Solo river basin, 
Jeneberang river basin, Jratunseluna river basin, Serayu-Bogowonto river basin, 
Brantas river basin and Citarum river basin, through operational concessions to basin 
management corporations acceptable to the Bank.
9.
Establishment of revised roles and responsibilities of central, provincial and 
district government irrigation agencies: to take into account the Borrower’s policy on 
decentralization; and to provide support services to water user associations and water 
user association federations.
10.
Adoption of a framework, acceptable to the Bank, for: 
(a)
the financing of operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes by the 
Government, the water user associations, and the water user association federations, 
to ensure fiscal sustainability of maintenance and rehabilitation of irrigation 
schemes; and 
(b)
the establishment of an irrigation improvement fund for the financing of 
prioritized rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation networks managed by water 
user associations and water user association federations.
