Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4410-NE 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Local Urban Infrastructure Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 26, 2008 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4410-NE 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 26, 2008, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
NIGER (
“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
eighteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 18,300,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15, in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has adopted a Project Implementation Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
The Recipient has established a computerized information system for the 
financial management of the Project (including software customization, 
adoption of the Project Manual of Financial, Accounting and 
Administrative Procedures in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, training and short term assistance), in a manner satisfactory 
to the Association. 
(c) 
The Recipient has appointed a Project Coordinator with terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time 
responsible for finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
B.P. 389 
Niamey 
Republic of Niger 
Facsimile:  
(227) 20 73 59 34 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Niamey, Niger, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
By /s/ Ali Mahaman Lamine Zeine 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Ousmane Diagana 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to increase and sustain access of urban residents, 
particularly those living in deprived settlements, to basic infrastructure and services. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A: Capacity Building 
 
Support the Recipient’s efforts to build and consolidate management capacities 
for programming, implementing and managing urban infrastructure and services, 
including through: 
(1) 
support to local stakeholders in the Targeted Institutions by:  
(i) strengthening capacities for programming, implementing and 
managing basic infrastructures and services, including solid waste 
and income generating investments; (ii) enhancing procurement 
capacity and local governance in procurement; (iii) supporting 
preparation and implementation of maintenance programs for 
municipal infrastructure and equipments; and (iv) improving overall 
management at local level and ability to increase municipal revenues; 
(2) 
support to selected central government institutions active in the areas 
of urban development and decentralization by: (i) preparing, 
improving and disseminating planning and programming tools; and 
(ii) strengthening the urban development and decentralization 
frameworks; and 
(3) 
strengthening of the capacity of the private sector to implement 
public works and construction works, including on procurement, 
organization of works, internal controls, supervision, and 
management of environmental and social impacts.  
Part B: Municipal Investments
 
Support the Recipient’s efforts to upgrade infrastructure on the basis of City 
Agreements, in order to increase access to basic services in Niamey, Maradi and Dosso, 
primarily in low-income settlements and construct or rehabilitate infrastructure aimed at 
boosting local economic development, including through: 
Page  7
6
(1) 
For the city of Niamey: (i) upgrading transport infrastructure in 
densely populated areas, (ii) improving access to important education 
and economic equipments, and (iii) carrying out small infrastructure 
works; 
(2) 
For the city of Maradi: (i) upgrading markets, (ii) constructing truck 
terminal, and (iii) carrying out selected small infrastructure works to 
improve living conditions in the low-income settlements; and 
(3) 
For the city of Dosso: (i) upgrading markets, (ii) constructing truck 
terminal, (iii) rehabilitating and extending primary drains, and  
(iv) carrying out selected small infrastructure works to improve 
living conditions in the low-income settlements. 
Part C: Project Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
 
Support the Recipient’s capacity and resources to: (i) implement, audit 
(financially and technically), monitor and evaluate the Project, and (ii) inform, educate 
and communicate on the Project. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, maintain the 
following institutional arrangements: 
1. 
The Steering Committee, including representatives of the 
Recipient’s office of 
the President, office of the Prime Minister, ministry responsible for urban affairs, 
housing and land registry, ministry responsible for interior, public health and 
decentralization, ministry responsible for economy and finance, the Targeted 
Institutions, and NIGETIP, shall be responsible for providing overall strategic 
guidance, overseeing Project implementation, reinforcing intersectoral 
coordination, approving work programs and budgets and reviewing 
implementation progress and audit reports. 
2. 
Under the general supervision of the Steering Committee, the BNC shall be 
responsible for the overall Project coordination, including: (i) preparation of 
annual work programs, (ii) monitoring, reporting and evaluation of the Project, 
(iii) fiduciary aspects (with the involvement of the Targeted Institutions and 
NIGETIP for the activities carried out under Part B of the Project), and  
(iv) implementation, supervision and monitoring of environmental and social 
safeguards. The Recipient shall ensure that BNC has sufficient resources to 
efficiently coordinate the Project including, 
inter alia
,
the following staff with 
terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association: 
a
coordinator, a capacity building specialist, an infrastructure specialist, a 
procurement specialist, an administrative and financial officer and an accountant. 
The BNC shall report to the Steering Committee at least on a quarterly basis. 
3. 
(a) 
The Targeted Institutions shall, each for its respective part, be 
responsible for the technical implementation of Part B of the Project, including 
programming, procurement of activities whose estimated cost does not exceed a 
ceiling which has been previously agreed upon in writing by the Association (as 
may be revised by the Association from time to time in writing), managing and 
maintaining investments, each in accordance with and subject to the terms and 
conditions of:  
Page  9
8
(i)  
City Agreements which shall be entered into between BNC and 
respectively: (A) the five Municipalities of Niamey for the 
implementation of Part B (1) of the Project, (B) the Urban Community of 
Maradi for the implementation of Part B (2) of the Project, and (C) the 
Municipality of Dosso for the implementation of Part B (3) of the 
Project, after approval by the Steering Committee, each in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, for the implementation of their 
respective investment and capacity building programs and the 
improvement of their respective overall management. Each City 
Agreement shall provide for adequate support and safeguard measures in 
the area of procurement including, 
inter alia
,
the selection of staff 
member within the Targeted Institution, who shall be in charge of the 
Targeted Institution’s procurement activities, and contractual 
arrangements for selected activities; and  
(ii)  
service agreements (
contrats
 de maîtrise d’ouvrage déléguée
)
which shall be entered into between NIGETIP and respectively: (a) the 
five Municipalities of Niamey for the implementation of Part B (1) of the 
Project, (B) the Urban Community of Maradi for the implementation of 
Part B (2) of the Project, and (C) the Municipality of Dosso for the 
implementation of Part B (3) of the Project, each in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, for the implementation of selected 
procurement activities whose estimated cost exceeds the ceiling referred 
to in sub-paragraph (a) above, as described in the corresponding City 
Agreement.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that no provision of the agreements referred 
to in (i) and (ii) of subsection (a) above is amended, abrogated or waived without 
the prior written approval of the Association. 
4. 
BNC shall be responsible for the technical implementation of Parts A and C of 
the Project, in close collaboration with the 
Recipient’s ministry responsible for 
urban affairs, housing and land registry with respect to Part A (2), and with 
NIGETIP with respect to Part A (3). The BNC shall provide the support of its 
staff to the Targeted Institutions for the establishment of their local procurement 
framework (procurement specialist and manual of local government procurement 
procedures). 
B. Manuals 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and Project Manual of 
Financial, Accounting and Administrative Procedures and, except as the 
Page  10
9
Association shall otherwise agree in writing, the Recipient shall not amend, 
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or waived, any provision 
of the aforementioned, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
adversely and materially affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
no service agreement referred to in Section I, paragraph (A)(3)(a)(ii) 
above shall be entered into between NIGETIP and a Targeted Institution before 
NIGETIP’s manual of technical procedures (
Manuel de Pro
cédures Techniques
)
dated February 2005, has been revised in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association (“Manual of Technical Procedures”); 
 
(b) 
thereafter, NIGETIP shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of 
its Manual of Technical Procedures in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association, may adversely and materially affect the implementation of the 
Project, and 
 
(c) 
NIGETIP’s activities under the service agreements referred to in sub-
paragraph (A)(3)(a)(ii) above are carried out in accordance with NIGETIPs 
Manual of Technical Procedures. 
C. Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree in writing, the Recipient shall not amend, abrogate, repeal, suspend or 
waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, repealed, suspended or waived, any 
provision of the aforementioned.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
Page  11
10
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
(i)  
Additional population in Project implementation area benefiting 
from all-year access to transportation; 
(A) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s city of Niamey (including collectively the five Municipalities 
of Niamey) benefiting from all-year access to transportation has 
increased from 320,000 to 360,000; 
(B) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s city of Maradi (including collectively the three 
Municipalities of Maradi) benefiting from all-year access to 
transportation has increased from 92,500 to 94,000; 
(C) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s Municipality of Dosso benefiting from all-year access to 
transportation has increased from 27,500 to 28,000; 
(ii)  
Additional population in Project implementation area benefiting 
from protection against periodic flooding; 
(A) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s city of Niamey (including collectively the five Municipalities 
of Niamey) benefiting from protection from periodic flooding has 
increased from 0 to 2,000; 
(B) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s city of Maradi (including collectively the three 
Municipalities of Maradi) benefiting from protection from periodic 
flooding has increased from 0 to 2,250; 
(C) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s Municipality of Dosso benefiting from protection from 
periodic flooding has increased from 0 to 1,400; 
Page  12
11
(iii)  
Additional population in Project implementation area benefiting 
from access to water supply; 
(A) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s city of Niamey (including collectively the five Municipalities 
of Niamey) benefiting from access to water supply has increased from 
440,000 to 441,000; 
(B) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s city of Maradi (including collectively the three 
Municipalities of Maradi) benefiting from access to water supply has 
increased from 163,000 to 164,000; 
(C) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s Municipality of Dosso benefiting from access to water 
supply has increased from 28,000 to 29,500; 
(iv)  
Additional population in Project implementation area benefiting 
from access to sanitation; 
(A) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s city of Niamey (including collectively the five Municipalities 
of Niamey) benefiting from access to sanitation has increased from 0 to 
850; 
(B) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s city of Maradi (including collectively the three 
Municipalities of Maradi) benefiting from access to sanitation has 
increased from 0 to 1,000; 
(C) At the completion of the Project, the population in the 
Recipient’s Municipality of Dosso benefiting from access to water 
supply and sanitation has increased from 0 to 2,250; 
(v)  
At the completion of the Project, the additional financial 
resources collected by the Urban Community of Maradi on markets and 
truck terminals has increased from CFAF 83,000,000 to 
 
CFAF 175,000,000; and 
Page  13
12
(vi)  
At the completion of the Project, the additional financial 
resources collected by the Municipality of Dosso on markets and truck 
terminals has increased from CFAF 12,000,000 to CFAF 85,000,000. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than July 15, 2013. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the first of 
the Project Preparation Advances was made.  The audited Financial Statements 
for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  14
13
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding (*)
 
(b)  
Shopping
 
(c)  
Direct Contracting
 
(*) 
Subject to the provisions listed in (i) to (x) below.  
(i) 
Article 03 of the Procurement Code shall not apply.  
(ii) 
The obligation to provide evidence that the bidder has satisfied all its tax 
obligations to the Recipient as a condition to make a proposal for the 
procurement of works, goods and non consulting services 
(notwithstanding any contrary provisions of article 10 of the 
Procurement Code) shall only apply to national bidders.  
(iii) 
The obligation to provide a certificate of eligibility as a condition to 
make a proposal for the procurement of works shall only apply to 
national bidders (notwithstanding any contrary provisions of article 11 of 
the Procurement Code); the eligibility criteria for international bidders 
shall be limited to those included in the bidding documents. 
Page  15
14
(iv) 
The division of expenditures in accordance with article 34 of the 
Procurement Code shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association. 
(v) 
The national preference provided for by article 36 of the Procurement 
Code shall not apply. 
(vi) 
In addition to the provision of article 40 of the Procurement Code, the 
short list of bidders shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association. 
(vii) 
Each contract procured through direct contracting in accordance with 
article 42 of the Procurement Code shall be subject to Prior Review by 
the Association. 
(viii) 
The amount of the bidder’s guarantee provided for in article 79 of the 
Procurement Code shall be determined as a percentage (1 to 2%) of the 
estimated cost of the contract. 
(ix) 
No representatives of the private sector or of the donors shall be included 
in the Recipient’s committee for bid evaluation and award despite the 
provisions of Articles 3, 15 and 26 of the Recipient’s
 arrêté 
113
dated 
October 10, 2006. 
(x) 
The conditions of application of the various methods of procurement 
under the National Competitive Bidding shall be determined in the 
Procurement Plan (notwithstanding any contrary provisions of articles 5 
and 7 of Recipient’s
 arrêté
 270/CAB/PM/ARMP, dated 
 
October 24, 2007). 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consul
tants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Page  16
15
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
Least Cost Selection
 
(b)  
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
 
(c)  
Selection Based on
 Consultant’s Qualifications
 
(d)  
Single Source Selection
 
(e)  
Individual Consultants
 
3. 
Shortlist including national consultants only.
 
The shortlist for the selection of 
consultants for each contract for 
consultants’ services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or less may include national consultants only, pursuant to 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) each contract for works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more; (b) each contract for goods
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or 
more; (c) each contract for works, goods or non consulting services procured on 
the basis of Direct Contracting; (d) the first two contracts for works, goods or 
non consulting services procured on the basis of each procurement method 
irrespective of the estimated cost of such contract; (e) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; (f) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an 
individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (g) each contract 
for consultants’ services procured on the basis of Single Source Selection; (h) the 
first two contracts for consultants’ services procured on the basis of each 
selection method irrespective of the estimated cost of such contract.   
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the terms of reference for each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $5,000 or more shall be subject to the Association’s Prior 
Review. 
Page  17
16
3. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contract amendments shall be subject to Prior Review by the 
Association:  (a) each amendment to any contract for works,
 
goods, non 
consulting services or consultant
’s services resulting in reaching or exceeding the 
threshold for Prior Review set in paragraph (1) above; and (b) each amendment 
to any contract for works,
 
goods, non consulting services or consultant’s services 
resulting in an increase of the initially estimated cost of such contract by more 
than 15%. 
4. 
All Training activities will be carried out on the basis of annual programs 
submitted annually for the prior approval of the Association. Said annual 
programs shall identify the general framework of the Training and similar 
activities for the year, and include:  (a) the type of Training; (b) the personnel to 
be trained; (c) the institution which will conduct the Training; (d) the estimated 
cost of the Training; (e) the duration of the proposed Training; (F) the location of 
the Training; and (g) the outcome and impact of the Training. 
5. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), (a) to repay the 
Project Preparation Advance in accordance with Section 2.07 of the General 
Conditions, and (b) to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  18
17
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  
Goods, works and consultants’ 
services for the Project, including 
Training, Operating Costs and 
audits 
 17,700,000 
100% 
(2) Refund of Project Preparation 
Advance 
 600,000 Amount 
payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07 of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 18,300,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is January 15, 2013. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as 
agreed in writing by the Association, the Recipient shall have recruited and 
signed under contract an external auditor for the Project, with terms of reference, 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
B. 
No later than twenty-four (24) months after the Effective Date, or such later date 
as may be agreed upon in writing by the Recipient and the Association, the 
Recipient and the Association shall carry out a mid term review of the Project, 
covering the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. The 
Recipient shall prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association three (3) months prior to the beginning of such 
mid term review of the Project, or such other date as may be agreed in writing by 
the Association, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to this Agreement, on the progress achieved in the 
Page  19
18
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report, 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project during the period 
following such date. 
C. 
No later than twenty four (24) months after the Effective Date, or such later date 
as may be agreed upon in writing by the Recipient and the Association, the 
Recipient shall have designed a national framework for supporting city 
development, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, including 
inter alia
:
(i) a draft law on public contracts management and delegation 
(
maîtrise d’ouvrage publique
), (ii) a global framework for the provision of 
assistance to local authorities, and (iii) a mechanism of mobilizing and 
transferring financial resources to Municipalities. 
D. 
No later than twenty-four (24) months after the Effective Date, or such later date 
as may be agreed upon in writing by the Recipient and the Association, the 
Recipient shall
 assess the improvement of the Targeted Institutions’ capacities in 
the area of procurement.  
Page  20
19
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
commencing November 15, 2018 to and including 
May 15, 2028 
1% 
commencing November 15, 2028 to and including 
May 15, 2048  
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  21
20
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“BNC” means the coordination unit (“
Bureau National de Coordination de la 
mise en œuvre du Projet de Développement des Infrastructures Locales
”)
,
established by the Recipient by 
arrêté
 26/PM dated March 10, 2008, for the 
purpose of coordinating the implementation of the Project, in accordance with 
terms and conditions further described in said 
arrêté
.
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“CFAF” means the lawful currency of the African Financial Community. 
4. 
“City Agreement” means an agreement (
Contrat de Ville
)
to be entered into 
between BNC and a Targeted Institution for the implementation of Part B of the 
Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, as 
revised in October 2006. 
6. 
“Environment and Social Management Framework” means the document entitled 
“
Cadre de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale
”
prepared by Laouali Garba at 
the request of the Recipient and dated May 2007.  
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
8. 
“Municipality” means a municipality on the Recipient’s territory, created in 
accordance with the Recipient’s law no. 2002-013 of June 11, 2002 on 
decentralization. 
9. “NIGETIP” 
means 
the 
Agence Nigérienne de Travaux d’Intérêt Public pour 
l’Emploi
,
a
legal entity created on May 3, 1990, governed by the Recipient
’s 
ordinance no. 84-06 of March 1, 1984 as modified and completed by the 
Recipient’s law no. 91-06 of May 20, 1991, and operating in accordance with 
NIGETIP’s governing document (
statuts
)
revised and adopted by its 
extraordinary general meeting of January 16, 2008 
Page  22
21
10. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating expenses, based on annual 
budgets approved by the Association, incurred by BNC on account of the Project 
implementation, management, monitoring and evaluation, including rent for 
buildings; office, vehicles, office equipment and other operation and maintenance 
costs; water and electricity utilities, telephone, office supplies, bank charges, 
additional staff costs, travel and supervision costs, per diem, but excluding the 
salaries of officials and public servants of the Recipient’s civil service. 
11. 
“Procurement Code” means the Recipient’s procurement law entitled “
Code 
National d
es Marchés Publics
”
adopted by Ordinance no. 2002-007 dated 
September 18, 2002. 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, as revised in 
October 2006. 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 3, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
14. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Recipient’s guidelines and 
procedures, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, to be adopted 
by the Recipient and used for the purpose of implementing the Project, including 
in the areas of monitoring and evaluation, coordination, social and environmental 
safeguards, and other provisions related to the institutional organization, as such 
guidelines and procedures may be amended from time to time in prior written 
agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedule to the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
15. 
“Project Manual of Financial, Accounting and Administrative Procedures” means 
the Recipient’s manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
containing financial, administrative and accounting procedures applicable to the 
Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time in prior written 
agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedule to the 
Project Manual of Financial, Accounting and Administrative Procedures. 
16. 
“Project Preparation Advances” means the advances referred to in Section 2.07 
of the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant 
to: (i) the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on 
 
August 21, 2006 and on behalf of the Recipient on September 1, 2006, and  
Page  23
22
(ii) the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on April 16, 2008 
and on behalf of the Recipient on May 7, 2008. 
17. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the document entitled “
Cadre de 
Politique de Réinstallation des Populations (CPRP)
”
prepared by 
 
Abdoulaye Sene at the request of the Recipient and dated July 2007. 
18. 
“Steering Committee” means the steering committee (“
Comité de Pilotage de la 
mise en œuvre du Projet de Développement des Infrastructures Locales
”) 
established by the Recipient by 
arrêté
 27 dated March 10, 2008, for the purpose 
of providing general guidance and monitoring of the implementation of the 
Project, in accordance with terms and conditions further described in said 
arrêté
.
19. 
“Targeted Institutions” means collectively the five Municipalities of Niamey, the 
Urban Community of Niamey, the three Municipalities of Maradi, the Urban 
Community of Maradi, and the Municipality of Dosso. 
20. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, 
based on annual budgets approved by the Association, such term including 
seminars, workshops, conference and study tours, and costs associated with such 
activity include travel and subsistence costs for training participants, costs of 
securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and 
reproduction of training materials and other costs directly related to course 
preparation and implementation. 
21. 
“Urban Community” means an urban community on the Recipient’s territory, 
created in accordance with the Recipient’s laws no. 2002-015 of June 11, 2002 in 
the case of Niamey, and no. 2002-016 of June 11, 2002 in the case of Maradi.
 
