FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 116a-AL
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
May 22, 1973
Education Projects Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00    = Dinar (D.A.) 4.09
DA1.oo    =  us$0.24
Measures
1 m       =   3.28 feet
1 m2     .=  10.76 sq ft
1 Km2     =   0.39 sq mi
Fiscal Year
January lst - December 31st



ALGERIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUAMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............."   i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION      .........................................  I
II.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES .............      2
The Changing Structure of the Algerian Society ..      2
Economic Growth Since Independence ....   ..........   2
Economic Development Strategy:  Leading Issues ..      4
Manpower Requirements ......     .....................  4
III. ITE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ..6
The Traditional Education System ............          6
Reorganization of the Education System ..........      7
Education Development Strategy ..................      a
Education Finances ..............................      9
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........................................    10
General        .........................................  10
The Algerian Petroleum Institute . ...............    11
The Institute of Mining and Metallurgy ..........    12
The Institute of Agricultural Technology ........     13
Pre-Investment Study of the Institute of Light
Industry   ............. ............. . .    ..    15
Technical Assistance .......   .....................    15
Cost of the Project .............................    15
Financial Plan       ..................................    18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Algeria in November/December 1972. The mission consisted of Messrs. A.
de Capitani (economist and nission leader), J. Crosnier (agricultural edu-
cator), A. S. Kinawy (architect) J. S. McNown (technical educator) and
W. C. Forsman (specialist in plastics technology, consultant).



Table of Contents  (Cont'd)
V.    UIPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT  .......................                          18
Retroactive Financing  ............           ..8..............            i
Project Administration  ............            ..     .............       18
Professional  Services  ............          ..      ..............       19
Sites  ........         ...................................                19
Civil Works  ...................               ...................         19
Procurement  ............................                .... .           20
Disbursement  ....... ............              ..................        20
Implementation  Schedule  ..... o..         .      .................      20
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .................                          21
APPENDIX
ANNEXES
CHARTS
MAP



ALGERIA
APPENDIX
I.   Schedule of Technical Assistance
ANNEXE.S
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Projection of Employment by Sectors 1970-1980
3.   Projected Manpower Requirements 1970-1980
4.   Enrollments, Graduates and Teachers by Level and Type of
Education 1971-72
5.   Projected Requirements for Engineers and Middle Level Technicians
in Selected Industries 1973-1980
6.   Growth of Enrollments in Public Schools 1962-1972
7.   Projected Enrollments in Public Schools 1972-1980
8.   Projected Output by Specialties from Universities and
Other Post-Secondary Institutions 1970-1980
9.   Ministry of Education Expenditures 1965-1972
10.   Pro4ection of Public Expenditures on Education 1970-1980
11.   Enrollments, Outputs, Pupil/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors in
Project Schools
12.   Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
13.   Contingency Allowances
14.   Financial Plan
15.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
16.   Project Implementation Schedule
CHARTS
1.   The Developing Structure of the Formal Education and Training
System (6559-R)
2.   Education Pyramid (7430)
kAP
1.   Map of Algeria (showinr, Project Schools)






GLOSSARY
Enseignement Primaire Eldientaire (EfP) 3 Primary school extending over
grades 1-8 and comprising four cycles - preparatory, elementary, middle
and terminal - each lasting two years.
Certificat dtEtudes Primaires (C.E.P.) s   Primary school certificate awarded
after completion of grade 6 to those pupils who do not pass the entry
examination for secondary schools.
Collbge d'Enseignement Technique (C.E.T.): Vocational school normally extending
over grades =-10 and loading to a craftsman's certificate - the Certificat
d'Aptitude Professionelle (C.A.P.).
Coll'ge d'Enseignement Agricole (C.E.A.): Lower agricultural school offering
courses of 3 years duration after grade 7 and awarding the "Brevet
d'Enseignement Agricole" (B.E.A.).
Collkge d'EnseiEnement General (.E.G.): FXirst cycle general secondary
school (grades 7-10) for those students who pass the entry, exaxnation
for secondary school with lower marks and therefore do not qualify'
for the Tycee.
Lyc6e: First and second cycle secondary school (grades 7-13) offering
after grade 10 specialized streams in Arabic, Humanities, Mathematics
and Sciences (General ILycees) or in Industrial Arts, Mathematics,
Comnerce and Economics (Technical Lycees). Upon completing courses
and passing the required examinations, students are awarded the
StBaccalaureatll (various specializations) which qualifies for entry
into University.
Ecole d'Enseignement Moyen (Middle School)s A new type of first cycle
secondary school (grades 7-10), which will offer a coOmn curriculum
for the first two years and will replace the general edacation cycle
in the Technical Lycees.
Technicum: A new type of vocational school which will replace the existing
lower technical schools and will provide a two-cycle four-year
industrial, commercial or agricultural training starting from the end
of the second year of general secondary education.
Institute of Technolo&Z: A new type of secondary and/or post-secondary
institution providing intensive, specialized and job-oriented traini,g
for professional and para-professional personnel, with flexibie enr.'yl
requirements and strong emphasis on practical subjects. Courses var-y
from h to 5 years after grades 12-13 for the professional level and
from 1 to 4 years for the technician level. An engineering degree
(ingenieur de conception) or a technician diploma is normally awarded
upon satisfactory completion of courses and examination requirements.
Grandes Ecoles: Highly selective and specialized institutions offering
under-graduate and post-graduate courses of various duration with
strong theoretical background. Admission is determined by competition
among baccalaureat holders and one preparatory year is usually required.






A1ERIA
BASIC DATA 1971
2
Area                                         2,381,000 I
Population                                   13 5 illion
of di*iih rural                               8O miia.i1 on
Literacy Rate (1966)                         25%
Current Population Growth                     3*2% po.g
GNP per capita (1972)                        U9-320
First Level Enrollmnt as                      6
a Percentage of Age Group 6-13              63.7
Second Level Enrollment as
a Percentage of Age Group 12-18             13.5
Third Level Enrollment as       2
a Percentage of Age Group 19-22              2h.4
Government Expenditure on Education
as a Percentage of Total Government
Eopenditure  (1970)                         29.8%
Goverrment ExpendLture on Education
as a Percentage of GDP(1970)                 9.0%
iL/ See Annex 1 for comparative edacational data.
i/ EIncluding overaged students.






ALGERIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The education and training system in Algeria has been assigned
three major functions within the framework of the overall economic develop-
ment strategy. First, education is expected to respond quickly to the demand
for skilled manpower generated by the rapid industrialization of the countrv.
Secondly, education development should support the policy of reinforcement
of national culture, Algerianlzation of the labor force and economic independ-
ence. Thirdly, education is considered as the most effective way of improv-
ing social mobility and redressing income disparities between groups and re-
gions. The combined influence of these factors explains the unusual pace and
scale of Algeria's efforts in education and training.
ii.       The traditional education system, with its obsolete curricula, in-
ternal inefficiency and discrimination in the distribution of educational
opportunities, is no longer suitable to meet these objectives. Since 1970,
several steps have been undertaken by the government to reorganize the pre-
sent structures and achileve a more systematic formulation of the educational
development strategy of the country. The reform of the first cycle second-
ary schools and the introduction of a new type of vocational school ("Tech-
nicum") are considered as pre-conditions for reorientine technical education
in Algeria and for introducing the concept of comprehensive or multilateral
education at the senior secondary level.  In an effort to overcome the bottle-
necks created by the old system, a new type of secondary and/or post-secondary
institution -- The Institute of Technology -- has been created, which breaks
tXrough the traditional pattern by providing intensive job-oriented training,
new teaching methodologies, new specializations, more flexible entry require-
ments and more suitable examination procedures.
iii.      In February 1971, a Bank education reconnaissance mission identified
an education investment program which would help supply the scientific and
technical personnel required to sustain the process of economic and social
development of Algeria and support the ongoing reform of the education syst=-,
particularly at the gpc6nd and third levelA. The wrnoea' pro3ee, al#hougg
small, would represent a first step in the implementation of that progran.
By concentrati.ng on technological institutes, it would support the gov   cdis
efforts at expanding and reorienting technical education and would help fill
manpower  Ibortges Xn criUcal Bectors of the Algerian economy such as agri-
culture, natural gas, mining and metallurgy, plastics, construction materials,
mechanical construction and electrotechnology.
iv.       The project would include:
(i) a new Technician Center of the Algerian Petroleum Institute
at Setif and expansion of another Technician Center of the
same Institute at Oran;



- ii -
(ii)  supplementary equipment for the new Institute of tining and
Metallurgy at Annaba;
(iii) expansion of the Institute of Agricultural Technology at
Mostaganem; and
(iv) about 13 man-years of technical assistance to finance a pre-
investment study of the Institute of Light Tndustry and to
assist in project implementation.
v.        The project would cost US$10.2 million equivalent, including contin-
ge.cies.  Construction costs are based on detailed schedules of acm!m8ation
=8d eontract prices for similar work, and are reasonable.  Construction would
be carried out by government-designated local firms and, except for the pro-
posed field units of the Institute of Agricultural Technology, would not be
financed by the proposed loan. Contracts for furniture and equipment would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
V-.       The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$6.0 million
equivalent, for a term of 25 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The
loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of construction of the field
units for the Institute of AgriculturAl Teehnology, the technical assistance
program, furniture and equipment as well as the ex-factory price of furniture
and equipment awarded to local manufacturers under international competitive
bidding. The loan would be equivalent to about 59% of the estimated total
project cost.



I.. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In February 1972, an IBRD reconnaissance-in-depth mission identi-
fied an education investment program which would support the ongoing reform
of the educational system and provide the basis for a long-term lending plan
for education. Of the two groups of possible project items included in that
program, the first was designed to help supply the engineers, physicians and
scientists required to sustain economic growth and the Algerianization pro-
cess, and included four Technological Institutes and a University of Science
and Technology. The second group, which would reinforce the reform and ex-
pansion of secondary education, consisted of about 8,000 additional student
places in a new type of middle (first cycle secondary) school, 8,000 - 10,000
places in multilateral secondary schools, 2 teacher training colleges and an
education research center.
1.02      Preparation of the first group of project items was undertaken by
the government and a formal application was submitted to the Bank in September
1972. Due to delays in designing the pedagogical programs for the University
of Science ard Technology and in view of the urgent need for the first group
of project items, it was agreed with the government that the Bank should con-
sider these items by themselves and postpone appraisal of the University to
a later stage. The project was appraised in November/December 1972 by an TBRD
mission consisting of Messrs. A. de Capitani (economist), J. Crosnier (agricu-
tural educator), A. S. Kinawy (architect), J. S. McNown (technical educator)
and W. C. Forsman (specialist in plastics technology, consultant).
1.03      The project was modified during appraisal.  It was enlarged by (i)
including additional equipment for the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy,
(ii) expanding the technical assistance program to finance a comprehensive
pre-investment study of the Institute of Light Industry and to assist in
project implementation, and (iii) including, at the request of the govern-
ment, a new technician center at Setif and an extension to an existing
technician center at Oran. These additions were more than offset by the
reductions: the number of field units and vehicles for the Institute of
Agricultural Technology were reduced; and the government agreed .o withdraw
the request for the financing of a new complex of the Algerian Petroleum
Institute at Boumerdes, which was not justified in terms of the projected
increase in the demand for petroleum engineers.



-2-
II. ECON5OMIC DEVELOPMXNT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
The Changing Structure of the Algerian Society
2.01      The decade of the 1960's has been for Algeria a period of rapid
social and economic change. Prior to independence in 1962, the Algerian
economy was closely linked to that of France with its production and trade
geared largely to the French market. The bulk of the modern sector was
owned by the 900,000 expatriates living in Algeria. Nearly all high adminis-
trztlon and management positions were occupied by expatriates while less
than 10% of jobs requiring technical and professional skills in administra-
tion, agriculture and industry were held by Algerians. At the beginning
of the 1960's, literacy had spread to only 10% of the population and less than
1,000 Algerian students were enrolled in higher education. Following the
massive departure, mostly in 1962, of residents of European origin, the
Algerian government had to manage the administration and the economy with
an extremely limited number of trained personnel, while faced with problems
of rapid population growth, declining production and increasing unemployment.
2.02      In the years following independence, Algeria succeeded in building
up an administrative and economic management capacity. The new Algerian gov-
ermnent, grown out of the revolutionary movement, opted for a one-party sys-
tem and a reconstruction of society along socialist lines. In the adminis-
tration, ultimate responsibilities were placed in the hands of Algerians.
In rmore technical assignments, many foreign experts were appointed. The
nationalization of most of the foreign capital stock, the lack of indigenous
private capital and entrepreneurship as well as the prevailing political con-
ditions promoted the development of a centrally controlled economy. Between
1963 and 1971, most modern industrial, financial and trade activities were
gradually taken over by public enterprises.
Economic Growth Since Independence
2.03      The pattern of economic growth in the 1960's was heavily influenced
by tae resource endowment of the country and the aspiration for economic in-
dependence. The limited availability of water for irrigation and the stag-
nant conditions of traditional agriculture induced the government to place
the highest priority on exploitation of minerals, particularly oil and nat-
ural gas, and on industrialization. It was felt that heavy industries would
create better opportunities for a subsequent integrated growth of the other
sectors. In addition, industries replacing imports such as textiles and shoes
were developed.
2.04      Petroleum and natural gas is the leading sector of the economy,
accounting for almost 18% of GDP, about 80% of exports earnings and 35% of
glovernment revenues. The expected rapid increase of exports of liquefied
natural gas (from 1.5 billion cubic meters in 1971 to about 45 billion in
1980) will further accelerate the growth of total revenues, which is pro-
jected to average about 12% p.a. in the period 1973-1980. Due to its highly



-3-
capital intensive technology, the sector's direct contribution to employment
g,eneration has been - and will continue to be - very limited: between 1973
and 1980 it is expected that only 10,000 new jobs will be created (Annex 2).
The indirect effects on other sectors are likely to be more important: ifn
particular, the petrochemicals sector is expected to grow very rapidlv (15%
p.a.), creating about 15,000 additional jobs.
2.05      In the rest of the mining sector, iron ore is by far the most im-
portant mineral (reserves are estimated at 2 billion tons). The goverrment's
policy of creating a substantial local metallurgical industry is likely to
result in accelerated growth of the sector:  by 1980, production is projectcd
to be three times as much as it was in 1970. Net job generation 1973-1 980
should be about 6,000.
2.06      The manufacturing sector has been growing at about 10% p.a. in
real terms since 1963.  It accounts now for about 13% of GDP and 14% of
total non-agricultural employment.  Import substitution was a major determi-
nant of industrial investments throughout the 1960's and it is likely to
remain so in the medium-term, particularly for intermediate products. At
the same time, increasing emphasis is being placed on industries such as
steel, mechanica] construction, electrotechnology, chemicals and construction
materials to reinforce the industrial base of the country and to re;uce the
foreign exchange content of locally manufactured commodities. Output could
increase at about 10%'-12% p.a. between 1973 and 1980 thereby sustaining
a growth in employment from 166,000 to about 296,000, provided that the 7rain
constraints - size of domestic market and shortages of skilled workers -
could be overcome.
2.07      Agriculture (about 9% of CDP and 60% of total employment in 1971)
has been stagnating in recent years, partly due to the prdgressive agin.- Cf
vineyards and citrus plantations, increasing restrictions on French imrorts
of Algerian wine and the inevitable "gestation lags" associated with ongoing
reconversion programs.  A major feature of Algerian agriculture is the s:harp
dualism between the socialist and private sectors.  The socialist sectcr com-
prises about 2,000 "self-managed" farms with about 135,000 permanent and
100,00() temporary workers.  These farms - wlich were created by the French
"colons" and are now administered jointly by workcers' committees and govern-
inent representatives - cover about 1/3 of the cultivated area, use relative-
ly advanced teclhniques and contribute about 60% of total agricultural ou:^up¢
The private sector consists mostly of small traditional farms in the pnSrar
parts of the country, where about 950,000 permanent and 150,000 temwporaz
wiorkers are employed. As part of the ongoing agrarian reform, efforts are
being made to establish cooperatives of viable size, to be supported with
extension services, credit facilities and supply of fertilizers, improved
seeds and machinery. The scarcity of trained agricultural manpower is,
however, a major obstacle to the proposed organizational and technological
improvements:  in 1970, Algeria had only 350 agricultural engineers and less
than 650 agricultural technicians.



-4-
Economic Development Strategy: Leading Issues
2.08      In spite of the rapid growth of the Algerian economy and profound
social transformations, many problems of the 1960's persist. The population
continues to increase at more than 3% per annum, 25% of the urban active
population is unemployed and 40-50% of the rural labor force is under-employed;
income differentials among regions and groups remain significant; and a large
number of foreign professionals and technicians (16,000 in 1970) are still
needed to fill the gaps caused by shortages of technically qualified personnel.
When the Development Plan 1970-1973 was prepared, the Algerian
strategy of development was based on the assumption that population growth
and unemployment are long-term issues to be solved through rapid economic
development. Accordingly, priority was given to the objectives of accelerat-
e1 industrialization, agricultural modernization, institution building, eco-
nomic independence and Algerianization of the labor force. While these re-
main basic objectives of the economic development strategy, increasing em-
phasis is being placed on the problems of a more balanced distribution of
investments among regions, improvement of income distribution and poverty
redress.  Education is considered an essential policy instrument to achieve
these targets (paras. 2.10 and 3.08).
Manpower Requirements
2.10      The size of the education and training effort required to implement
this development strategy is indicated by a comparison of overall manpower
requirements 1970-1980, as estimated by the Ministry of Planning, and the
present output of the educational system (annexes 3 and 4). Over the period
1970-1980, the average annual needs for professionals and middle-level tech-
nicians are projected at about 7,600 and 10,200 respectively. 1/ The present
output from the educational system is about 3,000 and 6,000 respectively.
2.11      Within the framework of this projection, a more detailed forecast
of requirements for scientific and technical personnel in agriculture, hydro-
carnons, petrochemicals, mining and heavy industries was carried out by the
mission (Annex 5) and is summarized below:
1/   This assumes full Alg,erianization of the labor force by 1980.  If a con-
stant level of expatriates' employment is projected, the estimated annual
requirements for professionals and middle-level technicians would be
about 6,400 and 9,800 respectively.



- 5 -
Estimated Average Annual Training Needs 1973-1980
Engineers     Middle-Level
Technicians
1.  Agriculture                             850            2,100
2. Petroleum, Natural Gas and
Petrochemicals                        250              700
3. Mining, Mletallurgy, Construction
Materials, Mechanical Construction
and Electrotechnology                 750            2,700
2.12      In all caE:es but one, the capacity output from the existing spe-
cialized institutes falls substantially short of projected demand at both
levels. Given the shortages of middle and high level personnel in all sectors
of the economy, it is unlikely that non-specialized institutions can make up
the gap, at least in the medium-term. A substantial expansion of Technologi-
cal Institutes in the fields mentioned above is'therefore justified. The only
exception is represented by hydrocarbons, where the increased demand for spe-
cialized engineers could be met through better utilization of existing fa-
cilities. In this case, however, a restructuring of enrollments would be
required to give more emphasis to specialties such as natural gas and plas-
tics, which are expected to be in great demand. In these two fields, avail-
able projections also indicate a substantial growth of demand for middle
level technicians. Over the next 10 years, average annual needs are estimated
at 70-80 liquefied natural gas technicians and 50-60 specialists in plastics
technology. At present, no facility is available for their training.



-6-
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
The Traditional Education System (Charts 7430 and 6559-R)
3.01      The structure of the formal education system in Algeria is largely
patterned after the traditional French model (Chart 6559-R). Until 1970, the
education system consisted of (i) a six-year primary course normally begin-
ninp at the age of six; (ii) a two-year post-primary course for those unable
to gain admission to secondary schools; (iii) a secondary course of seven
years in the lycees, or -- for those who failed to qualify for the lycees -
a f,ur-year course in separate schools which offered general education (Col-
leges d' Enseignement General); -and (iv) post-secondary courses of three to
six years duration at the universities or other third level institutions.
Since 1970, the secondary level has been divided into a first cycle of 4 years,
leading to the "Brevet" certificate, and a second cycle of 3 years, leading
to the "Baccalaureat" diploma. Education is free and (in principle) compul-
sory between the age of 6-13.
3.02      The priority which has been assigned to education is reflected in
the rapid increase in enrollments at all levels (Annex 6). Since 1962-63
enrollments have more than doubled in primary education, have quintupled in
secondary education and have increased more than tenfold in higher education.
In 1971-72, public primary schools enrolled over 2 million students (63.7% of
the age group), secondary schools enrolled 287,000 (13.5% of the age group)
and higher education 29,000 (2.4% of the age group). At the same time, due
to sustained efforts to increase the supply of qualified teachers, the per-
centage of qualified teachers in primary education increased from 23% in 1962
to 77% in 1972. The percentage of primary school teachers who are Algerian
has remained approximately constant at about 65%. In secondary education, a
teacher-pupil ratio of 1:26 has consistently been maintained, at the cost of
increasing expatriate teachers from 52% in 1962 to 58% in 1972, with particu-
larly heavy concentration of expatriates in all types of second cycle second-
ary education. At the third level, foreign teachers are still the majority;
moreover, only 15% of the Algerian teachers are in the higher categories of
staff.
3.03      While measures have been taken to overcome the constraint imposed
by the shortage of qualified Algerian teachers (para. 3.06), other structural
imbalances and bottlenecks have emerged in the education system. Both the
internal efficiency and the external productivity of education in Algeria re-
main critically low, as evidenced by growing dissatisfaction with the quality
and quantity of output from the formal system and by the high wastage, repeti-
tion and final examination failure rates. As a result, unit costs per gradu-
ate are high and completion rates are low: in primary education about 30% of
puDils drop out before prade 4; in secondary education less than 60% of en-
rolled students finish the first cycle and only 15% the second cycle; in
higher education only 20% of the students graduate and most are eliminated
after the first year.  Regional inequalities in the distribution of education-
al opportunities are marked: whereas in the Algiers area there is an 80%



participation rate in primary education, this rate is as low as 22% in the
Medea region. The percentages of girls enrolled, 38%, 28% and 8% at the three
levels, show no appreciable improvement over the 1963 figures. Lastly, the
growth of technical education throughout most of the 1960's has lagged behind.
Tn particular, at the third level, enrollment distribution continues to be
heavily biased against engineering and agricultural sciences (only 6% of
total enrollment) as well as against natural sciences (15%).
Reorganization of the Education System
3.04      In these circumstances, the government has recognized that radical
changes are required in the structure and contents of the education system
to increase its efficiency and relevance, and to improve the distribution of
educational opportunities. Given the inevitable resistances and delays as-
sociated with any overall reform of the formal system and the need to in-
crease the output of trained personnel in the shortest possible time, partial
reorganization measures had to be taken.
3.05      One of these measures was the decision to replace gradually the
existing vocational schools with a new type of vocational school ("Technicum'`),
complemented by a network of vocational training centers for adults. Tradi-
tionally, vocational training was provided in the "Colleges d'Enseignement
Technique" (C.E.T.) and in general took the form of three-year courses after
grade 7. On the whole, these schools have been a failure: the level of entry
is too low, curricula are out of line with industrial needs and instructional
equipment is inadequate. As a result, drop out rates are high, the percent-
age of candidates who obtain the craftsman's certificate (Certificat d'aptitude
professionelle) is low, and only a small minority of these are able to gain
employment in the craft for which they have supposedly been trained. The
Technicums - some of which are already in operation - offer a four-year course
following two years of general secondary education, divided into lower and
upper stages ("paliers"), each lasting two years. The vocational training
centers for adults, originally intended to provide accelerated courses of
6-9 months duration in craft skills, have now been extended to include part-
time and full-time upgrading courses of up to two years duration at both
craft and supervisory levels. Many of these centers are associated with in-
plant training schemes, which in most cases were set up as part of the invest-
ment in new or expanding enterprises.
3.06      Another step towards the reorganization of the education system
has been the creation of a new type of institution - the Institute of Tech-
nology.  This institution, which is intended to train middle-level technicians
as well as highly specialized professionals, breaks through the traditional
educational pattern in several ways: typically, recruitment is not necessarily
based on examination certificate levels and credit is given for work experi-
ence; programs are worked out in terms of actual job recuirements; new spe-
cializations are offered; the curriculum is a combination of in-school and
on-the-job training; teaching methodologies are flexible, practical and
student-oriented; the school year extends over eleven months; and examination



procedures are geared to test professional competence rather than academic
proficiency.  Since 1Ek9, a number of institutes of this type have been set
up for mining, petroleum technology, agriculture, commerce, planning, tourism,
public works, mechanics, topography, public health, telecommunications, each
undec the authority of the technical Ministry concerned. Also, many ex-
isting teacher training colleges have been converted into Technological In-
stltutes of Education to increase the output of much needed primary and second-
ary teachers (para. 3.02). While perfectly justified as an imaginative edu-
cational innovatioa as well as a flexible way to meet pressing manpower needs,
this approach has led to some duplication, overlapping and wastage of human
and financial resources (but the misallocation of resources would have been
mur1- greater with a straight expansion of the traditional system). The
Algerian Government is increasingly aware that any further expansion of the
system of Technological Institutes will have to be selective, carefully plan-
ned and coordinated with the development of university education. In the
long run, most, if not all, Technological Institutes are expected to be ab-
sorbed into the university system, as it becomes more responsive to the
economy's manpower needs.
3.07      A third element of the ongoing reorganization of education is re-
presented by the reform of the university system. At present, there are
three universities in Algeria (Algiers, Oran and Constantine), with various
"Faculties", "Institutes" and "Grandes Ecoles", in such areas as science,
medicine, law and economics, commerce, engineering, architecture, agronomy
and literature. The structure is basically French; and so are most of the
teachers. The university system has been increasingly attacked over the'last
few years as being elitist, unduly selective, traditionally-oriented and there-
fore largely irrelevant to the new needs of the Algerian society and economy.
A IJnlversity Reform Law was approved in 1971, which introduced a number of in-
novations, including the adoption of the "department" to the exclusion of the
rigid "faculty" organization, the division of the academic year into semesters
or trimesters to facilitate credit earning by the students and the adoption of
r,ore flexible curricula to improve horizontal transfer possibilities.  At the
same time, increased emphasis is being placed on Universities of Science and
Technology:  two will be built under the next Four-Year Plan 1974-1977 (at
Algiers and Oran), and others are expected to be established before 1980.
By that time, total enrollments at the third level are expected to be over
100,(00 and the annual output about 12,000 (Annexes 7 and 8).
Education D)evelopment Strategy
3.03      The education and training system in Algeria has been assigned three
major functions within the framework of the overall economic development strat-
egy. First, the system is expected to respond quickly to the demand for skilled
manpower generated by the rapid growth of the economy. Secondly, education
should support the nolicy of reinforcement of national culture, Algerianiza-
tion of the labor force and economic independence. Thirdly, education is
considered as the most effective way of improving social mobility and redress-
ing Income disparities between groups and regions.



-9-
3.09      Although a broad consensus on these objectives seems to exist in
Algeria, as well as a widespread dissatisfaction with the performance of the
existing education system, the actual planning and programming of a long-term
educational development strategy have moved slowly. A National Committee for
Educational Reform, composed of 80 members representing various interests in
the educational field, has been set up and has been debating reform issues.
Some of the main topics being discussed concern the management of the educa-
tional system, the reform of its structure, curricula development, the gen-
eralization of the use of Arabic as a medium of instruction, and improvements
in the distribution of education opportunities by socio-economic groups, re-
gions and sexes. Among the problems on which a government decision will have
to be taken soon are: (i) the new structure of the first cycle of secondary
education and its relationship with the "Technicums"; (ii) a further reorgan-
ization of vocational and technical education; and (iii) the introduction of
the concept of multilateral education at the senior secondary level.
Education Finances (Annexes 9 and 10)
3.10      According to present plans, total enrollments in public schools are
expected to increase from about 2.3 million in 1971-72 to about 4.3 million
in 1980-81, or at about 7% p.a. By 1980, over 50% of Algerians in the age
group 6-23 are expected to be in the school system. The financing of such a
program (Annex 10) would involve an annual increase of 9.7% in spending for
education over the period 1970-1980. By 1980, public recurrent expenditures
on education are expected to absorb about 27% of total government current
revenues, while the cost of the investment program for education 1972-1980
is estimated at about 11% of the total public investment program.  Total
education expenditure in 1980-81 would thus be close to 10% of GDP.
3.11      While these percentages are higher (and in some cases much higher)
than those found in most other developing countries with the same per capita
income, they are not significantly out of line with Algeria's present educs-
tional expenditures. In fiscal year 1970 - the last year for which consoli-
dated accounts of total government expenditures on education are available -
Algeria spent for education some 1,855 million dinars, or 9% of GDP. in the
same year, recurrent expenditures on education represented about 27% of total
current expenditures of the government, and capital expenditures absorbed
rore than 36% of the capital budget. In view of the increased expenditures
by the Ministries of Education in 1971 and 1972 (Annex 9), these percentages
probably have increased further over the past two years.
3.12      Significant changes are expected in the pattern of expenditure on
education (Annex 10). In 1980, higher and secondary education will absorb
some 12% and 48% of recurrent expenditure on education, as compared with 7%
and 32% respectively in 1970. The share of primary education will be reduced
from 40% in 1970 to 37% in 1980. These changes are consistent with the pro-
jected shift in the composition of total student population (Annex 7) and the
increased emphasis on vocational and technical education.



- 10 -
3.13      Three major factors will influence the financial feasibility of the
planned educational growth in Algeria. First, continuity will be required in
the country's development strategy which firmly supports education while al-
lowing only modest increases in other social sectors. Secondly, severe res-
traints will have to be exercised on the growth of teacher salaries and fel-
lowships, and efforts will have to be made to eliminate duplication and wast-
age associated with the present educational structure (para. 3.03). And
thirdly, the present policy of trying to reduce the cost of construction per
student place through standardization of design and construction and careful
planning of school locations will have to be extended to all levels of educa-
tion and rigidly enforced.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would represent the first phase of a larger
program designed to (i) help supply the scientific and technical personnel
required to sustain the process of economic and social development in Algeria
and (li) promote and support structural reforms in the education system, par-
ticularly at the second and third levels. This project would support the
ongoing expansion and reorganization of technical education and help fill
manpower shortages in critical sectors of the Algerian economy such as agri-
culture, natural gas, mining and metallurgy, plastics, construction materials,
mechanical construction and electrotechnology.
4.02      The proposed project would include:
(i) a new Technician Center of the Algerian Petroleum Institute
at Setif and expansion of another Technician Center of the
same Institute at Oran;
(ii)  supplementary equipment for the new Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy at Annaba;
(iii) expansion of the Institute of Agricultural Technology at
-ostaganem; and
(iv)  about 13 man-years of technical assistance to finance a pre-
investment study of the Institute of Light Industry and to
support the administration of the project.
4.03      Detailed data on the proposed Institutions are given in Annex 11,
and are summarized below (data on new student places include replacement of
provisional facilities):



- 1 1 -
New
Student         Enrollment           Output
Type of Institution             Grades Places  Existing Additional Total Capacity
Algerian Petroleum Institute:
-Technician Center at Oran        14      100      420       100       520    380
-Technician Center at Setif  13-14        100        0       100       100     45
Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy (Annaba):
-Technician Section            11-14   1,800       250    1,550    1,800    380
-Engineering Section           14-18   1,200       280       920    1,200    170
Institute of Agricultural
Technology (Mostaganem)       14-17   2,000    2,000    2,000    4,000    850
The Algerian Petroleum Institute (A.P.I.)
4.04      The Algerian Petroleum Institute was created in 1965 to fulfill a
two-fold function: to develop programs for training technicians for the pet-
roleum industry and to offer courses which would convert scientists and engi-
neers with degrees in other fields into specialists in the various phases of
petroleum technology. In 1971, the Institute also started an undergraduate
program to educate engineers for the exploration, production and refining of
petroleum as well as in new specialties such as plastics technology, liquefied
natural gas, applied chenistry (of substances other than hydrocarbons) and
combustion in motors.
4.05      The Institute presently enrolls 50 - 60 students in post-graduate
courses at Dar el Beida, 420 students in technician courses at Oran, and about
300 students in undergraduate courses which are taught in temporary quarters
borrowed from the National Institute of lHydrocarbons at Boumerdes. The Tech-
nician Center at Oran also serves as a base for exploration work in the Sahara
and for training of skilled workers in drilling at Hassi-messaoud.
4.06      The enrollment in the existing Technician Center at Oran has been
arowin,- rapidly over the past few years.  Since its creation in 1967, the
school has produced over 1,000 technicians in geology, drillilng, oil production,
petrochemistry, drafting and mechanical engineering. The level of entry is
normally the baccalaureat In mathematics or technology.  For those alreadv em-
ployed in industry for at least three years, a somewhat lower level of academic
achievement is sometimes accepted. The courses are intensive, comparativelv
short (6 to 18 months) and closely oriented to meet manpower needs and techni-
cal requirements of specific jobs. Training includes periods of on-the-job
training in industry and field work. Graduates are much in demand by industry.



- 12 -
'he proposed expansion would consist of a new section for liquefied natural
>is catering for about 100 students. The projected output (70-80 liquefied
natulial gas technicians a year) would meet the estimated manpower requirements
in this sector over the next 10 years (para. 2.12). Curricula and syllabi,
space standards as well as basic equipment lists have already been prepared
with the assistance of the Chicago Gas Institute, and are satisfactory.
4.07      The proposed new Technician Center at Setif would have an enroll-
ent of 100 students in a 2-year course after grade 12 and would produce about
45 soecialists a year in plastics technology, in line with projected manpower
reouirements (para. 2.12). Courses would have a strong practical orientation,
and periods of on-the-job training in industry (for a total of about 2 months
a year) would be organized. The Center would be located in a new government-
owned industrial complex, which is being built at Setif for the production of
.lastic films and sacks.  In order to minimize expenditure on highly special-
ized equipment, the government has provided an assurance that students and
instructors from the Center would be allowed to make adequate use - as re-
asonably determined on the basis of curriculum requirements - of the special-
ized equipment and facilities installed in the new plants.
4.0"      An outline of nrograms of study, space standards as well as a pre-
limirnary equipment list were prepared or revised by a Bank consultant, and
are icceptablc. Courses would be provided in chemical properties and appli-
cations of plastics materials, processing techniques, operation and handling
of ecuipment, materials testing, quality control and production planning.
Detailed curricula, syllabi and master equipment lists are being prepared by
the Educational Development Corporation in Boston, Massachusetts, and would be
, trovided by the government to the Bank for review. The Bank's agreement that
the curricula are consistent with the outline of study programs already
accepted and that the equipment lists are consistent with curricula require-
ments would be a condition of disbursement on this project item.
The Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (IMMA)
4.09      The new Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, wlich is being built
at Annaba under an agreement with the USSR, will enroll at full capacity
about 3,000 students - 1,200 in engineering courses of 5-6 years duration
and i,800 in technician courses of 4 years duration. The basic speciali-
zations will be mining, metallurgy, building mkaterials, mechanical construc-
tion, electrotechnology and chemistry. Most of the necessary equipment and
furniture will be provided by the USSR. This project would provide about
US$2.1 million of supplementary equipment including a small computer, which
the lJSSR is not in a position to supply.
4.10      At present, the 530 students of the Institute - the only one of
Chis type in Algeria - are temporarily accomnodated in the National Insti-
tute of Hydrocarbons at Boumerdes (engineering courses) and in a Vocational
Training Center at Annaba (technician courses).  The first phase of construc-
tion of the new complex will be completed before the beginning of the next
academic year and will house students in the first three years of the engin-
eering program and the first two years of the technician course.  Total en-
rollments are planned to grow to 1,600 by 1975, while full capacity will be



- 13 -
reached by 1980.  The normal entry classes will then be about 200 engineer-
inR students and 450 technician students per year, with an estimated output
of 170 and 380, respectively. This would represent about 23% and 14% of the
projected annual requirements for engineers and middle level technicians in
heavy industries over the period 1973-1980 (para. 2.11).
4.11      Condition of entry into the engineering courses is normally a
baccalaureat in science and mathematics, but acceptable candidates without
baccalaureat nmust enroll first in a preparatory year; the completion of the
first cycle of secondary education is required for technician students. At
both levels, a national competitive examination screens the candidates. Cur-
ricula are generally well planned, with emphasis on actual production proces-
ses used in the Algerian industry. After initial courses common to all stu-
dents (tronc commun), students receive specialized training during the last
two years. The last year includes preparation of a thesis or dissertation
and a period of in-plant training (mise en situation professionelle).
4.12      Although the Institute plans to recruit part of its teaching
staff from thp University of Algiers and, in duie course, to train its own
teachers, most of the staffing will be dependent upon expatriates for some
years to come. Under the agreement with the USSR, it is expected that over
the next 5 years about 80% of specialized teachers will be Russian.
4.13      No problem of compatibility between the Russian equipment and the
proposed supplementary equipment is expected to arise, since the latter
would consist of specialized units readily separable from the rest, such
as a small computer, library materials, electronic components for a langu-
age laboratory, audio-visual aids, a printing shop, photographic instruments,
a material testing laboratory, a specialized xworkshop and two specialized
physics laboratories. All this equipment responds to well defined curricula
needs and the projected rates of utilization are satisfactory.
4.14      In order to ensure better pedagogical results and a higher cost/
effectiveness of the proposed computer, the government has provided an as-
surance that computer instruction and course related practice at I.M.M.A.
would not be limited to the third year courses, as originally proposed, but
would be provided for the entire duration of studies. In addition, in order
to obtain the most appropriate and least expensive configuration of computer
facilities, assurances have been provided that a study on the proposed computer
would be prepared and presented to the Bank for comments. This study would
determine the computational requirements of curricula, the anticipated program
of work for the computer, the projected rates of utilization, the maintenan_e
and staffing requirements and how these will be met, as well as a comsarison
of available machines costing not more than the budgeted amount (US$500,000).
The Bank's agreement on the proposed computer work program and the type of
equipment needed, based upon the findings of this study, would be required
before reimbursement for the purchase of the computer would be authorized.
The Institute of Agricultural TechnoJaogy (IAT)
4.15      The proposed extension of the Institute of Agricultural Technology
at Mostaganem would provide four additional specialized workshops -- one



- 14 -
each in topography, agricultural production, machinery and animal husbandry for
the third and fourth year students -- 130 field units (ateliers eclates) for
practical training and 18 vehicles. The elimination of the present con-
straints imposed by the lack of practical work facilities will permit an
expansion of enrollment from 2,C00 to 4,000 and a more practical orienta-
tion of courses - which already embody a considerable amount of field work
carried out on cooperative state farms (30% of total instruction time for
the first three years of study). At full capacity, the Institute is expected
to produce about 850 specialists a year, in line with projected manpower require-
ments of the economy (para. 2.11).
4.16      The Institute - which is supported by a French program of technical
assistance - offers a four-year post-secondary course leading to a diploma at
the higher technician level (ingenieur d'application). The level of instruc-
tion is intermediate between the National Institute of Agronomy, which trains
degree-level agricultural engineers (ingenieurs de conception) and the
Regional Schools of Agriculture which train middle-level technicians.
other features of the Institute are the efficiency of school administration
and programming,, the interdisciplinary approach of curricula and the ex-
tensive use of modern educational technology (close-circuit television,
audio-visual aids, programmed instruction, team teaching, etc.).
4.17      Courses are organized in a common cycle of two years followed
by progressive specialization. A preliminary assignment of two months in
the field - which is in fact a sort of aptitude test - is organized for
the first year students. Periodic field assignments on state farms of up to
4 weeks duration are then provided during the second and third year for
interdisciplinary" teams of 4 - 5 students, usually supervised by one of
their colleagues of the fourth year. The students are supposed to spend a
Jarj(e part (10 months) of the last year again in the field, acquiring a
better knowledge of actual production processes, preparing a thesis and
providing technical assistance to the personnel of the state or cooperative
farms. Periodic field visits are made by instructors from the Institute.
4.18      At present, students in the field are accommodated in provisional
facilities in the Mostaganem area, in most cases borrowed from state farms.
The project would permit the creation of a national network of small field
units (40 - 70 m2) adjacent to selected state farms and provided with
sleeping space, an office and elementary eauipment. This network of units
would cover a wide spectrum of ecological and agricultural conditions. In
order to ensure proper utilization of the units, the government has provided
an assurance that their administration would remain under the responsibility
of the Institute. The provision of additional vehicles would ensure the
necessary mobility of both instructors and students. Existing arrangements
for rlintenance and storage of vehicles are satisfactory.
4.19      The staffing pattern for the pronosed expansion of the Institute
is, in g-eneral, acceptable. However, given the dangerous nature of drugs
and chemical products to be handled in the Pathology Unit of the Animal
Husbandry Workshop, the government has provided an assurance that a qualified
veterinarian (Docteur Veterinaire) would be appointed to the Pathology Unit
when the Animal Hlusbandry Workshop becomes operative.



- 15 -
Pre-Investment Study of the Institute of Light Industry
4.20      The Institute of Light Industry presently offers courses in textile
technology in provisional quarters borrowed from the National Institute of
Ilydrocarbons at Boumerdes. Total enrollment is about 350 students - 200 in
a four-year program for technicians and 150 in a five-year course for engineers.
The Institute plans to expand its activities to include programs in food pro-
cessing, leather, glass, cellulose and possibly other substances, in accordance
with the expected rapid development of Algerian light industries. The proposed
pre-investment study (about 9 man-years of specialists' services) would include
a survey of manpower needs of the sector, analysis of the functional contents
of high level technical jobs in various branches of light industry, design of
curricula and syllabi, and preparation of detailed schedules of accommodation
and equipment lists.
Technical Assistance
4.21      In addition to the pre-investment study mentioned above, the proposed
program of technical assistance would include about four man-years of services
of educational material procurement specialists to assist in project implementa-
tion. The phasing of the proposed program is summarized in Appendix 1.



-16-
- -h  Project
estimated total cost, of the project is D.A. 41.d million or US$ 10.7
iurn equivalent. A breakdown by project items is given in the following table li:
D.A.   (Millions)        US$ (Nlllions)        3 of Base
Local             otal   Local             Total ine Costs
;.  .hysical Facilities
1.  A'gerian Petroleum
Institute:                2.74    6.67    9.41    0.67    1.63    2.30        27.4,
of which - Oran Center   1.33    3.19    h.52    0.32    0.78    1.10
-Setif Center   1.h1    3.48    4.89    0.35    0.85    1.20
2. In3titute of' Mining
and Metallurgy            o.86    7.72    8.58    0.21    1.89    2.10
3. Tnstitute of Agricul-
ti.ral Technology         5        7.63   13.07    1.33    1.87    3.20       38.2-
Sub-Total (a)          9.04   22.02   31.06    2.21    5.39    7.60        90.7-
1. Professional Services    0.79    0.34    1.13    0.19    0.08    0.27           3.24
2.  Technical Assistance
2..l Pre-investment
study                 0.28    1.11    1.39    0.07    0.27    0.34        4h.1
2.2 Project Adminis-
tration               Qo 0.58    0.72    0.03    0.l4    0.17              2.00
Sub-Total (b)         1.21    2.03    3.24    0.29    o.49    0.78         9.3
Base-1ine Costs              10.25   24.o5   34.30    2.g0    5,88    8.38    loo.o 
Cr n ti rlge c ie s
' nysical                 0.94    2.22    3.16    0.23    0.55    0.78         9.3%
P iPice Increase              1.19    3.11    4.30    0.29    0.76    1.05        12.5%
Sub-'Potal (d)        2.13    5.33    7.46    0.52    1.31    1.83        21.6%
Y13TAL PROJECT COSTS          12.38   293    41.76    3.02    7.19   10.21
JEst imated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 12.



- 17 -
4.23      Construction costs for the proposed prolect were estimated on the
basis of information obtained from private and public enterprises in Algeria,
as well as from a study on school building prepared by the Hiinistry of Edu-
cation for the Four-Year Plan 1970-73. Space standards are based on detailed
schedules of accommodations consistent with curricula requirements. Equip-
ment and furniture costs were calculated assuming reasonable unit prices for
each category of goods. Detailed lists with itemized costs would be compiled
during the design stage and presented for Bank approval before procurement.
Use factors for project schools would be economical (Annex 11).
4.24      The project cost would include a contingency allowance for unfore-
seen physical additions equal to 5°' of the estimated costs of professional
services, and 10% for construction, furniture and equipment. During the
project implementation period, prices are expected to increase at about 5,
p.a. for construction and professional services and 6% p.a. for furniture,
equipment and technical assistance, the projected growth being roughly ecual
for both foreign and local currency expenditures.  Total contingencies would
therefore arniount to about 21.8% of base line costs (9.3% for unforeseen physi-
cal additions and 12.5% for price increases) or about 17.9% of total costs
including contingencies (Annex 13).
4.25      The estimated foreign exchange component, including the construction
to be financed completely by the government, is US$7.2 million, representing
about 70% of total project cost. It was calculated as follows: (i) site
development and buildings, 50%; (ii) professional services, 30%; (iii) furai-
ture, 70%; (iv) equipment, 90%; and (v) technical assistance, 80%.
4.26      At full capacity, the project institutions would require about
D.A. 100 million a year in operating costs, corresponding to about 2.5% of
projected recurrent expenditure on education by 1980. In view of the high
priority assigned to educational development (para. 3.11), the government
can be expected to meet these expenditures, as well as its share of the capi-
tal costs.



- 18 -
Financial Plan (Annex 14)
4.27      The proposed loan would finance about 41% of the foreign exchange
cost of construction (para. 5.05), the foreign exchange component of techni-
cal assistance, and total expenditure for furniture and equipment (excluding
internal transportation and insurance). The balance would be financed by the
government budget. The proposed financial plan -- which is acceptable to
both the government and the Bank -- is summarized below:
Government            IBRD                Total
Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Amount Percentage
(US$ millions)
1. CLvil Works               2.76     79%       0.73      21%       3.49     100%
2. Professional Services   0.25       93%       0.02       7%       0.27      100%
3. Furniture                 0.03      10%      0.25      90%       0.28     100%
4. Equipment                 0.38      10%      3.45      90%       3.83      100%
5. Technical Assistance    0.10        20%      0.41      80%       0.51      100%
Base-Line Cost            3.52     42%       4.86      58%       8.38     100%
6. Contingencies             0.73      40%      1.10      60%       1.83      100%
Total                     4.25     42%       5.96      58%      10.21     100%
(say: 6.00  or 59%)
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Retroactive Financing
5.01      Some expenditures on the project (professional fees, technical assis-
tance, books and other instructional materials) are likely to be incurred by
the igovernment during the four months preceding Board presentation, in
order to avoid delays in the implementation of the pedagogical program. The
foreign exchange component of these expenditures is estimated to be about
$100,000, or 1.7% of the proposed loan.  Retroactive financing is recom-ended
for such expenditures provided that they are consistent with the Bank's guide-
line-r and the relevant sections of the loan agreement.
Project Administration
5.02      The project would be implemented through the Directors of the three
Institutes of Technology concerned. Each Director would be assisted by suit-
ably qualified personnel including an accountant, an architect and an educa-
tional equipment procurement specialist. The procurement specialists would



- 19 _
be financed by a portion of the project's technical assistance funds (para.
4.21). A project liaison officer to be appointed in the Ministry of Finance
would be responsible for ensuring coordination with the Ministries involved
in the project, particularly the Ministries of Industry and Agriculture, and
liaison with the Bank.
Professional Services
5.03      An adequate supply of qualified architects, civil engineers and quan-
tity surveyors is available in Algeria. The designing team for the field units
of the Institute of Agricultural Technology would be commissioned on terms ca.d
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Field supervision would be provided by
the Technical Services of the Ministry of Agriculture. Architectural and
engineering services as well as field supervision for other construction items
included in the project are expected to be provided by specialized government
firms (Bureaux d'Etudes).
Sites
5.04      The proposed field units would be constructed on farms owned by the
government and distributed over 19 administrative zones (Daira), already
selected by the government (Map). A complete list of sites for the proposed
field units would be submitted to the Bank prior to the commencement of con-
struction. Because of the small size and elementary structure of the units,
nlo problems are foreseen regarding suitability of sites. Adequate sltes are
available for all other project institutions.
Civil Works
5.05      The government's policy for civil works in education is that all
civil work contracts are to be awarded to national contractors in accordance
with local procurement regulations. Given the small size (40-70 m2) of the
proposed field units of the Institute of Agricultural Technology, their modest
unit cost (about US$11,000) and their dispersion among 130 sites scattered
over the country, international competitive bidding would not be practicable.
The foreign exchange costs of the field units constructed by local contractors
would be financed out of the proceeds of the loan.
5.06      Construction of the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy was started
at the beginning of 1971 by a government designated firm. The expansion of
the Algerian Petroleum Institute at Oran and Setif and the construction of
additional workshops for the Institute of Agricultural Technology at Mostaganem,
estimated to cost about US$1.2 million and US$1.1 million respectively, would
hp suitable for international competitive bidding, but have been reserved for
local firms selected in accordance with government practice. Therefore, con-
struction of these items would not be financed by the proposed loan. Teaching
areas and the space allocated for equipment to be financed by the Bank loan
would be adequate if architectural designs are based on presently proposed
space standards for the Technician Centers of the Algerian Petroleum Institute



- 20 -
at Oran and Setif and for the workshops of the Institute of Agricultural
Technology at Mostaganem. To confirm adequacy of design standards an assur-
ance was obtained during negotiations that architectural designs would be
submitted to the Bank for review upon their completion.
Procurement
5.07      Detailed lists of furniture and instructional equipment would be pre-
sent2d for Bank review prior to procurement. Items would be grouped to the
exteryt possible to form sizable packages to permit bulk procurement. Furniture
an4 (quipment contracts would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank's guidelines for procurement.  It is
exDe:ted that nearly all equipment and about 50% of the furniture will be ob-
tained from foreign manufacturers.
5.08      The normal range of import duties is 40-70% for furniture and 3-25%.
for equipment. The new Custom Tariff, promulgated on January 1, 1973, has
eliminated all tariff preferences on imports from the EEC.  At present, Algeria
does not participate in any regional trading arrangement.
5.09      Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a
mar-in of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duty applicable to
competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. Bid compari-
sons would be made in accordance with Bank's guidelines on the application of
domestic and regional preferences in bid evaluation.
Disbursement
5.10      Disbursement (Annex 15) would be on the basis of (i) 100% of the
c.i.f. cost or ex-factory price of furniture and equipment; (ii) 80% of total
expenlditure for technical assistance; (iii) 50% of total cost of civil works
to bej financed by the proposed loan; and (iv) 30% of related expenditure for
profe-ssional fees.  The percentages for civil works and technical assistance
would be adjusted as necessary to distribute disbursements over the implemen-
tation period. Undisbursed funds would be available for cancellation or for
use in other parts of the project.
Ialcmentation Sclhedule
5.11      The project would be implemented over a p-riod of three and one half
years. (Annex 16). Construction of the field units for the Institute of Agri-
cultural Technology will start in November 1974 and is expected to be completed
by September 1975. Delivery and installation of furniture and equipment for
all institutions would be completed by December 31, 1975, with one year allowed
.or ,uarantee and liabilities. The closing date would be December 31, 1976.
This implementation schedule is tight, reflecting the government's view of the
urgei.t nature of the project. Considering the government's achievement in
investmients on education, however, the implementation schedule is regarded as
real'.stic.



- 21 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(i) detailed curricula and equipment lists for the Technician Center
of the Algerian Petroleum Institute at Setif would be provided
by Government to the Bank for review (para. 4.08);
(ii) a study would be prepared and presented to the Bank for comments
to determine the computation requirements of curricula at the
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, the anticipated program of
work for the computer, the projected rates of utilization, the
maintenance and staffing requirements and how these will be met,
as well as a comparison of available machines costing not more
than US$500,000 (para. 4.14);
(iii) computer instruction and course-related practical training on
computers at the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy would be
provided for the entire duration of studies (para. 4.14).
6.02      The Bank's concurrence with the recommendations of the study on
computer requirements at the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, and the Bank
agreement that curricula for the Technician Center at Setif are consistent
with the outline of study programs already accepted and that equipment lists
are consistent with curricula requirements would be conditions of disbursement
on these project items (paras. 4.14 and 4.08).
6.03      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$6.0 million
equivalent to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for a term of
25 years including a grace period of 5 years.






Dhsto.    ootd to        Pblio  .o-    ..oLI-    tod-ot         Haigso Otadt                 ooot           lh..            f- (a   M....o
Oas    too Capita          (obto 00-   ts-td to   tri               frT-bo                        t           T----a        Agtoolote           pa
00-        (0010)              (00)
(1)             (0)           (3)             (4)                CS)             (6)           (7)                (9)         (       10)  (00 )         (01)   (0)                 (13)
Obo ealsslos.  f ~~o0d- od.soIoaa
s    -ta  o   tbs sooysts of                   "-ato  dstt                           1960          7.4 I          2,0100          99               73                4.3             9.0         99           04           44           60              12             04              72 9
*o   .&o-d,otOol d-ostpes-  bo-               Canad                                1970          21.4 F          3,290           90             309                 9.0            22.00        099E         25           so90         109             17              9             513
We., vaotsosa,s.lotss.  Osssoso, -  s.   Osody  Ps.  sP.                       1969         61.60 P         0,930 1         99               93                 .              9.1 9a                   20           461           20             201             2              230
beets .09.. poo.m,t date, otoos.  Jopot                            1~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~969  10.4?  1,9207          9050                               39             20.3         90           24           0             0               00                           309
ootlooslo~aosat sI.o,,Odba  00roobd         0toads1969                                         03.0 I           .430F 7        9               1M                 7.2            20.0         oO90         30           S0           41              19             25             20
.M S_ealosllo_   osts.p -satd ia                    ZtnLsas                              19)1           0.01           0,700?         99              119                 4.01           10.51        99           27          68..19                                                      029
oI.a folet   aboo bot -ss  oalsold                 Oo.-,y                                1910           0.9           0,900           99              160                6.7            07.5          90          03           71 0H0  0I                                   00              64a0
loogoly by 00.0 fotkaon          ft-                Osdo                                 1970           0.1 7         4,007           9                11                9.0            15.0         M0           10           0             51              14             14             040
goosoflaul *000100; lbs ossotodey 0    ftolls4 Kiogd-                       1969         35.7            20790 7         9)               94                5.              13.9         IS           00          593S                          18             06             099 9I
*-sflstls0   ats ft- HISS1.                  0. U.  1.                                   1970        004.08           4.700           99              033                3.8             06.0         97          25           94I.0                                         7            300
Iffot   osbs  -do  ro  oda              s
sot  da . s stil  U, ars   in .-..Ia
_epos,dtbssebtsso Loato                       0 . Coeo                              1971         9.?             1,2?90H3                                            0.0             9.309       99R         331          59            160             310            14?             90?6 
tap_oo   ob_  SroosvO    0o                          .oesd16                                           2.9 7S,07                      9                59                4.0            01.:4         931         33            40           0               1)C13                         136
L..10   f  t  opoettssl ooo.  00            3. SbaiM    197                                     3.9             1,020          94L              20                0.4             10.5         91           35          29            22 0            30             10              31 
sb-.s   M...rs  data  Ohs follo-to
,psllftoa -to   sAs-Id to boro. 10o.0:              40010
1)  7*100100" as Osflod to 1h.          4, Al1sot                            191          1.M0                             2S 0             Uo                9.0    0        9.0I .7     l440                     131                           20              6 
tal   oco!        altsA   ias  sod                5oere090                                            .510                          ..63.0                                             00.):        04           49           0            03              254
trOSg, fosL sod oc-foossl                       6.C. A, 1.                           19)           1.1               04           .                                  4.             00.                                                                                ...4 0100
I.lhMd                               1970          3.0                60            73B                              4.30           04.00         33           70           2             830                           .
2) -fotasr   s.os-lo  ref.r.t                   0  Cotta (0                           107          0.9               v0            302              1 4               3.              3.0          000         39            3            (0             2
sdoL=satafrtaolOI.tho.a191                                                                        0.7I0                                                               4.07           19.5          16          51            9                           3               1 
0eooostisoy"sdaoatln  otfeol ball    ~10. tabo                              1969          0.57              6307          30000                              931 3          (3.70        25           40!          10           19              100
edatofboostfl.osooatdarylooelrtosrd.  o(.tbots                    ~~~~ ~ ~~~~1970  1.631                        .                13                4.)            017           7            99                                                      R13               3
t.ssoftyps(a.9..stosrsl.oeobotrel.  13,o,ooytoaeo  0909  4.97             3107           04              10                4.00           09.4         44           4t            9             9             23~~~~~~~~~217 Q  7  2  a    M  B
sgrtoaltooal);               H.laoyo                               1~~~ ~ ~~~~            ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~9)  11.  13 009233                                  20.0          6           346          1                             0005
14.1.ho                                9)0          1.                 40          H1                 S                3.)            11.)         50           31          12X            6              16             020              9C
39    aoto.10oootbs  (0110.                     3.9001)                                            5.07                00          103                                4.69           32.3          9           40            4            6I1                           34 
Loooa   oooaoal4soool-t  t9ooo                                                          9)9         1.                 030           20                9                4.1            17.          365          35           1020                                         374
tarotsl, agrlaoitotat, ,soaolos.al 004  0). 016522.               ~~~~~~~1071  5.7                10?           ..33.09H                                            .           34          37            4           09              03             06                9
t.oaa.ooas,looooosoe;                 09~~~~~I. toss                          99          3.9               000           10               11P               3.9            001          40           4              0          20                              00A0
19. Ottaae                             90           09                 90?           716             4                 0.9            19.51C       30           30           13            70             25             1)               7C
4) "LIL-sy rate.  (CaL.3))t                    20. it-Its                              . 19)       2.8                 120          31.                                                6.70         9I0                                                                   H 000
oseallyahtsosdlrtasooytaoooeae.         21.lS.d-o                             19)0         15 .7              12.           ...              4435                             020          31          400431)2010
lo.esoytoo.etrltstC.yars otlyapproet- 21. Tsoasol                           101           037               10?                             4                4.             16.4         3)           43            2             9             29             11               3
sao Ioesdtoedobttalb-tsy                     23.O9ada                                9)           9.9               130          031                61.29                           04.39q       460          36           40           11~             21             12               5
-ofoso deflotlor  of                 h.laseWs 0. 24       ps  Volta                      19)0          3.4f 7              41 7                          2                4.0            07.9         10           45            7                            II2            6               1
boso foll1so   2saasol;03 et                                                             10)0         10.9                00           13                S                5.20           19.00        70           44           9            20              24              I               72a
2Otes-b s                             19)1          4,17              407 H        43?              22                 56             12.          890          30          00                            17              2               2
5) 30,4211 opadlto- lo .odooatt00"
7~009.4 s-d 6) --t 1 oser -s1osOOsd
=ttoro -o           -,pol.ra   d-vtd 00. 5    ~     09010  82( 1000911
b010   y pbolo sod 9 ..aa-poblio
es.ooLs.;                                         27.OCaosoo-                            10)           0.77               5407        00               30                 5.1            227.2         4           09          I6             0              25             10
20.loe-i-oooopbjtt                    1969          4.1?               3507        55                t                 2,9            12.           o0          56           17            1              Ot1                             6
6) t?olaotatU-          (Olslsd                2 Hioalvdoo                            199          3.57               3900         490              189               3.0            2.470         631         32           13C           321           .19C                              74L
9)eeetehopaedeoh                                   0   oto,                               90          32F                 50            849                                .0            17.          43           300000                                                   10               6
porototagsof oll9lbt oC,tlOro  sorollsd 31. Jlo-r                            1999         1.9 71             020 7        0                04                4.4            191           6I          52          .43             90            19             .                1A 
1.11-olos to tl.s apprtpotstssobool,  32.  -sol.                            1970         50.                 670         76               19                 0.0            17:.1        701          46           19           03C0            23             09 00
psbloso-d  olatb       -loi         lYar          33.91osa-o                             194           0.07               4307        53               102.4                             100          9            36           13            0              23             207             15
oft.  osbjeoti.  to .de   aaoo.         ro         36. Titotd  odoso                     101           1.0I7              09   9       0I40                               51             10.0         95           35          49            11              25             19              14
Is0.  alpo   tttla    019  t
sorolla.ots9    booallos,aflo-o            397.7 Ort                              19t9        90.0 7               400 7       605              10                3.0            14,           64          31           16I3C,.1  70 
foaqosolly 0700.697190 00,0084. tber of  30. ChiCo                ~~~~~       ~~1999  9.            700?        90               32                94             29:.17        900         40           3             31              702  C41
_tdsl  ataly Jt. stCioo.  Oeig-d             37 . lo-b                              1970         11.0                240         2411             123.7N 0                          00.          90, 0       2            10 0          0               14             09              30
std _t ts    _oo_eto  Is lodloat.d by,    30. aqodor                                1999          6.10               2007        492               07                3.00           21.5         71           3t          1             290             134            000             20
.ots   ls  Wso Iofst  tOo rotOrs,            39     ,y-s.99                                      0.7P1              370P7        93A4             15                3.0            14.1         9000         334          10SC           3C            20              30
42   aogo                             1970          2.4                100         79                                   .             14           091           6          11                             5             1023
61. Fot1971                                        12.6?               450?         7210..                                             4.5         g0           37           30           05              00             03             013
42. -soasl                          1970         10.4                69            .9             65                 4.9            21.2          0          3             3             20                             09
43.feioa(Mios)                        0021         14.07               390?         73               15                4.2            19.          9071         5 27F300F 9?                              057            92,7           179
44, lodts                              1971       539.1                1107         09                01               0.2S             .          790          434          281           64             006            1141             24
43.  -o.t9                            102,1      L115.9?                so?         59                1(4               I.S           03.07        7270         39           15I          06              101             I
44.  IrF17                                         0.                   I 0         37               Li                3.1            1.           60           23          23             3              30 7           23              50 
47.00.                                1970          973800                          06               19                6.0            16.          44          20           23             3              061?9
49. SoId.,                             19)0         0.                 232          53A              7.3               4.9            17.10        90           34a          35            9              00               I             40
49. K-s                               1971         3:1.8               '000         0$9             13.0               3.0            16.7        1900K         36          49            49              3t             09             017
5ILb-os                               1971          2.771              5901         06v            217                 4.0            21.0         29           16a         34            M90                             41200
31. Ilslsysos       1970         19.9                389          909             I)~~~~~ ~~~~ 4.)                  1939         59X0         31           091                          256            16              74
52. ?btltrptss190                                  36.9                210          7092.                                             29.         1190          30           81            S              36             10             45)
53. Oo_par                            1970          2.1                92            5              3                   .6            16.1         90           3           40120912
34. 19,911504               1~~~~ ~~~92  36.20               2001.I        2               01v               3.20           12.1         830          34           120          13              25             13              3)
353  OtrI)                            0999         35.  7T             3907        69 7              SA43.                            17.1         92 0         42           5x 0         U3              33             06              41
956Y. las  fAb RopbIlo                1971          377                 9      t    1                                  1.0             9.4P        12 a         40R           1H9          3H             19isH                             
eoahsooftt.otstl.e                                             3~ ~ ~~~                         ~~~            ~~~          ~         ~~                     ~~~~~~~0 55  045  7 5   7  56  -5     504
taoas                                                        75.9lC           71-991           (1 0-gIC        (6 3-30 35  06.1195~(5~99  (15  019.20  f-il          71.691       (13-361         11-093-        10457)
Q-Mr ..s.   UIpp                                                                    79              is                4.7             01.0         89           0            29           00              09701
Nadlso                                          39              10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  4.8  17.3        74           37           15           11              03a1                          921
37             4 3                      222'2
0 OsgalOndo Isis obso half of lola saployad  1 - 1997              7 - 200100900  OtosIrn .14                              Ool.,s (2)-d o)2sod
I I'- 9790                           V - Iooldtq  poit. eepsdlloa                           Ca.es.  (10)-(12)
-G a0))1   lotolo   asous  sodo.la                                                                    a   (13)           UNI00 MM   tooa   osbo
.-K  1972-USD S-0500B es                                                                                                 sodI






APPENDIX I
Schedule of Technical Assistance
Total
1974         1975                    Man-Years
a.  Pre-Investnent Study of
the Institute of
Light Industry
1.  Chief of Team                               XX XX          Xx                         1 1/2
2.  Expert in Manpower Analysis                 X X X          X                          1
3.  Specialist in Job Analysis                 X X X          X                           1
4.  Specialists in:
- Textiles                                 XX X X 
- Food Processing                          XXXX                                      1
- Leather                                  XX X X
- Class                                    XX X X 
- Cellulose                                Xx X X
Sub-total   $ 1/2
r.  Project Admini.stration
Educatirnal Equipment
Procurement Specialists                 X X x X      X X X x                      h
Sub-total   4
Grand total  12 1/2



ANMEX 2
A L G E R I A
Projection of ERnploMent bZ Sectors 1970 - 1980
(thousands)
Absolute
Beginning                              Increase
1920         1973         1980       19,-1980_
(actual}     (Pro -)    kpro;: )
1. Agriculture 1/                 1,337.0        1,337       1,300        (-)  37
2. Mining (excl. Petroleum)          13.5           16          22               6
3. Petroleum and Natural Gas         14.4           20          30              10
4. Manufacturing                    119.2          166         296             130
5. Construction                      87.6          170         290             120
6. Electricity, Gas and Water         6.2            6          12               6
7. Transport and Commuications       32.3           78         132             54
8. Commerce                         200.1          231         330              99
9. Other Non-Government Services   100.0           120         190              70
10. Government                       271.0          334         438             104
Total Employment             2,181.3       2,.478       3,040            562
Source: Secretariat d'Etat au Plan
j/ Excluding family wr-kerzs under 18 years of age.



-\.- _'--: t g~ i 
i >, ie.tr.fShu  ower KReguirerue!lts  ) 0- N60
\   OccsapattR.5aea         Frer5sie;i~ s rn               M.ildle level     |       killeJ Workers             Sem- Ski3led Worker.        |     lnskilled Workers              lro,'.i Msnowr 550,h
rawipe           Highler Technlicialls            ec;is.ns                                                                                                                    in 1)80
(roiin.e .f gores
o.eupat icoal CoaeCffcients_                                                                           ___         __
,rrtni b- R w: 1l  O )  _                              _____
l .  Agriculture                                 O0.005                         0,0.12                  0.027                                                         0.956                           1,300,000
2.  Manufacturing (1ln i. whning                  0.035                        0.1-11                   0.05                          0   h_f                         0.555                             360,000
and Electrility)
of which - ietroleumm  ani             (O.080)                      (0.120)                  (o0h70)                        (o.190)                        (0.120)                            (30,000)
Natura.al Gas
- Petrobhemiials             (0.032)                      (0.135)                  (o.o4o)                       (0-205)                         (0.588)                            (24,o00)
3.  Construction                                  0. 013                       0.067                    0.089                          o. 240                         0.591                             290,000
4.  Transport and Communication                   0.01?                        0.050                    0.150                          0.238                           0.550                            132,000
5 .  Commerce                                     0.010                        0.030                    0.100                          0.320                          0.540                             330,000
6.  Other Non Government Services                 0.027                        o.o43                    0.115                          0.307                           0.508                            190,ooo
7.  Government                                    0.151                        0.109                    0.3245                         0.253                           0.142                             43e,000
of which - Education                         (O.2248)                     (0.037)                  (o.658)                       (0.021)                         (0.036)                           (141,000)
- Health                           (0.261)                      (0*270)                  (0.032)                       (0.290)                         (0.147)                            (4l1,ooo)
- Other                            (0.080)                      (0.123)                  (0.222)                       (0-375)                         (0.200)                           (256,000)
8. KMNPOIwER REqUIREKIN7s
IN 1980                                   98,0OO                     147,00o                  310,000                        460,ooo                       2,025,000                       3,o040,0o0
(rounded figures)
9.  Minus: 1970 Algerian
Manpower StocF.
Surviving to 1980                      22,000                     145,000                  110,000                       240,o000                       1,320,000                       2 , 7^ 37, 000
10. NET DEK??D 197:0-19pf2                          76,ooo                     102,000                  200,000                       220,000                          705,000                       1      (O,3,r0
lU. AVERAGE ADNUAi. D?MAND
19(O - 1930                               7,600                       10,200                   20, 000                       22,000                           70,500                         I30,3')
Source:  Secretariat d Etat au Plan; staff L3tlmates
For the par-pose  ,r 'bip projection, the edoaaeatoraI haackgranah "required' fo- n.rh   >  *ph  iona            p groap
was defired a?s f oj orW7:
GroupX 'o-le                       ':upatlorasdCrocl Oh-dae l.fsh rifroal  a- round (Years of TIrairnling)
i,                            Zaaai,a;rs:siaaaefn Sal1  :;gtcr Issathraiaiaxrs       l'.-l; y,-5ail (:aes:plrtcaf rs'acradaory 271r001 p1r isa3-. ye ass of.,l  lrrafnsr')
2.                            GIrdle ?- ) ee   fel,a'l&l fra,.                        1-1~,sa   ( fI,'ot{mplraa rsec,aK5er-y a'uhor.l Isalacallra; 11s/e111' '/a,''lla.taAIl ratshalaai' 0
ari. :   yale:a.an, <>Aa ry pb' s     5-4ya1      aaj I raa]aala                                      I'
3.                  .          iai.ad  Worlr.-rak,                                                               - -5I  yeI,,y. (slnty y  aai laa  I -   ? yea- aa- a  r-aaaaaSs Cy    a  a:. 2-. ?-1, yr-m-)
41.                           Ote,sflarl led jl-,,errrS,                              (,*( yerars(a.arat/rWar0  er.ool pAulr ar.eot I Y.a)
'>.                                      W"frail )   ,/,, .-a;;                      Sea    a,1, W, '.era-,f'.   ,r,,re ',5,  55a5 ;aia !  ,idaals..



A 1, ; i F\ l A
F;olimenIt, g,raduates an)d Teae'1wrs h\ Level and Type of Education 1q71.72
ENROLLMENTS                    GRADUATEE-                         TEACHEESt,
I  in Public                                                                                       TEACHER
Tcta1         Schools        % Girls                          Algerian       Expatriate        Tctal           RATIOS -
FIRST LEVEL
Primaxy (Grades 1-8)                  2,055,000        98.2           38.5           195,000            44,838          5,041         49,879              40:1
SECOND LEVEL GENERAL
First Cycle General
(Grades 7-10)                         197,950       97.6            29.1            32,000             2,357         2,903           5,260              36:1
Second Cycle General
(Grades 11-13)                         41,000       88.5            28.6             9,000             1,004         2,455           3,459              10:1
Teacher Training
(Grades 11-12)                          7,850      100.0            35.1             4,000               108           429              537             15:1
Total Second Level General              246,800        96.2           29.3            45,000             3,469          5,787           9,256             26:1
SEC LSM  TECHiCAL
Vocational (Grades 8-10)                 32,770       100.0            30.5            9,500             1,578          1,049          -2,627-/           16:1
Technical  (Grades 11-13)                 6,680       100.0            23.6            1,100               105            317             422             16:1
Agriculture(Grades 8-13 )                10,830       100.0            16.9            2,500
Private Vocational/
Technical(Grades 8-13)                  2,500          -            44.5              n.a.              n.a.          n.a.            n.a.              n.a.
Total Second Level Voea-
tional and Technical                   52,780        95.3            27.5           13,100             1,683          1,366           3,049              16:1
2ERD LVEL
Universities                             24,320       100.0             8.0             3,000.             825            399           1,224              20:1
Technological Institutes                  5,000       100.0             n.a.            n.a.               100            400             500'             10:1
Total Third Level                        29,320       100.0             n.a.            3,000               925           799           1,724              17:1l
70TAL ALL LPVELS                        2,383,900        97.7            36.9           256,000            50,915        12,993          63,90H
Source: Ccopiled from data supplied by the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education and
the Ministry of HEigher Edlcation and Scientific Research.
/ Estimated output fron the terminal year of courses regardless of examination results.
/ Public schools only.
/ Including teachers for agriculturasl schools.
J Esttnated.



ALGERIA
Projected Requirements for &ngineers and Middle Level Technicians
in Selected Industries 1973 - 1980
Estimated Average
Estimated 1972          1972 Stock        1980 Stock        Net Demand            Estimated Training         Aimual Training Needs
Stock of Algerian       Surviving         Required          1973  -  1980         Needs 1973 - 1980              - 1973 - 1980
Personnel               to 1980                            (rounded figures)      (rounded figures)3          (romuded figures)
1, Agriculture
- kngineers                             800                   650              6,500               5,800                  7,000                         850
- Technicians                         1,800                 1,450             15,600              14,100                 17,000                       2,100
2. Petroleun, Natural Gas
and Petrochemicals
- Engineers                             350                   300              2,100               1,800                  2,200                          250
- Technicians                         2,800                 2,250              6,900               4,700                  5,600                          700
3. Mining, MetallUrgY's
Construction Materials,
M sochanical Construction and
Electrotechnology    I
- Engineers                             600                   500              5,500               5,000                  6,ooo                          750
- Technicians                         2,200                 1,750             20,000              18,200                 21,900                        2,700
/ Assuming an average attrition rate of 20% (net inter-sector mobility, emigration, withdrawals from labor force and deaths), for
for both engineers and technicians.
Sources:  Secretariat d'Etat au Flan, Evaluation des besoins en main d'oeuvre qualifiee et des sorties du syste6e educatif
durant la periode 1970-1980 (juiUlet 1972); Minist8re de l'Agriculture, Besoins en cadres de d&veloppement (Alger,1970);
Ministere de 1'Intuatrie, Projet pour une formation longue d'ingzenieur  dlu petrole, du gaz et de la chimie(1972);
Gas Developent Corporation, L4etablissment d'un Institut Algerien du gas (Chicago, 1972); Mission Estimates.



A L G E1 R I ~A
Growth oi Esrol1aenta in Publit Schools 1962 - 1972
18g2o         2 6o6         1              1965 '/66     1986'          1967/68        1              19869/70                      1971/l72ute
A. FIBST LEVEL
Total Prisary (Grades 1-8)             777,6R6    1,239,135      1,215,037      1,332,203      1,370,357     1,L65,776      1,551,489      1,689,023      1,851,416      2,018,091       1,210,455          2
B.  SECOBD LEVEL GEL EBAL
Secondry General (Grsde- 7-1;)          31,32:       56,122         69,174         88,043        96,845        105,931        121, 401       147,188        180,810        229 572
Teacher Training  (Grades 11-1,2)          62         1,01v          1,205          2,518         4,052          5,439          5,738          6,892          8,333          7,845
Total Second Level General              32,5LE       57,122         70,R79         90,561       100,897        111,37C        127,139        151,080        189,143        237,413         204,867        -.G
C. SECOND LEVEL TEXCICA1
Vocational  (Grades 8-10)          )                     )            )                     )                   28,360         29,127         31,765         32,334         32,771
Technical   (Grades 11-13)         )   18,56      ) 26,L6    )   29,,71            34,449   )    31,1439         1,896          5,277          6,o43          6,896          6,682
Agricultural (Grades  8-13)                      )                    )                     )                    1,128          5,194          6,948          8,5.1         10,830
Total Second Level Techrical            18,565       26,486         29,711         34,449         34,439        37,384         39,598         44,756         47,741         50,283          31,715        11.7
D. TEEID LEVE
Technological Institutes                  -            -              -                                            500(est.)   1,000(est.)   2,352            3,320          5,000(est.)
Universities                             2,809        3,853          4,926          8,053          9,272          9,720        10,68         13,830         19,397         24,323
Total Third Level                        2,809        3,853          4,926          8,053          9,272         10,220        11,681         16,182         22,717         29,323          26,514        32.1
E. ALL LEVEL (Grasnd Total)                  831,559    1,126,896      1,320,053      1,465,266      1,514,965     1,624,750      1,729,907      1,904,041      2,111,017      2,335,110       1,503,551        12.1
Source: Ministry of Primary and Secondary Edsscatio;
ministry of Higher Edocation eLnd Bcientific Research



A L G E B IA
Projection of Enrollments in Public Schools 1972 - 1980
(thousands)
Projected Increase
Enrel-ament                  Enro~ullment    ~  G     ~ Enrollment        ARnrollment                     EeGup        Absolute
A. FIRST LEVEL                       2,018.1         64           2,455           90            3,070           100             3,300         100           1,282         5.6
(age group 6 through 11)
B. SEDXNDAIY MIDDLE IBVML              237.4         17             360           24              515            30               645          34             408        11.8
(age group 12 through 15)
C. SEOODARY 8ECOED CYCLE                50.3          6              82            9              165            15               220          17             170        17.9
(age group 16 through 18)
D. EIGHER EDUCATI0N                     29.3          2              47            4               75             5               105           6              75        15.L
(age gou 19 through 23)
E. ALL LKVEIL (Total)                2,335.1         39           2,951           46            3,825            52             4,270          52           1,935         6.9
Source: Secretariat d'Etst au Plan; gtaff Estimates



A L G E R I A
Projected Output by Specialties from Universities and
Other Post-Secondary Institutions 1970-1980
A- Output by Specialties 1970-19$Q
Total
1970       1970-1973       1974-1977       1978-1980       1980        1970-1980
1.  Agriculture                                191           850             1,900         1,950          700          4,700
2.  Science & Technology                       364         1,800             4,750          5,600       2,000         12,100
3.  Medicine                                   201         1,150             3,450         4,450        1,700          9,000
4. Economics & Law                             376         2,400             6,850          8,950       3,400         18,200
5.  Humanities                                 143           950             1,900         2,300          900          5,200
6.  Education                                1,025         4,100             8,000         6,000        2,000         18,100
7.  Others                                     235         1,250             3,150          3,250       1,300          7,700
Total                             2,535        12,500            30,000         32,500       12,000         75,000
B. Supply to the Labor Market 1970-1980
Output from the Educational System             Net Flow into the Labor MarketJ
Men        Women              Total           Men         Women          Total
1.  Universities                            31,000        11,000            42,000         31,000        9,500        40,500
2.  Technological Institutes                13,500         1,500            15,000         13,500       1,000         14,500
3.  Teacher Training                        14,500         3,500            18,000         14,500       3,000         17,500
Total                            59,000        16,000            75,000         59,000       13,500         72,500
j Assuming a participation rate of 100% for men and 85% for women.
Source: Secretariat d'Etat au Plan.



ANNEX. 9
A.L-G-E R I A
Ministrv of Edu,cion Exendi tures 1965-1972
kD.uA. m-1  ions)
1965        1966         1967         1968                      1270         1971         1972
1. Recurrent Expenditures
- Budget                           497          630         680          754           856        1,000       1,249        1,389
- Actual                           450          604         672          750           847          997       1,231        1,270
- % of Realization                  90.5         95.9         98.8        99.5          98.9         99.7         98.6         91.4
2. Capital Expenditures
- Budget                           234           30          204         178           688          784          825          685
- Actual                           151           96.2/      105          138           524          716          649         n. a.
- % of Realization                  64.5         93.6-'       51.5        77.5          76.2         91.3         78.7       n. a.
3. Total Expenditures
- Budget                           731          660          884         932         1,544        1,784        2,074        2,074
- Actual                           601          700          777         888         1,371        1,713        1,880         n. a.
- % of Realization                  82.2        106.1         87.9        95.3          88.8         96.0         90.6       n. a.
4. Ministry of Education
Recurrent Expendi-_
tures-as a % of
Government Current
Expenditures
- Budget                            16.3         19.7         20.4        21.3          22.0         22.5         25.4         25.3
- Actual                            16.3         21.2         19.8        22.0          23.7         23.4         26.3       n. a.
5.  Ministry of Education
Capital Expendi-
tures as a % of
Government Capital
Expenditure 3/
- Budget                            25.8          1.7         14.8        11.5           27.9        32.0         29.1         19.9
- Actual                            20.6         10.1         12.6         10.6          27.9        36.5         28.8       n, a.
1/ In 1970 the Mlinistry of Nciu;on-l Edoc&ion was split into two Ministries: the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Fducatoivi,
and the Minirtry of Lgbc . Fdtucptilon End Scientific Research.
2/ Average 1965-66.
3/ Direct Invlo,%asn- ci5.y (e l     y I lo.  end other caoi tel trans fernl).



A L G E R I A
Projection of Public Expenditure on Educstion 1970 - 1980
0D.A. millions, 1971 prices)
1'                                                                                                       Public Recurrent
L97C Public Expenditure on Education-'    New Student Places Required    Estimated Unit Cost               Total Investment                 Expenditure on
1971 - 1980              per Student Place                in New Student                   Educatiop by Levels
Recurrent     Capital   Total              (rounded  figures)=         (1971 D. A. )                    Places 1971-1980                  in 1980 .1
1. Primary                         451          294       745                   1,280,000                    4,00C                            5,100                               1,320
2. Secondary Middle Level       )          )           )                          400,000                    5,500                            2,200
361     )   284    )  645                                                                                                            )        1,730
3. Secondary Second Cycle      )           )          )                           170,000                    7,500                            1,300
4. Higher Education                 B0         132        212                       75,C00                  35,000                            2,6co                                 430
5. Administration and Other
Expenses                     247           6        253                          -                                                        100                                 100
Total                      1,139          716     1,855                   1,925,000                                                    11,300                               3,580
- Annual Average               1,130          _ % of GDP             7
1971-1980
- % of Public Investment        11.2          - % of Public         27%
Program 19,72-1980                          Recurrent
FAnum
/ Based on functional classification of Central Government expenditures.
g/ See Annex 7. At the moment,it is not practical to try to distinguish between general second cycle secondary schools and technical lycees,
since it is possible that new schools after 1974 will integrate all types of education. This would mean that all schools would require
full-scale science laboratories and workshops for a wide ranging curriculum.  Similarly, in the first cycle practicallearning areas would
be required.
;/ Staff estimates, based on locally available data and, in the case of primary and general secondary schools, on space norms and standards
developedby the Algerian government with assistance from the UiDP/Unesco planning group (Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire et
Secondaire, Constructions Scolaires - Recueil de Normee, Algiers Dec. 1971). The estimated unit costs include construction, furniture
and equipeent. It was assumed that boarding capacity would be as follows: 10% in first cycle secondary, 30% in second cycle and
50% in higher education.
9/ Assuming that the government will succeed in limiting the growth of unit recurrent costs to about ?% p.a. in real terms.



A I, G E R I A
Enrollments, Outputs. Pupil/Tencher Ratios and Use Factors in Project Schools
Course                                                                                TjS   Factors/
Length         Total      Annual      Pupil/Teacher          Nwuber  of                         Wo-rkisopE  &
Institution5                                     FurŽer            LeveI           (Years)    Enrollment   Output             Ratio           Weekly Periods        ClabsroF        Laboratortet
1.  Algerian Petroleum Inst.u-te
- Techniciar Center at Orsn                 1          Poso-Seoondar-        ½ - 12          52C         38C           10:1                 32 --                 75                2 -
(Grade 1l)
- Techniciar. Center a- Setif               i          Sez zr dary               2           '5                        10:1 3l, - 3L                             8C                     80
(Grade 13-14)
2.  Institute of Mininr  an-
Metallurgi (Annaba)
- Techniciar, Sectio-                                  Se' ondar                  4        ' ,80D        40C           10:1                      '2              63 
- Engirneerirng Section                                P Pot-Seondars             I       1,20t ' J 18l1:1                                                        n &0   75
(Grates 14-18)                                                                                                            7L
3.   Institute of NAgtcui'or-e                     1          Post-Seeond&ry            4        4,000c         950            8:13/                    3L              n.a.        7': -
Technology (Moetaganeng)                                 (Grades 14-1')
l/ As a percentage of mayimm utilization.
/  Includes students in the preparatory year.
;/ Practical training only (given the intensive use of ITV for academic courses,
the overall pupil tescher ratio would be misleading).



ANX 12
ALGERIA
PROJECT COST BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
D.A. (Millions)               US$ (Millions)        : of
Local Foreign    Total      Local Foreign  To1l*    Total
11. Construction
Building             6.36     6.35     12,71      1.56   1.5    3.11      30.5%
Site Development     0.77     0.76      1.53      0.19    0,19   0.38       3.7%
ProfessionLl Fees    0.79     0.34      1.13      0.19    0.08   0.27        6
Sub-Total 1.                    7-9  7  15       1.94     3.      76       36.8%
2. Furniture             0.34     0.80       1.14     0.08    0.20   0.28        2.8%
3. Equipment             1.57    14.11     15.68      0.38    3.45   3.83      37.5%
Sub-Total 2 & 3      1.9     14-91 11 .3%
4. Technical Assistanc  o.42      1.69       2.11     0.10    0.41   0.. 1       5.01
Base-Line Costs     10       24-'      -3M        20       2      T
E. Contingencies         2.13      .33       746      Q11 7.39
6. Total Project Cost   2.38    29.38      41.76      3.02    7.19  10.21     100.0%



COtNTIGENCY ALIYAWNCFS (IN TdOUSAIDS--A.D. VND U17)
Site                                                                                                     Pro-efi..ali               Tec-hicOl
Deve. I et                  Bil d in                    Ferni tro             1      !ent                    Servic.es                Ancietatco                   044-To.            _
Lo.a I      Foreg i         LocIa       For-in          Loc-l       Fore-ig       LocAl       Fore-ign       Lc,al        Forieign     Local        Fotin           Local       For ig-         To-t- 1-
1. ContiRhencles Percentages
(a)  Unfocesaen Physical I-crese                    10%           10.%          10%            107.        10%           10%           10%         10%           5%            5%          Ui1          Nil                                   A-eroge  9.3%
(b)  Prie Increale 112                                            11%           11%            11.%        147.          147           14%         147.         11%           117U 127.                12%                                    Ave-age 12.5%
Total (a) + (b)                                212           21%           21%            217.        24%           24%           24%         247.         167.          16%          12%           12%                                  A-nrage 21.8%
2. TotaL Poolec  Coed.                                                                                                                                                               __                   
BeEfre Coetieceencies                '00           7 A.D.    26666.6,                        6,357.7       341. 0       795.0        1,567 6      14,107 .2    788.8         337.0        423.2        1,692.6        10,244.3   24,057 .2       34,301.5
'SO0  USS    187.3         187.3        1,554.4        1,554.4        83.4        194.6          363.3      3,449.3      192.8          82.6        103.5          413.8         2,504.7    5,882.0         8,386.7
3. Contin-ennie, Aggots
(A)  SUfo-e.ono Physical Incre. ne   OO A.D.       76.6          76.6          635.8          635.8        34.1         79.6          156.8      1,410.7       39.4          16.9         Nil           Nil             942.7    2,219.6         3,162.3
(b)  PrIce Inceaso                    '000 A.       84.3          84.3          699.3          699.3       47.7         111.4          219.5      1,975.0       86.8          3722         50.8          203.1         1.188.4    3110.3          4.298.7
Total (A) + (b)                 '000 A.D.    160.9          160.9        1,335.1        1,335.1        81.8        191.0          376.3      3,385.7      126.2          54.1         50.8          203.1         2,131.1    5,329.9         7,461.0
o8o us$       39.3          39.3          326.4          326.4        20.0         46.7           92.0       '827.8       30.8          13,2         12.4           49.7          '520.9    1,303.1         1,824.0
4.                                                    _      _     __O_
4.  Total Prolect CoatT
Ieclndlna Contlngencie.              '000 A,D.    926.9          926.9        7,692.8        7,692.8       422.8        986.8        1,943.9      17,492.9     915.0         392.0        474.0        1,8395.7       12,375.4   29, 387.1       41262 .5
'0Us 0$9    226.6         226.6         1,880,'        1,880.8       103,4        241.3          475.3      4,277.1      223.6          95.8        115.9          463.5         3,625.6    7,185.1        10,210.7
US$ 1.00    A.D, 4.09



ANNEX i4
ALGERIA
FINANCIAL PLAN
(in millions)
Government           IBRD               Total
DA.    US$       D.A.    US          D.A.    US$
1. Civil Works
Local               7.13   1.75         -      -         7.13    1.75
Foreign             4.14   1.01       2.97    0.73       7.11    1.74
Sub-Total          11.27   2.76       2.97    0.73      14.24    3.49
2.  Professional Services
Local               0.79   0.19         -      -         0.79    0.19
Foreign             0.25   0.06       0.09    0.02       0.34    0.08
Sub-Total           1.04   0.25       0.09    0.02       1.13    0.27
Furniture
Local               0.11   0.03       0.23    0.05       0.34    o.o8
Foreign               -      -.80     .20                o.80    0.20
Sub-Total           0.11   0.03       1.03    0.25       1.14    0.28
4. Equipment
Local               1.57   0.38         -      -         1.57    0.38
Foreign              -              14.11    3.45      14.11    3.45
Sub-Total           1.57   0.38     14.11    3.45      15.68    3.83
5. Technical Assistance
Local               0.42   0.10         -       -       0.42    0.10
Foreign                      -        1.69    0.41       1.69    0.41
Sub-Total          0.42   0.10       1.69    0.41       2.11    0.51
Base Line Cost
Local              10.02   2.45      0.23    0.05      10.25    2.50
Foreign            4.39   1.07      19.66    4.81      24.05    5.88
Sub-Total          14.41   3.52     19.89    4.86      34.30    8.38
6. Contingencies
Local               2.08   0.51      0.05    0.01       2.13    0.52
Foreign            0.91   0.22       4.42    1.09       5.33    1.31
Sub-Total           2.99   0.73      4.47    1.10       7.46    1.83
Grand Total
Local              12.10   2.96      0.28    0.06       12.38    3.02
Foreign             5.30   1.29     24.08    5.90      29.38    7.19
17.40   4.25     24.36    5.96      41.76   10.21
(Say-6.00)



ALOERIA - ESTIMATED SCHEDDULE OF DISBURSi3:ENTS
(I US$ Million)
Quarterly          Accumlated       Tndisbursed
Quarters*          Disbursements       Disbursements        Balance
First Year
1                    0.00                 0.00             6.oo
2                    0.10V                0.10             5.90
3                    0.07                 0.17             5.83
4;                   0.07                 0.24             5.76
Second Year
5                    0.07                 0.31             5.69
6                    0.72                 1.03             4.97
7                    1.51                 2.54             3.46
8                    0.88                 3.42             2.58
Third Year
9                    1.19                 4.61             1.39
10                    0.53                 5.14             0.86
11                    0.42                 5.56             0.44
12                    0.15                 5.71             0.29
Fourth Year
13                    0.15                 5.86             0.114
14                    0.14                 6.oo             0.00
* Beginning from Signing Date.
/ Retroactive financing.



A\LC, JK I
t'iW.  i:t  I 1I'lltlN l'Ap Q N SPiIPi li'I
Year                                             2                         34
Quarter      1      2     3      4     5      6     7    8      9      10     11      12     13      14      15      16
1.0 Algerian retroleum Institute kOran & Setif)
a)  Professional Services-                              00  000    00             0      0    0      o    0      0       0       0      0
1/
b)  Civil Works-                                                      B   B++   +++   XXX  XXX   XXX  XXX
c)  Furniture & Equipment                        =                  BBE    +++   +t+    V   VV1V   WV  V\VV
2.0 Institute of Mining and Metallurgv
Supplementary Equipment                      _     =    BBB   +-++   +++   VVV   VVV  VVV
3.0 Institute of Light Industry
Technical Assistance-/                                   TTT    TTT   TTT   TTT   TTT  TTT
4.0 Institute of Agriculture Technology
4.01 Workshops
1/
a)  Professional Services                  *** 000  000                     0 0   0    0      0    0
b)  Civil Works 1/                                            BB+   +++   +XX   XXX  XXX   XXX
c)  Furniture & Equipment                        ==  BBB    +++   -.-         VVV    VW  VVV   VVV
4.02 Field Units
a)  Professional Services                  ***    oQoooo              0     0      0    0      0    0       0      o       0
b)  Civil Works                                               BB+   +4+   +XX   XXX  XXX   XXX
c)  Furniture & Equipment                        -G  BBB    +++   ++i-  WV   VVV  VVV   VVv
4.03  Vehicles                                    -= ''  eBB    +++   +t+-  VVV   VVV
5.0  Project Administration
Procurement Specialists (Tech Assist.    * *           TTT    TTT   TTT   TTT   TTT  TTT   TTT  TTT    TTT
LEGEND
*   Recruitnent                               +   Tender and contract awards
0   Preliminary designs                       X   Construction
0   Final designs and bid documents           -   Preparation of master lists
O   Construction supervision                  V   Manufacturing and reception
B   Bank review                               T   Technical assistance
1/ Financed totally by the Government.
/  For details of technical assistance see Appendix r.



ALGERIA
THE DEVELOPING STRUCTURE
OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM'
1971-1972
M,ddle or First Cycle    t      Second Cvcle Sncondarvty |*H,gher Education
Secondary           i
Elementary    --                                                                Faculties or Schools of;
* ~~~El-m.,y                                                                                            F:                 0 a
-Lycees (General)                 Law, Economics
mSocyolog, D-oetshy, Geoirphy
Multdlatoral                                        H .. Hmantirss 
{ }  i Math.-nut-ce                            
SLoenrs cs  tnWc
{OB                        _       _      0   _      _ _ _ _ _n_e
I>, ciii ec'aci-iired ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ecicn
X  Gene.I                                          Pha-ylrts    Eiochrrnistri v, DP ntistly n P aVEholcgy  i
of     Tnc he r Educai,  un.estion othnical ad Sch ne.
L y,..esA                llMnsiisenaedi  rann
P era arniry Year                                                     MA    Mi~~nisiery or   Agriculturel
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 8,cme ii'Etio nseianewcri Moya                                                worild  an-E59
3 Qelecorics Egcewinatf,,,An
4 3~~~~~~ 4}2                          so- S,a            Tj
~~~~, i<- ~~~~~~~~~L                                                   Soc"
r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cl. (M A                                                              TBnloa M- AtRtK EAT
P,.I ,-, .r1@Xo ph...n. out                                                                Istlonlzd1fr oMritrsof Prinnary andSnodt    uctn
El                                                                                              f ntfs,pplrr aado  ilm  litgh., Educat-o, ul.s  th,,w,s. shown, e g.
.AM   All M. ......... engaged - T,a.n,ng
@  PrerJaralory Year                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~MA   M-nisvr oi Agr,cuI,.,
P t3rr  'Jr aEsgnmrtMoy.n                                                                                                                       VVcrlr Bank-6559(R)
O 0    etv   xmnto



ALGERIA: EDUCATION PYRAMID 1971-1972
BY AGE AND tEVEL OF EDUCATION 11
20   15
19   14
la   13
17   12
16  12
4    9
1 3 a
12   I
7    2
14  a    ,   -  -   ......................... .... E . -,r. i, _ _ _ _ asq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                                                                            ..  ... .. ... ..  ... .. ... ..
Boys                                                                                                                                       Girls
250,000                    200.000                     950.000                     100,000                     50,000                                                  50,000                     100.000                      150,000                    200,000                     250.000
f211    Aiili    i                        I    ii I     11111 t                                                                                   IJ tI  ii                            I II--  11112111111 111I1I1I  I~ I                 L 
TmT o1    lPOpultp On i-   Ag. Gro,o-                                                                      Pcsr Pro                    Sos,s                                     PosS.c,nd..y                               High,r
/ PubI,c Schools only includes cost sold STLOnnW I\lprld B-lk - 7430



0.
oo                                          qo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~So-Io
r    fDfr R AX N  4 N   sE t- A3:                                                                                               <A-^ T  .6.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boj.Boo.  /   IBl)9                                                                             A \ -HErds/\ 
-36. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sed                                                                                                         -I~gj/6
A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
so r 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12 0                                                                                          ALeRIAN PETRLEU  I>ACNSTITUTE
7                                                                                                                 0    LOIFE    NTRA-ADAA
t--<   -f +1/>                   k                            X                                 r  ,/  <\ {-                                                  '              ) <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UPLMETAY OUPEN)  NHR
< ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EHIA  ASSISTANCE)                                                                             DOGMERDES
\  |        /4                                  /       r                                                                  CODE No.      NAME OF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  3  INSTITUTEOLIORINOLOCAIONY
2                                                                                                                                                          -/1 /  ... _-i            36z  2 0  2 INSTITUTE OF AGICUT    T ECHNOLGYST
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 4                                                                                      W O R K  -   /  S H OPSL M N T R I E CL IP M E N T F RI T U E   M TAN N A N= M
(  /AIn Selra   g                           ~~~~~~A L GE R IA                         Grda                                                           4 02 FIELD UNITS (CONSTRUCTION, EQFUIPMENT    MSAAE
32°  z. ;:)/                 ot            F ~~~~IRST  EDUATINIPOJET                                                                                                         00 421    lIE)           DAIRA" OF MOHAMMADIA
3    4~~~~10                                                 IN.'J4..                                                                                 0221         111MARA.FOA
_                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40D73  (l9)  "DAIRA" OF  AIN TEMOUCHENT
LiY ;T' . w M M~~~~~_____  AIN 00000f  402 4                                                                                                                         1(      9    "DAIRA'' OF  TLEMCEN
~~ ( IT  U   I      S E C O h D A R Y F O A D S                                                                               4 D 2 8     ( 8 1       " D A I R A " O F  SA402   I H  '059W" O   SID-RELARD E
4021
s   r   tJe   I \  A  L G  E R I A  {  L I B  Y  A     ____R__   SERIVE ARS   ROAD                                                                                            014)                 ODAIRA  OF  BAIDA
S   >  ,-  f   I _        -  --  INTERKIATIONAL eCuNDAplEs                        Kl LOMETERS                                                402 l4       g 41        "DAIRA'' O   T i OUZ11O4U41  DAIA OF  E ASNA
JL*3Xon$MAURlTANIA !  s _ /   \1   ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~~ SESU  TRE                                                                                                            420? 15(41             "DAI RA" OF  WIL DEFLMA    13
- \   l M A L I   / N I G E R   ) C H A D i                                                                                                  407 iC       ( 4i         DAiRA' OF  BATNA        D   2~~~~~~~~429  1)  DARA'OF  TARE
I  r.  -  _ 0,r                       12,<1, ,                    oZo4L2 9C4)  DA RA  OF TSIKDII ON
-- IITERSATIONAL E02500P1ES ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     ~    ~~~     ~ RILOEGR  42213E  141TDURRA OFS  REAN
4 2214PL4)SHTRCSO   SETIF
2   A&   INTITUTE O MI 4IN  &DAMAETFELEUMGY
4221F       4)GH   NDARWF  BTNB
40      INSTITUTE2OF AGI 4)TR TEACHN          OFONNAAGY
A  O LGERIA,l                                                                                         40o4o'0,,o  402L0  141TS'CONSTUCTIOP SEOIPMEN
-32'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~' opoo04,4 021   41                                                                                                                                 "DAE RA" OF  MOHELMADI
FIRST        EDUCAT~~l4IUiON~oo0o PR    J C                       622:D,R: FOA



