Report No. PID10154
Project Name                     Pakistan-Structural Adjustment Credit (@)
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           PREM  Poverty Reduction and Economic Managemnt
Project ID                       PKPE71463
Borrower (s)                     Government of Pakistan (GoP)
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Finance
PAK Secretariat, Islamabad
Contact Person: Dr. Waqar Masood, Additional
Secretary Finance
Tel: 92-51-9206367
Fax: 92-51-9214629
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                March 26, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 6, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 29, 2001
1. Country Background
In the 1990s Pakistan suffered a number of political, economic, and financial
shocks some exogenous, others self-inflicted, or a combination of both.
Political developments weakened the formulation and implementation of critical
reforms, especially in the areas of governance. Pakistan's external political
environment also worsened. Conflicts in Kashmir and Afghanistan and their
domestic fall-out law and order problems imposed a heavy burden on
Pakistan.
In May 1998, Pakistan's nuclear test, following India's, resulted in
sanctions from the G-7 countries. This led to a severe shock to the capital
account of Pakistan's fragile balance of payments which included a drying up
of external assistance and a decline in Pakistan's sovereign credit rating.
In this difficult environment, GDP growth, which averaged more than 6 percent
per year in the 1980s, was reduced to about 3.5 percent per year in the latter
half of the 1990s. Although growth never turned negative and inflation was
brought down to single digits, increases in per-capita income have been very
slow given the high population growth of 2.5 percent per year. The balance of
payments situation has remained precarious, with very high levels of foreign
debt whose net present value is now equivalent to 240 percent of annual
exports, large external debt servicing requirements of around US$5 billion per
year, and grossly inadequate foreign exchange reserves measured in weeks of
imports rather than months. Poverty, which had fallen substantially in the
1980s, stganated during the 1990s to include about one third of the
population, and social indicators remained dismal. The strategy to improve
basic education, health, and access to water and sanitation through the donor-
supported Social Action Program did not work well, largely on account of
severe financing and governance problems in service delivery.



Government's Response
Since assuming power in October 1999, the new government has shown awareness
of the country's difficult circumstances. Its response was the quick
articulation of ambitious reform aimed at modernizing Pakistan and its
institutions. The Government's evolving Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) is
anchored on three pillars: (a) improving governance; (b) achieving broad-based
growth through macroeconomic stability and removal of constraints to private
sector development; and (c) improving human development through fundamental
reforms of social services delivery and targeted interventions for social
protection
In the past eighteen months, the government has moved forward rapidly in
implement reforms. The reforms underway have been gradually rebuilding
Pakistan's eroded credibility, re-establishing confidence in public
institutions, and improving the investment climate. Important milestones in
this process include the approval of a ten-month IMF Stand-by arrangement in
November 2000; the full resolution of the disputes with the independent power
producers; a new agreement with the Paris Club for additional debt
restructuring in January 2001; and holding of the Pakistan Development Forum
in Islamabad after a gap of nearly three years. More recently, the IMF
concluded the first review of the Stand-By arrangement in which the government
has maintained a good track record of fiscal, monetary, debt, and exchange
rate management.
On the structural front, considerable progress has been achieved in improving
governance. The accountability drive, one of the new government's earliest
priorities, has been carried forward, and an ambitious tax survey campaign has
yielded key information on tax payers, and a substantial increase in the
number of registered taxpayers. In parallel, a plan for fundamental
restructuring and modernization of the Central Board of Revenue (CBR) has been
developed. An elaborate devolution plan has been promulgated, and elections
for the new local governments have started. A number of initiatives are
underway to improve financial management and increase transparency in the
public sector. Fundamental steps have been taken to restore the integrity in
the recruitment and promotion system of the civil service. Among public
enterprises, the railways has succeeded in reducing its sanctioned staff
strength by 30 percent in the past two years and also eliminated a significant
number of ghost pensioners. At the same time, the government is striving
to foster a business environment supportive of investment and growth.
Deregulation, privatization, and reduced corruption will help in this regard,
and significant progress has been achieved towards the deregulation,
restructuring, and pricing policy reforms in key sectors dominated by the
state such as oil and gas, banking, and power.
Reforms to improve the delivery of basic social services are underway. A key
element of the strategy is the devolution of responsibilities for primary
health and basic education services to district governments. In education,
this is being complemented by reforms on civil service management, teacher
training, curriculum, enhanced collaboration with NGOs, and community/parent
participation. In health the focus on preventive and public health has been
enhanced through expansion of immunization programs, a plan to shortly launch
an HIV/AIDS campaign, and strengthening of the maternal/child programs. The
social protection agenda is being addressed through significant funding for
community infrastructure schemes, a new cash transfer program to 1.2 million
- 2 -



of the poorest households, and the strengthening of the privately financed but
publicly managed Zakat (religious charity) program with involvement of the
Ministry of Religious Affairs. A Micro-Credit Bank to improve access to
credit for small and medium enterprises and the self-employed has been
established. Budgetary allocations for poverty-related expenditures have
increased in the FY01 budget. Finally, the government is committed to reduce
gender imbalances. A marked effort has been made to strengthen the role of
women in society through the unprecedented number of women appointed for high
level government posts. The devolution plan explicitly demands that one third
of the legislative seats at the local government levels be earmarked for
women. However, progress in removing laws that discriminate against women has
been limited in the face of strong opposition from religious groups.
2. Objectives
The actions supported by the Credit will contribute to lay the foundations for
sustained poverty reduction. The proposed Credit will contribute to maintain
the macroeconomic stability needed to support the implementation of structural
reforms. Pakistan is not in a position to implement its poverty reduction
strategy without first stabilizing the economy, and laying the institutional
basis for good governance. The upside is that significant external support--
from the IFIs (including the Bank), governments, and private creditors--will
help maintain the viability of the balance of payments and the macroeconomic
stability for the period needed to implement structural reforms, and allow
Pakistan time to restore investor confidence. Without this support, Pakistan
faces the prospect of financial austerity that will further delay poverty
reduction.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank Group's strategy will be to support Pakistan's evolving reform
program as spelled out in the evolving Poverty Reduction Strategy. To achieve
this objective we will use a combination of lending and non-lending services.
The focus of our non-lending services will be on strengthening the dialogue on
governance improvement, social sector strategy in the new decentralized
environment, and targeted programs for poverty reduction. Our main lending
vehicle is expected to be a a series of one-tranche programmatic credits to
help finance the adjustment costs of major reforms closely linked to poverty
reduction, in the context of external or fiscal financing gaps. This Credit,
which follows a 1998 Structural Adjustment Loan, is expected to be the first
in a series of adjustment credits to be undertaken towards the end of this
calendar year in the context of a Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF)
program with the IMF, which would also be supported by a Poverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC) program from the Bank.
4. Description
The proposed Credit focuses on (a) Improving governance-- tax reform,
devolution, decentralization, improved financial management, civil service
reform, and public access to information; (b) Setting the foundations for
stronger economic growth--power, oil, and gas pricing and regulatory reforms;
and (c) Improving the delivery of social services, by strengthening
- 3-



leadership, improving incentives delivery of services and transition from
provincial-based to district-based delivery of services.
Fiscal and governance reforms will bring about an enabling environment for
macroeconomic stability, improvements in the use and accountability of public
resources and service delivery, and also to attract private investments by
improving the negative perception of Pakistan held by domestic and foreign
investors. Reforms that promote growth are centered in deregulation, market
liberalziation, and significant restructuring of the major sectors dominated
by the state, and which have a strong bearing on the rest of the economy such
as banking, power, and oil and gas. Reforms in these areas will help
macroeconomic stability, and pave the way for privatization which is essential
to improve corporate governance in a sustainable way. Reforms for
improvements in social service delivery will focus on the devolution of
responsibilities to local governments of primary health, basic education, and
small infratructure projects as the main vehicle to increase accountability
and address severe governance issues in the delivery of these services. At
the same time the strategy includes strong actions to redress, in the short
run, some of the most egregious instances of poor governance?such as staff
absenteesim.
5. Financing
IDA     SDR 276.1 million (US$350 million equivalent)
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Finance is responsible for coordinating and overseeing the
implementation of reforms. This work is being coordinated with the sectoral
Ministries of Water and Power, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resource,
Ministry of Privatization, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, the
Planning Commission, the State Bank of Pakistan, the Central Board of Revenue,
the National Reconstruction Bureau, The Pakistan Audit Department, and the
provincial governments. Technical working groups are working in all these
areas of reform, in most cases with technical assistance from the IMF, World
Bank, Asian Development Bank, and the donors.
7. Sustainability
Reform is a long-term commitment. This is especially relevant for governance
reforms and institutional reforms that will take years of persistent effortsto
bear fruits. To foster continuity of ongoing reforms, the government has
carried out consultation processes for the design and implementation of
reforms, and is exploring and establishing institutional mechanisms that will
help continuity such as the elected district governments.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Several lessons of experience have been learned from previous operations in
Pakistan, and have been reflected in the preparation of this Credit: (a) a
series of quick-disbursing single-tranche adjustment operations is an
effective tool for managing implementation risks. A quick-disbursing single-
- 4 -



tranche loan, prepared within the framework of a medium-term reform program,
in which all policy actions are implemented before the loan is presented to
the Board is an effective way of supporting reforms during a crisis and
providing governments with the needed financial and political capital to
sustain their reform programs; (b) close coordination with other international
financial institutions especially, can benefit borrowers. The Bank has
collaborated very closely with the IMF in preparing the SAC, and also with the
ADB, DFID, the UN agancies and the majority of donors active in Pakistan in
sectoral work in governance, and social sector reform; (c) Bank advice and
financial support is not imposed as a conditionality but instead complements
the Government's own efforts. With the Government already committed to reform,
the role of the Bank has been to help specify the results, and encourage the
reformers; and (d) Strong field presence is important to facilitate the
dialogue. The Country Director's presence in Pakistan has facilitated
continuous dialogue and speeded the Bank's response to requests for technical
assistance in the prepartion of the Credit.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)
None
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
None
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
John Panzer
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-1938
Fax:   (202) 522-0356
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 11, 2001.
- 5 -



