Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7443-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 276.1 MILLION (US$350 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
May 16, 2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKR)
US$1 = PKR 61.50 (May 2001 Floating Inter Bank Rate)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBR          Central Board of Revenue
DFID         Department for International Development
ESAF        Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
FCDs        Foreign Currency Deposits
FPSC         Federal Public Service Commission
GRA         Gas Regulatory Authority
GST          General Sales Tax
HIPC        Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA          International Development Association
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IFIs        International Financial Institutions
IMF          International Monetary Fund
KESC         Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
LPG          Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MTBF         Medium-Term Budget Framework
NAB          National Accountability Bureau
NCBs         Nationalized Commercial Banks
NEPRA        National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
NRB          National Reconstruction Bureau
NGOs         Non-Government Organizations
NSS          National Saving Schemes
PACs         Public Accounts Conmmittees
PAD          Pakistan Audit Department
PIFRA        Improvement to Financial Reporting and Auditing Project
PRGF         Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PRS          Poverty Reduction Strategy
PRSC         Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP         Social Action Program
SBP          State Bank of Pakistan
SROs         Statutory Regulatory Orders
WAPDA       Water and Power Development Authority
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu, SARVP
Country Director:    John W. Wall, SARPK
Sector Director:     Roberto Zagha, SASPR
Task Team Leader:   John Panzer, SASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS IN
POVERTY REDUCTION ...........................................I
A. Developments Preceding October 1999 ..........................................           1
B. Developments Since October 1999 ...........................................3
H. PAKISTAN'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY AND
WORLD BANK SUPPORT ................................................4
A. Laying the Foundations for Poverty Reduction ................................................. 4
B. Pillar I: Improving Govemance .................................................6
C. Pillar II: Achieving Broad Based Growth ................................................      II
D. Pillar III: Human Development and Social Protection ................................................ 14
III. BANK GROUP STRATEGY ................................................. 17
A. The World Bank ................................................                               17
B. Coordination with IMF ................................................                        18
C. Cooperation with ADB ................................................                         18
D. Partnership with other Multilateral and Bilateral Donors ............................................... 18
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ................................................                                   18
A. Actions Taken ................................................                                19
B. Extemal Financing Requirements ................................................ 20
C. Implementation and Monitoring ................................................                22
D. Credit Administration ................................................ 22
E. Benefits and Risks ................................................ 23
V. RECOMMENDATION                                    ...24
Annex A Letter of Development Policy
Annex B Matrix of Policy Measures
Annex C Macroeconomic Framework
Annex D Public Sector Financial Management and Accountability
Annex E Devolution and Public Financial Management
MAP
Task Team
John Panzer, Lead Economist, Task Leader; Abid Hasan, Operations Advisor; Tjaarda P. Storm
van Leeuwen, Lead Financial Analyst; John Fitzsimon, Sr. Financial Management Specialist;
Akhtar Hamid, Lead Counsel, Operations; Marc L. Heitner, Lead Financial Analyst; Hanid
Mukhtar, Sr. Economist; Waqar Haider, Sr. Private Sector Specialist; Rashid Aziz, Sr. Energy
Specialist; Robert Saum, Sr. Financial Management Specialist; Tahseen S. Khan, Sr. Education
Specialist; Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere, Sr. Economist (Health); Shams ur Rehman and Jillian
Tuilett, Program Assistants.
Peer Reviewer/Adviser: David Dollar; Vinod Sahgal
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:                  The Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                    SDR 276.1 million (US$350 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms; 35-year maturity with 10-year grace period.
Description:               The proposed Credit supports the implementation of the
government's Poverty Reduction Strategy which focuses on:
e Improving governance-tax reform, devolution, decentrali-
zation, improved financial management, civil service reform,
and public access to information.
* Strengthening the foundations for economic growth-power,
oil, and gas pricing, regulatory reforms, and privatization.
* Improving delivery of social services, by strengthening
leadership, improving incentives influencing delivery of
services and transition from provincial-based to district-
based delivery of services.
Benefits:                  The  proposed  Credit will contribute  to  maintain  the
macroeconomic stability needed to support the implementation
of structural reforms. Without this support, Pakistan faces the
prospect of slower economic growth, financial austerity, and
further delays in poverty reduction.
Risks:                     There are several risks to the implementation of the program:
The country's indebtedness and macroeconomic vulnerabilities
are such that even if reforms are successfully implemented a
viable medium term macroeconomic framework will require a
favorable market response and avoidance of further political and
economic shocks. Management of this risk will require building
a strong track record in implementation of reforms to facilitate
stronger domestic adjustment, market responses, and external
support.
The government has a limited window of opportunity; its
mandate ends in October 2002. There is a risk that the reforms
that are being initiated will not be sustained and the country will
i



not benefit from the full benefits of reform. This is especially
relevant for governance reforms and institutional reforms that
will take years of persistent efforts and commitment to bear
fruits.  To manage this risk, the government is seeking to
establish institutional mechanisms that can help the continuity of
policies, such as the elected district governments.
There are fiduciary and implementation risks associatedl to
devolution, which could lead to a further deterioration in the
delivery of social services, particularly in its initial stages. The
government is adopting a phased approach to devolutior, to
address some of these risks. To address fiduciary risks, the
accounting and treasury functions of the newly created District
governments will remain under the purview of the national
Controller General of Accounts and audits will be carried out by
the  Pakistan  Audit Department.    To  address  risks  in
implementation there will be a phased approach in devolving the
responsibilities of managing the civil service serving in the
districts to the new district governments. Technical assistance
programs are also being launched in several areas and the
government has requested Bank assistance in strengthening and
deepening the financial management reforms down to the district
and sub-district level.
Estimated Disbursements:    SDR 276.1 million disbursed upon Credit effectiveness.
Project ID Number:            PE-P071463
11



1.  RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS IN POVERTY
REDUCTION
A. DEVELOPMENTS PRECEDING OCTOBER 1999
Political and Economic Developments
1.    In the 1990s Pakistan suffered a number of political, economic, and financial shocks - some
exogenous, others self-inflicted, or a combination of both. Frequent changes in government weakened the
formulation and implementation of critical reforms, especially in the area of governance. Pakistan's
external political environment also worsened. Conflicts in Kashmir and Afghanistan and their domestic
fall-out - law and order problems, smuggling, narcotics, and sectarian violence - also imposed a heavy
burden, not only economically and financially but also socially and politically.
2.    The longer-term deterioration of governance that had occurred under successive governments
continued during the 1990s. Corruption, decaying public institutions, inconsistent government policies,
weak public sector service delivery, poor financial management, and breakdowns in law and order, all
got worse. Bad governance contributed to low tax collections; to the large non-performing loan portfolios
of public sector banks; to poor collection of utility bills; to overstaffing and inadequate skills in the
provincial governments; to poor delivery of social services; and to major inefficiencies, financial losses,
and fiscal liabilities in the large public enterprises.
3.    The May 1998 nuclear tests conducted by India and Pakistan resulted in sanctions from G-7
countries. This led to a severe shock to the capital account of Pakistan's fragile balance of payments,
including: (a) the risk of an incipient run on the US$ 11 billion stock of foreign currency deposits (FCDs)
was stemmed by a freeze that undermined confidence; (b) a drop in foreign private investment and
remittances; (c) a decline in Pakistan's sovereign credit rating; and (d) drying up of official development
assistance inflows. As a result, Pakistan was forced to delay payments on some foreign transactions and
sought debt rescheduling from the Paris Club as well as a three year IMF program approved at the end of
1998. This program led to rescheduling by the Paris Club of US$3.5 billion of debt in arrears or falling
due between December 1998 and December 2000, and rescheduling of US$1.5 billion from private
creditors, including US$610 million of Eurobond obligations, the first such rescheduling of Eurobonds.
The Bank supported this program through a Structural Adjustment Loan focused on financial governance
improvements.
4.    After a promising beginning of economic reforms in early 1999, the program slowed down.
Although there was continued improvement in some of the structural reforms, the IMF macroeconomic
program went off-track for lack of progress in implementing fiscal reforms, further reducing the
government's external credibility and investor confidence. This was exacerbated towards the end of 1999
when the new administration became aware that fiscal data since the early 1990s had been mis-reported,
and that the level of fiscal deficit was larger than previously estimated.
5.    This was the culmination of one decade of stop-go pattern of reforms during which long standing
fiscal problems remained unresolved, governance deteriorated, and there was uneven progress with
structural reforms. Despite efforts at tax reform, throughout the decade, Pakistan's tax-to-GDP ratio
remained stuck at a low level of 13 percent of GDP. On the expenditure side, 70 percent of total federal
spending went to debt servicing and defense, and about 80 percent of non-interest provincial recurrent
expenditures were tied up in civil service pay and pensions and subsidies. As a result, Pakistan could not
adequately fund basic social services and other important development needs in a fiscally responsible
manner. Available resources for public investment often were poorly utilized. Substantial investments in
motorways, for example, which were not subject to normal screening procedures, did not make economic
1



sense and generated large and continuing fiscal liabilities which Pakistan could ill-afford. Indicative of
Pakistan's inability to manage its macro economy, is that none of the nine IMF programs established
between 1988 and 1999 were successfully concluded.
Fiscal Expenditures and Adjustment  X            Tax Revenue and Fiscal Deficit
s  ------                  _ _ _.   - -1S       -- _ _ _ _ … _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _
Caputal Expeediture                      16             Tax revenue  X_i
14-
6                                             12
r.4 1  Q    B -   P         Fisca deficitDl
'; 3        Hallh and Educatior                . ; 6 -e
° -W-----~-----~-----~-            -           -2        .         .__    d______
Growth, Poverty, and Human Development
6.     In this difficult environment, Pakistan's GDP growth, which averaged more than 6 percent per
year in the 1980s, slowed down to about 3.5 percent per year in the latter half of the 1990s. Although
growth never turned negative and inflation was brought down to single digits, increases in per-capita
income have been very low given the high population growth of 2.5 percent per year. Industry has been
trapped in persistently low growth and exports stuck at around US$8 billion per year. A saving grace
until this year has been Pakistan's strong agriculture which continued to grow at a rate of more than 4
percent per year. However, there is now a severe drought and agriculture GDP is expected to decline in
fiscal years 2001 and 2002. The balance of payments situation has remained precarious, with very high
levels of foreign debt whose net present value is now equivalent to 240 percent of annual exports, large
external debt servicing requirements of around US$5 billion per year, and grossly inadequate foreign
exchange reserves measured in weeks of imports rather than months.
Trends in Growth and Poverty        I           The External Debt Burden
F_  E, S                                  ---    -                              i
10 ow                              50        12000
6                          3~ ~ ~~~~~~~~0  8 0soo
6                      25                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Scheduled debt service
I    I                                  Io
00040020                                       60000
od                                  15         40000 'n n 
7.     Poverty, which had fallen substantially in the 1980s, stagnated during the 1990s with the national
head count index at about 33 percent, and social indicators remained dismal. The government's strategy
to improve basic education, health, and access to water and sanitation through the donor-supported Social
Action Program did not work well, largely on account of severe financing and governance problems in
service delivery. The weakness was especially evident in education where primary school enrollment
rates declined during the 1990s. Progress was achieved in improving health-including reproductive
health-conditions leading to declining infant mortality, higher percentage of children immunized, and
reductions in fertility rates. Yet both the degree of progress and Pakistan's health indicators lagged those
of comparable countries. Gender imbalances remained marked and are a special source of concern.
2



B. DEVELOPMENTS SINCE OCTOBER 1999
8.    Since assuming power in October 1999, the military government showed awareness of the
country's difficult circumstances. Its response was the quick articulation of ambitious reforms aimed at
modernizing Pakistan, and its institutions. The government's evolving Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS)
is anchored on three pillars: (a) improving governance; (b) achieving broad based growth; and (c)
improving human development. In the past eighteen months, the government has moved forward more
rapidly and forcefully in implementing reforms, and on a much broader front, than the previous
governments. It has been gradually rebuilding Pakistan's severely eroded credibility, re-establishing
confidence in public institutions, and improving the investment climate. Important milestones in this
process include initiating elections for local government bodies; the approval of an IMF Stand-by
arrangement; full resolution of the disputes with the independent power producers; a new agreement with
the Paris Club for additional debt rescheduling (on bilateral debt which accounts for about US$10 billion
out of the US$33 billion external debt); and holding of the Pakistan Development Forum in Islamabad
after a gap of nearly three years. The IMF has concluded the first review of the Stand-By arrangement in
which the government has maintained a good track record of fiscal, monetary, debt, and exchange rate
management.
Macroeconomic Framework
9.    During its first year in office the government was successful in stabilizing the economy despite a
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade and a suspended IMF program. The fiscal deficit was contained
by implementing difficult tax and pricing measures, by quarterly adjustment of petroleum product prices
in line with rising international prices, and the extension of the general sales tax to electricity. Defense
expenditure was contained and unproductive public investments were reduced. Debt management was
improved through reforms of long term debt instruments (para. 51), leading to a reduction in the domestic
cost of borrowing. On the external front, there was a sharp reduction in the current account deficit to 1.6
percent of GDP in fiscal year 2000. During fiscal year 2000, the favorable performance of the
agricultural sector helped to boost real GDP growth to 4.8 percent, while the average rate of inflation
declined to 3.6 percent.
10.   Macroeconomic management, together with the launching of important tax policy and structural
reforms paved the way for a US$600 million ten-month Stand-By arrangement approved by the IMF
Board in November 2000 and the new debt rescheduling with the Paris Club approved in January 2001.
The IMF staff has completed and presented to their Board the first review of the Stand-By. Performance
has been positive. Despite lower than envisaged economic growth (projected now at 3.1 percent against
an initial projection of 4.5 percent), on account of a severe drought, the program has so far achieved or
exceeded its targets on inflation, export volumes, the current account deficit, and the fiscal deficit.
Revenue targets, however, were not achieved and have since been revised reflecting slower than
anticipated improvements in tax administration. Foreign exchange reserves, now at about US$740
million or 3 weeks of imports, have also remained below target and precariously low. Progress in the
implementation of structural reforms was as envisaged under the program which is expected to be
followed up by a PRGF later in calendar year 2001.
11.   Despite the favorable performance under the Stand-By program, the macroeconomic situation
remains difficult. There are still significant risks to achieving the program's objectives, which were built
on the expectation of relatively strong agricultural and export growth, and could not foresee the full
impact of the drought. Shortfalls in external financing are another risk since the macroeconomic
framework relies on significant exceptional financing (see Section IV).
3



Progress on Structural and Institutional Reforms
12.   On the structural and institutional front, considerable progress has been achieved in improving
governance. The accountability drive, one of the earliest priorities, has been carried forward. and an
ambitious tax survey campaign has yielded key information on tax payers, and substantial increase in the
number of registered taxpayers. In parallel, a plan for fundamental restructuring and modernization of the
Central Board of Revenue (CBR) has been finalized. An elaborate devolution plan has been promriulgated,
and two rounds of elections for the new local governments have taken place. A number of initialives are
underway to improve financial management and increase transparency in the public sector. Important
steps have been taken to restore the integrity in the recruitment and promotion system of the civil service.
Among public enterprises, the railways has succeeded in reducing its sanctioned staff strength by 30
percent in the past two years and has eliminated a significant number of "ghost pensioners". At t:he same
time, the government is striving to foster a business environment supportive of investment and growth.
Deregulation, privatization, and reduced corruption will help in this regard, and significant progress has
been achieved in deregulation, restructuring, and pricing policy reforms in key sectors such as oil and gas,
banking, and power.
13.   Reforms to improve the delivery of basic social services are underway. As an initial ,tep, the
government is addressing the most egregious forms of corruption (e.g., staff absenteeism, mtsuse of
public investment program) through monitoring at the district level, supported by the work of Army
Monitoring Teams. An Education Sector Reform Strategy and action plan has been formulated and is in
its initial stages of implementation. The strategy includes the devolution of responsibilities for basic
education to district governments complemented by reforms on civil service management, teacher
training, curriculum, enhanced collaboration with NGOs, and community/parent participation. In health
the focus on preventive and public health has been enhanced through expansion of immunization
programs, a plan to launch an HIV/AIDS campaign, and devolution of primary services to district
governments. In all cases, the government is committed to increase expenditure allocations.
14.   The social protection agenda is being addressed through increased funding for community
infrastructure schemes, a new cash transfer program to 1.2 million of the poorest households, and the
strengthening of the privately financed but publicly managed Zakat (religious charity) program. A, Micro-
Credit Bank to improve access to credit for small and medium enterprises and the self-employed lhas been
established.  Budgetary allocations for poverty-related expenditures have increased.  Finally, the
government is commnitted to reduce gender imbalances. A marked effort has been made to strengthen the
role of women in society through the unprecedented number of women appointed for high level
government posts. The devolution plan includes one third of the legislative seats at the local government
levels earmarked for women. Progress in removing laws that discriminate against women has been
limited, however, in the face of strong opposition from religious groups.
II.  PAKISTAN'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY AND
WORLD BANK SUPPORT
A.    LAYING THE FOUNDATIONS FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
15.   The government faces a short 3-year time horizon, October 1999 to October 2002, (mandated by
the Supreme Court). It has nevertheless accomplished much and is on track to follow throughl on the
ambitious Poverty Reduction Strategy it has started. The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
supports the first phase of this program. The policy and institutional measures already implemented cover
cross-cutting reforms to improve governance, growth, and poverty reduction. In the next step these are to
be broadened and strengthened. Towards the end of this calendar year, both the IMF and the Bank would
support this program in the context of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
4



The Reform Program: Laying the Foundations for Poverty Reduction
PRS Pillar           Qbjectives               Reform Areas              Lead Counterparts                            Priorities
Improving           Efficient and equitable    . Tax policy and tax     Ministry of Finance, Central   . Documentation of economy to increase the tax base
govemance           mobilization of           administration            Board of Revenue            * Functional and personnel reform at CBR
resources
Efficient and equitable    * Public expenditure     Ministry of Finance,        * Alignment of expenditures and investments with PRS
use of public resources   allocation                Planning Commission            priorities
* implementation of medium term budget framework
. Improved financial         Ministry of Finance,       * Separation of audit and accounting functions into
management                Pakistan Audit Department,    independent agencies
Provincial Govemments      * Modemization of audit and accounting functions
* Timely fiscal reconciliation
* Public procurement         Ministry of Finance         * Establish Pakistan Procurement Authority
* Promulgation of new Procurement Law
Public4Legistative        Ad-hoc Public Accounts    Ministry of Finance, ad-hoc    * PAC reviews of recent audit reports (FY99 and FY00)
oversight Transparency    Committees                Public Accounts Committee,   . Open PAC deliberations the press
andAccountabilit                                    PAD
. Fiscal transparency and    Ministry of Finance, Ministry   . Publish and disseminate revenue and expenditure data
access to information     of Information                 and user friendly presentation of the budget
. Promulgaton of Freedom of Informaton Ordinance
a Devolution                 National Reconstruction    * Establishment of fiscal transfer and financial
Bureau, Ministry of Finance,  management systems
Provincial Governments,    * Phased implementation of civil service reform,
PAD                           including pay and pension reform
Improving the delivery    . Civil service reform     Establishment Division,    * Strengthening of FPSC role in recruitment
of services through                                 Federal Public Service      . Strengthening of civil service training, evaluation, and
cross-cutting reforms                               Commission                    promotion process-es
~~~~~~..... .....                                     ....   ..-....-.._ ..... .. ....  ......  ... ... ....... .....  ...................  . _n..   ...  .........  ............ ..... ........ ...--   ..... ..........
Achieving bmad      Increased integration to   . Trade liberalizaton     Ministries of Finance,     . Reduce tariff levels and the number of tariff slabs
based growth       the world economy                                    Industry and Commerce
Improve overall        . Privatzation of key public    Ministry of Privatizabon,  . Implementaton of privatzation program (see below)
economic efficiency       sector enterprises        Ministry of Finance, State
Bank of Pakistan, Line
Ministries
. Banking sector reform      Ministry of Finance, State  . Complete the restructuring of three NCBs
Bank of Pakistan, State-   . Privatizaton of the NCBs
owned banks (NCBs)
* Power sector reform        Ministry of Water and       * Complete the financial restructuring of WAPDA
Power, WAPDA, NEPRA,       . Privatizaton of distribubon companies
Ministry of Finance
* Natural gas sector reform  Ministry of Petroleum and  . Reform of the pricing framework to encourage
Natural Resources, Gas        investments
Regulatory Authority       * Privatization of the largest producer, Pakistan
Petroieum Limited
* Petroleum sector reforms   Ministry of Petroleum and   . Free imports and domestc distribution
Natural Resources          . Privatization of largest state-own company, Oil and
Gas Development Corporation
.................                           ...................   . ........ .... .. ...... .... .............................o.........f..... ..  . .. ...... ..  ..............
Human               Improved delivery of   * Access to and quality of    Ministry of Education,     . Strong leadership to carry through reform process
development and    education services         primary education          Provincial Govemments,     * Development provincial and district level expertise to
social protection                          * Improved sector             Ministry of Finance, National    implement devolution
govemance                 Reconstruction Bureau
(NRB)
Improved delivery of   * Expansion of immunizabon   Ministry of Health, Ministry  * Strong leadership to carry through reform process
health services           program                   of Family Planning and      * Development provincial and district level expertise to
* Expansion of matemal and    Populabon, Provincial        implement devolution
child health care programs   Govemments, NRB, Ministry   . Implementaton of immunization and lady health
. Improved sector            of Finance                    workers program; TB control and HIV preventon
govemance
Provide basic income   * Build Govemment capacity   Planning Commission         * Develop monitoring and evaluation capacity to improve
support to the poor       to design targeted pro-poor                              targeting of existing programs and development of new
interventions                                            ones
5



B.    PILLAR I: IMPROVING GOVERNANCE
16.   Poor governance has been a major obstacle to sustained development. The PRS includes a broad-
based agenda of govemance reforms based on: (a) tax policy and tax administration reforms; (b)
improved public use of resources including stronger financial management and accountability, including
procurement reform; (c) enhanced transparency and access to information; (d) enhanced accountability of
public institutions through grass root participation and devolution; (e) civil service reforms and re rorms of
the judiciary and the police systems; and (f) deterrence of corruption through strong accountability
institutions.
Efficient and Equitable Mobilization of Resources
17.   Issues. For many years, Pakistan has sought to increase tax revenues to reduce its high fiscal
deficits. Notwithstanding important changes in tax policy, tax revenue in relation to GDP has re.mained
stable at about 13 percent of GDP. The inability to raise revenues in relation to GDP largely reflects tax
policies which often left gaps to facilitate evasion, inefficient tax administration, and systemic corruption.
One of the main constraints to increase revenues has been the narrow base of tax-payers. The income
accrued from agriculture activities was not subject to income tax, very limited success was achieved in
extending the sales tax to the retail sector, and there are only 1.2 million income-tax payers out of a
population of 140 million people. Collusion between tax-payers and tax officials has been pervasive and
facilitated by the excessive discretionary powers of tax officials in the conduction of tax assessments,
complex tax rules, and very weak supervision of field staff. Frequent changes in the leadership of CBR,
and poor recruitment and personnel management practices have compounded these problems.
18.    Vision. The government envisions a modern tax system based on a few buoyant, broad-based
taxes, such as the (value added) general sales tax (GST) and a modern income tax, which would bring
agricultural income into the tax net, all of which would generate a two percentage point increase in the
tax-to-GDP by fiscal year 2004 and further increases subsequently, while reducing collection costs and
other burdens of poor governance on taxpayers.
19.   Actions Taken. A tax survey and registration drive was launched, in May 2000, to docurrient the
economy The drive has been sustained despite strong opposition from traders including prolonged
strikes. The first two phases of the drive have been completed leading to updated documentation of about
1.3 million businesses and individuals and the registration of 120,000 new tax payers. As agreed with the
IMF, important steps have been taken to expand the base of the GST. The coverage of the GST has been
extended to include all services previously subject to excise taxes. Agriculture inputs have been brought
into the GST net and a large number of exemptions in the area of GST, income tax, and custom duties
have been eliminated to increase transparency and close loopholes. The Committee charged with the
preparation of a new modern income tax ordinance has submitted its final report to Government working
closely with IMF technical teams. To expand the tax base and bring agriculture more fully into the tax
net, the provinces have established an agriculture income tax for high income farmers and collectons are
scheduled to start in July 2001. Finally, a special task force has prepared a comprehensive pro,gram to
fundamentally restructure Pakistan's weak tax administration and modernize its business processes.
20.   Future Actions. Key actions expected in the coming two years are the completion of the tax
survey and registration drive; the extension of GST compliance to small traders in fiscal year 2002; the
promulgation in July 2001 of a new income tax ordinance with reliance on self-assessment and audits to
reduce contact with tax officials, minimal exemptions, and simplified and more equitable rates; and the
implementation of the program of CBR reforms that are critical to increase revenues and improve the
governance environment for private sector development.
6



Efficient and Accountable use of Public Resources
21.   Deterioration of public institutions, lack of transparency, and systemic corruption permeated
public financial management. Weak budgeting techniques and processes limited the effectiveness of the
budget to promote policy objectives. The public accounting system deteriorated to the extent that the
government was unable to present reliable statements of its financial position. The effectiveness of the
public audit system is questionable as irregularities in financial management uncovered by the audit
reports tend to be repeated over time, while there was no visible, transparent mechanism to minimize
fraud, waste, and misuse of public funds. The public oversight over the actions of the executive have
long been basically non-existent. The government response has been the development of a broad reform
program (complete description in Annex D) that aims at reforming all key areas of financial management
including budgeting, procurement, public accounting, and public audits. The reform program has been
developed through a continuos dialogue with the Bank, the IMF and the ADB including: the World
Bank-assisted Project to Improve Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA), the World Bank Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR), the ongoing World Bank Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA), the Social Action Program Financial Management Supervision Missions; the IMF's
Report on Observance of Standards and Codes: Fiscal Transparency Module, the IMF Technical
Assistance to Improve Fiscal Reporting and Transparency, and the ADB's Study: Financial Management
and Governance Issues in Pakistan. During the next fiscal year, when the new local govemment
administrations are in function, the second phase of the CFAA will focus on financial management issues
at the local govemment level.
Budget and Expenditure Management
22.   Issues. The use of the budget for achieving policy goals has been limited. Budget preparation
was primarily incremental, and perfortnance was judged by the ability to spend allocated amounts.
Preparation of the recurrent and development budgets were carried out separately, leading to poor
resource allocation decisions. There was poor use of expenditure for prestige projects (e.g., large
motorways) and social sector needs were left unattended. Because tax revenues are over-estimated during
budget preparation, the budget execution is affected by delays in the release of funds and cutbacks in the
allocations which are applied without any prioritization of expenditures. Finally, when the budget was
implemented, the absence of adequate procurement rules facilitated corruption hindering the effectiveness
of expenditures.
23.    Vision. The government aims to revitalize and modernize all aspects of financial management,
increase the integrity of the budget by avoiding extra-budgetary funds, improve budgetary decision-
making, and avoid misuse of funds.
24.   Actions Taken. To improve the predictability in the use of resources a New System of Financial
Control and Budgeting was introduced in July 2000. The system provides the line ministries with the
discretionary authority to spend, during the first semester, up to 40 percent of their annual recurrent
budget and 45 percent of their assigned development budgets (50 percent for the social sectors in both
cases). This system was launched together with an effort to improve tax revenue forecasts. The budget
for the fiscal year 2002 has been prepared under a medium term framework, including the joint
preparation of the current and investment expenditure programs.  To improve the efficiency of
investments all public investment programs have been required to pass the scrutiny of the Planning
Commission and to have the final approval of the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council. Finally, the government has agreed with the Bank on a strategy and a timetable for procurement
reforms. In the meantime, efforts are underway to improve procurement practices within the existing
framework. In the education sector, a fifty year old cartel on the printing of textbooks has been
dismantled by allowing free entry of publishing companies to bid, and corruption is being arrested across
the board by the active role of the National Accountability Bureau.
7



25.    Future Actions. Key benchmarks in the coming two years include passing legislation that will
institutionalize and -provide legal cover to the medium term budget framework; the extension of the
medium term budget framework to the preparation of the provincial budgets; the establishmenit of a
National Procurement Authority by July 2001; and the promulgation of a Procurement Ordinance by
December 2001 that will help foster competition and transparency by establishing a more uniforrri set of
rules across provinces and Ministries.
Public Accounting and Audit
26.   Issues. Pakistan's public accounting and audit systems are antiquated. The audit and accounting
functions have been under the same office-the Auditor General-potentially compromising objectivity.
Public accounting systems were unable to provide timely, comprehensive, and reliable information for
decision making. Accounting is still carried manually and on a fully cash based system. The relial,ility of
financial information is further undermined by reconciliation problems at all levels of government.
Audits are not timely enough, limiting their relevance. In practice, statutory audits of many public
enterprises and autonomous bodies were not carried out, limiting the information provided to the
legislature.
27.    Vision. The govemment seeks a modern public accounting and integrated financial management
system which will yield reliable and complete accounting reports, and a public audit system that
contributes more fully to increase the effectiveness of government expenditures.
28.   Actions Taken. The government has implemented fundamental structural reforms to strengthen
the audit and accounting functions. It has promulgated ordinances relating to the Auditor General mind the
creation of the office of the Controller General of Accounts. The Auditor's General Ordinance, the first
in the country's history, defines functions, powers, and terms and conditions of service providing for a
comprehensive mandate and enhanced independence. The accounting function will now be under the
purview of a new Controller General of Accounts Department in the Ministry of Finance. The separation
of audit and accounting responsibilities will become operational in July 2001.
29.    To improve the quality and reliability of public financial statements, Fiscal Mor itoring
Committees have been established at the federal and provincial levels to oversee the preparation and
dissemination of timely reconciled expenditure data. The preparation and dissemination of such data at
the federal level has been completed for the first semester of this fiscal year. After years of negLecting
established procedures, the process of reconciliation of expenditures at the provincial level is underway,
yet advancing at a slower pace on account of capacity constraints. To help alleviate these constrair-ts, the
government, under directive from the Chief Executive, and in agreement with the provincial Governors,
has established a task force to assist the provincial governments in accelerating the reconciliation
processes with particular emphasis on the social sector Ministries that are implementing the Social Action
Program.
30.    To launch the longer term process of public accounting reforms, (supported by the Bank's I1FRA
project) the government is implementing a program of capacity building and institutional reforms. With
assistance from the Bank, the computerization of government accounting systems is underway, and action
plans to improve capacity of social sector Ministries are being developed. In December 2000, the
President approved the "Revised Form, Principles and Methods of Accounting for the Federation and the
Provinces" with a view to meeting the requirements of a modern integrated financial management .ystem
designed to provide timely and reliable information for budget management, financial contro-i, cash
forecasting and trend analysis, fiscal administration, and debt management. It establishes a new public
chart of accounts, that will facilitate adherence to international public sector accounting standards;
mandates the preparation of more complete financial reporting requirements, and provides for regular
8



reconciliation between official accounts and independent banking records, thus helping to increase
reliability of information.
31.   The quality of audit information has improved with the introduction of systems-based auditing
procedures, and greater attention is being paid to reporting only on significant matters. Some audit
reports are being translated into Urdu to improve information to the public. Finally, the Pakistan Audit
Department's corporate audit plan provides for full coverage over a three year cycle of all public sector
corporations, autonomous bodies and authorities. The requirement to audit these entities has been
reinforced since January 2001, by prescription of the newly established ad-hoc Public Accounts
Committee, and the promulgation of the Auditor General's Ordinance.
32.   Future Actions. Key benchmarks in the coming two years include the implementation of the new
system of financial accounting and reporting which will entail the preparation of comprehensive
reconciled accounting reports by a new computerized system which is expected to cover, by June 2003,
more than 90 percent of the country; the implementation of the separation of audit and accounting
functions under two agencies scheduled for the beginning of the next fiscal year in July 2001; the
completion of the fiscal reconciliation process at the provincial level; and implementation of a program
for the strengthening of financial management at the district-level in the context of devolution.
Transparency, Participation, and Accountability
33.   Issues. The access of the public to information has been very limited, communities have had
little voice, and accountability in service delivery was very weak. On the formal accountability chain, the
public/legislative oversight through the Public Accounts Committees at the federal and provincial level
had ceased to function in some provinces, while at the federal level, there is a significant backlog of
review of audit reports.
34.    Vision. The government envisions a more open society, where the public is better informed and
feels empowered to demand improved services from all tiers of government, leading to improved delivery
of public services, especially to the poor.
35.   Actions Taken. The government's strategy centers on (a) devolution of state functions to local
governments (including, among other things, spending priorities and administering police and justice,
education, health, and other key serv,ces); (b) facilitating access to government information; and (c)
improving the functioning of the public egislative oversight on the executive.
36.   An elaborate devolution plan for a three-level structure of local governments has been designed
by the National Reconstruction Bureau (NRB) and has gone through extensive consultations and
revisions. Two rounds of elections have been completed. The plan reserves one third of seats for elected
women representatives. Local government elections were successfully held in 18 districts at the end of
December 2000, and another 20 districts in March 2001. Elections in the remaining districts are
scheduled through June 2001. The federal governments, NRB, and the provinces are working on plans for
phased implementation of legal, administrative, and fiscal dimensions of devolution (see Annex E). A
strategy to minimize the fiduciary risks of devolution is being developed jointly by the federal Ministry of
Finance, the provincial Secretaries of Finance, the Pakistan Audit General Office, and the NRB. The
existing plan, includes keeping the accounting and financial management systems of the districts under
the control of the (new) federal Controller General of Accounts. and Pakistan Auditor General framework.
This will ensure that the districts can benefit from the ongoing reforms in public financial accountability.
37.   To enhance access to information and transparency, the government has prepared a draft of the
Freedom of Information Ordinance which is expected to be approved shortly. The fiscal module of the
IMF Report on Standards and Codes has been completed and its main recommendations on fiscal
9



transparency implemented. These include widening and deepening the fiscal information in the upcoming
budget, and publicizing timely information on the reconciled federal revenues and expenditures, which
are now posted in the Ministry of Finance web-site. To strengthen the formal accountability cl ain, ad-
hoc Public Accounts Committees (PAC) have been established at the federal and provincial le'.'el with
capable membership that includes private sector representatives. A major breakthrough has been the
provision to permit access of the press to the PAC hearings. To accelerate the timeliness and relevance of
the work of the PAC, the government has released to the PAC the audit reports for fiscal years 19)98 and
1999.
38.   Future Actions. Key benchmarks in the coming two years include the phased implementation of
the full panoply of administrative, fiscal, and accountability measures envisioned in the devoluti on plan
which will be launched in August 2001. These will include a fiscal framework, administrative
arrangements, civil service structures and management, effective accountability and participation
mechanisms, and the implementation of stronger financial management systems. The promulgatic n of the
Freedom of Information Ordinance during calendar year 2001; the prompt release to the Public A .counts
Committee of the pending audit reports for the last fiscal year; and the publication of the fiscal year 2002
budget with enhanced information to the public on contingent liabilities, tax expenditures, and su bsidies.
The government is also committed to allow private sector participation in the electronic media.
Civil Service Reform
39.   Issues. Pakistan's civil service suffers from poor governance, patronage, pervasive political
interference in appointments and transfers, corruption, low morale, over-employment, specially at the
lowest grades, inadequate skill mix, and an opaque pay and pension system. The latter inc ludes a
compressed wages structure, overtly generous pensions, and at the highest grades, a non-transparent
system of benefits with large payments in kind.
40.    Vision. Pakistan wants a lean, skilled, honest, dedicated, effective, and decentralized civil
service, with merit-based recruitment and promotions. Staff that benefits from regular and relevant
training, and that is compensated through transparent pay, benefit, and pension system that bears
resemblance to market wages.
41.   Actions Taken. The government has been preparing a comprehensive program of civil service
reforms that includes improvements in recruitment, training and personnel management; and pay and
pension reforms linked to the restructuring and rightsizing of the federal government. To promote merit-
based recruitment, the Federal Public Service Commission Ordinance was amended in November 2000 to
enhance the independence and powers of the Commission. In the meantime, to redress past abuses in
recruitment, appointments made in contravention of rules are being reviewed at the federal and prcovincial
level and those hired without the necessary skills are being dismissed from service. The Civil Senrice Act
has been amended to improve performance and reduce corruption, enabling the government to
prematurely retire civil servants who are found to be inefficient and have completed 25 years of ;ervice.
Similarly, a Removal from Service (Special Powers) Ordinance has been issued to expeditiously remove
from service officers found to be corrupt. An impressive program in that direction is well underway in
Pakistan Railways-the federal government's largest employer, where a strong program of reforms has
already led to the elimination of 40,000 out of 135,000 positions and 23,000 "ghost" pensioners.
42.   The Promotion Board for high level civil servants is to follow much more systematic procedures
and be chaired by the FPSC Chairman (as opposed to a special appointee of the Prime Minister). To
improve performance and accountability, line managers have been empowered to make decis:ions on
career management, promotions, and evaluation; and a Task Force to assess the training needs of the civil
service has completed its report and recommendations for training and curriculum reform. Finally,
10



special committees on pay and pension reform and restructuring and rightsizing of the federal government
have finalized their findings and recommendations.
43.   Future Actions. . Important key benchmarks for the next two years include the continued
implementation of the systems for better performance evaluation and merit-based promotions and the
implementation of training reforms. Pay and pension reforms in conjunction with the restructuring of the
federal government are scheduled to start in the coming fiscal year. Proposals for police reform
(developed by the Interior Ministry and NRB) and plans for judicial reforms should be finalized and
implemented. And most importantly, the provinces will need to implement similar civil service reforns
as part of their overall reform programs.
C.    PILLAR H: ACHIEVING BROAD BASED GROWTH
44.   The government's strategy for reviving growth rests on four areas: (a) macroeconomic
sustainability; (b) market liberalization and deregulation; (c) privatization; and (d) targeted interventions
in support of small and medium size private enterprises and the information technology sector.
Trade Liberalization
45.   Issues. Exports in relation to GDP have remained stubbornly constant throughout the 1990s at
about 13 percent of GDP, and there has also been little export diversification as textile-related products
account for about 75 percent of exports. In spite of several rounds of trade liberalization, effective rates
of protection remain high when compared to world standards and the state still maintains an activist
approach to tariff policy which encourages lobbying and rent-seeking.
46.    Vision. Strong export growth from a widening industrial and agriculture base, with rapidly
growing employment.
47.   Actions Taken. The Government has made public its program to further reduce the maximum
tariff rate from 35 percent to 30 percent in July 2001 and 25 percent in January 2003, and reduce the
number of tariff slabs to 4 and 3 in the same dates. The differential application of excise taxes to
imported and domestically produced goods, which had led, in many cases, to protection rates way in
excess of the maximum nominal tariff of 35 percent has been eliminated for all but eleven products,
which are now subject to regulatory duties. Custom duty exemptions granted through administrative
measures SROs have been reduced, while time-bound SROs will be allowed to lapse. Finally, exports of
all agricultural products except wheat have been liberalized. Wheat exports are now also authorized (this
has not been announced as a permanent measure).
48.   Future Actions. Key fuature benchmarks are the implementation of the scheduled tariff reforms;
the phasing out of regulatory duties which are still providing additional protection well beyond the
maximum tariff rate for some goods, and the elimination on restrictions on wheat exports.
Banldng Sector Reform
49.   Issues. The state-owned banks have been the largest source of political patronage and corruption,
imposing an enormous burden to the economy in the form of bad loans and high intermediation costs.
The dominance of the state banks, (three nationalized comnmercial banks and two partially privatized
banks) which account for more than 60 percent of the banking system's assets and 65 percent of deposits,
also stifles competition.
50.    Yision. The government envisions a banking system that is largely in private hands, operating
under rigorously implemented banking regulations that meet international standards, in a competitive
11



financial markets environment, without private or public abuse in mobilizing or allocating financial
resources.
51.   Actions Taken. The three large nationalized commercial banks are now operating witli sound
professional management on commercial lines and have drawn up major restructuring plans tc reduce
their cost and make them more attractive for privatization. The restructuring programs for personnel
reduction and closure of branches have been approved by the Chief Executive and implementation will be
initiated before the end of this fiscal year. The fiscal impact of this major reform, due to substantial
severance payments, has been discussed and agreed with the IMF and will be financed partly by the Bank
through a Banking Sector Reform Project under preparation. Financial advisors have been contracted to
help with the privatization of Habib Bank Ltd. and United Bank Ltd, and a Corporate and Industrial
Restructuring Corporation has been established to restructure/liquidate non-performing loans of public
sector banks and has begun its work. In December 2000 the govemment divested 8 percent of its shares
in Muslim Commercial Bank; a plan to sell the government's 49 percent shares of Allied Bank to a
strategic investor has been agreed by the State Bank of Pakistan and the Securities Exchange
Commission. Non-core activities of the State Bank of Pakistan are being separated out so that the central
bank can concentrate on monetary policy and financial sector regulation and there is a strong program
underway to strengthen the professional capacity of the SBP staff. To enhance competition in the
financial system the govemment has discontinued the State Bank role in attracting foreign currency
deposits, and has undertaken reforms of the domestic debt market (National Saving Schemes). The latter
include the elimination of the implicit subsidy to bond-holders by lowering interest to market-determined
levels, eliminating tax advantages, and preventing institutional investor access to these instruments.
52.    Future Actions. Key benchmarks for the next two years include: (a) institutional and portfolio
restructuring of the three large NCBs through reductions in personnel (ranging from 30 to 50 percent of
existing personnel), and closure of non-profitable commercial branches, especially in urban areas; (b)
divestment of all remaining shares in the partially privatized banks, and the privatization of two NCBs
during the next eighteen months; and (c) continued strengthening of the regulatory capacity of the State
Bank of Pakistan and promulgation of amended legislation-the Loan Recovery Act-to facilitate
foreclosure of banks' collateral.
Natural Gas Sector Reform
53.   Issues.  The natural gas sector's development has been stifled by lack of infrastructure,
uncertainty over government policies, and the predominance of state-owned enterprises. The two largest
natural gas producers, which account for more than forty percent of total production are still state-owned,
as are the two transportation and distribution companies. While exploration has been encouraged by
adequate well-head prices for new discoveries, progress in production is limited by government
administered prices, heavy subsidies, and contract disputes.
54.    Vision. The government envisions a private natural gas sector that fulfills the country's
significant production potential, in which exploration, production, and distribution are in private hands,
operating under a sound pricing framework and effectively regulated by an autonomous authority.
55.   Actions Taken. The government has appointed, to the top management and the Board of
Directors of the state-owned companies, experienced staff from the private sector. It has begun the
privatization process and prepared the country for a "revolution" in ownership and price policies that has
recently started. The cornerstone of the reforms is the implementation, since March 2001, of a new gas-
pricing framework that provides for: (i) the setting of well-head prices based on international crude (or
fuel) oil prices; (ii) the bi-anmual revision of consumer prices; (iii) the phasing out of subsidies over a
three-year period, except in relation to the fertilizer sector and a lifeline rate for domestic consumers; and
(iv) the phased adjustment of consumer prices, so as to reflect the cost of service. The government has
12



made the first bi-annual consumer price adjustment under said new gas pricing framework for the
semester ending June 30, 2001.
56.    Future Actions.  Important benchmarks over the next two years include the continued
implementation of the gas pricing framework. This will include the replacement of the existing gas price
agreement (GPA) with the state-owned Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) in July 2001 by a new
agreement that will bring, in a phased manner, the wellhead price of PPL in line with the pricing policy
that prevails for the rest of the gas sector. Implementation of the new GPA will start in September 2001,
and be carried out in a phased manner over a four year period, with adjustments taking place on a bi-
annual basis. The price to consumers would be suitably adjusted to meet the needs of price adjustments
for PPL. Other important benchmarks to be set include, making the subsidy to the fertilizer industry
transparent by making it part the budget, the privatization of Pakistan Petroleum Limited, and
strengthening the regulatory environment.
Petroleum Sector Reform
57.   Issues. Due to the slow development of the gas sector, the petroleum sector in Pakistan meets
about 45 percent of all commercial energy requirements and 75 percent of petroleum and petroleum
products are imported. At about US$2.8 billion a year, oil imports account for more than 25 percent of
total imports. For many years, this has been the most regulated sector in Pakistan. Procurement of crude
has largely been non-competitive with a large potential for collusion and corruption. The local refineries
have been protected through guaranteed rates of return, high ex-refinery prices and non-transparent
subsidies, and consumer prices and transport have been controlled through a freight-pool system that
sustains uniform prices across the country. State enterprises dominate the refineries sector, transport, and
retail facilities. In this non-competitive environment product quality and environmental standards have
been extremely poor.
58.    Vision. The government envisions a sector where gas substitutes for many current uses, with a
substantially reduced participation of the state in productive activities, where prices are freely determined
by market forces through competition at all levels of the production and distribution chain, where higher
product quality contributes to a cleaner environment, all regulated by a recently established regulatory
authority.
59.   Actions Taken.  The management of the state-owned companies has been strengthened
significantly. Market deregulation has been launched through the liberalization of imports and prices of
furnace oil-which accounts for more than 40 percent of petroleum products' consumption. For LPG
where imports were free, prices have been liberalized throughout the production and distribution chain.
Throughout this period, reflecting a new, more predictable pricing policy (and as agreed with the IMF),
the petroleum products prices that are still under government regulation have been adjusted on a quarterly
basis in line with import parity prices since December 1999. On the privatization front, two of the three
government owned LPG plants have been privatized, with one transaction completed. Environmental
standards have started to be strengthened and the use of low quality 80 RON gasoline has been phased
out.
60.   Future Actions. Future important benchmarks include the market deregulation of diesel, which
accounts for another 45 percent of the petroleum products markets, and pricing reforms at the ex-refinery
level to induce competition. The subsidies to the refineries will be made transparent through the national
budget; and until the Government is satisfied that the sector is fully competitive, regulated retail and ex-
refinery prices will be based on ceilings, as opposed to fixed prices to encourage competition. The
existing freight pool will be abolished altogether and the remaining LPG plant of the Oil and Gas
Development Corporation Ltd. and Pakistan State Oil Ltd. are expected to be privatized not later than
March 1, 2003.
13



Power Sector Reform
61.   Issues. Pakistan's power sector remains largely govemment controlled. The state-ownecl Water
and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) and Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) zontrol
almost the totality of the distribution and transmission markets, with WAPDA accounting for about 80
percent of total distribution. WAPDA also accounts for 65 percent of generation, with the other 35
percent in the hands of 21 independent power producers (IPPs). Lack of appropriate electricity tariff
policies, governance problems reflected in poor collections and massive power theft led to poor
performance and the sector has often been a source of macroeconomic instability. Lack of reliability in
electricity supply has been a deterrent to the development of small and medium size firms. Pakistan was
able to attract substantive private investment in power generation despite its poor track record in
implementing the required market liberalization reforms in the sector. The ability to attract private
investors was seriously compromised, however, following the previous govemment's dispulte with
thirteen of the country's twenty one independent power producers.
62.    Vision.  The government envisions a competitive electric power system  consisting of
autonomous, fmnancially viable, and efficiently operated entities govemed by an independent regulatory
authority. Commercialization leading to privatization forms the cornerstone of the government's power
sector reforms, which requires credible pricing and regulatory frameworks to improve efficiency, attract
private investment, and enable privatization.
63.   Actions Taken. The govemment managed, within a year, to resolve all disputes with the IPPs,
including a difficult, prolonged dispute with Hub Power Corporation (HIUBCO).  The financial
restructuring of WAPDA has progressed, including a major debt-to-equity conversion, settlement of most
government arrears, and the settlement of the tariff dispute with the IPPs. Following an efficiency
improvement drive, WAPDA's financial position has improved on account of improved bill collections
(close to 100 percent for private customers) and a reduction in systems losses to about 25 percent from a
high of about 35 to 40 percent a few years back. Tariff reforms that are critical to strengthen the financial
position of both WAPDA and KESC and to attract investors have been implemented. These include a
tariff adjustment for WAPDA of 4.9 percent in December 2000 and 4.5 percent in March 2001. and a
tariff increase for KESC of 9.5 percent in March 2001 that is a part of a recently agreed financial
restructuring plan, also being supported by the ADB. Additional tariff policy reforms include the
introduction of automatic fuel adjustment clause to account for potential oil price changes; and the issue
of new tariff policy guidelines to the regulator that will allow for differentiated electricity tariffs across
different markets and multi-year tariffs.
64.   Future Actions. Important future benchmarks include the completion of the corporatization of
the distribution companies by June 2001, and the generation and transmission and dispatch companies by
the end of 2001; NEPRA to amend its 1998 Tariff Standards and Procedure Rules consistent with the new
tariff policies guidelines; and the privatization of KESC and at least one other distribution company by
the end of 2002.
D. PILLAR III: HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
65.   The government has recognized that Pakistan's social sector delivery system is in dire need of
restructuring, and the federal and provincial governments are in the midst of such a restructuring,
including a far-reaching devolution plan. The Bank-and other donors-are supporting this process
through continued technical engagement and the restructuring of the Social Action Program to support the
district-based implementation of the health and education strategy. The government's awareness that
poor governance has been the key constraint to service delivery, and the importance of cross-cutting
financial management and civil service reforms as parts of the social sector agenda are key starting points.
At the same time, it must be recognized that the road to achieve better results on the ground is a long one.
14



Improving the Coverage and Quality of Basic Education
66.   Issues. The coverage and quality of primary education in Pakistan is dismal. Less than half of
the children between the ages of 5 and 9 attend school. Most receive an education of very poor quality.
Gender gaps have declined in recent years, yet they nevertheless remain large, especially in rural areas.
Enrollment rates during the last decade have declined, and in the public school system there has also been
a decline in the total number of children enrolled. Were it not for the expansion of the non-government
education system, the crisis in education would be even deeper. In urban areas, close to fifty percent of
the boys and girls attending school go to private (non-government) schools. Behind these poor outcomes
is a public education system that has failed to provide value due to inadequate quality and continuity of
leadership, minuscule non-salary operating budgets, massive political abuse of recruitment, posting and
transfers, lack of staff training and supervision; and lack of teaching materials and adequate physical
facilities. At its worst, in many places this has resulted in massive chronic staff/teacher absenteeism,
schools without teachers, and both ghost teachers and ghost schools.
67.    Vision. The government envisions an education system that provides quality education, enabling
all citizens to reach their maximum potential. It sees a system where all children, including girls, attend
school at least up to eight grade, helped by the existence of a better functioning basic public education
system, with trained teachers, adequate physical environment for learning, supportive technical
supervision of curriculum and learning materials, and more effectively managed by district level
governments, with greater accountability, and strong parent and community participation.
68.   Actions Taken. The Chief Executive has been working directly with the federal Education
Minister, and with the participation of the provinces, on the preparation an implementation of an
Education Sector Reform Strategy. To enhance teacher quality, the process to appoint all new teachers
through competitive selection involving a competency test and selection panels including community
members is underway. In some egregious cases, teachers are being tested for competency, and those who
do not meet eligibility criteria are already being asked to leave the service. To enhance accountability,
assignments are being made on a two-year contract basis and specific to a school. The program of pre-
service and in-service training is being revitalized for both new and existing teachers. To improve
facilities, a start has been made on a huge backlog of delayed maintenance and the program of new
investments have been rationalized. Federal and provincial governments have increased education
budgets and have promised to protect non-salary budgets. However, the actual spending is once again
threatened by shortfalls in revenues and the uncertainty due to the introduction of decentralization to
District Education Departments.
69.   During the transition period to district government management, several other measures have
been taken: the Army Monitoring Teams have been deployed to help the civilian administration, at the
district level, in a variety of tasks, including monitoring school attendance of teachers and matching
teachers to salary payments to detect ghost teachers. The education departments are undertaking an
inventory of unused schools and pursuing a variety of avenues for their disposal. The education strategy
also includes opening more channels for financing and delivering primary education including non-
government and the private sector. The non-formal literacy program is being reformed towards a
program delivered at low cost through NGOs that can target out-of-school children. Finally, the primary
school curriculum is being revamped. Overall, the different parts of the program are at different stages of
initial implementation, with most advancements now being undertaken in the areas controlled by the
federal government and with provincial government not far behind.
70.   Future Actions. Key program benchmarks include cross cutting reforms that include the
agreement on a more detailed administrative and fiscal road map for devolution, the establishment of
programs of capacity building at the district and local level, and the implementation of provincial based
civil service reform. Benchmarks for the implementation of specific aspects of the education reform
15



strategy include the establishment of a national testing system, passage of legislation to provide legal
cover to the parent-teacher associations and other community or parent-based organizations.
Improving the Quality and Coverage of Health
71.   Issues. During the last ten years Pakistan has achieved only modest progress in improl ing its
health and fertility indicators. The infant mortality rate has declined from about 100/1000 to 85/1000 live
births and the total fertility rate has declined from about 6.4 to about 5. The percentage of fully
immunized children 12-23 months of age has increased but it is still far from satisfactory at about 52
percent with a large urban-rural differential (68 percent versus 47 percent) and a smaller male- female
differential (55 percent versus 50 percent). The contraceptive prevalence rate has increased throughout
the 1990s, and at present about 25 percent of married women use contraceptive methods, up froni about
12 percent at the beginning of the decade. The knowledge of contraceptives methods is now almost
universal.
72.    Progress has been greater in the specific programs, like immunization or family planning, that are
led by the federal government or jointly by the federal government and the provinces. In contrast, just as
in the case of education, the quality of the provincial based basic health services remains poor ancl about
80 percent of outpatient contacts are with private providers. To increase the access and the quality of
services to the people, many issues need to be tackled. There is weak policy formulation capacity,
management is excessively centralized and weak, human resource management is beset by governance
problems that include frequent transfers of staff, and corruption, such as staff absenteeism. There are also
imbalances in the composition of expenditure, with an excessive number of staff relative to workload in
many facilities (specially at unskilled grades), coexisting with insufficient expenditure on key non-salary
inputs such as essential drugs and supplies. The private provision of health also suffers from im:portant
deficiencies which include lack of consumer protection/consumer education, and unlike other countries in
the region, there is a small NGO sector with relatively small population coverage and reluctance on the
part of government agencies to collaborate with NGOs.
73.    Vision. The government envisions a public health system increasingly focused in prevent.ve and
public health, that contributes significantly to reduce child and maternal mortality, with reduced fertility
rates in accordance with the population's preferences, and with universal coverage of routine
immunization programs for children.
74.    Actions Taken. As in the case of education, the government is addressing the transition to
district-based health delivery systems and, through the cooperation between provincial administrat:ion and
the Army Monitoring Teams, the most pressing governance issues in personnel management. Second, the
government has taken actions to strengthen specific programs of immunization, maternal and child care,
and family planning which are normally carried out under the direction of the federal government, often
in conjunction with the provinces. In this area, increased attention and priority has been given to
communicable disease controls and maternal and child health care. Immunization programs have been
strengthened and given increased resources both at the federal and provincial level. Much progress has
been achieved in polio eradication; and the government has also finalized plans for the revitalization of
important initiatives to introduce Hepatitis B vaccination, strengthen the routine immunization programs,
and launch an HIV/AIDS prevention program.
75.    Future Actions. Important benchmarks over the next two years include the launching of the new
program for universal coverage of Hepatitis B in 2001; the approval and implementation of new e)cpanded
program for HIV/AIDS at the beginning of next fiscal year; and the expansion in the number of Lady
Health Workers to support maternal and child health care programs from 43,000 to 60,000 workers over
the next three years. As part of these efforts, over the next two years Pakistan expects to achieve an
increase in immunization coverage of children 12-23 months from 58 percent to 70 percent; an increase in
16



population with access to Tuberculosis control from 12 percent to 30 percent; and an increase in use of
contraception from 25 percent to 35 percent
Social Protection
76.   Issues. Pakistan has never had strong programs for social protection and targeted poverty
interventions. For many years, the main program to support of the poor was the untargeted wheat subsidy
which maintained the price of wheat below world prices. Another program has been the Zakat, an
Islamic-inspired (off-budget) charity program financed through a 2.5 percent annual tax on savings that
targets widows, orphans, and the disabled. The Zakat, whose administration is linked to the Ministry of
Religious Affairs, has never been large in size, and suffers from important targeting problems. Finally,
under the umbrella of direct poverty interventions there has also been a tendency to support community-
based small infrastructure programs. Like in most parts of the world, the record of those programs has
been mixed and often they have been a source of corruption and political patronage.
77.    Vision. The government envisions protecting the most vulnerable members of society through
the provision of basic safety net comprising employment and self-employment opportunities
complemented by a system of well targeted cash transfers.
78.   Actions Taken. The government has shown a strong commitment to allocate resources for social
protection and poverty reduction, particularly in fiscal year 2001. There has been an important shift in the
composition of the public investment program, where now, more than 20 percent of the public investment
program, or 0.6 percent of GDP, is budgeted for the implementation of the Khushal Pakistan Program, a
basic infrastructure program partly targeted to provide basic infrastructure and employment opportunities
to poor and backward communities. At the same time the govemment has also launched a direct cash-
transfer program (named Food Support Program) intended to reach 1.2 million of the poorest households,
and is strengthening the Zakat by more than doubling its disbursements through increased subsistence
allowances and expanding the scope of the eligible actions that can be supported. Finally, with assistance
from the Asian Development Bank, a new micro-finance bank has been established to complement other
government supported programs such as the IDA-financed Poverty Alleviation Fund.
79.   Future Actions. Government focus in the coming year will be on developing the institutional
capacity to assess the impact of its poverty reduction strategy, improve targeting of existing programs,
and identify gaps in its strategy. To that end, and as part of the PRSP process, the Planning Commission
is carrying out a Participatory Poverty Assessment with support from DFID; and working with the Bank
on a Poverty Assessment. It has also established, together with private sector and other non-government
institutions, a Center for Research on Poverty Reduction and Income Distribution who is preparing a
number of poverty-related analytical studies in support of the PRSP.
III. BANK GROUP STRATEGY
80.   A full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Pakistan was presented to the Board in December
1995. CAS Progress Reports have since been discussed at the Board in April 1997, December 1998
(R98-307), and one is being distributed together with this operation. A joint Bank-IFC full CAS is
expected to be discussed by the Board in December 2001 along with a joint assessment of the Bank and
the IMF on the government PRSP.
A. THE WORLD BANK
81.   The Bank Group's strategy will be to support Pakistan's reform program as spelled in the
evolving Poverty Reduction Strategy. It is expected that towards the end of this calendar year Pakistan
17



may enter into a PRGF program with the IMF, which would also be supported by a PRSC program from
the Bank. In addition, we will retain a pool of other financial instruments (investment lending sector
adjustment operations, and guarantees), that could be used selectively and where we expect the highest
development impact and transfer of global knowledge and expertise.
B.    COORDINATION WITH IMF
82.   Bank and IMF staff have worked closely together providing advice and technical support to
government in the design and implementation of the PRS program. The IMF has focused mainly on
policies to achieve short- and medium-term macroeconomic stability and on structural reforms that have a
direct bearing on macroeconomic stability. These include fiscal reforms and financial sector reforms
closely linked to public debt management. The Bank has complemented the Fund's work thro-.gh our
support to structural reforms in the social sectors and other key sectors such as power, oil, and gas, and
banking refonms whose performance have a strong bearing on growth and public finances. The Bank and
the IMF have also worked closely together with government on public financial accountability issues,
with the Bank taking the lead. In the near future, the IMvF and Bank staff will conduct a joint Financial
Sector Assessment, and are expected to carry outjoint PRSP missions.
C.    COOPERATION WITH ADB
83.   The staff of the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are systematically sharing
infonmation and finding collaborative ways to reinforce each other's programs in key areas. In the case of
financial sector reforms, while the Bank focuses its support in the banking sector, the ADB has f-ocused
on assisting the development of capital markets and micro-finance. Coordination in the power sector is
close, with the ADB leading the support for KESC reforms, while the Bank supports WAPDA's refornm.
Both the Bank and the ADB are working in coordination to support the National Reconstruction 13ureau.
The ADB is building a strong program in governance focusing on legal and judicial reforms and corporate
governance issues, while the Bank's focus is on public financial accountability.
D.    PARTNERSHIP WITH OTHER MULTILATERAL AND BILATERAL DONORS
84.   Cooperation among donors in Pakistan is especially close in the social sectors. The goveniment's
Social Action Program has been supported jointly by the donors since its launching in 1992 and the
donors are now also working jointly with government to restructure the program in light of devolution.
On the govemance front, there is also very close collaboration with DFlD. The government's program to
improve budget management was developed with the assistance of a joint Bank-DFID mission. and is
now being implemented with DFID support. DFID's governance activities which include support to the
main anti-corruption agency, the National Accountability Bureau, also complements the activities of the
Bank and other multilateral agencies in other areas. The recently held Pakistan Development Foruim will
help to further strengthen these partnerships.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
85.   The proposed Credit is the Bank's main vehicle to support the objectives of the PRS in thi.s fiscal
year. As detailed below, several key policy reforms have been implemented. These reforms have been at
the center of the dialogue between the staff of the Bank and the authorities, and constitute the basis for
our support through this operation.
18



A.    ACTIONS TAKEN
86.   As part of the PRS, the following actions have been implemented in recent months:
Improving Governance
* The government has extended the coverage of the national value added tax (general sales tax or
GST) to include all services previously subject to excise taxes.
*  The government has established fiscal monitoring committees at the federal and provincial levels
to oversee the preparation and dissemination of timely reconciled expenditure data, with a view to
improving the quality and reliability of public financial statements, and the preparation and
dissemination of such data at the federal level has been completed for the first semester of FY
2000-0 1.
* The government has adopted a revised form, principles and methods of accounting for the
federation and the provinces, with a view to meeting the requirements of a modern integrated
financial management system designed to provide timely and reliable information for budget
management, financial control, cash forecasting and trend analysis, fiscal administration and debt
nanagement purposes.
* The government has issued: (a) an Ordinance defining the functions, powers and terms and
conditions of service of the Auditor General of Pakistan; and (b) an Ordinance establishing a new
office of the Controller General of Accounts, all with a view to separating the public accounting
and auditing functions.
* The government has established ad hoc federal and provincial public accounts committees
(PACs), and opened up the hearings of the federal Public Accounts Committee to the press.
* The government has issued an Ordinance amending its Federal Public Service Commission
(FPSC) Ordinance, so as to enhance FPSC's independence, increase its financial autonomy,
expand its role in the recruitment of public servants, and limit and define the posts which are
outside its purview.
Achieving Broad Based Growth
* The government has issued a Privatization Ordinance with a view to providing for: (a) a fair and
transparent privatization process; (b) the utilization of privatization proceeds to retire federal
government debt and alleviate poverty; and (c) an expeditious mechanism for resolution of
privatization-related disputes.
* The government has initiated the market liberalization of petroleum products by: (a) liberalizing
the import, transportation and pricing of furnace oil; and (b) liberalizing the pricing of liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG).
*  The government has: (a) put in place a system of quarterly adjustments of petroleum product
prices in line with international price movements; and (b) made the first six adjustments under
that system.
* The government has: (a) announced a new gas pricing framework providing for: (i) the setting of
well-head prices based on international crude (or fuel) oil prices; (ii) the bi-annual revision of
19



consumer prices; (iii) the phasing out of subsidies over a three-year period, except in re'ation to
the fertilizer sector and a lifeline rate for domestic consumers; and (iv) the phased adjustment of
consumer prices, so as to reflect the cost of service; and (b) made the first bi-annual consumer
price adjustment under said new gas pricing framework for the semester ending June 30, :'001.
*  The government has notified the revised electricity tariff for energy sold by its Water ani Power
Development Authority (WAPDA), as approved by its National Electric Power Regulatory
Authority (NEPRA) during the quarter ending March 31, 2001.
*  The government has: (a) notified the fuel adjustment formula for the quarterly revision of
electricity tariffs for energy sold by WAPDA, as approved by NEPRA during the quarter ending
December 31, 2000; and (b) furnished to the Association evidence satisfactory to the Association
that WAPDA has carried out the first two such revisions based on said formula.
*  The government has adopted and communicated to NEPRA new policy guidelines for setting
electricity tariffs, which: (a) allow for differential tariffs for the Karachi Electric Supply
Company (KESC) and for the electricity distribution companies forming part of WAP DA; (b)
provide for reduction of cross-subsidies between consumer categories except for lifeliinte rates;
and (c) allow for formula-based multi-year tariffs.
*  The government has reduced or eliminated the differential application of excise taxes on imnported
and domestic products, so as to bring down the maximum nominal effective tariff to 35%Xo on all
but eleven specified products made subject to regulatory duty.
Human Development
* The federal, provincial and territorial governments have developed a comprehensive edJucation
sector reform program (ESR) and action plan.
-  The provincial and territorial governments have: (a) introduced a competitive selection system for
new teachers, with selection panels including community representatives; and (b) conmmenced
making teacher appointments under a school-based or area-specific contract system.
- The provincial and territorial governments have consolidated their education sector investment
programs, with a major portion of the development budget going to complete ongoing works and
rehabilitate existing buildings.
* The provincial and territorial governments have introduced programs for monitoring and
disciplining teacher and health staff absenteeism.
B.  EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
87.   Pakistan is saddled with a large external debt and high extemal debt service payments which
cannot be met without exceptional financing from the IFIs and debt rescheduling from the Paris Club.
The stock of external debt is about US$33 billion, of which almost US$12 billion need to be repaid over
the next four years (including this fiscal year). Servicing this debt is particularly difficult on account of
Pakistan's low exports and tax revenues. The current ratio of the net present value of the public and
publicly guaranteed debt in relation to exports is about 240 percent, and about 230 percent in relation to
tax revenues. Gross extemal financing requirements for this fiscal year are sizable. In addition to the
current account deficit of about US$1 billion (1.6 percent of GDP), the external financing needs reflect an
envisaged buildup of reserves to about US$1.6 billion, and the large debt amortization obligations coming
20



due of US$3.2 billion. Given the capital account projections, exceptional financing requirements for this
fiscal year are about US$4 billion gross.
Balance of Payments - 2000101 to 2003104
(US$ million)
Actual  Program           Projections
1999-00   2000-01  2001-02  2002-03 2003.04
CURRENT ACCOUNT (including Official Transfers)                  -1143      -1102    -1464       -805    -606
Trade Balance                                                  -1411      -1051    -1318       -672    -382
Services (net)                                                 -2744      -3113    -3110    -3158   -3259
Prvate Transfers (net)                                          3012       3062     2964      3025    3035
Official Transfers (net)                                         135        122       126       149     194
CAPITAL ACCOUNT                                                  -189       -449      -719      -348    -366
Medium & Long Term Capital (net)                                -145       -161        67      456      426
Public Medium and Long Term                                       -1       -369       420      235      124
Multilaterals                                                 365        288        18       86       14
Disbursements                                             1145        895       721      749      743
World Bank                                               308        303       300       286     260
Repayments                                                 780        607       703      663      729
Private Medium and Long Term                                    -144        208      -354      221      303
Short Term (net)                                                 -44       -288      -786      -804    -792
OVERALL BALANCE                                                 -1197      -1429    -2057    -1004    -779
FINANCING                                                        1197       1429      2057      1004     779
Net International Reserves                                      209        494      -505      -936   -1193
IMF Purchases                                                   0        468       140
IDA/IBRD                                                          0        350
Asian Development Bank                                             0       400
Paris Club Rescheduling*                                        988       1170
FINANCING GAP                                                       0          0      2562      1940    1972
Memorandum Items
End of year Gross Official Reserves                              916       1633      2087     2687    3476
Debt Service (before rescheduling)                              8217       4971      4908     4428    4372
Amortization                                                 6541       3240     3142      2677    2643
Interest                                                     1676       1731     1766      1751    1729
(in percent)
GDP growth (factor cost)                                          4.8        3.1      3.2    5.9         6.0
Merchandise Export                                                8.8       10.4      8.3    9.1        9.7
Merchandise Import                                              -0.1         5.2     10.1     2.2       6.6
(as percent of GDP)
Current Account Deficit                                           1.6        1,6      2.2     1.0        0.6
Budget Deficit                                                    6.4        5.4      4.4     3.6       2.7
Prmary Balance                                                    1.2        1.5      2.2    2.6         2.7
*Does not include arrears.
Source: Projections based on IMF medium term framework.
88.      To meet this requirement the macroeconomic program  foresees exceptional financing support the
IFIs, bilateral creditors, and the private sector. The financing package for this fiscal year includes
liquidity relief obtained from the Paris Club under Houston terms for about US$1.6 billion (US$1.8
21



billion total through September 2001); about US$470 million from the IMF Stand-By program; support
from the Asian Development Bank of about US$400 million, of which US$380 million have already been
disbursed; and US$350 million from IDA. The Central Banks of Kuwait and United Arab Emirates and
the Bank of China are rolling over a total of US$900 million. Financing from the private sector includes
the rollover of 75 percent of the US$1.1 billion in foreign currency deposits for a period of two) years.
Finally, while not a part of exceptional financing, Saudi Arabia is continuing its Oil Facility P"rogram
equivalent to US$850 million per year.
89.   Over the next three years, annual debt servicing requirements will be in the range of US$4.5 to
US$5 billion per year. Updated balance of payments projections by the LMF, indicate that throug.h fiscal
year 2004, the exceptional financing requirements will vary between US$2.5 billion in fiscal year 2002
and roughly US$2 billion for fiscal years 2003 and 2004. These projections, however, are based on high
GDP and export growth for fiscal years 2003 and 2004 and still assume a very strong adjustment in the
current account. The Paris Club relief that can be expected for this period is unlikely to exceed US$1
billion per year. Therefore, in the absence of additional financing from the private sector, financing
requirements from the international financial institutions will remain high, at the very least at US$1
billion per year throughout 2004. Recent government estimates indicate that exceptional financing
requirements from the IFIs during this period could exceed US$1.5 billion per year.
90.   The short-term financing program for this fiscal year, including the proposed SAC, can be seen as
a bridge to span the financial gap until Pakistan has a chance to establish the credibility needed for a
viable medium-term debt workout strategy. This financing is critical to maintain the country's solvency
and macroeconomic stability needed for the implementation of the government's program of s[ructural
reform. Notwithstanding the terms in which Pakistan will be able to continue to reschedule its debt
burden, a path to economic recovery and human development will not be feasible without significant
external financing now and in the future.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
91.   The Bank's main counterpart in the preparation of the Credit has been the Ministry of Finance,
who is also responsible for the coordination in the preparation of the PRSP. Policy measures have been
implemented before presentation to the Board so there are no outstanding implementation issues.
Program monitoring will be carried out on two fronts. The Bank is committed to a long term engagement
in all the areas supported by the Credit and will continue to monitor progress in implementation of the
longer term benchmarks spelled out in this program and guard against backtracking in the pol:.cies we
have supported. A second area of engagement will be the monitoring and evaluation of the outcomes in
human development and poverty reduction from the implementation of the PRS. We are already working
with the Planning Commission to help them establish a system to monitor progress. Once the indicators
and the methodology are established, we will jointly monitor progress with government.
D.    CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
92.   Borrower and Credit Amount. The borrower is the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Xk single
tranche Credit of SDR276.1 million would be made available upon credit effectiveness, anticipated for
June 2001. The closing date of the Credit is December 31, 2001.
93.   Disbursement, Procurement, and Financial Management. The Credit will follow the Bank's
simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations. The Government will open and maintain a
Deposit Account with the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) into which the proceeds of the Credit will be
disbursed. Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements
will be needed. Disbursements from the Deposit Account will follow normal Government policies and
procedures. The proceeds will not be used to finance expenditures excluded under Schedule 1 of the
22



Development Credit Agreement. If any portion of the Credit is used for ineligible purposes as defined by
the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the government either to return that amount to the
Deposit Account for use for eligible expenditures or to refund the amount to IDA. The SBP, on behalf of
the Government, will maintain an appropriate accounting system in accordance with generally acceptable
accounting principles. It will provide the required information on the receipt and use of the Credit funds
and will prepare annual financial statements, up to and including the fiscal year in which the balance in
the Deposit Account is zero, in a format agreed at negotiations.
94.   Accounts and Audit. While a recent IMF Safeguards Assessment mission has identified several
risk factors in the accounts and audit of the SBP, considerable progress has been made in implementing
remedies to mitigate the vulnerabilities identified, including completion of the two prior actions under the
Stand-By Arrangement. The government is also implementing a comprehensive program to improve the
public audit and accounting systems. The financial statements of the Deposit Account will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA under terms of reference in accordance with
acceptable international standards of auditing. The first audited financial statements will be submitted to
IDA within four months of the Government's fiscal year ending June 30, 2001.
95.   Environmental Assessment Requirement. Given that the Credit will have no direct impact on
the environment, it is proposed it be placed in category "C" which does not require an environmental
assessment. Given the broad policy-based nature of the Credit, it is expected that OD 8.60 on Adjustment
Lending Policy will apply.
E.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
96.   Benefits. The actions supported by the Credit will contribute to laying the foundations for
poverty reduction and will contribute to maintain the macroeconomic stability needed to support the
implementation of structural reforms. Pakistan is not in a position to implement its poverty reduction
strategy without first stabilizing the economy, and laying the institutional basis for good government.
The upside is that significant external support from the IFIs, governments, and private creditors, will help
maintain the viability of the balance of payments and the economic stability needed to implement
structural reforms, and allow Pakistan time to restore investor confidence. Without this support, Pakistan
faces the prospect of greater economic recession, financial austerity, and further delays in poverty
reduction.
97.   Risks and Efforts to Mitigate Them. Pakistan's track record as a reformer has been weak and
turbulent. Several times, expectations were created that Pakistan was ready to implement the broad based
structural reforms that would lead to macroeconomic stability, growth, and poverty reduction.
Cumulative progress was made in some areas and backtracking of policies has been extremely rare.
However, as the country failed to meet several of the structural reform and stabilization goals it set for
itself, the economy has grown increasingly vulnerable, balance of payments crisis have been a recurrent
theme in recent years, and Pakistan's external debt is such that HIPC burden indicators are exceeded. The
main risks to the program are:
* First, external indebtedness and macroeconomic vulnerabilities are such that even if reforms are
successfully implemented a viable medium-term macroeconomic framework will require favorable
market responses to Pakistan's export and investment potential and avoidance of further political and
economic shocks. Building a strong track record leading.to a PRGF and reduction in the external
debt burden should help create conditions to ensure creditors' support for a long term engagement
leading to a sustainable macroeconomic framework. The Bank's strategy of engaging resources only
after significant reforms have been implemented is meant to mitigate this risk, and strengthen
incentives for reform.
23



*  Second, the govemment's mandate ends in October 2002. There is a risk that the reforms that are
being initiated will not be sustained and the country will not benefit from the full benefits of reform.
This is especially relevant for govemance reforms and institutional reforms that will take years of
persistent efforts and commitment to bear fruits. To manage this risk, the govemment is establishing
institutional mechanisms that can help the continuity of policies-such as the elected district
govemments. From the Bank Group's perspective, our strategy is designed to facilital:e rapid
reduction of our engagement were implementation of reform to slow down. The importance of
adjustment in our program, and the use of one tranche loans are important elements of this approach.
*  Third, there are fiduciary and implementation risks associated to devolution, which could lead to a
further deterioration in the delivery of social services, particularly in its initial stages.  The
govemment is adopting a phased approach to devolution to address some of these risks. To address
fiduciary risks, the accounting and treasury functions of the newly created district governments will
remain under the purview of the national Controller General of Accounts and audits will be carried
out by the Pakistan Audit Department. To address risks in implementation, there will be a phased
approach in devolving the responsibilities of managing the civil service to the new District
govemments. Technical assistance programs are being launched in several areas and the govx mnment
has requested Bank assistance to broaden and deepen the improvements in financial management to
the district level and below.
V.  RECOMMENDATION
98.   I am  satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreemen: of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Zhang Shengman
Washington D.C.
May 16, 2001
24



Annex A
Page I of 10
rSLAMABAD
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT .QLICY.
_)April 2001.
PAKISTAN
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank,
Washington D.C., 20433
USA
Subject: Structural Adjustment Credit
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
I1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1    1990s was a decade of major economic decline, with Pakistan facing several crises in succession.
Implementation of the reforms agenda was sporadic, with a marked reluctance to take difficult
stabilization measures. Problems of governance reduced the effectiveness of public expenditures for
human development and critical missteps in policy formulation and implementation eroded investor's
confidence and consequently weakened economic growth. The situation was aggravated by lack of
transparency in decision making and a weak accounting system that generated unreliable fiscal data.
1.2   Such a state of affairs had significant impact on the country's development. Indeed. we have
witnessed economic growth slowing down, debt burden reaching alarming proportions; more and more
people falling below the poverty line: deteriorating social indicators: stagnant exports and falling tax
effort; and above all, a significant decline in public confidence.
1.3    The new government. which assumed power in October 1999, was conscious of the difficult
challenges confronting Pakistan's economy. Its response has been the articulation and implementation of
a Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) based on a broad-based program of structural reforms to modernize
Pakistan and its institutions, which is anchored on the following pillars:
o     Improving governance. The root cause of Pakistan's ills has been the absence of good
governance. Our government is determined to institutionalize good governance through
wide ranging policies that include devolution of power to improve efficiency in the
delivery of public services, civil services reform, improved public financial management.
and structural reforms leading to privatization of the most important public corporations
and state-owned financial institutions.
o     Achieving broad based growth. Revitalizing economic growth is our main vehicle to
achieve poverty reduction. To foster growth we are implementing a strong stabilization
program to reduce the fiscal deficit, contain the domestic and external debt, and set a
path for macroeconomic sustainability that will reduce country risk and encourage



Annex A
Page 2 of 10
investment. These efforts are being complemented with policies to strengthen the role of
the private sector. The policy framework relies on the private sector as the main engine
of growth, with the government providing an enabling environment.
0     Human development and social protection. All our efforts, however, will be of little
significance if Pakistan does not adequately address its human development n-eeds. The
fruits of stronger growth and good governance, need to be put at the service of improving
the education, health, and welfare of the people of Pakistan, with special attention to
reducing gender imbalances. We intend to implement fundamental reform to improve
service delivery through devolution, complemented with sector reforms and, tc the extent
possible, a strong shift in public expenditures towards human development and poverty
reduction.
2.    RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
2.1   In the past eighteen months, the government has moved rapidly and forcefully in the
implementation of reforms. Gradually, we have been rebuilding Pakistan's credibility, restoring
confidence in public institutions and improving the investment climate. During the first year in office,
we were successful in stabilizing the economy despite sharp deterioration in the terms of trade and a
suspended IMF program. The fiscal deficit was contained by implementing difficult tax and pricing
measures such as the quarterly adjustment of petroleum product prices in line with rising international
prices, and the extension of the general sales tax to electricity. Defense expenditure and unproductive
public investments were reduced as a proportion of GDP. Debt management was improved leading to a
reduction in the domestic cost of borrowing. On the external front, a strong adjustment in :he current
account and the adoption of a flexible exchange rate regime helped in the management of the fragile
balance of payments. During our first year in office, our economic management and the favorable
performance of the agriculture sector helped to boost real GDP growth to 4.8 percent while the average
rate of inflation declined to 3.6 percent, the lowest in nearly 2 decades.
2.2   Prudent macroeconomic management, coupled with implementation of structural refcrms, paved
the way for a US$ 600 million ten-month Stand By arrangement approved by the IMF Board in
November 2000 and a new debt rescheduling with the Paris Club approved in January 2001. Our
macroeconomic management continues to be sound. Despite lower than envisaged economnic growth
mainly due to a severe drought, our macroeconomic program has so far achieved or exceedecl the targets
on inflation, export volumes, the current account and fiscal deficits agreed under the Stanrd-By. Our
program with the IMF is on track. The first review has been completed, and we are committed to
bringing this program to a successful conclusion in September 2001, when we expect to engage in a
medium term program through a PRGF.
2.3    Despite these positive developments our macroeconomic situation is subject to important risks.
Foreign exchange reserves, are now at about US$850 million or 7 weeks of imports, as our export
growth is being affected by the slow-down in world economic growth and the somewhat slower than
expected improvements in business confidence. More importantly, however, has been the unexpected
severity of the drought which is affecting our growth prospects for the current, and the next fiscal year,
and is likely to put even more pressure on the living conditions of the poor in urban and in rural areas.



Annex A
Page 3 of 10
3.    STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POLICIES
3.1    Our government's PRS presents a comprehensive program  of structural reforms whose
implementation is well underway. Some of the key policies being implemented are discussed here.
Improving Governance
3.2    Tax Policy and Administration. We intend to have a modern tax system based on a few
buoyant, broad-based taxes, such as the general sales tax (GST) and a modem income tax, all of which
would generate a two percentage point increase in the tax-to-GDP ratio by fiscal year 2004 and further
increases subsequently. We intend to complement tax policy reforms with fundamental tax administration
reforms that will reduce collection costs and the burden of poor governance on taxpayers.
3.3    Achievement of our tax revenue goals is not possible without documenting the economy to bring
more individuals and businesses into the tax net. In May 2000 we launched an unprecedented tax survey
and registration drive focusing on the country's twenty six most populated areas. The drive has been
sustained despite strong opposition from traders including prolonged strikes. The survey has enabled
documentation of about 1.3 million businesses and individuals and the registration of 120, 000 new
taxpayers.
3.4    One of the cornerstones of our tax policy reforms is the adoption of a new income tax law which
will become effective in July 2001. The new law will have minimal exemptions, simplified and more
equitable rates, and strong reliance on self-assessment and post-audits to reduce contact of tax payers with
tax officials. To complement this effort, after years of failed attempts, the two largest provinces (Punjab
and Sindh) have established an agriculture income tax for high-income farmers. Collections are scheduled
to start in July 2001. Given the concentration of land distribution in our country, the agriculture income
tax is essential for equity and to close the loopholes for income tax evasion. Another key policy reform
is the continued expansion in the scope of the value added General Sales Tax (GST) which has been
extended to electricity and services which were previously subjected to excise taxes, and to agriculture
inputs. More over, starting in July 2001, the small traders will be required to collect and pay GST. Other
reforms include the elimination of a large number of exemptions in the area of GST, income tax, and
custom duties which have helped to increase transparency and plug leakages.
3.5   Finally, to achieve the revenue goals of tax policy reforms and improve the overall business
environment, we will initiate in July 2001 the restructuring of the Central Board of Revenue along
modern lines of personnel and management practices. The guiding consideration in this respect will be
providing the tax payer with a friendly environment, inducting skilled personnel, and subjecting tax
officers to a stringent accountability process.
3.6    Budget and Expenditure Management. To increase the effectiveness of public expenditures, we
intend to modernize all aspects of financial management. We will avoid the use of extra-budgetary funds,
improve budgetary decision-making, prioritize expenditures for poverty reduction, and undertake
procurement reform. To improve budget implementation we intend to have a modern public accounting
and integrated financial management system which will yield reliable and complete accounting reports,
and a public audit system that contributes more fully to increased effectiveness of government
expenditures. Transparency and public access to fiscal information will be enhanced.



Annex A
Page 4 of 10
3.7    To increase the effectiveness of expenditures we are preparing the current budget under a medium
term framework. -The Chief Executive and the Cabinet have agreed on broad sector expenditure ceilings,
including defense expenditures, in line with the PRS. For the first time the current and investment
expenditure programs are being prepared jointly, with the investment program including estimat:es of their
three-year forward costs. All public investment programs are now required to pass the scrutiny of the
Planning Commission and the final approval of the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council. Adoption of this policy has been specially focused on the National Highway Authority which
in the past served as the main vehicle for costly "prestige projects". As a preliminary measure towards
performance budgeting, the preparation of the upcoming budget includes mission statement and
performance indicators against which the performance of the Ministries can be judged.
3.8    Procurement. We are determined to implement fundamental procurement reforms at the national
level. Pakistan has a plethora of procurement rules and legislation. However, the lack of unilorm rules
across Ministries, Departments, and the different tiers of government has been used as a meanris to stifle
competition and reduce accountability. By July 2001 we will establish a National Procurement Authority
to lead the process of change that will result in a new Procurement Law before the end of this calendar
year. The new law will facilitate transparency and reduce corruption through the uniformity of rules. In
the meantime we are taking action on improvement in procurement practices in critical areas, such as
education', where we have dismantled a fifty year old monopoly for the publication of text-books.
3.9    Public accounting and Auditing. We are implementing fundamental structural reforms aimed
at modernization of our public accounting and public audit systems. More than fifty years after the birth
of our nation, we have passed, as mandated by our Constitution, an audit law that provides the needed
powers and autonomy to the Auditor General of Pakistan. At the same time, we have also created the
Office of the Controller General of Accounts so as to separate the audit and accounting/treasury functions
into two independent institutions. The accounting function will now be under the purview of the new
Controller General of Accounts Department in the Ministry of Finance, while the Pakistan Audit
Department will concentrate the audit of all public sector institutions.
3.10   This separation will become operational in July 2001, and will be accompanied by a strong
program of institutional development through the accelerated implementation of the IDA-financed Project
to Improve Financial Reporting and Audit (PIFRA). This will include adoption of the recently approved
public chart of accounts with a view to meeting the requirements of a modern integrated financial
management system. The computerization of government accounting system is underway, which will
cover, by June 2003, more than 90 percent of the country. We are paying special attention to financial
management in the social sectors, where under directive of the Chief Executive we are accelerating the
reconciliation of expenditure data (to be completed by August 2001) together with an action plan to
remedy failures in the current system.
3.11   Civil Service Reform. We intend to have a lean. skilled, honest, dedicated, effi ctive, and
decentralized civil service, with merit-based recruitment and promotions, staff that benefits from regular
and relevant training, and that is compensated through transparent pay, benefits, and a pension system
that bears resemblance to market wages.
3.12   From the outset our government has taken swift actions to restore the integrity of the civil service
by taking measures to depoliticize the system of recruitment, promotion, and career development. To
promote merit-based recruitment the Federal Public Service Commission Ordinance was amended to



Annex A
Page 5 of 10
enhance the Commission's independence and responsibilities. The latter include exclusive powers for
recruitment at higher level grades, and expanded responsibilities for recruitment at lower levels in
institutions that are especially important or vulnerable to corruption, such as the Central Board of
Revenue. Abuses in recruitment, are being redressed and those hired without the necessary skills are
being dismissed from service. The Civil Service Act has been amended to improve performance and
reduce corruption, enabling the government to retire civil servants who are found to be inefficient and
have completed 25 years of service. Similarly, a Removal from Service (Special Powers) Ordinance has
been issued to expeditiously remove from the service, officers found to be corrupt. In Pakistan Railways -
the federal government's largest employer, implementation of reforms have already led to the elimination
of 40,000 out of 135,000 positions and 23,000 "ghost" pensioners.
3.13   The Promotion Board for high-level civil servants now follows systematic procedures and is
chaired by the FPSC Chairman (as opposed to a special appointee of the Prime Minister). To improve
performance and accountability, line managers are now empowered to make decisions on career
management, promotions, and evaluation, and a Task Force to assess the training needs of the civil
service has completed its report and recommendations for training and curriculum reform. Finally, a
Special Committee on Pay and Pension Reform has finalized its findings and recommendations for
implementation of salary and pension reform to be implemented at the beginning of the next fiscal year.
Over the next two years we will implement pay and pension reforms; and we will extend civil service
reform to the provinces. Proposals for a thoroughgoing police reform and plans for judicial reforms will
be finalized and implemented.
3.14   Devolution. We intend to have empowered, accountable, elected local governments, with the
requisite authority, capacity, financial resources, administrative and financial systems, and accountability
mechanisms to deliver local public services effectively (especially social services) and serve the poor.
3.15   An elaborate devolution plan for a three-level structure of local governments has been finalized
after extensive consultations. Two rounds of elections have been completed since December 2000.
Elections in the remaining districts are scheduled through June 2001, and the new local governments will
start operations in August 2001. Devolution will be implemented in a phased manner, through a strategy
geared to minimize the fiduciary risks by keeping the accounting and financial management systems of
the districts under the control of the new Controller General of Accounts and the Auditor General of
Pakistan.
3.16   Starting in August 2001, we will carry through with the phased implementation of the full panoply
of administrative, fiscal and accountability measures envisioned in the devolution plan. These will include
capacity building, a fiscal framework, administrative arrangements, civil service structures and
management, effective accountability and participation mechanisms, and the implementation of stronger
financial management systems.
3.17   Transparency and Information. The government is aware that one of the most powerful levers
to improve public sector performance and to help sustain our current reforms efforts is to subject
government action to public scrutiny. We envision a more open society, where the public is better
informed and feels empowered to demand improved services from all tiers of government, leading to
improved delivery of public services, especially to the poor.
3.18   To help achieve this objective we have prepared a freedom of information law, which will be



Annex A
Page 6 of 10
passed during this calendar year. Fiscal transparency has been enhanced and we are already implementing
the main guidelines contained in the IMF's Standards and Codes on fiscal transparency. The Ministry of
Finance's web-site now publishes updated reconciled information on revenues and expenditures, and the
fiscal information that will be provided with the upcoming budget will also include informnation on
contingent liabilities, tax expenditures, and outstanding sovereign guarantees.
3.19   To strengthen public accountability, ad-hoc Public Accounts Committees (PAC) have been
established at the federal and provincial levels with capable membership that includes private sector
representatives. While the PAC is operating under the rules of the Legislative Committees, a major
breakthrough has been the opening of PAC hearings to the press. Next year, the government intends to
introduce a framework allowing private sector participation in the electronic media.
Achieving Broad Based Growth
3.20   Trade Liberalization. We intend to increase our integration with the world economy by lowering
the maximum tariff level and increasing transparency of trade policy by reducing the number of tariff
slabs.
3.21   We have already reduced the anti-export bias of trade policies within the current tariff regime.
The differential application of excise taxes to imported and domestically produced goods. which had led
in many cases, to levels of protection in excess of the maximum nominal tariff of 35 percent has been
eliminated for all but eleven products which are being protected by regulatory duties as an ant i-dumping
measure. Transparency has also been enhanced through the reduction of custom duty exemptions granted
through administrative measures (SROs), while time-bound SROs are being allowed to lapse. Finally,
exports of all agricultural products except wheat have been liberalized. We will continue to deepen these
reforms by reducing the maximum tariff rate from 35 percent to 30 percent in July 2001 and :25 percent
in January 2003, and reduce the number of tariff slabs to 4 and then to 3 in those same dates. At the
same time we will phase out regulatory duties and will eliminate restrictions on wheat exports.
3.22   Privatization. We intend to privatize, through a transparent process, the country's largest public
enterprises including Pakistan Telecommunication Company Limited; Pakistan Petroleum Limited, Oil
and Gas Development Company Limited, Karachi Electric Supply Company, Faisalabad Electric Supply
Company, Habib Bank Limited, and United Bank Limited. To facilitate the process we have promulgated
a Privatization Law that provides for transparency in privatization, for the use of proceeds to retire debt
and support poverty reduction programs, and for the expeditious resolution of disputes. The process of
privatization for many of these companies is underway, financial advisors have been hired, and in all
cases the regulatory and policy reforms that will facilitate a successful privatization are being
implemented.
3.23   Natural Gas. We intend to develop a private natural gas sector that fulfills the country's
significant production potential, in which exploration, production, and distribution are in private hands,
operating under a sound pricing policy framework and regulated by an autonomous regulatory agency.
3.24   The cornerstone of our policy reforms is the adoption of a new gas-pricing framework that will
promote investment by providing consumer prices that are sufficient to cover the costs of exploration and
the development of this resource. In March 2001, we started the implementation of this policy. Retail
prices to consumers are set as the sum of the price of gas as a commodity, inclusive of the cost of



Annex A
Page 7 of 10
transmission and distribution; and taxes, adjustable on a bi-annual basis. Existing subsidies to consumers
will be phased out over a three period, with the exception of a better targeted lifeline rate for domestic
consumers. Prices for gas supplied to the fertilizer industry will be brought in line with the prices charged
for the rest of the industrial sector in a phased manner, except for contractual obligations. Subsidies, if
any, will be reflected in the national budget.
3.25   As a part of the new pricing policy, the existing gas price agreement (GPA) with the state-owned
Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) will be replaced by July 2001, by a new agreement that will bring,
in a phased manner, the wellhead price of PPL in line with the pricing policy that prevails for the rest
of the gas sector. Implementation of the new GPA will start in September 2001, and be carried out in
a phased manner over a four year period, with adjustments taking place on a bi-annual basis. The price
to consumers would be suitably adjusted to meet the needs of price adjustments for PPL.
3.26   Petroleum. We intend to develop a petroleum sector with a substantially reduced participation
of the state in productive activities, where prices are freely determined by market forces through
competition at all levels of the production and distribution chain. including the refineries; where product
quality meets the requirements of a cleaner environment; and is effectively regulated by an autonomous
regulatory authority.
3.27   We have started implementation of an unprecedented program of reforms. The management of
the state-owned companies has been strengthened significantly. Market deregulation has been launched
through the liberalization of imports and prices of furnace oil - which accounts for more than 40 percent
of petroleum products' consumption. For LPG where imports were free, prices have been liberalized
throughout the production and distribution chain. Throughout this period, reflecting a new, more
predictable pricing policy, the petroleum products prices that are still under government regulation have
been adjusted on a quarterly basis in line with changes in international prices. On the privatization front,
two of the three government owned LPG plants have been privatized. Environmental standards have been
strengthened and the low quality 80 RON gasoline has been phased out.
3.28   Reforms will be continued through the market liberalization of diesel, which accounts for another
45 percent of the petroleum products, and pricing reforms to induce competition. The regulated retail and
ex-refinery prices will be based on ceilings, as opposed to fixed prices, to encourage competition.
Subsidies to the refineries will be made transparent through budgetary provisions. The existing freight
pool will be abolished altogether and the remaining LPG plant of the Oil and Gas Development
Corporation Ltd. and Pakistan State Oil Ltd. will be privatized.
3.29   Power. We intend to develop a competitive electric power system consisting of autonomous,
financially viable, and efficiently operated entities governed by an independent regulatory authority. In
the short run, our sector policies are geared towards completing the unbundling and corporatization
process of the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) Power Wing and establishing credible
pricing and regulatory frameworks to improve efficiency, achieve the financial viability needed to enhance
macroeconomic stability, attract private investment, and enable privatization. In the medium term, the
focus will be on privatization and transition to a more competitive market structure.
3.30   During our first eighteen months in office we made important strides to restore private sector
confidence; advance in the financial restructuring of the WAPDA to strengthen its financial position, and
initiated a similar process for the Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation (KESC). The financial



Annex A
Page 8 of 10
restructuring of WAPDA has included a major debt to equity conversion with the federal government;
settlement of most government arrears, and the full resolution of conunercial disputes with independent
power producers. Following an efficiency improvement drive, WAPDA's financial position has improved
on account of improved bill collections (close to 100 percent for private customers) and a reduction in
system losses to about 25 percent.
3.31   Tariff reforms that are critical to strengthen the financial position of both WAPDA and KESC
and to attract investors are being implemented. These include tariff adjustments for WAPD:)A of 4.9
percent in December 2000 and 4.5 percent in March 2001 that would allow WAPDA to meet its financial
targets, and a tariff increase for KESC of 9.5 percent in March 2001 that is a part of a recently agreed
financial restructuring plan. Additional tariff policy reforms include the notification of a fuel adjustment
mechanism to adjust tariffs in response to fuel price changes; the issuance by government of new tariff
policy guidelines to NEPRA that will allow differentiated electricity tariffs across differeni. markets,
reduction of cross subsidies between consumers, and adoption of multi-year tariff adjustment firamework.
These reforms are designed to increase the predictability of pricing policies in the interest of consumers
and investors.
3.32   The phased privatization of WAPDA's successor generation and distribution companies and KESC
will, however, be essential to obtain greater efficiencies that will reduce the need for price increases.
Important future actions in the process of privatization include the completion of corporatization of
WAPDA's distribution, generation, and transmission and dispatch companies by the end of 2001; the
privatization of KESC and at least one other distribution company by the end of 2002; and issuance of
a revised power policy which will include the implementation of private hydro and thermal projects and
encouragement of use of indigenous and renewable energy resources.
Human Development and Social Protection
3.33   Education. We intend to develop an education system that provides quality educatioai, enabling
all citizens to reach their maximum potential. A system where all children, including girls, at:end school
at least up to grade eight; helped by the existence of a better functioning basic public educatian system,
with trained teachers, adequate physical environment for learning, supportive technical supervision of
curriculum and learning materials, and more effectively managed by district level governrrients, with
greater accountability, and strong parent and community participation.
3.34   Primary education is our priority. To that end, we are changing the whole structure of elementary
education system through devolution to district level. The Chief Executive has been personal y involved
in the formulation of the education strategy. As a part of this strategy, the process of appointing new
teachers will be based on competitive selection including a competency test and selection panels that have
participation of the community. To enhance accountability, appointments are being made on a two-year
contract and specific to a school. The program of pre-service and in-service training is being revitalized
for both new and existing teachers. In some egregious cases, existing teachers are to be tested for
competency, a process that has started, and those who do not meet eligibility criteria are already being
asked to leave the service. A start has been made to make up the deficiencies in the maintenance of
existing infrastructure while at the same time rationalizing the program for new investments. Federal and
provincial governments have increased education budgets and are committed to protect non-salary
budgets.



Annex A
Page 9 of 10
3.35   During the transition to district government, the Army Monitoring Teams have been deployed
to help the civiliarn administration in a variety of tasks, including monitoring school attendance of teachers
and to prevent salary payments to ghost teachers. The education departments have undertaken an
inventory of unused schools and are pursuing a variety of avenues for their disposal. The education
strategy also includes the induction of non-government organizations (NGOs) and the private sector at
primary level as well as in the non-formal literacy program. Finally, the primary school curriculum is
being revamped. Overall, the different parts of the program are at varying stages of initial
implementation.
3.36   Our future action plan is well developed and includes cross cutting issues of public finance,
devolution, capacity building at the district and local levels, civil services reform, the establishment of
a national testing system, and increased collaboration with the NGOs and the private sector.
3.37   Health. We intend to develop a public health system increasingly focused in preventative and
public health, that contributes significantly to lower child and maternal mortality, with reduced fertility
rates in accordance with the population's preferences, and with a universal coverage of routine
immunization programs for children.
3.38   While we have been making steady progress at the federal level in the implementation of specific
programs, such as immunization and family planning, the provincial based health services remain poor.
To increase the access and the quality of services to the people, many issues need to be tackled. Weak
policy formulation capacity, centralized management, frequent staff transfers and absenteeism are some
of the challenges faced in this area. The imbalances in the composition of expenditures, between salaries
and medicines is also an issue. The private provision of health services also suffers from important
deficiencies, which include lack of consumer protection/consumer education. There is a small NGO sector
with relatively limited coverage.
3.39   Important benchmarks over the next two years include the launching of the new programs for
vaccination against Hepatitis B in 2001; the implementation of a new expanded program for HIV/AIDS
at the beginning of the next fiscal year; and expansion in the number of Lady Health Workers to support
maternal and child health care programs from 43,000 to 60,000 workers over the next three years. As
a part of these efforts over the next two years Pakistan expects to achieve an increase in immunization
coverage of children in the 12-23 months age group from 58 percent to 70 percent; and increase in
population with access to tuberculosis control services from 12 percent to 30 percent, and an increase in
the use of contraceptives from 25 percent to 35 percent.
3.40   Social Protection. We intend to protect the most vulnerable members of society through the
provision of basic safety nets, comprising employment and self-employment opportunities complemented
by a system of well targeted cash transfer programs.
3.41   The Government has shown a strong commitment to allocate resources for social protection and
poverty reduction, particularly in fiscal year 2001. There has been an important shift in the composition
of the public investment program. where now more than 20 percent of the program, or 0.6 percent of
GDP, is budgeted for the implementation of the Khushhal Pakistan Program, a basic infrastructure
program partly targeted to provide employment and income generating opportunities to poor and
backward communities. At the same time the government has also launched direct cash-transfer program
intended to reach 1.2 million of the poorest households, and is strengthening the system of Zakat by more



Annex A
Page 10 of 10
than doubling its disbursements through increased subsistence allowances and expanding the scope of
eligible uses. Finally, with assistance from the Asian Development Bank, a new micro-finance bank has
been established to complement other government support programs such as the IDA-financed Poverty
Alleviation Fund.
3.42   Government's focus in the coming years will be on developing institutional capacity to assess the
impact of its poverty reduction strategy, improve targeting of existing programs and identify gaps in its
strategy. To that end, an analytical study, which already has been initiated, will be completed, including
a Participatory Poverty Assessment that is being carried out with support from DFID, together with work
that is being undertaken by the Planning Commission's new Center for Research on Poverty Reduction
and Income Distribution.
3.43   The reform program outlined above is both wide ranging and ambitious. It seeks to brIng about
not only structural change but also fundamental changes in attitudes. The government is however
determined to implement the program irrespective of any impediments that may be encountered. We
believe that the program is strong and focussed enough to deserve the support of the International
Development Association.
With all the best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
Shaukat Aziz -
Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs
Islamic Republic of Pakistan



Annex B
Page I of 7
PAKISTAN
MATRIX OF POLICY MEASURES
OBJECTIVES                                                                                ACTIONS
Actions Taken                              3                           Follow-Up Actions
A. GOVEMRANCE
A.1 EFFICIENT AND              .   To document the economy and broaden the tax base a tax survey and registration   *   Completion of the third and final phase of the tax survey and registration drive.
EQUITABLE MOBILIZATION OF           drive is underway. First two phases based on the twenty six largest cities
RESOURCES                           completed leading to updated documentation of about 1.3 million businesses and   *   Implementation of the action plan for the functional and personnel reform of
individuals and the registration of 120,000 new tax payers.               CBR (2001 -03).
To improve tax policy and tax
administration to increase     *   Action plan for the functional and personnel reform in CBR has been completed.    *   Promulgation of new Income Tax Ordinance based on self-assessment,
revenues and improve governance,                                                                              minimal exemptions, simplified and more equitable rates, and limiting
*   Committee charged with the preparation of a new modern Income Tax Ordinance  withholding taxes to a minimum (2001).
has submitted its final report to Government.
.   Continued extension of GST towards a full-fledged value added tax by
*   To improve govemance and deter abuse in tax administration, a Tax Ombudsman  requiring compliance from all traders above the current PRs.5 million threshold
office has been established.                                              (2001).
*   To broaden the tax base and achieve a more equitable distribution of the tax
burden, agricultural income is being brought into the tax net. Provinces have
introduced a two-tier agricultural income tax with acreage-based land tax and
income tax for large farms.
*   To increase the efficiency of the tax system, the GST has been extended to
services which were subject to excise taxes, and to agriculture inputs.
A.2 EFFICIENT AND              *   To improve the quality of the public investment program the process for approval   *   Continue through with the phased implementation of the MTBF at the federal
ACCOUNTABLE USE OF                  of new road infrastructure projects has been revised. The integrity of the process  level with the 2001/02 budget. MTBF reforms would include a revised budget
RESOURCES                           has been restored by subjecting all proposals to the scrutiny of the Planning  calendar, a three year macroeconomic framework, costing of existing policy
Commission, the Central Development Working Party, and final approval by the  commitments, and analysis of contingent liabilities (2001).
To strengthen expenditure controls  Executive Committee of the National Economic Council.
and improve the quality of the                                                                            *   To control expenditures and promote fiscal sustainability, the process of
expenditure program.           *   Improved quality of the public investment budget in the FY01 budget through  requiring MOF prior approval for issuance and review of sovereign guarantees
reduction in new initiatives, focus in completion of existing programs -specially in  will be revised and information on guarantees made public (2001).
the road sector, and reallocation of resources towards poverty reduction.
*   Reconciliation on expenditure data for the line Ministries responsible for SAP
*   To improve overall budget management, including the strategic focus of    social sector expenditures will be completed by August 2001, and an action
expenditures and the quality of the investment program, the government is  plan agreed with the Bank to strengthen financial management.
adopting a medium-term budget framework (MTBF). Preparation of the FY02
budget is underway with MTB framework. This includes up-front approval of  *   Provide legal cover to MTBF and other public financial management reforms
broad sector expenditure allocations by the Chief Executive and joint     through promulgation of Financial Management Ordinance (2002).
consideration of recurrent and capital expenditures in sector budgets.
*   The government has established fiscal monitoring committees at the federal and
provincial levels to oversee the preparation and dissemination of timely reconciled
expenditure data, with a view to improving the quality and reliability of public
financial statements. The preparation and dissemination of such data at the
federal level has been completed for the first semester of FY 2000-01.



Annex B
Page 2 of 7
Actions Taken                                                           Follow-Up Actions
*   To improve expenditure programming by increasing predictability in budget
releases a 'New system of financial controls and budgeting' is being implemented
since July 2000.
To improve public financial     *   The government has agreed with the Bank through a CPAR on a strategy for  *   Initiate implementation of procurement reform through the establishment of a
accountability through              procurement reform. Procurement reform in education sector undertaken to allow  Public Procurement Regulatory Authority by July 2001 and the promulgation of
improvements in procurement,        free entry to publishers for textbook bids. Accountability drive arresting corruption  a new Procurement Ordinance by December 2001.
accounting, audits, and intemal     within the existing policy framework.
controls.                                                                                                  *   Implementation of separation of Audit and Accounting functions with new FY02
*   The govemment has issued: (a) an Ordinance defining the functions, powers and  budget.
terms and conditions of service of the Auditor General of Pakistan; and (b) an
Ordinance establishing a new office of the Controller General of Accounts, all with   *   Implement program of modernization of the Auditor General's Office
a view to separating the public accounting and auditing functions.         (2001-03) in line with existing Audit Plan.
*   Implementation of the new system of financial reporting required by the New
*   The govemment has adopted a revised form, principles and methods of         Accounting Model, which will entail the preparation of comprehensive
accounting for the federation and the provinces, with a view to meeting the  reconciled accounting reports by a new computerized system which is
requirements of a modem integrated financial management system designed to  expected to cover, by June 2003, more than 90 percent of the country.
provide timely and reliable information for budget management, financial control,
cash forecasting and trend analysis, fiscal administration and debt management    *   Implementation of program to improve district-level financial management.
purposes.
A.3 TRANSPARENCY,               *   Following a consultation process launched in April 2000, the Devolution Plan was  *   Phased implementation of the full panoply of administrative, fiscal, and
PARTICIPATION, AND                  promulgated on August 14, 2000.                                             accountability measures envisioned in the devolution plan which will be
ACCOUNTABILITY                                                                                                 launched in August 2001. These will include a fiscal framework, administrative
*   Constitution of Provincial Finance Committees to develop mechanisms and    arrangements, civil service structures and management, effective
Devolution to make govemment        arrangements for fiscal decentralization from the provincial government to the  accountability and participation mechanisms, and the implementation of
more accountable to the people      districts.                                                                  stronger financial management systems.
and increase the quality of public
services in education, health,  *   Establishment of legal framework defining the personnel, administrative, fiscal,  .   All levels of local government (districts, tehsils, union councils) to be
security, justice, and basic        and budget management/accountability arrangements during the first phase of  operational based on promulgation of provincial local govemment ordinances
infrastructure.                     devolution. Work undertaken with technical assistance from the World Bank and  (August 2001).
Asian Development Bank.
*   Fiscal transfer system and financial accountability mechanisms fully
To improve accountability by    *   To complete the financial accountability chain, federal ad-hoc and provincial ad-  operational (2001-2003).
enhancing the public's access to    hoc Public Accounts Committee (PAC) have been established.
information.
*   To increase transparency and accountability the press has been provided access   *   Prompt release to the ad-hoc PAC of the FY00 audit report of the Federation
to the deliberations of federal PAC.                                       once this has been completed by the Auditor General and submitted to the
President.
*   The outstanding audit reports of the Federation for FY98 and FY99 have been
released to the ad-hoc PAC.
.   The preparation of a Freedom of Information Ordinance has been completed and                -                                  rul-5 and
is being discussed through a process of consultation.                      guidelines to promote the purposes of that Ordinance. Ministries and
Departments to conduct reviews to improve the availability of information, and
*   Initiated publication and dissemination of public financial information through  comply with the Information Ordinance (2001).
Ministry of Finance web site.



Annex B
Page 3 of 7
OBJECTIVES                                                                                ACTIONS
Actions Taken                                                          Follow-Up Actions
A.4 CIVIL SERVICE REFORM       *   The govemment has issued an Ordinance amending its Federal Public Service  *   Carry through with civil service reforms that include revised pay-scale and
Commission (FPSC) Ordinance, so as to enhance FPSC's independence,        benefits, and downsizing in accordance with implementation of federal
To improve the performance of the   increase its financial autonomy, expand its role in the recruitment of public  government restructuring plans (2001-2003).
civil service by restoring integrty,  servants, and limit and define the posts which are outside its purview. The FPSC
autonomy, and adoption of           has initiated review of all appointments made in contravention with established  .   Implement career development, training, and personnel management reforms
modern personnel and                procedures. Unqualified appointments are being terminated.                as envisaged by the Establishment Division.
management practices.
*   To improve performance and reduce corruption the Civil Service Act has been
amended to enable the govemment to prematurely retire civil servants who are
found to be inefficient and have completed 25 years of service. A Removal from
Service (Special Powers) Ordinance has been issued to expeditiously remove
from the service officers involved in corruption.
*   New systems and regulations being implemented to strengthen career
management, promotion, and evaluation procedures. Delegation of powers in all
these areas granted to line managers.
*   Committee on Civil Service Restructure and Downsizing has completed analysis
and recommendations for broad reform of federal govemment. Strong program
already implemented in Pakistan railways. Financial viability being restored and
reforms include the elimination of 40,000 (out of 135,000) posts and 23,000
.ghost' pensioners.
*   Committees on Civil Service Pay and Benefits Reform and Establishment Division
have completed analysis and recommendations leading to broad based civil
service reforms.
B. ACHEVNG BROAD WAED GROWTH
B.1 TAX POLICY REFORM FOR    *   Package of fiscal measures to underpin the revenue targets for 1999/2000 and  *   Continue action plans as described in A. 1 above.
MACROECONOMIC                       2000/01 was enacted. Measures include: (a) collection of GST to electricity; (b)
SUSTAINABILITY                      quarterty adjustments of petroleum prices in line with intemational prices; (c)  *   Continued expansion of program to increase user fees in the transport sector.
elimination of subsidy on fumace oil; (d) elimination of income tax whitener
To achieve a significant increase in  schemes; and (e) elimination of exemptions for GST, income tax, and custom
revenues to reduce the fiscal       duties.
deficit, create fiscal space for
poverty reduction, and promote a    *   Fuller integration of agriculture into the tax net by extending the GST to selected
more equitable distribution of the  agricultural inputs (2001).
tax burden.
*   Implementation of far-reaching program to increase user-charge fees in the
transport sector through expansion of tolls. Revenue increased fifteen-fold to Rs.
1.5 billion.



Annex B
Page 4 of 7
6;-:                                                                                         ,   S   ! 
Actions Taken                                                             Follow-Up Actions
B.2 PRIVATIZATION AND           *   Cabinet approval of a short and medium term strategy and timetable for   *   Implement privatization program (2001-03) to complete transactions in:
DEREGULATION REFORM                  privatization. The program focuses in the privatization of critical large public  .  Habib Bank Ltd., or United Bank Ltd.
enterprses in power, telecommunications, banking, oil and gas.              *  Pakistan Telecommunications Company Ltd.
To promote growth by reducing the                                                                                 *  Oil and Gas Development Corporation
role of the state in productive  *   To facilitate privatization, a Pnivatization Ordinance has been enacted. The  *  Pakistan Petroleum Ltd.
activities, improving governance by  ordinance view to provides for: (a) a fair and transparent privatization process; (b)  *  Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation
limiting the opportunities for rent-  the utilization of privatization proceeds to retire federal government debt and  *  At least one distribution company from WAPDA's holding.
seeking behavior.                    alleviate poverty; and (c) an expeditious mechanism for resolution of privatization-
related disputes.                                                       *   Implement deregulation strategy of sectors that serve as important inputs for
the rest of the economy such as agriculture, telecommunications, transport,
steel, and cement (2001-03).
B.3 TRADE REFORM                *    To reduce nominal protection and brng the maximum nominal effective tariff to  *   Deepen trade liberalization by reducing the maximum tariff to 30 percent in
35 percent, the differential application of excise taxes on imported and domestic  July 2001 and 25 percent in January 2003, and reduce the number of tariff
To improve export performance by     products has been eliminated for all but eleven products now subject to      slabs to 4 and 3 in the same dates.
reducing anti-export bias of trade   regulatory duties.
policy and tax administration.                                                                                *   Phase out use of regulatory duties and liberalize wheat exports (2001-2003).
*   To reduce effective protection and increase the transparency of trade policy,
custom duty exemptions have been largely eliminated and those that are time-  *   Lapsing of time-bound custom duty exemptions allowed to take place
bound will be allowed to lapse.                                              (2001-03).
*   To eliminate distortions and promote agriculture exports, unit value of export  *   Initiate reform of CBR administrative procedures to reduce delays and
norms for agriculture products have been eliminated, raw cotton exports have  shortfalls in GST refunds and duty drawbacks to exporters (2001-03).
been liberalized. Wheat exports authorized, yet not on a permanent basis.
B.4 BANKING AND FINANCIAL    *   Strengthening of state-owned financial institutions through the recovery of PRs.48   *   Implement restructuring program for the three large nationalized commercial
SECTOR REFORM                        billion of outstanding non-performing loans.                                 banks focusing on personnel reduction and closing unproductive branches
(2001).
Improve sector governance       *   Continued strengthening of banking supervision. The Banking Companies Act
through privatization and            has been amended to enforce capital adequacy ratios in line with international  *   Continued strengthening of banking supervision and regulations including
strengthened banking supervision.   standards.                                                                    modification of existing regulations to liberalize opening and closing of bank
branches (2001-2002).
*   Divestment of 8 percent of government shares in Muslim Commercial Bank
completed. Govemment minority shares now at 15 percent.                 *   Implement substantial corporate governance reform in Allied Bank and
complete the divestment of all remaining (49%) shares (2001).
*   In preparation for privatization, the three large nationalized commercial banks
have prepared, and cabinet has approved, restructuring programs based on a  *   To improve financial sector govemance and strengthen the banking system,
significant reduction in personnel and unproductive branches.               amend the 1997 Loan Recovery Act to facilitate foreclosure of bank collateral
(2001).
Reduce financial market distortions   .   To reduce financial market segmentation and the cost of borrowing:
and increase the efficiency of       . the interest rate on National Saving Schemes (NSS) has been reduced and  *   Complete privatization of either Habib Bank Ltd. or United Bank Ltd.
government debt management             placed closer to the market rates.
through reforms in the National      . institutional investors have been precluded from purchasing National Saving  *   Fully eliminate financial market segmentation between NSS and other debt
Savings Scheme (NSS) System.           Certificates.                                                             instruments. Earnings from NSS interest rate will be subjected to income tax
* NSS interest rates of Defense certificates are determined through         (2001).
benchmarkinq with new lonq-term debt instruments,
l                               l__ _ _   l. l__    _      _     _      _      _      _      _     _      _  I     __________



Annex B
Page 5 of 7
OBJECTIVES                                                                                     ACTIONS
Actions Taken                                                              Follow-Up Actions
B.5 POWER SECTOR REFORM          *   Financial restructuring of WAPDA initiated. As part of it WAPDA's $650 million  *   Complete the financial restructuring of WAPDA through: (a) settlement of
outstanding debt service liabilities to GOP was converted into GOP equity.    arrears with other public sector agencies; (b) resolution of outstanding
To establish a competitive electric                                                                                 HUBCO dispute; (c) resolution of staff pension liability issues related to
power system consisting of       *   Ongoing process to transform WAPDA 's holding of distribution, transmission, and  restructuring; and (d) finalization of transfer prices, between generation and
privately-owned, financially viable,  generation companies into twelve autonomous and financially viable entities.  distribution companies including their approval by NEPRA (2001).
and efficiently operated             Actions include: (a) creation of three generation companies (GENCOs), one
companies.                           transmission (NTDC), and eight distribution companies (DISCOs); (b) license  *   Complete the corporatization of transmission and distribution companies
applications for new companies submiKted to the regulatory authority by all the  through: (a) issuance of licenses; (b) complete transfer of assets, liabilities and
newly created DISCOs; (c) independent accounting prepared for all the new     staff; (c) effectiveness of legally mandated operational development
companies; (d) continued progress on transfer of assets, liabilities and staff, from  agreements; and (d) appointment to each corporate entity, management and
WAPDA to the new companies; and (e) appointment of professional management    Board members that are independent of WAPDA (2001-02).
in the companies.
*   Complete privatization of KESC and at least one distribution company from
*   Implementation of 4.9 percent tariff increase in December 2000 and 4.5 percent in  WAPDA (2002).
March 2001 to help WAPDA reach targets of its financial restructuring plan.
.   Regulatory framework to be fully operational through appointment of the
*   A formula-based automatic fuel adjustment clause for quarterly adjustments has  chairman and remaining board members of NEPRA and ensuing notification of
been notified and two adjustments undertaken under these provisions.         remaining regulatory rules, regulations, codes of conduct, and standards
(2001).
*   Ministry of Water and Power has issued new tariff setting policies to NEPRA, that
will allow for:                                                          *   Facilitate creation of competitive market by: (a) clarifying power system
+  Differential tariffs for KESC and for each of the DISCOs.                  operating rules; (b) firming-up the process for competitive bidding for new
*  Reduction of cross subsidies between consumer categories, except for lifeline  capacity and for bulk supply (at the margin) within existing contractual
rates.                                                                    framework; and (c) initiating transition from single-buyer model to competitive
*  Establishment of formula-based multi year tariff adjustments.              wholesale market (2001-03).
*   Amend NEPRA 1998 Tariff Standards and Procedure Rules consistent with the
new tariff policies guidelines of March 2001.
B.6 NATURAL GAS SECTOR           *   A new Gas Regulatory Authority (GRA) has been established.                *   Implementation and phased adjustment of Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL)
REFORM                                                                                                             production prices initiated in September 2001. Prices to cbnsumers to be
*   Improved management of public sector entities by the appointment of a Board of  suitable adjusted to meet the needs of price adjustments for PPL.
To enhance sector development        Directors compnsing pnvate sector professionals that have been granted greater
through tariff reform, privatization,  autonomy and accountability.                                            *   Privatization of Pakistan Petroleum Limited.
and improved regulatory
environment,                     *   Adoption of a new gas pricing framework providing for: (i) the setting of well-head    *   Divestment of minority working interest in 9 fields operated by international
prices based on intemational crude (or fuel) oil prices; (ii) the bi-annual revision of  operators.
consumer prices; (iii) the phasing out of subsidies over a three-year period, except
in relation to the fertilizer sector and a lifeline rate for domestic consumers; and  *   Privatization of remaining state-owned LPG companies completed.
(iv) the phased adjustment of consumer prices, so as to reflect the cost of service.
.   Natural gas subsidy to fertilizer industry eliminated or made transparent by
*   The first bi-annual consumer price adjustment of 14.4 percent under said new gas  making it part of the budget.
pricing framework for the semester ending June 30, 2001.
*   Privatization of Sui South LPG plant completed



Annex B
Page 6 of 7
,: :       ::                                                                                       z  I I  :                                                                          ;
Actions Taken                                                                Follow-Up Actions
B.7 PETROLEUM SECTOR              a   Furnace oil prices and markets deregulated since July 1, 2000 through       .   Liberalize Diesel market by liberalization of imports and prices throughout the
REFORM                                 liberalization of imports, transports, and prices through the production and    production and distribution chain (2001).
distribution chain.
To increase sector efficiency and                                                                                  .   Implementation of reforms towards: (a) competitive procurement of petroleum
growth through deregulation and   .    LPG prices and markets deregulated by liberalizing prices through the production  products; (b) reduction in relative price distortions across products; (c)
market liberalization to enhance       and distribution chain from Oct 1, 2000.                                        elimination of subsidies to the refineries; (d) privatization; and (e) dismantling of
competition.                                                                                                           the Petroleum Product Freight Pool.
*   Board of Directors of State Owned Enterprises have been re-constituted with
private sector professionals and given greater autonomy, corporate responsibility,   .   Prices for products not yet fully deregulated to be determined under the
and accountability.                                                             following principles:
* Regulated retail ex-refinery prices to be based on ceilings, as opposed to
*   Program for privatization has been agreed, and approved by the Cabinet.             fixed prices to promote competition.
*  Subsidies to refineries transparent through the budget.
.  Dismantling of freight pool.
.   Privatization of Oil and Gas Development Corporation completed (2002).
Introduce cleaner products to     *   Discontinuation of use of RON 80 gasoline.                                  *   Develop petroleum products specifications consistent with international
protect the environment.                                                                                               standards and announce time table for adoption of revised product
specifications (2001).
*   Adopt norms to improve environmental quality of products which include: (a)
max lead content in MG to be reduced from 0.35 g/l to 0.2 g/l; (b) max sulfur
content in HSD to be reduced from 1% to 0.5%; and (c) max sulfur in FO to be
reduced from 3.5% to 2.0% (2001),
C. HUMAN DEVELOPMENTAND SOCIAL PROTECTION
C.1 EDUCATION                     *   Development of a comprehensive Education Reform Strategy and Action Plan by    .   Establish system of fiscal transfers --including donor financing-- to reflect
the Federal Government and the Provinces.                                       district level needs while providing incentives for good performance on agreed
Increase the percentage of                                                                                             outcome indicators. Initiate program in 2001.
elementary age children enrolled in   .   To improve the delivery of services and the use of scarce resources the Provinces
and completing primary schooling,      and territories are undertaking the following actions:                     *   Improve human resource base by re-certifying and re-deploying both field and
while narrowing the gaps between       *  Rationalizing of investment programs in all provinces. Focus in finishing    administrative staff while shifting civil service from provincial cadres to facility-
males and females and urban and           ongoing school-building programs before initiating new ones.                 specific assignments.
rural students.                        .  Provinces have established stronger monitoring systems for teacher
absenteeism and enforcement of sanctions. The second largest province   *   Ensure field staff presence through better monitoring and incentives.
Increase the knowledge and skills         (Sindh) has initiated program to re-certify workers to identify those hired
of elementary school students by          without the necessary qualifications.                                   *   Provide adequate and timely operating budgets to schools.
improving the quality of resource      *  Hiring of new teachers largely being conducted through contract hiring.
inputs and achieving more effective    *  lntensified efforts to devolve management of non-salary budgets to the school   .   Establish a system to assess student and school achievements and outcomes.
use of them.                              level through parent-teacher associations or teachers.
.   Open multiple channels of publicly financed service delivery through public,
NGOs, and the like.
I*   SreIllyuilel aii tuildi, pIuvillUidi, drid diSIIIUI ililUdilull bybi,illib iU IIIUIIitUr
sector performance and governance through agreed benchmarks on a timely
basis. Establish systems to share this information with the public.



Annex B
Page 7 of 7
OBJECTIVES                                                                                  ACTIONS
Actions Taken                                                           Follow-Up Actions
C.2 HEALTH                      *   Family Planning and matemal and child health care programs has been    *   Establish system of fiscal transfers --including donor financing-- to reflect
strengthened through increases in female health staff mostly through the Lady  district level needs while providing incentives for good performance on agreed
Improve the health status of the    Health Workers, which already reach 43,000. To reduce maternal morbidity and  outcome indicators.
population through the expansion    mortality, targeted programs in 20 rural districts are underway.
and improved quality of preventive                                                                         *   Improve human resource base by re-certifying and re-deploying both field and
and public health systems.      *   Immunization programs have been strengthened to achieve specific targets over  administrative staff. Ensure field staff presence through better monitoring and
the next two years.                                                        incentives
.  Increase in immunization (DPT3) coverage of children 12-23 months from
58% in 1999 to 70% in 2003                                         *   Provide adequate and timely operating budgets to health facilities.
. Increase in immunization coverage of TT from 35% to 70%
.  Increase in population with access to tuberculosis control from 12% to 30%  *   Open multiple channels of publicly financed service delivery through public,
*  Completely eliminate the confirmed polio cases by 2002.                 NGOs, and the like.
*   Provincial Departments of Health in the three largest provinces are preparing for    *   Implement agreed targeted program of technical assistance to poorly
devolution. Reviews of roles and responsibilities among different tiers of  performing districts to Increase immunization coverage
government are underway, including plans for capacity building at the district
level.                                                                 .   Initiate new program for Hepatitis B immunization (July 2001).
*   Initiate new program for HIV/AIDS in accordance with already approved
strategic plan (July 2001).
C.3 SOCIAL PROTECTION           *   Increase in fund allocation for poverty reduction from 2.5 percent of GDP in  *   Establish the institutional setup to regularly monitor poverty and social
1999/00 to 2.9 percent of GDP in 2000/01.                                  development indicators based on household and Census data (2001).
To help reduce poverty, develop
human capital, and reduce gender   *   Implementation of small-works program (Kushal Pakistan)) to provide  *   Define criteria and methodology to assess impact of Poverty Reduction
imbalances through more active      employment and basic services to the poor. The program is the largest public  Strategy. Carry out beneficiary assessment analysis of targeting and impact of
public policies.                    investment program in the country with a budget of 0.6 percent of GDP.      the SAP, Integrated Urban Rural Development Program, the enhanced Zakat
Program, and the Food Support Program (2001).
To develop the government's     *   Launching of a direct cash-transfer program ('Food Support Program') targeted to
capacity to prepare and implement   200,000 poor families -1.2 million people.
these policies.
*   Strengthening of the Islamic-based Zakat charity program that provides cash
transfers to the most vulnerable groups in society.
*   Establishment of a Micro-Credit Bank to service the poor, especially in rural
areas.



Annex C
Page I of 12
MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
I.     Background
1.    Economic performance during the last decade has been characterized by declining grom th, high
fiscal deficits, and the emergence of a debt crisis. At the center of these difficulties has been the nability
to adjust to a changing domestic and external environment. For more than thirty years Pakistan pursued
poor fiscal policies, reflected in low tax to GDP ratios and large fiscal deficits that contributed t( a rapid
accumulation of external and domestic debt. Several conditions made this bearable for so long. GDP
growth was relatively high in the 1970s and 1980s, repressed domestic financial markets allc wed for
inexpensive domestic borrowing, and the external debt was concessional.
2.    In the 1990s all these conditions started to change. Economic growth started to decelera-:e in the
late 1980s evidencing the inadequacy of inward oriented policies, especially for industr .  The
liberalization of domestic financial markets led to significant increase in domestic real intere st rates,
which until 1992 had been negative. Finally, there was a dramatic increase in the external deb service
burden as the share of concessional debt decreased and private debt grew. With relatively ,tagnant
exports and remittances the share of external debt service requirements to foreign exchange receipts
almost doubled from 30.6 percent to 58.6 percent. The fiscal cost of servicing the domestic and -xtemal
debt at 7.7 percent of GDP accounted for more than 60 percent of total tax revenues.
3.    In response to these changes, Pakistan embarked upon several programs of economic arid fiscal
reform.  Policies to increase growth ranged from trade liberalization, banking sector refo'rm, the
privatization of small and medium enterprises, and the liberalization of the foreign investment regime. To
contain the fiscal deficit and improve economic efficiency important tax policy reforn-is were
implemented including a positive shift in the composition of tax revenues away from taxes :)n trade
towards more reliance on sales and direct taxes. However, in the midst of deteriorating governance and
high political instability, these reforms were not carried through with the depth and consistency required
to achieve the expected results. Tax revenues in relation to GDP did not increase and economic growth
plummeted amidst growing concerns on the sustainability of the macroeconomic framework.
4.     The failure to increase tax revenues and the sharp deceleration in growth left Pakistan v ith very
poor policy choices and a vulnerable economy. To avoid a further growth of debt in relation to GDP, a
primary surplus was achieved mostly at the expense of a sharp reduction in public investments and the
maintenance of low expenditures for human development. The fragility of the economy came nto full
force after Pakistan's nuclear tests of May 1998 which was followed by economic sanctions fiom G-7
countries. Private transfers and capital inflows declined. Capital flight was avoided through the partial
expropriation of the dollar denominated assets held by domestic residents totaling some US$7 bill ion, and
the mandatory roll-over of foreign currency deposits held by non-Pakistan residents totaling about US$4
billion. Debt service payments to official bilateral and commercial creditors were suspended. A full
blown balance of payments crisis was avoided through a new IMF program and liquidity relief of about
US$3.5 billion from the Paris Club that extended to December 2000, and rescheduling of US$1.J billion
from private creditors, including US$610 million of Eurobond obligations, the first such reschecluling of
Eurobonds. In this process, Pakistan basically lost its access to international private financial markets.



Annex C
Page 2 of 12
Table 1: Summary Macroeconomic Indicators
1996197     1997198    1998199    1999100  2000101*
(Annual changes in percent)
Output and prces
Real GDP at factor cost                     1.7         3.5        3.1        4.8       3.1
Consumer prices                            11.8         7.8        5.7        3.6       5.0
(In percent of GDP)
Savings and investment
Current account (including official transfers)  -5.7   -2.7       -3.8       -1.6      -1.6
Gross national savings                   12.3        15.0       11.2        13.3      13.4
Pnvate                                  14.4        17.7       12.2       15.4      14.4
Gross capital formation                  18.0        17.7       15.0       15.0      15.0
Private                                 11.9        12.2        9.9       10.7      10.5
Public finances
Budget deficit                              6.8         7.7        6.1        6.4       5.4
Prmary Surplus                             -0.3        -0.4        1.2        1.2       1.5
Budgetary revenue                          16.1        15.8       16.3        16.5     16.4
Tax revenue                             13.4        13.0       13.3       12.8      13.6
Budgetary expenditure                      22.9        23.5       22.4       22.9      21.8
Interest                                 6.5         7.3        7.3        7.6       6.8
Defense                                  5.5         5.1        4.9        4.7       4.5
Education                                1.7         1.7        1.6        1.9       1.9
Health                                   0.4         0.4        0.4        0.5       0.5
Development expenditure                  3.7         3.9        3.0        2.8       3.0
Net public debt                            87.5        89.4       91.9       91.6      95.4
Net domestic public debt                   43.6        46.0       44.3       45.9      44.0
Merchandise exports                        12.9        13.5       12.9       13.3      15.2
Projections as per IMF Stand-By Program
Source: GOP, IMF and WB staff estimates
II.     Recent Economic Developments
5.      The new govermnent's first challenge was to manage a very vulnerable macroeconomic position
with low reserves, the absence of an active IMF program, and a severe deterioration in the terms of trade
on account of raising oil prices. The government was successful in stabilizing the economy. The fiscal
deficit was contained through the implementation of several tax measures including the adoption of
quarterly price adjustments on petroleum product prices in line with rising international prices. A
significant effort was made to reduce the current account deficit which narrowed from 3.8 percent of GDP
in fiscal year 1999 to 1.6 percent of GDP in fiscal year 2000, largely through an increase in private
transfers through an aggressive program of foreign exchange purchases in the parallel market. Favorable
performance of the agricultural sector helped to boost real GDP growth to 4.8 percent for the fiscal year
2000, and notwithstanding increases in domestic petroleum products prices, the average rate of inflation
declined to 3.6 percent.
6.      Concurrent to its stabilization efforts, the launched a program  of reforms to address both short
and long term development issues. Many of these policies were reflected in the June 2000 budget for
fiscal year 2001 which formed the basis for an agreement with the IMF on a US$600 million ten-month
Stand-By arrangement approved by the IMF Board on November 2000. The program is based on fiscal
reforms to reduce the fiscal deficit and the adoption of a flexible exchange rate exchange, which together
with tighter monetary policy can contribute, together with substantial exceptional financing, to a much



Annex C
Page 3 of 12
needed build-up of reserves. Specific targets for fiscal year 2001 under the Stand-By arrangement
included a real GDP growth of 4.5 percent, annual inflation of about 6 percent, a significant reduction in
the fiscal deficit from 6.5 percent of GDP to 5.2 percent of GDP, and the maintenance of a current
account deficit of 1.6 percent of GDP leading to a build up in reserves of about US$1.7 billion. The
relatively ambitious fiscal adjustment relied primarily in a strong increase in tax revenues of 1.1 percent
of GDP. Current spending expected to decline by 1.3 percent of GDP due to a lower interest bill because
of lower interest rates and a small reduction in defense spending by about 03 percent of GDP. To support
growth and human development, the program included an increase in the allocation of human
development expenditures and pro-poor expenditure program.
Table 2: Public Expenditure for Poverty Reduction
(Rs billion)
Expenditures                           Allocations
1994195  1995196   1996197   1997198  1998199  1999100  1999100  2000101
A. Budget:
Current expenditure                             343.4    425.9    465.8    522.5    563.5    636.2    577.7   663.7
Poverty-related current expenditure:           23.4      29.2      38.0      31.9      32.8      30.9     46.0     56.0
Social Action Program                          23.4      29.2      38.0      31.9      32.8      30.9     46.0     53.5
Health                                       3.9       4.5       6.4       6.2       5.9      6.2       9.1      10.6
Education                                    18.3     23.4      29.8      23.9      24.8      22.8      34.5     40.7
Food support program                            -         -         -        -         -         -         -       2.5
Total expenditure on Public Sector Dev. Prog.   93.5     118.1      93.2     105.2    109.0      95.6      116.3   107.2
Poverty-related development expenditure        15.6      19.7     24.4      17.4      19.5      25.1      35.6    42.7
Education and training (excl. univ.)          0.2       1.1       0.6       0.4       0.8       0.6      1.2      0.8
Health & nutrition                            1.3       2.2       2.9       2.0       1.6       2.5      2.7      2.8
(women Health care, Malaria control, AIDS    0.9      2.0       2.0       1.5       1.3       2.3       2.2      1.5
prevention, immunization)
Rural development                             1.6       1.2       1.1       1.2       3.5       3.2      10.5      2.4
Farm to market road                         1.3      0.9       0.9       1.0       3.2       3.2      10.1      2.2
Population welfare                            1.1       1.2       2.0       1.2       1.7      2.1       2.2      2.2
Social welfare                                0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1
Environment                                   0.1       0.4       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.2      0.3      0.3
Khushal Pakistan Program                       -         -         -        -         -        3.5        -       21.2
Special Areas Social Action Program           0.8       0.8       1.0       0.7       1.2       1.4       1.7      1.5
Social Action Program (provinces)             9.3       10.8      14.5     10.2       9.2       9.0      14.7      9.8
B. Non-budget:                                     1.6       2.0       0.6       0.8       1.3      2.1       2.1      8.0
Zakat disbursement                               1.6       2.0       0.6       0.8      1.3       2.1       2.1      8.0
Memorandum Items                                                               (Percent of GOP)
Total budgetary expenditure                        23.2     25.3      22.9      23.5      23.1      22.9      22.9    21.8
Poverty-related budgetary expenditure              2.1       2.3       2.6       1.8       1.8      1.8       2.5      2.8
Total PSDP                                         5.0       5.6       3.8       3.9       3.7      3.0       3.5      3.0
Poverty related (budgetary) development expenditure  0.8     0.9       1.0       0.7       0.7      0.8       1.1      1.2
Total poverty-related (budgetary & Zakat) expenditure  2.2   2.4       2.6       1.9       1.8       1.8      2.5      3.0
Note: SAP expenditures for the year 2000/01 are budget allocations, while those for 1994/95 - 1999100
are estimates of the Federal SAP Secretariat.
Source: GOP, IMF, World Bank
7.       The second key aspect of the short term  program  stabilization program  is the achievement of
external adjustment through the adoption of a flexible exchange rate regime to avoid a misaligrunent of
the rupee and help promote exports and growth. The government has already allowed for a strong
correction in the rupee, which has depreciated by more than 15 percent since May 2000. The



Annex C
Page 4 of 12
achievement of the external sector targets, however, are highly dependant on the availability of significant
exceptional financing (see para. 13).
III. Progress under the Stand-By Arrangement
8.    During the first half of this fiscal year, performance under the Stand-By has been positive.
Despite lower than envisaged economic growth (3.1 percent instead of 4.5 percent), on account of a
severe drought, the program has so far achieved or exceeded its targets on inflation, export volumes, the
current account deficit, and the fiscal deficit. Overall, the program is on track, except for tax revenue.
The fiscal deficit at 2.2 percent of GDP, was 0.7 percent GDP lower than programmed as shortfalls in tax
revenue were more than offset by lower expenditures. The ambitious revenue targets, however, were not
achieved, although CBR revenue still increased significantly by 13.5 percent when compared to the first
half of the previous fiscal year. The fiscal targets for the remainder of the year have since been revised,
and the program's overall budget deficit target originally set at 5.2 percent of GDP has been increased to
5.4 percent of GDP. The increase in the deficit is expected to allow programmed development and social
expenditures to take place despite the shortfall in revenues. Foreign exchange reserves, now at about
US$740 million or 3 weeks of imports, have also remained below target and precariously low. Progress
in the implementation of structural reforms was as envisaged under the program. The macroeconomic
situation remains difficult and there are still significant risks to achieving the program's objectives and
the budget remains prone to shortfalls in external financing.
IV.   Medium Term Outlook and Financing Needs
9.    The medium term framework on which the Stand-By Program is based, seeks a gradual
improvement in real GDP growth to around 6 percent by fiscal year 2004. Realization of the growth
target would be predicated on enhanced productivity stemming from the redirection of investment to
export-oriented sectors through structural reforms being implemented under the program. On the external
side, the macroeconomic framework is built around a very strong adjustment of the current account, and a
substantial increase in official reserves to the equivalent of 12 weeks of imports of goods and nonfactor
services.
10.   The medium-term budgetary projections envisage a budget deficit of less than 3 percent of GDP
by fiscal year 2004, supported by a steadily rising revenue-to-GDP ratio reflecting improved tax
administration and a simpler, broad-based tax system. At the same time, further saving in interest
payments and containment of defense outlays should allow an increased social expenditures consistent
with the objective of reducing poverty. The envisaged reduction in the budget deficit would lead to a
decline in net public debt from the current level of 95 percent of GDP to about 89 percent of GDP. Given
the continued needs for exceptional financing of the balance of payments, the net external debt would
continue to increase during this period an exceed 50 percent of GDP. Debt sustainability would continue
to be an issue of great concern as the ratio of the net present value of the public and publicly guaranteed
debt to exports of goods and services, now equivalent to 240 percent would continue to exceed 200
percent in the absence of debt rescheduling. Continued rescheduling under Houston terms would help
reduce this ratio, which would, however, remain very high at about 175 percent by the end of fiscal year
2004.
11.   Achievement of these targets, however, are subject to considerable risks which include: (a)
inability to resume strong growth which have been exacerbated by the unexpected severity of the drought;
(b) a slowdown in projected exports on account of a weaker world economy; (c) terms of trade shocks;
and (d) inability to implement a strong adjustment in the fiscal deficit and the current account without
affecting economic growth.



Annex C
Page 5 of 12
Table 3: Balance of Payments  2000101 to 2003104
(US$ million)
Actual  Program            Project'ons
1999-00   2000-01   2001-02   2002-03   2003-04
CURRENT ACCOUNT (including Official Transfers)               -1143      -1102      -1464      -805      .$06
Trade Balance                                               -1411      -1051      -1318      -672       382
Services (net)                                              -2744      -3113      -3110     -3158     -X259
Private Transfers (net)                                      3012       3062      2964       3025      3035
Official Transfers (net)                                      135        122        126       149       194
CAPITAL ACCOUNT                                               -189       -449       -719      -348      -366
Medium & Long Term Capital (net)                             -145       -161        67        456       426
Public Medium and Long Term                                    -1       -369       420        235       124
Multilaterals                                             365        288         18        86         14
Disbursements                                          1145        895       721        749       .43
World Bank                                            308        303        300       286       260
Repayments                                              780        607       703        663       '29
Private Medium and Long Term                                 -144        208       -354       221       303
Short Term (net)                                              -44       -288       -786      -804      -'92
OVERALL BALANCE                                              -1197      -1429      -2057     -1004      -;79
FINANCING                                                     1197       1429      2057       1004       779
Net International Reserves                                   209       -494       -505      -936      -1193
IMF Purchases                                               0        468        140
IDA/IBRD                                                       0        350
Asian Development Bank                                         0        400
Pads Club Rescheduling*                                      988       1170
FINANCING GAP                                                    0          0      2562       1940      1~'72
Memorandum Items
End of year Gross Official Reserves                           916       1633      2087       2687      3476
Debt Service (before rescheduling)                          8217        4971      4908      4428       4372
Amortization                                             6541        3240      3142      2677       2643
Interest                                                 1676       1731       1766      1751       1729
(in percent)
GDP growth (factor cost)                                      4.8        3.1        3.2       5.9        '.0
Merchandise Export                                            8.8       10.4        8.3       9.1        3.7
Merchandise Import                                           -0.1        5.2       10.1       2.2       63.6
(as percent of GDP)
Current Account Deficit                                       1.6         1.6       2.2       1.0       0.6
Budget Deficit                                                6.4        5.4        4.4       3.6        2.7
Primary Balance                                               1.2        1.5        2.2       2.6     -2.7
*Does not include arrears.
Source: Projections based on IMF medium term framework
12.      Pakistan  is saddled  with high external debt service payments which cannot be met without
exceptional financing from the IFIs and debt rescheduling from the Paris Club. The stock of external debt
is about US$33 billion, of which almost US$12 billion need to be repaid over the next four years
(including this fiscal year). Servicing this debt is difficult on account of Pakistan's low exports and tax



Annex C
Page 6 of 12
revenues. Gross external financing requirements for this fiscal year are sizable. In addition to the current
account deficit of about US$1 billion (1.6 percent of GDP), the external financing needs reflect an
envisaged buildup of reserves to about US$1.6 billion, and the large debt amortization obligations coming
due of US$3.2 billion. Given the capital account projections, exceptional financing requirements for this
fiscal year are about US$4 billion gross.
13.   To meet this requirement the macroeconomic program foresees exceptional financing support
from the private sector, the IFIs, and bilateral creditors. The financing package for this fiscal year
includes liquidity relief obtained from the Paris Club under Houston terms for about US$1.6 (US$1.8
billion total through September 2001); US$470 million from the IMF Stand By program; support from the
Asian Development Bank of about US$400 million, of which US$380 million have already been
disbursed; and US$350 million from IDA. The Central Banks of Kuwait and United Arab Emirates and
the Bank of China are rolling over a total of US$900 million. Financing from the private sector includes
the rollover of 75 percent of the US$1.1 billion in foreign currency deposits for a period of two years.
Finally, while not a part of exceptional financing, Saudi Arabia is continuing its Oil Facility Program
equivalent to US$850 million per year.
14.   With annual debt servicing requirements in the range of US$4.5 to US$5 billion per year,
exceptional financing needs will remain high for the next three years. Recent balance of payments
projections, which are based on high GDP and export growth for fiscal years 2003 and 2004, and assume
a strong adjustment in the current account deficit to about 0.6 percent of GDP by 2004, indicate that
exceptional financing needs will be of about US$2.5 billion in fiscal year 2002, and US$2 billion in fiscal
years 2003 and 2004. The Paris Club relief that can be expected for this period is unlikely to exceed
US$1 billion per year. Therefore, in the absence of additional financing from the private sector, financing
requirements from the international financial institutions will remain high, at least at about US$1 billion
per year. Recent government estimates that had not taken into account the impact of the drought but
sought a less stringent adjustment in the current account deficit, indicate that exceptional financing
requirements from the IFIs during this period could be of about US$1.5 billion per year. An update
medium term macroeconomic framework is now being prepared in connection with the upcoming budget.



Annex C
Page 7 of 12
Pakistan at a glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South      Low-
Pakistan      Asia  income       Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     138.1      1,329    2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    490       440       410
GNP (At/as method, US$ billions)                     68.3       581       988
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        2.4        1.9      1.9
Labor force (%)                                       3.0        2.3      2.3      GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita            .|         enrollent
Poverty (% of population below natior.al poverty line)  33        ..       ..                       \nn
Urban population (% of total population)               37        28        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       63        62        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               90        75        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             38        51        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)      88        77        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 1S+)                   54        46        39             -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  74       100        96                   Pakistan
Male                                                101       110       102                   Low-income group
Female                                               45        90        86   |
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos*
GDP (US$ billions)                          23.7    40.0        58.2     61.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP               18.5     18.9       15.0      15.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           12.5     15.5       15.2     15.7
Gross domestic savingslGDP                   6.9     11.1       10.1      11.5
Gross national savings/GDP                  14.8     15.6       11.2      13.4                        1
Current account balance/GDP                  -3.7     -3.4      -3.8      -1.6
Interest payments/GDP                        1.0      1.3        1.5       1.5     Domriestic                  Invest nent
Total debt/GDP                              41.9    51.6        59.2     54.0      Savings 
Total debt service/exports (Medium and LT)  18.3    23.0        30.5      33.9
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..       43.0
Present value of debVexports                  ..       ..    252.0
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP at factor cost                  6.2      4.2      3.1        4.8      4.6              -     Pakistan
GNP per capita                      3.8      1.2      1.6        3.3       2.3                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       8.4      1.7    -2.4        14.2      5.2                1-
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                          _                                _
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         15
Agriculture                                 29.5     26.0       27.2      26.3     i.
Industry                                    24.9     25.2       23.5     23.3      s
Manufacturing                              15.9     17.4      15.6      15.3   E
Services                                    45.6     48.8       49.4     50.4    -5       95   96          098   99    0
Private consumption                         83.1     73.8       78.4      78.0    -15.-
General government consumption              10.0     15.1       11.5     10.4                     GDI         GDP
Imports of goods and services               24.1     23.4       20.1      19.2              -
(average annual growth)                 11980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  4.3      4.5        1.9       7.0    20
Industry                                     7.3      3.8        2.5      3.3    is
Manufacturing                               7.7      3.5       4.2       1.8 6\
Services                                     6.8      4.3        4.1       4.5     5
Private consumption                          4.3      5.0        8.0       3.0    -5                                    00
General government consumption              10.3       1.2      -5.1      15.6   -10
Gross domestic investment                    5.8       1.4     -11.8       4.7    15'
Imports of goods and services                2.1      2.6       -6.2       1.0                  Exports    0   Imports
Gross national product                       6.6      3.7        4.1       5.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex C
Page 8 of 12
Pakistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Dormestc prices                                                                    1
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                  5.7       3.6    10
Implicit GDP deflator                        12.0      6.3       5.5      4.2
5 
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                       18.0      16.3      16.5            ss   S6   97   98   99   00
Current budget balance                                -1.0      -3.0      -3.5            -     GP deflator  -0.C-PI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -6.6      -6.1      -6.5
TRADE
1980    1990       1999     2000   1        andimportlevels(USSmill)
(US$ millions)                                                                     tzxporianaimportlevels(US$miilEo
Total exports (fob)                         2,365    4,954     7,779    8,569      14,000
Cotton                                               443         2        73     12,000
Rice                                                 239       533       540     10o0o-
Manufactures                              1,371    2,489      4,538    5,034      a soor_
Total imports (cif.    8,054    10,456    10,361                                   e,ooo tr.II
Food                                               1,066      1,622      896     4,000
Fuel and energy                                    1,163      1,485    2,783     2,00     .
Capital goods                                 .. 1,788       3,027     3,130        0
94  95  96  97  98  99  00
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      58         90       92
Import price index (1995=100)                          52        102      105                 E Exports     CImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             112         88       88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980    1990       1999      2000      CurrentaccountbalancetoGDPI%)
Exports of goods and services               2,958    6,217     8,838     9,678     0 °
Imports of goods and services               5,709    9,351    11,688    11,818      I - +4   |        |        97 |
Resource balance                           -2,751   -3,134    -2,850    -2,140    .; -2  t
Net income                                   -281    -966    -1,808   -2,065  3t
Net current transfers                       2,163    2,748     2,471     3,195    4I
Current account balance                      -869   -1,352    -2,187    -1,010
Financing items (net)                       1,148    1,352     3,441      801    -7I
Changes in net reserves                      -279       0     -1,254      209    -61
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ mi/lions)         ..   1,311      2,228    2,805
Conversion rate (DEC, focal/US$)              9.9    21.4       50 1      51 6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        9,931   20,663    34,423   33,272
IBRD                                       330    1,816      3,315    3,323   |G 1,410 A. 3,323
IDA                                        821    2,106      3,905    4,255           F 3,466
Total debt service (Medium and LT)           869    1,902      3,045    4,277                                   B: 4,265
IBRD                                        58      199       434       421
IDA                                          9       34         86       91
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                  C 1,824
Official grants                            268      538        194      135
Official creditors                         539      904      1,588     1,500      E 10,874
Private creditors                          166      -63       -596      438
Foreign direct investment                   68      200       478       467
Portfolio equity                             0       87         28       74                                : 8,120
World Bank program
Commitments                                185      972        440        0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               90      491       627       308      8 - IDA    D - Other muttilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        29       92       283       287      C -IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   61      399       344        21   !                                           I
Interest payments                           39      141       237       225
Net transfers                               22      258        107     -204
Development Economics



Annex C
Page 9 of 12
Pakistan Social Indicators
Latest single year            Same region/income group
0
South          Low-
1970-75     1980-85      1993-99              Asia       income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)             71.0         94.8        134.8           1,329.3       2,417.1
Growth rate (% annual average for period)        3-2          2.7          2.5               1.9           1.9
Urban population (% of population)                26.4         29.8         36.5              28.0          31.4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                                                        3.4           3.7
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                            ..           ..         32.6
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index                             ..           ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                              150          380          470               440           420
Consumer price index (1995=100)                      ..          ..         141               136           138
Food price index (1995=100)                                      ..
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)       8.0           ..          9.5
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)     41.8                      41.1
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                 ..           ..           ..               0.9           1.2
Education (% of GNP)                              ..           ..           ..               3.1           3.3
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)            ..           ..
Gross primary school enrollment rate
(% of school age population)
Total                                             ..           ..          74               100            96
Male                                           ..           ..          101               110           102
Female                                         ..           ..           45                90            86
Access to an improved water source
(% of population)
Total                                             ..          38           88                87            76
Urban                                          ..           77           96                92            88
Rural                                          ..           22           84                85            70
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                           ..           ..           ..               63            64
DPT                                               ..           ..           ..               75            70
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                ..           ..          38                47
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                            52           57           63                63            59
Male                                            ..           .            ..               62            58
Female                                          ..          ..           ..                63            60
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)               134          122           90                74            77
Under 5 (per thousand live births)                ..           ..           ..               99           116
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                     ..           ..           ..              223           288
Female (per 1,000 population)                   ..           ..          ..               212           258
Maternal (per 100, 000 live births)               ..           ..           ..
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)         ..           ..           ..               49
CAS Annex B5. This table was produced from the CMU LDB system.                                          5/14/2001
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown.
Latest year for access to an improved water source data is 2000.



Annex C
Page 10 of 12
Pakistan - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product'                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                            25.5    26.7    27.3    27.2    26.3    26.0    25.1    24.3    23.5
Industry                               24.2    23.5    23.8    23.5    23.3    23.8    24.2    24.1    24.1
Services                               50.4    49.8    48.9    49.4    50.4    50.2    50.7    51.6    52.5
Total Consumption                       89.1    89.7    86.8    89.9    88.5    88.7    88.4    86.5    84.9
Gross domestic investment               18.8    17.7    17.7    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.6    16.5    17.7
Exports of goods and services           16.2    15.7    16.2    15.2    15.7    17.4    18.7    19.3    20.0
Imports of goods and services           24.1    23.1    20.7    20.1    19.2    21.0    22.8    22.4    22.7
Gross domestic savings                  10.9    10.3    13.2    10.1    11.5    11.3    11.6    13.5    15.1
Gross national savings                  12.0    12.0    15.0    11.1    13.3    13.4    13.4    15.5    17.1
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                 63159   62284   61840   58154   61656    60164   60407   63300   66533
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)       510     500      480     470      490      450     430      430     440
Real annual growth rates
Gross domestic product at factor cost   5.5     1.7      3.5     3.1      4.8      3.1     3.2      5.9     6.0
Gross Domestic Income                   3.8     1.8      4.6     3.1      5.6      4.3     3.6      6.1     6.1
Real annual per capita growth rates
Grossdomesticproductatmarketprices      1.4    -1.5      0.1     1.5      3.8      1.4     0.8      3.4      5.0
Total consumption                       4.7    -0.1    -1.4      3.8      2.0      2.4     1.1      1.8      3.4
Private consumption                     4.8     1.5    -2.2      5.4      0.6     2.1      1.3      1.3      3.0
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services         10227    9781   10017    8838    9678   10452   11299   12221   13334
Merchandise FOB                     8311    8096    8433    7527    8163    9046    9794   10689   11730
Importsofgoodsandservices            15227   14418   12819   11688   11818   12655   13743   14150   15086
Merchandise FOB                     12015   11241   10301    9612    9598   10097   11112   11361   12112
Resource balance                      -5000   -4637   -2802   -2850   -2140   -2203   -2444   -1929   -1753
Net currenttransfers                   2610    3247    3430    2471    3195    3184    3090    3174    3229
Current account balance               -4343   -3560   -1702   -2187   -1010    -980   -1338    -656    -412
Net private foreign direct investtnent  1106    712      602     478      467      515     417      480      506
Long-termloans(net)                    1061     761    1594      922    -619      463    1421    1411    1497
Official                              1116     878      827    1588      128     781    -388    -220    -196
Private                                -55    -117      768    -666    -747    -318    1809    1631    1694
Other capital (net, inci errors & ommissions)  1781  888    -642    2041  953      496       5    -299    -397
Change in reservesb                     395    1199      148   -1254      209    -494    -505    -936   -1193
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)             -7.9    -7.4    -4.5    -4.9    -3.5    -3.7    -4.0    -3.0    -2.6
Real annual growth rates
Exports of goods and services           2.0    -6.5    -5.7    -2.4    14.2        5.3      4.3     5.1      6.7
Imports of goods and services          13.6    -3.8    -5.6    -6.2        1.0     8.7      8.2     1.3      5.1
(Continued)



Annex C
Page 11 of 12
Pakistan - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                        17.4    15.8    15.8    16.3    16.5    16.4    17.0    17.6    18.1
Current expenditures                    19.9    18.6    19.5    19.3    20.0    18.8    18.0    17.5    16.7
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)    -2.5    -2.8    -3.7    -3.0    -3.5    -2.6    -1.0    0.1      1.4
Capital expenditure                      4.7     3.6      3.9      3.0      2.8     3.0      3.3      3.6      4.1
Foreign financing                        1.8      1.1     1.4      5.0      2.3     3.5      2.0      1.5      1.5
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                  44.3    43.3    44.0    44.0    44.0    42.9    42.9    42.9    42.9
Growth of M2 (%)                        13.8    12.1    12.0       8.6      9.4     6.3      9.3    11.8    11.6
Private sector credit growth            38.5    45.3    52.3   138.0    18.4   166.3    57.4    57.4    57.4
total credit growth (%)
Price indices (1995=100)
Merchandise export price index         110.7   114.6    74.2    95.4   102.7   106.4   110.3   113.6   116.2
Merchandise import price index         110.5   115.6    71.3   112.1   102.9   101.2   101.3   102.8   104.2
Merchandise terms oftrade index        100.2    99.2   104.2    85.1    99.8   105.2   108.9   110.5   111.5
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)d           98.2   101.4    92.0    97.8   103.9   114.5   122.0   126.8   130.7
Consumer price index (%change)          10.8    11.8      7.8      5.7      3.6     5.0      5.9      5.6      5.3
GDP deflator (% change)                  8.5    13.4      7.5      4.7      2.7     5.0      5.9      5.6      5.3
a. GDP at factor cost
b. Includes use of IMF resources.
c. Consolidated central government.
d. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex C
Page 12 of 12
Pakistan - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator                 1996   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Total debt outstanding and              29825   30069   32296   34422   33272   34117   36245   37677   38855
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a                1083    1619      681    1251    -558      422    1389    1125    1092
Total debt service (TDS) (Medium and LT)    3286    4083    2304    3045    4277    3457    4023    3599    3649
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(0/)
TDO/XGSb                              251.2   265.0   277.7   344.5   310.0   291.0   287.0   273.3   257.9
TDO/GDP                                47.2    48.3    52.2    59.2    54.0    56.7    60.0    59.5    58.4
TDS/XGS                                 27.7    36.0    19.8    30.5    39.8    29.5    31.9    26.1    24.2
Concessional/TDO                        53.4    49.9    51.9    54.8    58.2    55.4    52.7    51.0    49.7
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRDDS/publicDS                         16.5    12.1    21.7    20.7    11.7    14.1    12.1    13.1    13.8
Preferred creditor DS/public           48.3    41.0    58.1    69.5    38.2    46.4    43.5    48.6    50.6
DS (%)'
IBRD DS/XGS                              3.7     3.5     3.3      4.3     3.9      3.5     3.3      3.0     2.9
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                      3007    3046    3136    3315    3323    3017    2853    2647    2353
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)             2.8      2.8     2.6      2.7     2.7      2.4     2.4      2.3     2.2
IDA TDO (US$m)d                        3480    3526    3800    3905    4255    4360    4505    4673    4833
IFC (US$m)
Loans(Disbursed and Outstanding)         77     410      423     396      347       ..      ..
Equityandquasi-equity /e                 23      101     111      110     108       ..      ..
MIGA
MIGAguarantees(US$m)                    137      158     165      147     144      111      ..
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
Note: Debt data is from the World Bank Debt Reporting System.



Annex D
Page 1 of 12
PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCLAL MANAGEMENT
AND ACCOUNTABILITY'
I.    Introduction
1.    Pakistan's public sector financial management and accountability system requires urgent
repairs and renewal. The system has deteriorated to the extent that presently the govemme nt is
unable to present a reliable statement of its financial position. This deterioration has affecte.l the
system at all levels, and in all spheres of financial management: (i) weak budgeting techniques
and processes have limited the effectiveness of budget as a tool to promote government's policy
objective; (ii) the effectiveness of public expenditure has been hampered by institutonal
shortcomings in budget execution and large-scale circumvention and non-compliance of the
existing procedures and guidelines; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of budget implementation has
failed mainly because of the waning priority for these activities and the inadequate and poor
quality of financial information; (iv) the effectiveness of the public sector audit system has been
limited; (v) the institutional mechanisms for timely remedial actions to minimize fraud, waste and
misuse of public funds have not functioned as desired; and (vi) public oversight over the
executive arm of the government has been either rudimentary or dormant.
2.    The present government has acknowledged the weaknesses and has started implementing
a comprehensive reform program to address the problems. This reform program has been
developed through a continuous dialogue between the government agencies and the donors,
including the IMF, ADB, DFID, UNDP and the World Bank.2 The program aims at reforring
and revitalizing all key areas of financial management. For instance, the budgeting process is
being revamped to provide it with a medium-term perspective, financial powers of the executing
authorities have been enhanced; transparency of government's fiscal and financial information is
being improved; a complete overhaul of public accounting system is underway; independent
scrutiny of govemment financial transactions by public accounts committees (currently in ad hoc
form while assemblies are suspended) is being strengthened; and Pakistan's first ordinance (law)
defining the functions, powers, terms, and conditions of service of the Auditor General has been
promulgated.
3.    Concurrently, the govemment has launched a strong anti-corruption drive, which is
expected to provide a powerful deterrent against financial irregularities. Actions are also planmed
in the areas of civil service, tax administration and procurement reformns, all of which are
expected to have a positive impact on govemment's financial management. Although, some
significant actions have already been taken, the pervasive nature of the problem would need
sustained concerted efforts. A comprehensive and business like approach and a -medium term
horizon to show significant results is required.
' This annex has been prepared jointly by a team comprising South Asia PREM, Financial Managemer.t
and Procurement specialists.
2 Recent dialogue has been both informal and through formal diagnostic work such as : the World Banl:-
assisted Project to Improve Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA), the World Bank Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR), the first phase of the World Bank Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), the World Bank Social Action Program Project Financial Management
Supervision Mission; the IMF's Report on Observance of Standards and Codes: Fiscal Transparency
Module; the IMF Technical Assistance to Improve Fiscal Reporting and Transparency, and the Asian
Development Bank's Diagnostic Study: Financial Management and Governance Issues in Pakistan. T'he
current state of knowledge based on this diagnostic work and underpinning this annex is to be documented
in a report on the first phase of the CFAA.



Annex D
Page 2 of 12
4.    Specific issues related to public sector financial management and accountability, the
government's reform vision, actions taken to-date, expected future actions and key benchmarks
related to the government's reform agenda, are summarized below.
II.    Expenditure Management and Fiscal Transparency
Budget Management
5.    Issue: The use of the budget as a tool for achieving development policy goals is
limited. Budget preparation has been primarily incremental with very little prioritization of a
large proportion of public expenditure, and is therefore unsuited for strategic or programmatic
analysis. The budget has had a primarily short-run and input focus, with performance judged only
by ability to spend the allocated amounts rather than on ensuring effectiveness of public
expenditures in meeting social and economic goals.
6.    There has also been an artificial distinction between the recurrent and development
budgets, which leads to sub-optimal resource allocation decisions and inefficient expenditures.
The problem has been further compounded by consistent overestimation of budgetary resources,
which obstruct proper execution of the budget (see issue 2 below), and by budgetary rigidities
(about 80% of federal government expenditure is allocated to interest payments, defense and
personnel expenditure), which significantly limits the room for appropriate fiscal adjustment.
7.    Government's reform vision/agenda. The government recognizes the need to move
away from the past system of annual incremental budgeting, and with assistance from DFID, has
initiated a Medium-Term Budget Framework (MTBF). The MTBF, which will be implemented
in a phased manner, is expected to have a major impact on improvement of overall financial
management of the government by: (i) formulating more realistic projections of budgetary
resources; (ii) removal of artificial bifurcation between recurrent and development budgets; (iii)
better accounting of government's "non-budgetary" transactions; (iv) inclusion into the budget as
a memorandum item of government's "deferred" (including pensions and Provident Fund) and
"contingent" liabilities; and (v) a general shifting of the budgetary focus from inputs to outputs
and outcomes. Moreover, with up-front approval of budgetary ceilings by the federal Cabinet,
political support for the concept of MTBF could be strengthened, and the MBTF concept could be
internalized within the broader scope of government, thereby improving the interaction and
cooperation between MOF and line ministries concerning budget preparation.
8.    Action(s) taken prior to Board presentation.
*     Submission of a report on public debt and government contingent liabilities and a report
on "restructuring and rightsizing" the federal government ministries and divisions for
examination by the government.
*     Issue of the "Budget Call Circular 2001/02" which includes a number of provisions
aimed at improving budget preparation in line with the requirements of a MTBF, including
information required from each line ministry on their mission statement and performance
indicators against which their budget performance could be judged.
*     Preparation of the 2001/04 preliminary MTBF. Specific actions taken in this regard are:
(i) preparation of a three-year macro-economic framework with more realistic projections of
budgetary resources and broad sectoral expenditure ceilings; (ii) up-front approval of these
projections and ceilings by the federal Cabinet; (iii) and, preparation of a document (in "PSDP



Annex D
Page 3 of 12
Annex") showing three-year forward costs (both recurrent and development) of all investment
projects to be included in the 2001/02 budget.
9.    Future actions and key benchmarks.
*     Finalization, by May 2001, and presentation, by June 2001, of the 2001/02 budget under
the preliminary 2001/04 MTBF.
*     Inclusion in the 2000/01 financial statements of contingent liabilities.
*     Preparation and presentation, by December 2001, of budget ceilings for the 200.2/03
budget by the federal and provincial finance authorities.
*     Update, by December 2001, of the procedures for the 2002/03-2004/05 MTBF.
*     Formalization, in FY02, of the legal cover for the MTBF through promulgation- of
Financial Management law.
Budget Execution
10.   Issue: Weak execution of the budget has adversely affected the effectiveness of public
expenditures. Overly optimistic projections of budgetary resources necessitate cutbacks during
the year in budgetary allocations, which are mostly ad-hoc; applied uniformly across the board;
and without any effective prioritization of expenditures. Also, expenditure during the year is
controlled mainly through arbitrary means, such as delayed or inadequate release of budgetary
funds; requirements of special clearance from finance ministry/department to incur expendilture;
and arbitrary restrictions on certain spendings (e.g. purchase of vehicles, furniture and other
durables). Finally, budget execution within the line departments suffer from weak institutional
capacity and poor internal controls, which lead to non-compliance and circumvention of financial
procedures and guidelines, including execution of budget through Personal Ledger AccoLmts
(PLAs).
11.   Government's reform  vision/agenda.  The government is seeking to enhance the
effectiveness of budget execution through significant delegation of financial powers to the
officers (i.e. Principal Accounting Officers) who are responsible for delivery of public serv-ices
and/or achievement of government's development objectives, and restricting the discretior-ary
powers of tax officials.
12.   Action(s) taken prior to Boardpresentation.
*      Introduction, by the Ministry of Finance, of a New System of Financial Control and
Budgeting (NSFCB), which delegates significant financial powers to the Principal Accounting
Officers (PAOs, i.e. secretaries or other administrative heads) of the line ministries and divisions.
This has been accompanied by the imposition of hard budget constraint on the line
ministries/divisions through expenditure ceilings. The line ministries can spend only of 40%
(50% for SAP) of their annual recurrent and 45% of development (50% for SAP) budgets during
the first half of the fiscal year. At the same time, PAOs have been made responsible for ensuring
fiscal and financial discipline, including timely reconciliation of financial data.



Annex D
Page 4 of 12
13. Future actions and key benchmarks.
*     Effective implementation of the New System of Financial Control and Budgeting.
Fiscal Transparency
14.   Issue: Inadequate fiscal transparency has compromised fiscal accountability to the
public. Until recently, the government has made little effort to disseminate (or explain) key fiscal
information to the public, thereby hampering public's involvement into the process of financial
accountability. Despite being publicly available, budget documents are not easily comprehended
by the average citizen. Some of the infonnation provided in these documents has been only
partial and often misleading. For example, the budget estimates given in budget documents do
not include the impact of new fiscal measures (revenue and/or expenditure) creating a lot of
confusion about the actual state of public finances. Furthermore, comprehensive information on
government's public enterprises; its non-budgetary financial undertakings, deferred and
contingent liabilities; public debt; tax expenditures; and quasi-fiscal activities has been only
partly presented in these documents or not presented at all.
15.   Government's reform vision/agenda. The government wishes to improve the quantity
and quality of fiscal information disseminated to the public to ensure fiscal transparency, and
thereby strengthen financial accountability. The govemment has endorsed a review of fiscal
reporting and transparency under the IMF's Code of Good Practices on Fiscal Transparency, and
the recommendations of the IMF mission have provided a road map for the Government's
reforms in this area.
16.   Action(s) taken prior to Boardpresentation.
*    Quarterly posting on the web of the fiscal accounts of the consolidated fiscal accounts of
the federal and provincial governments (on the basis of reconciled data), beginning with the first
quarter of 2000/01.
17.   Future actions and key benchmarks.
*     Preparation and presentation, with the 2001/02 federal budget, of a user friendly
"Analysis of the Federal Budget", which will include, among other items: (i) a schedule of tax
expenditures; (ii) a statement of contingent liabilities of the federal government; and (iii) a
statement on public debt.
*     Publication, as an annex to the Finance Account of the Federal Government, of a
consolidated statement of govemment's financial assets, including net worth of all public
enterprises and other equity holdings, starting April/May 2001.
*     Completion by the Auditor General of a review of public fiscal transparency (first half of
2001/02).
III.   Public Financial Accountability
Accounting Function
18.   Issue: Current government accounting is limited in design and not reliable. The
govemment has recognized the inadequacy of its accounting system to provide timely, accurate,



Annex D
Page 5 of 12
comprehensive and reliable information for informed decision making and for enforcing effective
accountability:
*     The accounting function has been limited in usefulness by being focussed on assuring
financial regularity and reporting on the use of appropriations to the Parliament, and much le .s on
providing within-the-year financial information to the executive to manage the budget.
*     The ownership of the accounting function has been weakened by its housing within the
Pakistan Audit Department. District Accounts Officers (DAOs), Accountant Generals (AG s) in
the Provinces, and Accountant General - Pakistan Revenues (AGPR) at the federal level, report
to the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) who in tum reports to the Auditor General.
*     The reliability of accounting information has been undermined by reconciliation
problems, which have occurred mainly in five areas:
(i) reconciliation of expenditures and deficits with financing, from the National Saving
Schemes (NSS) and from banks;
(ii) reconciliation of federal and provincial accounts maintained by DAOs (or provincial
govemment Treasury Officers (TOs) in certain districts where there is no DAO) with
branch banking records;
(iii) reconciliation of federal and provincial accounts prepared by DOs/TOs with records
maintained by Drawing and Disbursement Officers (DDOs) and Principal Accounting
Officers (PAOs) of the line ministries/departments.  In many locations, accounting
information maintained by line Ministries/Departments, in parallel to official AG/A' 3PR
accounts, provide the necessary level of expenditure information needed for management
purposes and to support claims for disbursement from donors and international
financiers;
(iv) reconciliation of accounts of flows of expenditures between Federal and Provincial
Governments; and
(v) reconciliation of development expenditure met from donor assistance betwveen
records of the Economic Affairs Division (EAD), and those of the AGPR and provincial
AGs.  Some donor assistance is channeled to revolving accounts outside regular
government banking channels, and other assistance may be provided through direct
payments of suppliers by donors.
The completeness, accuracy and timeliness of accounting information has been hampered
by the use of a largely manual, single entry, fully cash based accounting system for maintaining
the Government's accounts, with associated high risk of errors, time lags in capture of accounting
data, and absence of records of assets, commitments, and information on loan and grant
transactions where these are made directly by donor agencies.
19.    Government's reform vision/agenda. The Govemment wishes to establish an integrated
financial management system, based on modified cash accounting principles, which can rneet
internationally accepted standards of completeness, accuracy, reliability, timeliness and
usefulness. It wishes to situate the responsibilities for accounting functions in a manner that
promotes ownership of and accountability for good financial management within the executive
arm of Government. It seeks to establish the public accounting system as a robust platform for
transparency in the management of public funds, for economic decision making within



Annex D
Page 6 of 12
Government to promote program efficiency and effectiveness, and for provision of auditable
financial information to various stakeholders within the country as well as to donors and
international financiers.
20.   Action(s) taken prior to Board presentation.
*     Enactment, after an extensive consultafion process with stakeholders managed by a high
level committee constituted by the government, of a Controller General of Accounts Ordinance
which effectively transfers the responsibilities for maintenance of the government's accounts
from the Auditor General to the newly created Controller General of Accounts Department in the
Ministry of Finance. This will promote clear responsibility and ownership of the accounting
function, and remove the inherent conflict of interest in having the Auditor General responsible
for the accounting as well as audit functions.
*     Development, through the World Bank supported Project to Improve to Financial
Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA), and promulgation, for implementation from 2001/02, of a
Revised Form, Principles and Methods of Accounts of the Federation and Provinces (also called
the New Accounting Model or NAM). This comprises new manuals of accounting principles,
policies and procedures, financial reporting manual, handbook of accounting guidelines and new
chart of accounts. This establishes a basis of accounting that provides for recording of receipts
and payments, commitments and accrued liabilities, and physical and financial assets, in a manner
consistent with the IMF's GFS/COFOG classifications. The accounting model is considered
flexible enough to accommodate the performance focussed resource management requirements
arising from adoption of a MTBF. By incorporating into the chart of accounts the accounting
information currently maintained in separate records by line departments, the need for
reconciliation of the official accounts and line department records is expected to be reduced
significantly.
*     Award of contract acceptable to the Bank, for financing under PIFRA, for software, and
for hardware to test, pilot and roll out, during 2001-02, a new computerized government
accounting and reporting system according to the NAM in 36 AGPRIAG offices and sub-offices
and DAO/TO offices (covering in total about 65% of federal/provincial transactions).
a     Establishment of special Fiscal Monitoring Committees (FMCs), at the federal and
provincial levels, to oversee the reconciliations of government accounts, until confidence can be
restored in the regular accounting processes, and effective completion of all Federal
reconciliations up to December 2000 in formats agreed with the IMF. The CGA has issued
instructions in December 2000 to reinstitute (after several years of suspension) daily
reconciliations by DAOs/TOs of their accounts with bank branch records, monthly consolidated
reconciliations by AG/AGPR offices, and a system of inspections to review DAO/TO
implementation and provide training as necessary.
21.   Future actions and key benchmarks.
*     Completion of transfer of reporting line of CGA and accounting staff from the Auditor
General to the Secretary-General, Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the enacted legislation,
in July 2001.
*     Continue to carry, as per rules, monthly reconciliation of federal and provincial accounts
with financing sources, bank records, and line department records, underpinned by full



Annex D
Page 7 of 12
implementation of CGA instructions for daily bank reconciliations at district level. Publish
provincial reconciled accounts with a lag not to exceed one quarter during fiscal year 2002.
*     Completion of a review of the government's financial regulations and rules of business,
and adoption of revisions necessary to streamline procedures compatible with the adoption of the
NAM and the new accounting system being financed under PIFRA, by December 2001.
*      Production of annual financial statements for each tier of govemment, according to the
NAM, within 3 months of the end of the fiscal year, and their audit and presentation tc. the
legislatures within 6 months of the end of the fiscal year - beginning with those for 2000/01.
*     Production of effectively reconciled accounting reports by the computerized accour-ting
system, in the 36 pilot and roll out sites to be financed under PIFRA, by June 2002.
*      Extension of computerized accounting and reporting to another 52 sites identified under
PIFRA, to achieve about 80% coverage of expenditures, by June 2003.
Public Audit
22.   Issues:  The system of public audits suffer from  a number of deficiencies which
hampers its effectiveness and compromises financial accountability. Key shortcomings of the
audit system have related to timeliness of examination by the legislatures of audit reports,
shortcomings in quality and usefulness of the audit reports, limitations in coverage of the audits,
and impairments to independence because of the location of the Pakistan Audit Departnent
(PAD) within the Ministry of Finance, and the dual responsibilities of the Auditor Generil of
Pakistan for both preparation of accounts and audit:
(i) Audit reports have not been forwarded to the federal and provincial Public Acccunts
Committees (PACs) on a timely basis and PACs have not reviewed the reports
expeditiously, thus severely limiting the relevance of the public audit system. Prior to the
suspension of the national and provincial assemblies in October 1999, there had been
significant backlogs in the review of audit reports by the PACs.
(ii) The quality of the audit reports needs improvement by reducing the present
emphasis on irregularities (with focus on individual transactions which are not compliant
with financial rules and regulations) without sufficient attention to significance, and
focussing more on the most significant systemic weaknesses of financial management
and control underlying the irregularities. The reports do not always record the auditees'
commitment to take timely remedial action. Many audit reports have contained little
information on the efficiency and effectiveness of programs and/or service delivery.
Furthermore the Auditor General  has not opined on the quality of the financial
statements or sufficiently assessed the economy and efficiency with which public funds
may have been spent.
(iii) While the law provides ample mandate to the Auditor General to audit all public
funds, in certain cases audits of public enterprises and autonomous bodies had been
limited to financial audits by private auditing firms, which had not been subject to
reporting via the Auditor General to the legislature. This limits comprehensiveness of
the coverage of the audit information made available to the legislature.
(iv) The objectivity of the audit reports may be compromised due to the Auditor
General's dual role of accountant and auditor.  Presently, the Auditor General is



Annex D
Page 8 of 12
ultimately responsible for both (a) maintaining the accounts of the Government and (b)
conducting an audit of these accounts. While there has been bifurcation between the
audit and the accounts function within the PAD, this dual responsibility nonetheless
creates a perception of conflict of interest. Furthermore, the PAD is a department of the
Ministry of Finance. While in practice successive Auditors General appear to have
exercised their functions in an independent fashion, the lack of formal independence from
the executive arm of government could be perceived as compromising the Auditor
General's ability to critically examine the planning, monitoring and evaluation processes
associated with the Ministry of Finance's responsibilities, and potentially clouding the
credibility of his information provided to the public.
23.   Government's reform vision/agenda. The government proposes to modemize the public
audit system of Pakistan in line with international practices and auditing standards. The first
fundamental step in that process is the promulgation of new legislation to strengthen the mandate
and independence of the Auditor General. Capacity building is being pursued through the PIFRA
project, which supports the adoption of computer based audit techniques that can effectively audit
the new computerized accounting system under development in the same project, as well as to
provide capacity building within PAD to minimize the gap between actual practice and the
aspirations of the Auditor General for public audit in Pakistan to meet international auditing
standards set by INTOSAI. Training and quality assurance functions are being developed to
support expanding the scope of work to cover an independent ongoing examination of internal
controls; introducing third party validation (TPV) audits across the public sector, on the pattem of
TPVs presently undertaken for the Social Action Program; reinforcement of the concept of
certification (financial statement attest) audit; expansion of audits of govemment revenue and
receipts; undertaking of special audits in areas of interest to the public, such as audit of
privatization initiatives and environmental auditing; and giving more emphasis to modem intemal
audits. The Auditor General has also committed to forging a partnership with the private sector
for undertaking audits of public sector undertakings, and in due course, outsourcing some of
PAD's non-core functions to the private sector on a selective basis.
24.   Actions taken prior to Board presentation.
*     Promulgation of the Auditor General's (Functions and Powers, Terms and Conditions)
Ordinance.
*     Transmittal to the federal ad-hoc PAC of the audit reports for 1997/98 andI998/99 to
ensure that the most current audit findings are dealt with expeditiously.
*     Engagement of the services of consultants, financed under PIERA, for improving the
quality both "certification" and "value for money" audits.
*     Publication of key guidelines to underpin quality building efforts within PAD. Reporting
guidelines for field offices were published in 1998/99. Guidelines for the audit of Govemment
Financial Statements were developed in 2000/01 with technical assistance from Australia.
Guidelines for reporting on intemal control were published in January 2001.
*     Preparation by the Pakistan Audit Department of a corporate audit plan providing for full
coverage over a three year cycle of all public sector corporations, autonomous bodies and
authorities, and reinforcement of the requirement for conduct of audits by the Auditor General in
these entities by prescription (January 2001) of the newly established ad-hoc Public Accounts
Committee.



Annex D
Page 9 of 12
25.   Future actions and key benchmarks.
*     Inclusion in audit reports of information on the level of significance of observations
regarding non-compliance, and specific recommendations aimed at improving the systems and
procedures that have likely contributed to the weaknesses giving rise to the observations, andl the
GOP's response to the auditor's recommendations - from FY02 onwards.
*     Provision of an audit opinion (certification) on the fair presentation of the Government's
annual financial statements in accordance with INTOSAI standards, and (b) operationalizing a
quality assurance function (including peer review) for monitoring compliance with the auditing
standards (INTOSAI) adopted by the Pakistan Auditor General - from FY02 onwards.
*     Publication within 3 months of the end of the FY, on the web as well as in print, c f an
annual performance and activity report of the PAD, covering the accomplishments and results of
the audit work of the PAD, including a statement on any significant administrative, budgetary or
professional constraints faced - beginning with one for FY0 1.
Public Scrutiny
26.   Issue: Public scrutiny of the government's activities, revenue and expenditures is
diluted due to lack of timeliness, comprehensiveness of the audit reports and lack of open
proceedings of the Public Accounts Committees across Pakistan. For these reason, the public is
not sufficiently well informed on the rigor with which scrutiny of the public purse is carried out
by the legislatures (or by ad hoc PACs while the legislatures remain suspended) nor the
commitment of the executive to take remedial action in response to audit observations.
27.   PACs across Pakistan have not functioned on several occasions for extended periodls of
time and this has often created a backlog of unattended audit reports at the federal and provincial
levels that go back several years. In these circumstances the GOP's commitment to take timely
remedial action in response to audit has been unclear, and the effectiveness of the public audit
system is compromised.
28.   PACs and current ad hoc PACs have not been open to the public or press. However, the
Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Pakistan ( # 207 ) state that the sittings of a
Committee may be held in camera if so determined by the Committee. As such there .s no
regulatory restriction placed on Committees to hold their sittings in public.
29.   Government's reform vision/agenda. The govemment realizes that there is an u;rgent
need to assess the workings of PACs across Pakistan and develop measures to enhance the
capacity for them to undertake more timely reviews based on audit reports submitted by the
Auditor General. The govemment also appreciates that there is need to inculcate greater
ownership within the key institution of the govemment to improve their intemal controls and
fulfill the related fiduciary obligations to the public through more effective working of the PAC
process. The Auditor General is considering the commission a diagnostic study on the workings
of PACs in Pakistan with a view to further enhancing the performance of these Committees in
line with international best practice.
30.   Actions taken prior to Boardpresentation.
*     Establishment of Ad hoc Public Accounts Committees at the federal and provincial level
to fill the gap created by the suspension of the legislatures across Pakistan. These Committees



Annex D
Page 10 of 12
have started functioning in all jurisdictions other than NWFP.3  Committees, comprising of
members from civil society including retired government officials, and have begun reviewing
audit reports for 1996/97 and later. Issue of regulations to allow the Ad Hoc PACs to receive
audit reports after 1996/97 and those for 1997/98 and 1998/99 have now been transmitted.
*     Opening of the sittings of the federal ad hoc PAC to the press.
*     Preparation of a draft Freedom of Information Ordinance.
31.   Future actions and key benchmarks.
*     Completion of reviews of the Ad Hoc PACs of the backlog of outstanding audit reports
by April 2002, by which time the audit reports for 1999/00 are expected to be completed and
transmitted.
*     Promulgation during calendar year 2001 of a Freedom of Information Ordinance,
establishment of rules and guidance to promote the purposes of the law, and review by Ministries
and Departments of internal procedures to facilitate availability of information to the public and
compliance with the new law.
IV.   Government Procurement
32.   Issue: The obsolence of Pakistan's procurement rules and regulations, and their
selective and improper use obstructs competition, hinders effwciency, impedes transparency and
promote corruption. At present Pakistan has an accretion of laws, rules, regulations, codes and
manuals dealing with procurement but no coherent, single law setting standards for such
activities, and no effective legal protection against collusion and corruption in the award of
government contracts. The situation is aggravated by transformation of theoretically sensible
rules like inviting bids through advertisements, pre-qualifying bidders for major contracts in
advance, and setting cost parameters of a contract according to a Schedule of Rates (SOR) have
over time been transformed into harmful practices. For instances, advertisements are frequently
placed in low-circulation publications and not far in advance of bidding deadlines. Pre-
qualification has become a means of excluding outside firms, and mandatory registration of
bidders has made collusion among them extremely easy. Moreover, outdated SORs can produce
so low cost estimates which deter bids and leave the field to the insiders.
33.   Government's reform vision/agenda. The Government recognizes that system of public
sector procurement needs major revamping and improvement. In this context, the government is
considering setting up an independent regulatory authority (the Pakistan Procurement Regulatory
Authority (PPRA), which would develop the framework for public sector procurements, design
procurement policy, develop procurement-related rules and provide supervision, oversight and
guidance functions. In order to allow the PPRA to focus solely on regulatory and policy functions
and to avoid conflict interest, PPRA would not have any clearance functions for award of
contracts.
3An ad-hoc PAC was constituted in NWFP. However, in light of a law suit filed against the composition
of the Committee, the provincial government disbanded the Conmnittee. A new ad-hoc PAC is in the
process of being notified.



Annex D
Page II of 12
34.   Action(s) taken prior to Board presentation.
*     The government and the World Bank have jointly undertaken a Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR).
*     The government has prepared a proposal for establishing PPRA, which has been
approved by the Civil Services Reforms Committee of the Government. Presently, MOF is
discussing the proposal with the key ministries to make it operational.
35.   Future actions and key benchmarks.
*     Issue of an ordinance creating PPRA by July 2001
*     Completion of recruitment and training of PPRA staff in calendar year 2001.
*     Enactment of a modern Procurement Ordinance by December 2001.
*     Based on the procurement ordinance, start, from January 2002, a process of improv.ment
of procurement rules and regulations.
V.    Anti-Corruption
36.   Issue: Corruption is a major hindrance to development in Pakistan. Weak public
sector monitoring; an ineffectual law enforcement system, which is incapable of apprehencling a
large number cases of fraud and financial corruption; inappropriate capacity of the judicial
system, which causes long delays in dispensation of justice; and large and severely demornlized
civil service have all contributed to widespread corruption.
*     Government reform  vision/agenda.   The government realizes that inculcating
accountability withir. the public sector requires a comprehensive reform agenda, which should
include actions to create a deterrent against financial irregularity through establishment of a
strong institution to investigate and prosecute past as well as future cases of financial irregularity;
and to undertake police, judicial civil service reforms. The government, with help from British
DFID, is in the process of devising an anti-corruption strategy, which would not only bring about
significant improvements in present arrangements of combating corruption, but would formulate
a more effective and systemic approach towards prevention of corrupt practices.
37.   Action(s) taken prior to Board presentation.
*     Establishment of a National Accountability Bureau (NAB) through an Ordinance, with a
mandate to identify, investigate, and prosecute through the independent judicial system cases of
financial impropriety and corruption.
*     The Supreme Court has ratified the NAB Ordinance with some modifications  To
establish independence from the executive and strengthen checks and balances within the system
the Supreme Court ruling mandates that: (a) the appointment of NAB leadership (Chairman,
Deputy Chairman, and Prosecutor General) be made by the President in consultation with the
Chief Justice; (b) the tenure of NAB Chairman be set at three years, (c) the NAB accoun-ts fall
under the purview of the Auditor General; and (d) consultation with the State Bank of Pakistan on
bank default cases is mandatory and opinion of SBP governor is binding.



Annex D
Page 12 of 12
*     The NAB to-date has been authorized to investigate about 750 cases of corruption.
About 264 cases have already been filed and are (or have been) under prosecution. Among the
264 filed cases, there have been 107 convictions, 13 acquittals, and 144 cases are in progress.
Ongoing prosecutions include cases on 126 politicians, 71 bure.aucrats, and 16 businessmen. As
part of the accountability drive, the NAB has helped recover or reschedule repayments of about
PRs 50 billion of defaulted loans, PRs 0.7 billion of recovered pilferage money, and PRs 0.8
billion through collection of levied fines.
38.   Future actions and key benchmarks.
*     Preparation by NAB of a comprehensive anti-corruption strategy by December 2001
which includes provincial anti-corruption laws, and civil service reforms. Preparation of an
action plan to implement anti-corruption strategy by March 2002; and commencement of
implementation of the strategy by June 2002.
*     Implementation of police reforms, starting August 2001.
*     Preparation and implementation of program for judicial reforms.



Annex E
Page I of 6
DEVOLUTION AND PUBLIC FINACIAL MANAGEMENT
I.    Introduction
1.    The govemment of Pakistan has developed, and is presently implementing an elaborate plan for
devolving significantly higher functional responsibilities, state authority and budgetary resources to the
local govemments. This ambitious plan aims at improving govemance in general and specifically the
delivery of public services in the country. Nevertheless, given the past performance of local govwr mments
and the scale of change which this exercise is aspiring to effect, a carefully designed system of checks and
balances has to be put in place to avoid undesirable consequences. In absence of such a system, the
devolution plan may lead to an inadvertent expansion of the public sector, breaking down of sub-national
personnel management, interruptions in service delivery, and a wholesale breach of financial management
and fiscal discipline. Although, some of the issues regarding the working of new local govemn-ments are
still not resolved and therefore remain uncertain, there is an emerging direction which shows that the
govemment is well aware of the risks inherent in such an ambitious plan, and is actively moving to
minimize them. A key move being actively considered by the government is to bring tlhe local
governments within the mainstream of public accounting and auditing system. Given the present
weaknesses of the local govemment financial management system, this would lead not only to an
immediate improvement in the financial management system of the local govemments, but would also
allow them to benefit from the systemic reformns currently being undertaken, thereby reducing thec risk of
devolution and, at the same time, making it work more effectively. This would be enhanced by the
launching of specific actions to strengthen financial management capacity at the local level, for w hich the
government has recently requested Bank assistance.
I.    Background
2.     The Existing System: To date, the Constitution of Pakistan does not recognize the local
governments as an independent and a separate tier of government with their own powers and functions.
They are essentially viewed as extensions of the provincial govemments, having been created through
provincial legislation, through which some functions have been delegated to them. Thesc Local
Govemment Ordinances (LGOs), promulgated by the provincial legislatures, also provide the
organizational structure, management and fiscal powers of local bodies (LBs).'
3.    On financial management matters, local governments function more as autonomous bodies of the
provincial government than an independent tier of the govemment. Nevertheless, as the Cons,titution
envisages the federal and provincial governments to establish the federal and provincial Conscolidated
Funds, the LGOs require each local body to set up a Local Fund to which all receipts of the local
govemments are deposited and from which all expenditures are made. However, unlike the upper tiers of
government, the local governments remain mostly outside the mainstream of public accounting and audit
system. They prepare only one set of accounts, which is maintained by their own accounting departments
and not by the accountants of the Pakistan Audit Department (PAD). Similarly, unlike the fede.ral and
While the urban local bodies are classified as Metropolitan Corporation, Municipal Corporation, Municipal
Conunittee and Town Comrnittee, according the size of population of the concerned municipality, the rural local
bodies are divided into District, Tehsil and Union Councils on the basis of the divisions in the public adrninistration
set up.



Annex E
Page 2 of 6
provincial governments, the accounts of whom are audited by the auditors of PAD, the pre- and post-
audits of the local government are conducted by the Local Fund Audit (LFA) Cells of the provincial
finance departments. The audit report on a local government's financial transactions are presented to the
administrator/mayor of that local govermment and not to the local council, as such there is no concept of a
Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the local council.
4.     For a local council, the principle instrument of financial planning and expenditure control is the
budget. Their budgetary rules, procedures and processes are prepared by the provincial governments,
which also defines the financial and fiscal reporting requirements.  Under these requirements,
preformatted statements have to be submitted to the respective provincial government on quarterly and
annual basis. The annual statement is to be supported by a certificate of the cash balance from the
government treasury officer and the relevant bank. The financial procedures for local government,
nevertheless, are generally followed and the reporting requirements (which are non-exacting) are largely
met.
5.     The procedure employed for monitoring the budget is to ensure that expenditures do not exceed
budgetary allocations. This is achieved by preparing monthly accounts, which give comparisons for each
head of accounts of actual expenditure with the budgeted amount. This task is performed both by the
accounts department and the auditors. Like the federal and provincial governments, local councils too do
not use any performance indicators (or any other rational criteria) -- financial, economic or social -- for
sectoral distribution of budgetary funds and for measuring efficiency and productivity of budgetary
allocations.
6.     The system of recording financial transactions is based on a single entry cash accounting system,
which involves keeping record or pecuniary transaction in a chronological register. Under the financial
rules, each local council is expected to record each and every financial transaction in as much detail as
specified under the rules. These requirements include: (i) maintaining a consolidated cash book for
recording receipts, transfers and expenditures;2 (ii) recording of daily receipt and expenditure totals by
head of account in a classified abstract, which is used for preparing monthly accounts of revenue and
expenditure; (iii) keeping a Demand and Collect Register for receipts from user charges and return from
rented property (for the water supply and taxation departments); (iv) a Work Register for development
projects; (v) a register containing sanctioned estimates of projects; (vi) a Contractor Ledger; and (vii) a
ledger for advances made.
7.     The financial rules also require that audits of local government finances be conducted (by LFAs),
primarily to assist the administration in maintaining accurate records (free of errors and errors of
principle) and protect against frauds, irregularities, misappropriation and waste. As such, these audits are
not conducted with an aim of evaluating performance through value-for-money audit techniques. In
theory, the rules and procedures applicable to audits of local government finances are not, in any sense,
inferior to those applicable to higher levels of government. For example, in Punjab, an audit report has to
be prepared on the monthly accounts. (The rules applicable in NWVP require a quarterly audit report.)
The Chairman/Mayor is required, within two months of the receipt of the monthly/annual audit report, to
give his comments on the audit objections and actions taken for their disposal/redress.3  District and
Divisional Accounts Committees were formed to dispose of old audit objections speedily. However, the
LFAs, which undertake these audits, have neither the capacity nor are well equipped to undertake
adequate and meaningful audits. With their present capacity, the LFAs undertake audits of only a small
2 The accounts of the cashbook have to be reconciled to the bank accounts every month.
3 In Punjab, an annual audit report is also prepared by the LFA, summarizing its assessments and audit queries in
respect of all local councils.



Annex E
Page 3 of 6
fraction of overall expenditure of local bodies. Moreover, the quality of these audits is extremely poor
and does not contribute in any sense to the improvement of the system.
III.    The Devolution Plan -- A New Structure of Local Governments
8.     The government is of the view that one important factor behind deterioration in governance and
public sector service delivery is the over-centralization of state functions and the resulting "remoteness"
of the government from the grass-root level stakeholders. It therefore, feels that substantial devolution of
government functions to the local governments is essential for improving governance and service delivery
in the country.  In this context, the government has proposed a new, improved system  of local
governments. This new system comprises three layers of local bodies at the district, tehsil and union
level. The cornerstone of the local government structure is the district (zila) government, which will
comprise: a zila nazim (or mayor), who will be the executive head of the district; a naib zila nazim (the
deputy mayor), who would also be the speaker of the zila council (or district parliament); the zila
council; and the district administration.
9.     To ensure a vertical integration of the three levels of local governments, the zilla council of a
district would consist of directly elected nazims of all the union councils in the district; while all the naib
nazims would the tehsil council. The general seats in a zila council will therefore vary depending on the
number of unions in the district. In addition to the general seats, the zila council will have 33 percent
seats reserved for women, 5 percent for workers and peasants (with 33 percent of those reserved for
women), and 5 percent for minorities.4  All union councilors of the district will constitute the electoral
collage to elect the zila nazim and naib zila nazim (as joint candidates).5 Similar, structure is proposed
for the tehsil and union councils.
10.    The district administration will be coordinated by a District Coordination Officer (DCO'i, while
the District Police Officer (DPO) would be responsible for law enforcement at the district level. Both of
these officers will appointed by the provincial government, but would report directly to the zilla nazim.
Moreover, the zila nazim can ask for a transfer of a DCO and/or a DPO, which the provincial chief
secretary has to comply within a week. The rest of the district administration will consist of a maximum
of eleven groups of district offices (each headed by an Executive District Officer (EDO)), to undertake
functions related to: (i) Finance and Planning; (ii) Civil Works and Services; (iii) Agriculture; (iv) Health;
(v) Education (up to the secondary level); (vi) Literacy; (vii) Community Development (including all
municipal services); (viii) Information Technology; (ix) Revenue and Taxation; (x) Law; and (xi)
Magistracy. There will also be an internal audit office under the zila nazim.
11.    As compared to the present, the plan proposes a manifold increase in functional responsibi'.ities of
the local governments. To discharge these responsibilities adequately, the local governments would be
given sufficient resources. Provincial Finance Conmmissions (PFCs) would be established in all
provinces, on the pattern of the National Finance Commission, to determine the level and modalities of
fiscal transfers from the provincial to the local governments. These transfers would be based on a select
set of criteria (indicators), including (i) the need (based of population -- and a constant amount to cover
the overheads of local government); (ii) backwardness (based on housing units and statistics); and (iii)
performance (fiscal and service delivery, e.g. girls primary school enrollment).
4 In a district where the population of the minorities is in excess of 10% of the total population, reserved seats for
minority communities will be allocated in the manner prescribed by the provincial governnent.
5 The zila nazim and naib zila nazim will be required to have academic qualification of at least
matriculation/secondary school certificate, or equivalent.



Annex E
Page 4 of 6
IV.   Promises - Improving Public Service Delivery System
12.    The goverrrment believes that the new devolution plan includes sufficient features for a quantum
improvement in overall governance and service delivery in the country. This optimism is based mainly
on the proximity of local government to the stakeholder. As such these governments are considered to be
better situated to liaise with local communities and are thus be better aware of the local priorities and
preferences; can better monitor and supervise delivery of public service; can better involve the
communities into operation and maintenance and monitoring of comnmunity-based infrastructure and
service delivery systems; and, generate additional financial and non-financial resources at the local level.
13.   To make best use of their above mentioned "advantages", the government has proposed an
elaborate system of local council committees and Citizen Community Boards (CCBs). Each council --
district, tehsil or union -- would be divided into seven committees, each monitoring and supervising the
functioning of one department/function (e.g. finance, education, health, infrastructure/civil works,
agriculture, public safety, or justice) at its own level. Moreover, these committees would liaise with the
CCBs for transmission of local priorities and preferences for inclusion into the local government's
planning and budgeting process. These Boards can also initiate local projects, which could be part
financed by local government, provided the CCB can exhibit enough community commitment by
mobilizing a threshold level of financial resources from the community. Moreover, it is also assumed that
with improved quality of public services, the community's willingness to pay for these services would
also improve, thereby leading to a further increase in resources mobilized at the local level.
V.    Risks -- Capacity, Administration and Financial Management
14.   As mentioned above, the devolution plan is not yet completely specified and operationalized, and
there are some important gaps. Areas where it is still incomplete and needs further work include fiscal
transfer mechanisms under which the new local governments will be provided resources from higher
levels of government; the local governments' own resource base; assignment and delineation of
functional responsibilities; its implications for the provincial administrations; enhancing local government
capacity, etc.
15.   Inadequate managerial and technical (and perhaps financial) capacity of local governments is an
issue of genuine concern. To date, functioning of local govemments, except for some municipalities in
certain time periods, does not give any reason for too much optimism. Due to their weak financial and
implementation capacity, local bodies have gradually been abdicating their functions to the higher level
governments. Devolution of significantly more responsibilities to the local governments, without a
corresponding increase in their implementation capacity, causes fears of a further deterioration in already
weak public service delivery systems. Furthermore, there is also a concern of capture of these
governments by the local elite and local vested interests.
16.   Another potential problem  is the apparent bifurcation of the local government personnel
management system in the first phase of devolution (see below). During this phase, the staff of the
departments, which would be devolved to the local governments, would remain employees of the
provincial governments; although working for the local governments, they would draw their salaries from
provincial budgets. If not effectively managed, this can create a lot of confusion, adversely affecting
local government performance.
17.   Another notable omission in the devolution plan is the development of a credible financial
management system. As mentioned above, financial management at the local government level has
traditionally been very weak. This weakness stems partly from the overall weaknesses of country's



Annex E
Page 5 of 6
financial management system but mostly is an outcome of the poor state of budgeting, accounting and
auditing procedures that apply to local governments. It is for these reasons that the credibility of local
governments' financial management has always been deemed as suspect and the local governments been
considered as the weakest tier of government in terms of financial, governance. In this regard, there are
strong concerns that the expected significant increase in inflow of financial resources to the local
governments would lead to increase in financial waste, breach of overall fiscal discipline, and through
inappropriate planning and budgeting, may adversely affect already weak delivery of public services.
Without a substantial strengthening of financial management system of the local bodies, the new
devolution initiative has little (if any) chance of success, and on the contrary may aggravate overa l public
sector financial management and can have major implications for service delivery in the country.
VI.   Managing the Fiduciary Risks of Devolution
18.   The government is aware of the financial and fiscal risks and realizes that mainstreaming and
strengthening the financial management system of district governments is essential not cinly for
effectiveness of local governments, but also to ensure overall financial discipline and fiscal stability. In
this context a number of actions have been taken and more are presently being actively considered, most
important of these are highlighted below:
• A Committee (the FS Committee) on fiscal decentralization is presently working under the
chairmanship of the federal Finance Secretary to discuss issues related to fiscal decentralization. This
Committee report's to the Chief Executive's (CE's) Committee on devolution -- the supreme body to
oversee the implementation of the devolution plan. This Committee comprises: the Chief Executive
(chairman); all four provincial Governors; Chairman NRB; the federal Ministers for Finance, Foreign
Affairs, Information, Interior, Law, Kashmir and Northern Areas, and Local Government; and the
federal Secretary Cabinet Division.
*  To iron out the possible implementation problems, District Implementation Committees (DICs) have
been established in each district of the country under the designated DCOs. These DICs would start
functioning from the third week of February to ensure a smooth transition of functions to the local
governments when they take office in mid-August.
*  One key recommendation of the FS Committee is to establish Provincial Finance Committees in all
four provinces (these committees would include, provincial Finance Minister, Secretary Flinance,
Secretary LG&RD, provincial Accountant General and some experts from outside the government.
TORs of this committee include: (i) estimating the one-time transition cost of devolution; (ii) making
base-line projections for the stream of expenditures of district governments; (iii) determining the
types and quantum of provincial transfers to the district governments (at least in the first year)
keeping in view the inter-district disparities; (iv) identification of provincial taxes which could be
devolved to district govemments; (v) rationalization of user-charges on provincial/local services; (vi)
rates of local taxes; and (vii) the throw-forward of development schemes (which would be transferred
to district governments).
* It has been decided that during the first phase of devolution (which could take as long as three years,
or more), the employees of the departments which would be devolved to the local governments would
stay on the payrolls of the provincial governments. While this may create some problems for
personnel management (see above), this implies that a large chunk (about 70 -80%) of the budget for
the functions performed by the local govemments would be executed by the provincial government,
and therefore would stay with the present accounting and auditing establishment of the government.



Annex E
Page 6 of 6
* Resources for the non-salary budget of a district government (20-30% of overall local expenditure)
would be provided as a lump-sum transfer from the provincial government as per the criteria
developed by the Provincial Finance Commission (or Finance Committee for the first year). Thus
giving the local government some freedom to allocate their budget according to its own priorities.
*  For the first year (2001/02) however, the provincial governments will make the budgets of the district
governments. These district budgets would be prepared by "carving out" the operational budgets of
the provincial departments/functions which are being devolved to the local governments.
*  The FS Committee is also deliberating on devising an appropriate accounting model for the local
governments. On a mandate form the Committee, the Auditor General Office (AGO) has prepared a
draft Working Paper suggesting an adequate accounting and auditing model. The draft has apparently
suggested to mainstream the accounting and auditing system of local government by allowing the
District Accounts Officers (DAOs) of PAD to maintain the accounts of the local government, with
PAD undertaking their audits. Moreover, there is also a suggestion to extend the recently approved
New Accounting Model (NAM) to the district level.
* Public Accounts Committees may be established at the district level.






6O~  65§                       71         f'    TAJIKISTAN  753       C
I   /   <.~~~' ~ ~    C H I N A
PAKISTAN
O   SELECTED CITIES
I   NATIONAL CAPITAL
MAIN ROADS
-   RAILROADS                                                                                  ........
35-                              RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2 [ . ~~~~~~~~~and KASHMIR
0       100     200      300 KILOMETERS
(
So 50      l0       15      200 MILES               ( 5               f iJ
AFGHANISTAN
-30°                                                                                    D./<  0
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~ ~ 3-
<, _,> t>~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                         R oSiDi (r  ,/
<_   -=_   rKIo,1  2      ff    \rJtf K            ,J
,  BA L O C IgS TA N   \          r~~~~~~~~ r - 5zv        j ~~I N D I A
b         <t         ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n>a ci y. Kh.n .
ISLAMIC REP.          \    <               ,/   | JOKhud,d4r                RoI,ri
OF IRAN             .                                            1\SRhi/715
s   'uzol   )  ,0 -TAJIISA     '`C511A
g.,                    Dk\i <   (f  X  t  Lcr               . TURHMENISTAN       TMIK2 ; TAI     .
AFGHANISTAN
N H ~ ~                               '
Hydead 
t t; EA- t - p 41CCh520  4,0  I  I N D I A
B~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 :                                                                                                          0-J.;ii,et     --:              lE T4U  ?.¢e;
3 - ;- . -:   . t   -- .   . . 1 - - -                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   I T                                    'SS'. 5 



