Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RennTtNo 23931-PAK
TK4PT FML FNTATT0N COMPT .PTION PRTPPORT
(IDA-35 150)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 276.1 MILLION
fTTQ0$2 CA I An T T(TT VC,FAT T ,bT'r
kU 3,RI;JU iVXLLAL,L%Jl'l 1',eU1 V F~L,Ld I 1)
TOP T    IT AL AT('DrrfT MY Tr' OFV
fl A T7TCVT A LT
rtijr ia
FOR A
QTPTTCTr TT,D AT A Th1TnTQrATAQ,,NT 'PI TZ DTh
roverty Reuucuuu anu EX0nOIC IMIaagwemenvi unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oticiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed wittout Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Mynhrnnp Rst PffFPrtiv-. him. 9lAn(  Fln_tine Tntpr R1nL- R4tpi
Cunrency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKR)
1 = US$ Pa.017
US$ 1 = PKR 60.30
FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AsDB        Asian Development Bank                        LHW       Lady Health Worker
BSRPP       Banking Sector Restructuring & Privatization Project LPG  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy                   MOP       Memorandum of the President
CAS-PR      Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report   MTBF      Medium-Term Budget Framework
CBR         Central Board of Revenue                      NEPRA     National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
CGA         Controller General of Accounts                NSS       National Savings Schemes
CPI         Consumer Price Index                          PAC       Public Accounts Committee
DFID        United Kingdom Department for International   PIFRA     Improvement to Financial Reporting & Auditing
Development                                             Project
DPR         Development Policy Review                     PPL       Pakistan Petroleum Limited
ESAF        Extended Structural Adjustment Facility       PPRA      Pakistan Procurement Regulatory Authority
ESR         Education Sector Reform                       PRS       Poverty Reducton Strategy
FIP         Financial Improvement Plan (WAPDA)            PRSC      Poverty Reducton Support Credit
FPSC        Federal Public Service Commission             PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GST         General Sales Tax                             PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Assessment
EDF         Institutional Development Facility            PSDP      Public Sector Development Program
IGR         Institutional and Govemance Review            QAG       Quality Assurance Group
IMF         intemational Monetary Fund                    SBA        Stand-By Arrangement
IPP         Independent Power Producers                   SBP       State Bank of Pakistan
i-PRSP      interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper      SMEs       Small & Medium Enterprises
JSA         Joint Staff Assessment                        SOE        State Owned Enterprise
KESC        Karachi Electric Supply Corporation           SRO        Statutory Regulatory Orders
LDP         Letter of Development Policy                  WAPDA     Water & Power Development Authority
'vice President:  Mieko INiSnumzu
Country Manager/Director:    John Wall
Sector Manager/Director:    Sadiq Ahmed
Task Manager:     John Panzer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
Structural Adjustment Credit
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Obiective and Outnuts                                                 9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  17
6. 'Sus-amabfily-                                                                      ;g
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     21
9. Partner Comments                                                                    24
10. Additional Informnation                                                            24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Obiectives/Outnutq nf Co.mnpnntq                   38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      39
Annex 7. Lit -                                                                         40
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments                                                           41
r. ..   .      .      S      . .       .  . .*     *.....         .. .*  . .  .                .......... . .  . .  .
ims diocument nas a restricrect clstriDution ana may be useci by recipients only in
Ithe performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
|without World Bank authorization.






P-r oJUEctl:P0 I1463                                   1.VrOject ivL-rame SUcLAUr J`%jub CXrtCedit
Team Leader: John Panzer                               |TL Unit: SASPR
iCR Type: Core iCR                                      Report Date: June i9, 2002
1. Project Data
I      Sf. IAu%u.^I al Ad-u-uInAt CtlUA.              11I,YuATlU. JL._ lrA 351 .C
Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                          Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
flric,inal         Re"i"ed.A4ctual
PCD:   12/18/2000                            Effective: 06/13/2001        06/13/2001
.4pp rai;ni':  At04! 0!l20                          MTR:
Approval: 06/12/2001                             Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOP/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Part are'
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Mieko Nishimizu                          Mieko Nishimizu
Count,.y..anager:    John Wall                               Johr. Wall
Sector Manager:      Sadiq Ahmed                             N. Roberto Zagha
Team Leader at .'CJR:  John Panzer                           Johr. Par7-er
ICR Primary Author:  James Q. Harison
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
JuOIL4&tla V$.#.. J. Y.
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QA  if available)      %ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
I roj  t atAtRik iat uAy Ti sme. -U
3. Assesmernnt f fevplpnmpentf Ahipttivp and Den, and of auity at Ent-,
3.1 Original Objective:
1.     The original objective of the first Pakistan Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was, and remained,
to support the government's.Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). This strategy focuses on moving to a more
sustainable, higher-growth macroeconomic framework, that supports, and is supported by, structural
reforms in three areas: improving governance, reviving broad based growth, and improving programs for



human development and social protection. The US$350 million operation was intended to support the
initial stage of Pakistan's comprehensive, evolving, multi-year macroeconomic adjustment and structural
reform effort that would enable the government to reestablish a credible track record and lay the
foundations for sustained growth and poverty reduction. An assessment of the objective and design of this
operation needs to be seen against the background of Pakistan's previous growth and reform experience
and in the context of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
Background
2.     In the 1990s Pakistan suffered a number of political, economic, and financial shocks. Bad
governance contributed to large non-performing loan portfolios of public sector banks, poor delivery of
social services, and to major inefficiencies and financial losses in public enterprises. Despite efforts at tax
reform, the tax-to-GDP ratio remained stuck at about 13 percent (with the Central Board of Revenue tax
effort falling) and the fiscal deficit remained above 6 percent, causing a continuous increase in the already
large public debt Growth started to slow down. Failures in governance and financing also adversely
affected the strategy to narrow the social gap by improving basic education, health, and reduce gender
imbalances through the Social Action Program (SAP), which did not yield the expected results.
3.     Policymakers were not indifferent to the country's slippage. They responded by initiating a
number of important liberalizing reforms designed to modernize the economy, build human capital and
boost growth. Yet freauent changes in government weakened the formulation and implementation of
critical reforms, especially in the area of govemance. The fiscal problem was not solved. Prudent
monetarv nolicv prevented the fiscal deficit from fueling high inflation. but one conseGuence of this was the
maintenance of a relatively strong real exchange rate, which contributed to the external debt buildup. The
liherali7ation of interest rates also raised the cost of servicing the nublic debt and thus contributed to the
emergence of unsustainable debt dynamics. The realization that a debt problem was building up, combined
with  nease ahbut institutional weaknesses- eroded governmental credibilitv and hence constrained
investment and a revival of growth.
4.     At the end of the 1990s, Palistan faced a tough future. Low growth and large macroeconomic
'mbAnces led tn 2in unsuitainable dAlht h1irn-.pn Wi.th dAht indirntnm wnmi-s thvrn thnose nf nm,-nv TTPC.
countries. Interest payments consumed more than half of tax revenues, leaving little space for development
expe,. tres twto reduce t-e soci-al gap. S!ow export o-^vuth Aicrina th. 1 0s( lpui two Ios nf mar,nrlt chares tn
other countries in the region and to other low-income countries generally. The capacity to service the
cot.-,'s -+a.-.Il debt A ,,1   -nnt4nm-nt on sigrificart Bn,,,At, relief frnm ite rrPAtnr anA hbalance nf
payment support from multilateral institutions. A weakening of economic growth along with weak
pr-ogess OL-L RM A- Ieelpm.. --Ae the incde.A e o pove . ....o+ s'-'e  zt &-vd 33 per.. of
households throughout the 1990s.
5.     When the new govemrnment took power in October 1999, it was met with widespread acceptance,
little opposition and even some optimism, clearly indicating the deep dissatisfaction with the cumulative
results of previous decades of poor governance. The government saw a pressing need for fundamental
reforms of the economic and political system, and quickly articulated an agenda focused on reviving tne
economy, improving governance and devolving power to the grass roots level. It appointed a cabinet with
an unusual blend of experienced men and women, including technocrats, public officials, and NGO leaders.
A strong economic team was assembled, drawing on talent and experience from within Pakistan and around
the world. Initially, the government focused on managing the fragile economy, while engaging in
consultations with civil society, and dialogue with the Bank, the IMF and other donors, to develop a
longer-term development strategy to lay the foundations for more rapid and sustained growth to reduce
-2 -



nnverttv
6=     Over its fint 1 R months in office; the government mAde considerable progress in stbhili7ing the
economy and in articulating, and beginning to implement, its evolving Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS).
aontini,Rtinn af the cevere drmiiaht kent (TrlP orawth Inw (9 70/n in FVYl l h,lt thp ficrl lpfiritwne chrnmlv
reduced (from 6.4% of GDP in FY00 to 5.4% in FY01), as was the current account deficit of the balance
of namJvmnrte (fram a .6  nf C(TP in F9Q9 t 3 3%. irn PVA1, 0 desite an advprse termenof trtd Qh;4 CPI
inflation was also low (4.4%), despite increases in energy prices and a substantial depreciation of the
Rupee. On thF etnltuial deA the In -satgnA,n nft.    A.,,,d tes *,r.t the W.f, ir.deper -.dent power
producers (LPPs) were resolved, new, more predictable and market-based pricing policies for oil and oil
productsA ere-;mnple1,nt oa radica! Win,, to devolvpw  to loca! l-.-els was des A- r,dA -- ncA ed, - .A
the structure of the PRS was further developed through consultations with stakeholders, based on three
riUn jJ.UL z. irnpr,VVr, g,-ov.nce, a--'5fl;V ,  boVd-, CsUU LLIthJV;11 ziulU  U% iV%1vel11op.eL.
The international financial community responded positively to this progress and the continued evolution of
L=U ppe, Aespit Pzita' 4f.---41 ecoriMmuc siuainn shz' refor        - --- record h Ar,   TO 0S$60
UIUC L AU.) UC3j1U f  CU MSML a1U51arMLJ1J1f1. LLUV0U ILLGIU OUaL%~ IUIUIII Ua-A.~. I.JV,ULL. .1MVI1)1JUU
million, 10-month Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) was approved in November, 2000, followed by a new
a41is ClIub arnLvux1Ut in J.UdIY, 2001 ULaL rescheUd'UUVU l LJ0US1.0 UbIIIUo nI UCUL s1VLU.ce payl-ieUL,, alur
approval of this US$350 million SAC in June, 2001.
World Bank Group Assistance Strategy
7.     The Bank Group's ongoing strategy, evolved from the 1995 CAS and adapted in subsequent CAS
Progress Reports, including tihe latest (Repor Nio. 222419-PAK) in May 16, 2001, was aimed at poverty
reduction by investing in people and promoting sustainable growth. The main elements - macro stability,
human developmIent, enabling environmnen for private investment and growth, and governance - were
closely congruent with the Govemment's evolving PRS. The Bank was thus well placed to respond to the
Govemment's need to develop and finance a conerent reform program to reduce poverty.
8.     After the previous govemment's reform program stalled in mid-1999, there was a pause in new
Banr lending while the Bank focused its assistance on policy advice and, especially, on a broad and
detailed dialogue on the new govemment's program. This dialogue was conducted in close coordination
with the IMF, the AsDB, DFID, and other multilateral and bilateral partners. Given the progress described
above, the CAS Progress Report of May 2001 proposed, as an interim, 18-month strategy, to resume
lending to support the govermment's poverty reduction program through a series of one-tranche adjustment
operations, complemented by other ongoing and new lending operations and continued analytical and
advisory support. During this 18-month period, it was expected that the govermment would continue to
develop its program through an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). The Bank expected to
develop a full CAS, integrating experience with the SAC into a longer-term assistance strategy (Report No.
24114-PAK, May 2002). This strategy would also draw on a Development Policy Review, and would be
expanded to include adjustment operations at the provincial level, to anchor and deepen the reforms.
9.     The CAS Progress Report fiankly recognized the high risks associated with this strategy, notably:
the potential for loss of political commitment (given that the current govemment's term in office ends in
October, 2002), the scope for widespread social discontent and unrest; and the economy's vulnerability to
further shocks. The uncertainties facing the economy, and the country's poor past track record, meant that
even if the reforms were well-implemented, there could be a considerable delay before the government's
credibility and investor confidence were strong enough to generate a significant supply response from
private domestic and foreign investors.
-3 -



10.    While recognizing these serious risks, the CAS viewed the risks of not supporting the reform
program as substantially greater, given Pakistan's already high level of poverty, and the risks that, without
fundamental reform, a period of economic and social instabilitv could follow, resulting in even deeper
poverty, and a more difficult path out of it. A number of factors were also seen as containing the risks,
particularly: the government's strong ownership of the program. and the important steps it had already
taken to build consensus behind it and implement it; the central role of the reform program in the Bank's
assistance strategyv with the imnlication that it would be at the core of the countrv dialogue and intensively
monitored under the guidance of a field-based country director; the use of a series of one-tranche operations
based on prior actions a a way for Pakistan to develon a credible reform trark record, with -qiihe-nMent
adjustment and other operations dependent on sustained progress; and the close coordination with the IMF,
AsDB and other dpvelnr,mpnt nartnPrc in AcicaninGg ann imnIpmpntino this ctrategoy
3 2 Revised Ohiective:
The objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Overall Design
11.    The design and components of the SAC, and its role in the Country Assistance Strategy, reflected
the government's recognition that poverty reduction would require a coherent medium-term program of
fundamental, comprehensive reforms. This program, as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy
(LDP) of April, 2001 included a wide range of measures to restore the economy to a sustainable growth
path and to bring about the structural improvements needed in three "pillars" of the reform program:
governance, the environment for broad-based growth, and the delivery of basic social services and social
protection programs. While the overall reform program would take years of sustained effort to implement
and bring substantial reductions in poverty, the SAC was designed to support some of the critical initial
actions needed, including measures, such as petroleum pricing policy, on which previous reform programs
had run aground. A number of the most important of these measures were considered as key prior actions
(shown below in italics), and the SAC was presented to the Board only after they were implemented. The
SAC was intended to help Pakistan launch the implementation of its reform program, laying the
foundations for further work to be supported by the full range of assistance instruments (including
subsequent adjustment and investment operations at the national and provincial level, PRSCs, analytical
and advisory work, IDFs, etc.). The main components of the reform program are outlined in paragraphs
13-18 below. (See SAC President's Memorandum, Report No. P7443-PAK, 16 May 2001, for text of LDP
And mnor details on the reform agenda and macroeconomic fram-ework at that time. Progress in the reform
agenda up to SAC Board Approval is also summarized, with key prior actions highlighted, in Column 2 of
Annrex 1. 2,_,f,hed)-
12.  th,r- s-pecif.c design feath es nf this op rvt;o%inci plud:ip  (ml its ficusc nin nveprtu rPAiur1nc*n as the
central goal of both the government's program and the Bank's Assistance Strategy; (b) its size (US$ 350
.:11t,., ,t+ar.n- oA ;n nlnco nnne, lifotannn*l ntit +nr l;nanrna norfnrt, h0acA on a ,.orafnl aceaecrTnnf af
1^ III, V9ll W V     z I@9WIiXl- - - + V_  -41 *"w"-6 4;-;- s  1.vu.v ww.sw  --A  w    Of
the program's extemal financing needs' (c) its one-tranche disbursement strategy, seen as a way for
Pakistan to build a credibie track record while leaving the Bank flexi'bility to respond ito policy reversais;
and (d) its close links to, and reinforcement by, other ongoing and planned operations, including both those
financed by the Bank (e.g., PHrKA and BSRPP), and by other financing partners sucn as the irMr
Stand-By Angement (SBA) and the AsDB.
-4 -



Specific Components:
13.    Macroeconomic framework. The macroeconomic framework underpinning the SAC was reflected
in the FY01 Budget and supported by the IMF SBA noted above. It relied on two main features: fiscal
adjustment to reduce the fiscal deficit and slow the rise in public debt; and external adjustment through a
more flexible exchange rate regime to encourage exports and growth, which, together with substantial
exceptional finance and a prudent monetary stance, would help generate a much-needed build-up in
reserves. The fiscal adjustment called for measures on the revenue side (broadening the tax base, reducing
the fiscal cost of price distortions, and a fundamental reform of the Central Board of Revenue (CBR)), as
well as expenditure restraint and restructuring (reductions in defense spending and lowering the cost of the
public debt, partially offset by selective increases in pro-poor spending). Over the medium term, continued
fiscal adjustment was expected to move the public debt towards more sustainable levels, lowering the cost
of servicing that debt and freeing more resources both for essential poverty-reducing investments in people
and for private sector investment growth as confidence was restored. The more flexible external policies
would help promote efficient, export-oriented growth. Achieving these growth objectives would call for
continued substantial levels of exceptional financing for some time to come, and would be vulnerable to
extemal and internal shocks. There are close linkages between the macro framework and the structural
reforms outlined below: a number of the structural reforns especially in tax policy and administration
(Pillar I), reduction in distortions and barriers to competition (Pillar II), and expenditure priorities (Pillar
D) are essential for achieving the macro targets. And achieving macro targets is in turn essential for
achieving the growth in employment and incomes that will reduce poverty and generate resources for
improved social service delivery and targeted social protection programs.
14.    Pillar I: Improving Goverance (Annex 1, Part A). The broad objective of the governance reforms
is to restore integitv. accountabilitv. and professionalism to the institutions of state. severelv weakened bv
decades of mismanagement and political interference, by focusing them on core state functions essential for
develonment; and trandfnrming them into results-oriented oruanizations- capable of carrving out those
functions effectively. The main areas of reform in govemance supported by the operation include: a)
improvePments in tax polivy and adminitration to increase revenues and the equlity and efficienry of the tax
system, while reducing the scope for rent-seeking behavior (notably by extension of the General Sales Tax
Ar-T) tn nal eruvi,o nreYJin,ldvI vihjiept to prr'ivp tnr aind tn, snme o riciilturnl inrmitqs and the initiq] ettriAq
towards a fundamental reform of the CBR); b) reforms aimed at more efficient public resource use through
measlres to imnprove: (i) the q ualitv of the expenditure program including imnrovements in the buidget
process and more efficient expenditure controls; and (ii) the management of public finances including
estab.lihmen t of hi;gh=.evel federal and nrn,-b,,'ina ,1fisca m.,nitnrina cnmmit.'ae t' e curue timn.ly,
reconciled, accurate expenditure reports; separation of government accounting and auditingfunctions to
cla,.4, respornsibiliia and ....untlab,ilifties; and adopt.io-,  of .,. nrni,-.- -rin-inln- me.thods
,_.J... ,  co vs  . t.. . -o   -                        V'J flJf.  J-      f.  r.5I 
andforms; c) greater transparency, participation and accountability especially through the bold program to
&Cvolve, pol;L  power                   .-A lo-,l _--4 1,nd  DIAN-d ocP*l; A--ont ComtesMArs)
U..V JIV~  ~lJlIJ O  JS  WL  AJ*~local  MMV'1lflUO   -LI,  IASJS _ I.M ftl .  WJ &t  fli-  f-l'i$J   ...~Ji& &CC....   - .  mA 'a,
established at the federal and provincial levels to review recent public audits systematically, with the
press prov.de J-,J s to de.'.brto, at thefedral --- e I  d)1 --A vl -eric refol.J -14 -_ i-i|ou
"rs JFJLSUF U"la). LU (A;&&UVrIS&VrW GU 6S& &;&Jr'L&cJi& Luvo&, aLUU U) %,&VII 0LV%% IA%,~1ULj1U, WILLI1 all iULaLUGlu%
on strengthening the autonomy of the Federal Public Service Commission and enhancing its role in
ersur.r.g Lc vil sr.c v a ppo.Umerts Uare Ubase Ur$ mer.t.
15.    riiaris: ru. F rauly BaIUd-basedU G-JLUWUL (Arr.x I, 1 i L B). C%-UMUIlVU WIUI Ull. r.iUvL-coUno1UL;
fiamework outlined above, measures under this pillar seek to improve the enviromnent for efficient, private
sector-led growth, by removmg UiStortions anU barrliers LU W  r[npeUuuu, cnwurdging pnvuuzauun 01 YaJv,s,
improving governance and efficiency in the financial sector, and ensuring more efficient development and
-5 -



use of energy resources through market-oriented reforms in power, natural gas, and petroleum. More
specifically, reforms to reduce distortions and increase competitive pressure included: a reduction in the
maximum nominal effective tariff to 35% on all but 11 products as a first step in the gradual reduction of
the maximum tariff to 25% by 2003; implementation of quarterly adjustments in petroleum product
prices in line with international prices; elimination of various exemptions (and hence opportunities for
rent-seeking interventions) from GST, income tax and customs duties; and partial deregulation of
agricultural exports. To provide a clear approach to privatization the cabinet approved a short and
medium-term strategy and timetable, and a Privatization Ordinance was issued in September 2000 to
clarify the process. In the financial sector, reforms in banking focused on improving banking supervision
and development and cabinet approval of a major cost-reducing restructuring program for the three large
nationalized commercial banks, reducing their staff and branch structures to more efficient levels in
preparation for privatization. Important reforms were also made in the National Saving Schemes to make
them more market-based and reduce the government's borrowing cost.
16.    Reforms in energy, a critical input to most other economic activity, were seen as ways to foster
efficiency gains and growth both within the sector and throughout the economy. Prior actions in the Dower
sector, included: power tariff increases in December 2000 and March 2001 to help improve the Water and
Power Development Authority's (WAPDA) financial position; notification and initial implementation of a
formula for automatic quarterly tariff adjustments in response to fuel price changes; and adoption of new
tariff-settinje guidelines. intended to reduce cross-subsidies and allow differential tariffs across markets.
Other important steps included the resolution of the IPP controversy, the restructuring of WAPDA's
finances, and initial stens to unbundle and corporatize WAPDA's nower wing- In the natiral gaq RectArt
reforms aim at establishing a policy environment that supports the efficient, private sector-led development
of Pakistan's considerable nraduction potential- esnecially thrmigh adontion nf a new gas nrikina
framework with well-head prices based on international oil prices, twice-yearly adjustments consumer
nrire,v and nsjzvignt nut nf.quhvidit'ov w/th nnv remnminin0 sih,bidieq reflertedt in the n-tinnoll higeapt Tho
first semi-annual consumer price adjustment (of 14.4%) was made in March 2001. In the Retroleum
sect.tr in addition to the imminr nrmehu,t nri-i-. rpfnrm mFntinnPA above (inrO 15), the npr-i,-iru^ Of 1  wG'asn
liberalized and the import, transportation and pricing of furnace oil was deregulated.
17.    Pillar III: Human Development and Social Protection (Annex 1. Part C). Measures under this
pi!!ar vre~ o.nP at aprna"Ain  o-acc to -A the n nu1- of basc educ. t  he. A .-A  nd f-.1, ; ln -g
F.*tt      - _      p         _4f l   _l-        '.J .L  -O _t'ai~~  ---&L   -_t -O.L J.fJj*JJ
services, services whose current levels of access and quality are very low. This was expected to be of
gr.atest benef,t to  poo, w ho are most in need of these se.-vices to tabe advantage of. e- pUj i'es
that a growing economy should generate, but who so far have the least access to them. This was also
_A_ + A.___A  vL A .AI_. tv A s   -_ 1  -._..4_   -AAs_ U.,  __-..'__  -L_-I  -  _1.L__ I_ ,^__- ---I. L .L
VAeFVpL.LU WV ;U,VUL U1the uvexau iveDUl&IL auu &0WU1 LuaLCy uy CuULUIS a 1iv4auly iauui iuIw WIUI Luc
basic leaming skills needed to learn on the job and adapt to changing needs. Measures in this area also
ciuuCu UWijpLUV1r^uVi I M JLC V pro ecUlU 1.UbULn a u LrrLr,1U LU assisL lue oIset vulue1rdole, as well as steps to
strengthen the govemment's overall capacity to design, implement, and monitor its programs and policies to
reduu-e puverLy.
18.   in educauton, key prior actions included: development of an Education Sector Reform (ESR)
program and action plan by the federal and provincial governments; the consolidation of provincial
investment programs to focus on completions and rehabilitation; introduction of a competitive systemfor
hiring new teachers, using school- or area-based contracts; and introduction ofprograms to monitor and
reduce absenteeism. in health, steps were taken to expand access to primary maternal and child health
care and preventive programs by: expanding the Lady Health Workers (LHW) program, while integrating
field-based family pianning workers with it; strengthening communicable disease prevention programs, and
introducing programs to monitor and discipline health worker absenteeism. Budgets for targeted social



protection programs were increased in FY01, as was the total allocation for the group of programs related
to pover.ty reLduction iaund hlr-lulIia resource dUe velOpMenlt. TUUUgh iLt UongoiUg WUIk onl ule r r, Lui
government expected to identify ways to develop the institutional capacity to monitor and assess the impact
of its poverty reductnion sudteg-y9 i-Hprove eMxisting progradis, aud identify any gaps in its approach.
3.4 RevicedComponennts
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
QA G Assessment
19.    Tne QAG panel (Quality at Entry Assessment-IV, 24 July 2001), rated the overall quality at entry
of the SAC, as well as Bank inputs and processes, as "Satisfactory". The panel noted in particular the
Bank's responsiveness to Pakistan's urgent needs and the pragmatic identification of an initial package of
reforms that could be implemented in a short time period. The panel also acknowledged that the operation
was likely to achieve its development objective of poverty reduction in the limited sense of averting "a
full-blown macro-economic crisis and the significant worsening of poverty outcomes that would result", but
felt that the documentation was not sufficiently clear on how the proposed reforms would generate growth,
and, especially, how that growth would reduce poverty in the absence of a strengthening of targeted
programs. The panel was also critical that the social risks of some of the measures, notably downsizing,
were not adequately analyzed. It also felt that insufficient attention was given to strategies to reduce the
risks of lack of institutional effectiveness and capacity, especially in the complex and difficult areas of
improving social service delivery in a system undergoing radical devolution. The panel felt that the
medium-term framework of the reform program was not sufficiently spelled out in the documents. The
treatment of fiduciary aspects was considered to be very strong and highly satisfactory.
ICR Assessment
20.    The ICR broadly agrees with the conclusion of the QAG panel that the SAC quality at entry was
"Satisfactory". Tne iCR has a somewhat different view of some of the panel's criticisms, seeing them less
as issues that could have been reasonably resolved in a substantially different way within SAC, than as
important ongoing issues and risks inherent in the program that wiii cali for the government's and the
Bank's increasing attention and focus as the program unfolds.
21.    Two features are particularly important in determining the satisfactory rating: the close congruence
between this operation, the CAS Progress Report and the government's own retorm program (paras. 7-8
above); and the operation's timeliness and responsiveness to the country's needs (para 19). Both features
emerged from close, continuous, high-level dialogue between the Bank and the government, starting soon
after it took office. A third important feature is the operation's design as a single tranche based on prior
actions, supporting a medium-term reform program that continues to evolve, and within a country
assistance strategy designed to support subsequent stages of the reform. This approach, which draws on
past experience with one-tranche operations in Pakistan, seems well-designed for Pakistan's very difficult
situation of needing to overcome a very poor track record and low credibility in implementing reforms,
while implementing a sweeping adjustment and reform prograrn, whose general shape and initial steps were
clear, but whose medium- to long-term features would need to be developed further as the program
progressed. The approach also allows for the Bank to step up or reduce its engagement, or change its
composition, in response to the government's efforts. Although the reform program supported by the SAC
is complex, incorporating a wide range of actions on many fronts (paras 13-18), this seems appropriate
given the complexity and depth of Pakistan's problems (paras. 2-4). A fourth important positive feature
- 7 -



has been the close coordination among the IFIs and the other donors.
22.    The main assumptions underlying this operation and the CAS seem reasonable, viewed in
conjunction with the risks identified. Tne main assumptions are that: (i) by stailizing the economy and
demonstrating its ability to implement significant improvements in governance, the environment for
efficient growth, and the delivery of essential social services, me government woula restore connfence to
the private sector, domestic and foreign, enabling it to regain market shares and growth opportunities lost in
the 1990s; and, (ii) this growth, combined with improved social service delivery and governance, would
mean better job opportunities and incomes for the poor. The growth assumptions seem broadly reasonable
when viewed against the erosion on Pakistan's economic and social pertformance in recent decades, relative
to comparable countries. While the links between specific policy actions and growth outcomes are not
spelled out in detail in the SAC documents, such links are very difficult to establish reliably even with
hindsight. It is not clear that greater effort to predict these links would have led to a higher-quality
program or one that was as timely. The poverty reduction assumptions also seem broadly reasonable,
especially since such a high proportion of the people (one-third) are below the poverty line. Pakistan's own
experience in the 1970s and 1980s, as well as that of other countries, suggests that when so many are poor,
robust, broad-based growth can bring significant poverty reduction, but to be sustained and to reach a
wider share of the poor, the growth needs to be combined with greater access to basic education and health
services and better govemance. In this situation, where the poverty "target" is so large, and public
financial and administrative resources are so limited, the program's heavy emphasis on efforts to generate
growth and expand the access of the poor to basic social services, and relatively light focus on untested and
unevaluated targeted programs, seems well justified.
23.    The SAC documents, combined with the CAS Progress Report, clearly indicated that the risks
associated with the operation, and the broader PRS it supports, were high, particularly given Pakistan's
track record of failed reform efforts.  The main risks highlighted in the documents were: the
macro-economy's continuing vulnerability to shocks; the risk of discontinuity in the program when the
current govermment's mandate ends in October 2002; social discontent potentially exacerbated by
adjustment measures; and implementation and fiduciary risks, particularly in the context of devolution.
The QAG panel pointed out that the mitigating strategies to deal with these risks are not sufficiently
developed in the SAC documents, particularly in the areas of (i) assessing and reducing the social costs of
specific pricing and downsizing measures; and, (ii) adopting strategies to reduce the implementation risks
arising from low institutional effectiveness.
24.    Both these points are important, but should be seen not so much as issues that the first SAC could
have been expected to deal with in much more detail, but rather as very critical areas on which the
govemrment and the Bank need to focus as the overall nrogram unfolds. On the first noint; the social costs
of the specific pricing and downsizing actions under SAC were likely to be quite small. On energy prices,
most of the poor do not have acress to these services- and those that do, are pmtected hy the highly
subsidized lifeline rates which were maintained to reduce the impact of price increases on the poor.
Downsizing hs so .far bePn a vpry small part of the overall reform prnogrm liimited to thrpo natinnaliz7d
commercial banks, which had adequate severance provisions, and the Pakistan Railways, where it mainly
-5--tew.ed - siitons- that. .vere a-L-ead- aat A.A-nw.9ihe, anay6tica! aint ^pi v-vllaEgxvol n Ss
areas has been launched, as called for in the CAS Progress Report, through a Poverty Assessment and a
Jo.JUI BDWJanYA± t.V., an-d Soci T-.-act An  PS T ANS
25.     n the second poiAt, the program  will ned to focus increasingly on ensu-rng institutions a-e stong
enough to sustain the reforms. In particular, the program's heavy reliance on devolution as the main
- 8 -



canacities will be severely strained. Second. there is a very real possibility that local governments could be
captured by either the traditional feudal politicians (long viewed as a major obstacle to growth and poverty
reduction). or by leaders who have never seen the benefits of decent social service delivery. As a result the
new local governments may not place sufficient priority on assuring that all people have access to
reasonable quality primarv education and basic health services, resulting in an irnnortant discannect
between national and local goals. It is likely that complementary actions will be needed, in conjunction
with de.volution- to eunsre adequate capacities are estahlisheed at the local ievels to ensuire An effective
alignmnent of national and local priorities; and thus to transform the institutions that deliver social services
so they herome effiertive a nd reqiiltq-oriented in the new devolved set up. In short, while there rpmains a
large agenda on which the on-going program needs to continue to focus, the SAC documents did a
satisfintonrv job of idpntfi,Aing the ri.ks !and l'igna the fniintiotInc for ~,f-ther ,1n, 1yna nA c
them. To have done more at the time could have compromised the operation's timeliness with little
assurance of better reslftQ  Thoe r.sks, ho,veve, ,vil! -  rm.n,-n,, ones,  nd con-n 4,e,, shod
remain important parts of subsequent stages of the reform program, and the Bank's support for it (see
Sections 6 ,dA Q 1elow)
4. Achievement of Obiective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievementof objective:
Overall Outcomes and Achievement of Objectives:
26.    SAC's immediate objectives have been largely achieved. All the prior actions were completed
beoLeL BDoiard preser,ufionl (J-une I2, 2001) dU LU,e CreitUL MHLLIL-n was fuiy disb-u-sedU .-wo Uays lIer. IT,,e
operation assisted the government in stabilizing the economy, providing, in concert with other financiers,
critcaluy-neueuu irsuruces. tir uonpuIan-uy, It assisLUe goveri-eni efiUrLs o lay uhe foundations for its
Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), both by supporting initial actions within that strategy, and by enabling
the government to develop the strategy further as articuiated in Tne iNovember 2001 interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). In December 2001, the I-PRSP was positively reviewed in a Joint
Staff Assessment (JSA, Report No. 23189-PAK, 15 November 2001, which also contains the text of the
I-PRSP) and by the executive boards of both the World Bank and the IMF. The I-PRSP has provided the
foundation for an IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) and substantial debt restructunng
with the Paris Club, both in December 2001, and for a new full CAS and a follow-up Second Structural
Adjustment Credit, discussed at the Board on June 11, 2002 (Report Nos. 24114-PAK and 23847-PAK,
respectively, dated May 15, 2002).
27.   It is of course too early to determine if the initial directions of the PRS will be sustained and if the
ultimate outcome of sustained growth and poverty reduction will be achieved. The substantial risks to the
program, as noted above, remain. Early signs of a private sector supply response have been disrupted by
the events following September 11, 2001 and the build-up of tensions with India. Also the lags between
policy changes and impact on the poor, and the time it takes to measure that impact, mean that it will
probably be some years before a measurable reduction in poverty could be expected. Moreover, it will also
take considerable time to achieve some of the critical steps of the program, especially for the governance
reforms to restore integrity to state institutions and make them the effective, results-oriented organizations
needed to implement the PRS. Nevertheless, a review of the main components of the program supported by
SAC- the rnacroeconomic framework, and the reformns in governance, in the environment for growth, and
in the delivery of social services and social protection programs - suggests that so far most of the specific
-9-



prior aetions are being sustitned and followed up with related actinns and/or are "anchored" in muhsemient
operations. The overall assessment is that the achievements to date constitute a solid, substantial beginning
for the PRR, even though they are modest in termr Of the PR5';' mhitinoi medii,m-t-rm obiectives.
4.2 OutDuts by components:
Macroeconomic famework:
28.    Developments during FY01 suggest that Pakistan's macroeconomic policy stance, which focused
on reducing the fiscal deficit and allowing a substantial depreciation of the rupee through a flexible
exchange rate regime, was beginming to produce some positive results. Strong growth in exports (9%) and
in manufacturing (8%) helped offset the impact of a severe drought, resulting in a 2.7% rise in GDP. The
fiscal deficit declined significantly, due mainly to lower spending, part of which resulted from structural
reforms that lowered the borrowing costs of Pakistan's public debt (see par. 15 above). Although total
tax revenues were below target, CBR revenues rose as a percent of GDP, reversing a declining trend. The
current account deficit also declined somewhat, and foreign exchange reserves rose from less than 4 weeks
of imports at the end of FY00 to 7.5 weeks at the end of FY01. Inflation remained below program targets.
This good performance led to the successful conclusion of the Stand-By Arrangement in September 2001.
29.    The consequences of September 11, combined with rising tensions with India, have had serious
adverse effects on Pakistan's prospects for FY02, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, exports,
private investment and privatization. Recent sporadic, but highly visible, domestic terrorist acts could
intensify or prolong these effects. Exports, previously expected to grow by 7.6% in FY02, are now
projected to fall by 0.1%. Total GDP growth is now expected to be 3.3% instead of 4%, and would have
been lower but for a somewhat better outlook for agriculture. The fiscal deficit is expected to remain
according to program even though revenues are expected to be lower than initially projected. There was
alqo an unanticipated larrge inflow in remittmices following Sentember Il nartiallv offsetting the earlier
depreciation of the Rupee. (See Annex C of Report No. 23847-PAK, May 2002, for the assumptions
1,hinfI thpep ,wrnietions, which may he ontimidtic pi,ven the cnntiniied esu-nItinn of teminn-, with Tndia)
30.    Tha favonrable cnmnletinn nf the SRA and review nf the l_PRRP P(nArA 26) iinmdrninnPA the Th,f'C
approval of a three-year, US$ 1.25 billion PRGF. This was followed by a Paris Club debt rescheduling
pak      on very fkavorable terms that wiffl] nnriAri4 aou,it T TQE3 I hbillin i. liqidit4ytu relif over the next
three years and some implicit reduction in the net present value of Pakistan's stock of debt (from 260% of
burden is still not sustainable, and the need for exceptional finance is likely to extend beyond the end of the
nlnl_   9 - - -1  C M    -    e r+ ---AI  -   -  -A +U-AAt lAA - -   -   A -A   _A,+A   A A A - -A A+U   A.I,   +- -A 
rrz..kuaius- llbWuu'  ILLV,  .LO   rVQ1 la U.S FJUL L1.% tA1V1L1JI1 vU " F"u 1,11OL 4I"W 0 . UV1,   U,u, &*5W L
sustainable levels. Although Pakistan's economic position is substantially more stable than a year ago, the
Vwnouilu oUUUU& rIllllIlS UnICbl L4JL1. 1 UaL ULIL.V 1ldLL.Y iLtsIe adds LU UIe r.s LIS  a U o4wer aU 1d a leut
growth response to Pakistan's PRS. On the positive side, however, there are now several factors in place
that could offset uiese omnems, provided Pakistan SLtYS tle wcurbe in implpemenuing its strategy-: ue
favorable debt rescheduling and the prospect for substantial IFI support should provide some breathing
space over the next three years to implemen the reforms needed to restore growth; Pakisian's renewed
access to bilateral grants or concessional financing can ease the trade-offs between protecting pro-poor
spending and reducing the fiscal deficit; and the iiiceihood of a faster build-up in foreign exchange reserves
could help stimulate growth both by speeding the return of private sector confidence, and by allowing some
easing of monetary policy and lower interest rates. In short, there is no sign that Paidstan is considering a
substantial change in its macroeconomic strategy; rather that strategy, and the international support
associated with it, appear to offer Pakistan the best chance of achieving its objectives.
- 10 -



Pillar I: Governance
31.    All key prior actions for the Governance pillar were implemented before the operation was
considered by the Board and have been sustained and further extended in the course of the year (see para.
14 above, and Annex 1, Part A). In tax policv and tax administration (Annex 1, A.1), the GST has been
further extended, an ordinance for a new income tax with simpler and more equitable rates and fewer
exemptions has been issued, and the medium-term strategy and action plan for a fundamental reform of the
CBR has been approved by the President and implementation has started. Though tax revenues to GDP did
not rise in FYO1, they are projected to rise in FY02, despite the adverse impact of September 11.
Moreover, the tax revenues for which CBR is responsible rose as a share of GDP already in FY01,
reversing what had been a declining trend. In public financial manaeement (Annex 1, A.2&3): (a) the
fiscal monitoring committees have been established and are functioning well at the federal and in some
provinces; there has been a substantial improvement in the timeliness of expenditure reporting; (b) the
separation of accounting and auditing functions is being implemented, but will require continued follow-up
to ensure the new set-up is adequately staffed and equipped and that lines of accountability are clear; (c)
the new accounting model adopted last year is being implemented with assistance from the Bank-financed
Pakistan Improvement of Financial Reporting and Auditing Proiect (PIFRA); (d) the ad hoc PACs have
been established and are operating at the federal and provincial levels (though in NWFP, a court challenge
delayed establishment of its PAC until recently), they are focusing on review of the audits for the most
recent years, and the opening of their deliberations to the press, initially at the federal level, has been
extended to the provincial level; (e) an ordinance has been issued to establish the Pakistan Procurement
Regulatory Authority, to regulate and improve public sector procurement; and, (f) in the budgeting area,
procedures for entry of projects into the public sector development program (PSDP) have been further
systematized, contingent liabilities are being published in the budget, and progress is being made in the
adontion and use of a medium-term budget framework at the federal level and in some provinces
32      Tn the area of Civil ervice Refonrm (Annex 1 A .4): (a) the imnortant stetstalcen last year to
strengthen the Federal Public Service Commission to ensure greater reliance on merit in recruitment and
promotion, hav.e heen followed up with similar stepsinqsomn e provinces; (b) the mpeamures taken ast year to
facilitate removal of inefficient or corrupt staff have been deepened and have led to the removal of some
5,4A  fpApir.l ivil servunts, nA are being exvtendei tn snmr.. nrnvirnes ar.dnA () the fi,-t nhab of nfthe fpAPrI
government's pay and pension reform has been implemented, improving the structure and competitiveness
of fieAdral pay scle-s, and introlducing pens.in reforms. Finally, the governm.e.nt's bold devo lutin proganm
(Annex 1, A.3) has moved ahead, with elections at all levels completed successfully and broadly on
scledAa  -+e , -nrA-r,nrc issued in each Arn-nnce to ro .-A Ie snd r-,lola Ioc.1 governnts,onc snd ,.v
local governments starting to function under transitional operational and financial arrangements with the
Ji.    IVJ.aJy  VI UV.z.a'. v.IW.5S Ua II jr.Jfu L LLIFVt&I, % V~Ll 1U11 IVUaLUCUIG, ILI V4ILI3w L.PL JjJIUvvULLr,uLv, U11MIU MS. a.Uu
the authorizing environment for an efficient, focused public sector, able to carry out core state functions
V11eLVUVQly. '- Una AV t V' e.V reIU ,-eULs Lt reULL4 UjJeFoLLUULULs for LnsLnL2bIUi.L UUvoll  oU, LU UIJJUVV UIe
timeliness and transparency of public accounts and audits (so they can focus on, and publicly disclose, the
acLUULb of rVVVlILUUIW 2LLUI Uslinf), LU res V.I UilnM,iLY UlU jLUIVIUJ Lsi4LU2IL LUe Wi-UVU bU-I V1L, anU LU
give the people a greater voice, all seem to be especially critical developments. However, it is important to
note thdat UthesIIe meVdsuies a.-e InUot uUnU, UL L1J.LWI ULL1ir  UfLJt4UUL1 is uoUy beguiuiig, anu tiat Uiei-e
remains a major task to ensure these measures result in institutions and systems that deliver better results.
For example, in tue public fiaincial management aeu. ihe fiscal mountoring comnmni-es do not seem to be
-11 -



wnrking well in the largest nrovince. Puniab: the establishment of the PAC in one nrovince was delayed
until recently by a court challenge; the continued incidence of unidentified expenditures and unreconciled
accumnts, thnogh smaller than in the past, suggests gans remain in the accounting system; and the lines of
accountability for district-level accounting officers, while recently clarified in principle, are still untested
ond ntrnnitinnain . whinh muld indierminp the effertiveneqs of the qnnAunltting and aiiditincg ref.rms  TMis
suggests that sustained follow-up will be needed to ensure the desired results are achieved. Similarly, with
regard to devolition, it will take time to assess how the new lonal bodies fimntion in prnntinp. There is
likely to be an urgent need to take steps quickly to strengthen institutions and capacities at the local levels
nd to rcA,eo the nnpfntial r:ls nf Adc nnrppcn hbtween lonnI and nntinnal nmrnritipe  These rld ar.cp if,f
for example, local governments do not place adequate priority on expanding access to higher quality
pr.,  ano4nr A  n- d basi he. baoltbh -nA fornilx,  on,na ser;nnces (.,pp see Z p^- ohn   To ._Auce ti.,
risk, as PRS implementation unfolds, the government should consider ways to align priorities at all levels
of goveament, ,A to +an,-f      ,. COrpl   r *nst4ana (p&f4,.,de.1, *oseh de1.enga   socia,,;-1
services) to make them more effective and results-oriented, and better aligned to the new decentalized
systerm. I  ritu 11uheIILUUo aI Uis LaOf%l aLIVaU lb ,IIII1VUO, IV1 IL ILULa-IVlUUULLLLa VaOU uIa  a  *uVhLUU10I ui ukv
corporate culture and operations of the public sector.
Pillar H: Fostering Growth
34.    Some important aspects of the growth strategy have already been discussed, notably the
macroeconnomic policy franmework (pnras. 28-30) and the tax nnfiGy and adminitratinn reformq (nara 31)
This section will focus on the actions to improve the environment for efficient, private sector-led growth, by
removing distortions and banrrers to comnpettion, by enouragng parvaenti on of SOEs, and by reforms in
the financial sector and in the energy sector (see paras. 15-16 above and Annex 1, Part B). All the key
prior ations w-ere taken before presentation of  A (U  tn the loard, and mnnet of thpm rn p hpbe
implemented as expected and sustained, with follow-up measures taken or planned. The exceptions are
nsA ons oma+ fs orz+_
piIva.tihto anu v-nt PeCES VA U_ -_ .vUa  O..W *LSJ
35.   Jul ULe ariea oLf Utdiregaluu i-r.xA I, BI.2&Lj) to it.Uuuce Ell.ouluons and enhance cor ILLUU.a) #.U
next step in lowering the maximum tariff rate (to 30%) and reducing the number of rate categories (to 4)
has5 UCII LbeeUn IW) *he LLCU BR1k has CIvad *hie bac'-'uo,gvU USAofJl.I GiuS red uuLy duawvuav,N UeL VAPUL4 elra
and is initiating an action plan to make future GST refunds more rapid and more transparent; (c) the initial
stes s-VupIPU Uy UIe St'AC inl LVUIUiLIfo   dlgrpiI.ULULaI uaauv iiave teuen eAxiriuvu duiu udepLe.u, wiut mure
liberal policies for the import and export of all agricultural products, and the removal of all restrictions on
transport these products wituin Pasistan; (d) conutols on prices of u4 of 66 pre-viously-con-tuoled products
have been removed, (e) the policy of granting no new exemptions or special privileges for income taxes,
customs duties, or GST and Of imposing no new regulatory duties, continues, while most time-bound
regulatory duties are being phased out; and (f) an inter-Ministerial Deregulation Committee, chaired by the
Minister of Finance, has been established by the President to oversee and guide deregulation across sectors,
with a focus on modemizing labor laws, health, environmental and industrial regulations, and SROs. A
Bank-assisted survey of SMEs will help identify priorities for regulatory reform.
36.    in the area of privatization (Annex 1, B.2), technical, financial and legal preparations have
continued to bring a number of SOEs to the point of sale, but the serious uncertainties in the business
environment (See Section 5.1 below, and para. 29 above), have reduced demand from both domestic and
foreign investors. Consequently, since last year, only one SOE has been fully privatized (the Sui North
LPG Plant ), with two more transactions (the Saudi-Pak Fertilizer Company and Working Interest in Nine
Oil Fields) at an advanced stage, with the bidding process completed. The government has also divested
part of its minority holdings in some banks, as noted below. Given the situation, it is difficult to make
- 12 -



rapid progress in privatization or predict its future pace. In the financial sector, the reforms supported by
S AC' b0~0 hv . been  sta. A d in so.-e cases dAeepeWndA by: (a) hmn-.lorn-oa-tin ==n -co-n,.cmin - . -  + + 
Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project of October 2001- of the cost restructuring
progrA n fo; U1%' tLU h.-ee   flag OtJiJ.ai c  bar -s, reducing their y OLJLL AAn 8,U00 aUU
closing 650 branches in order to reduce their operating costs and make them more attractive for eventual
PjIVaLGIuLLo, ,uj c15os:n Uth pOUiSMLWw.Ly poor ef11011Ju.±g 1aL % naUU LIUMeC L-CYv1upIIrnLE 'Co.AJLpio.uuLu,
country's largest non-bank financial intermediary, by merging it with the state-owned National Bank of
P-afl4ui, s;() erabluing u-v SLatw ElI- ou f viL ar:s1 Ir1r LtuL P   l.s Cnual Ba-..-)j LU fLocus rorev ruCau-vuy oni
banlkng system regulation and improving the quality of monetary policy by transferring its non-core
la-                     fAll_      _ _._ __{X|__ I _ __ _ 1:. ___1-______  _  --  -.  - - _I.-I.-- / -\
1uu1lUoj LU a UVW n Lew y, e iu) Und"11rU1, 1V8lb4uun LU LUAU*ILu4L 1UIGI.U1UbU7LGb 0 Ud11  wiL anU11iWi adud ke)
further reductions of govermment involvement in privately owned banks by further divestiture of
govemru oUwUt;U SErnS ir uiose baiis.
37.    in mhe power sector (Annex 1, B.5), arer mhe key prior actions of the SAC were completea, reforms
slowed for several months, with little progress made in WAPDA!s restructuring or financial position,
including slower tariff adjustments than anticipated. More recently, however, the reforms have acceierated
again under the program supported by SAC-Il. As a part of the process to unbundle WAPDA into
autonomous companies for distribution (eight), generation (three), and transmission (one): the transfer of
all staff at levels 1-16 from WAPDA to the corporatized entities was made effective on April 1, 2002. The
National Electricity Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) has issued the licenses to all eight corporatized
distribution companies; and the Economic Comrnittee of the Cabinet (ECC) has approved the principles for
the transfer of assets and liabilities .to the corporatized entities. A financial improvement plan (FIP)
covering the remainder of fiscal year 2001/02, and extending to fiscal year 2003/04 has been agreed
between the Ministry of Finance and WAPDA and is starting to be implemented. The plan seeks to restore
the sector's financial viability through a combination of tariff and non-tariff measures. The basic principle
under the plan is that WAPDA and its successor companies would not require any budget support in fiscal
year 2002/03 and beyond, and that their financing plan would be in line with the overall macroeconomic
framework. The key to the FIP is a tariff increase that would generate an additional Rs. 23 billion in
revenues in fiscal year 2002/03. This would be reached with an increase in the average tariff of about 16
percent The first steps for implementation of the plan have been taken: (a) WAPDA has filed for a tariff
increase of Rs. 0.58/kWh that is consistent with the plan; and (b), while NEPRA determines the tariff in
accordance to the filing, an interim tariff increase of Rs. 0.08/kWh has been notified effective May 15,
2002. While these are positive developments, the government needs to complete WAPDA's restructuring at
an early date, and at the same time fully implement the financial improvement plan. In addition, the
Govermnent will need to establish the regulatory and institutional framework and processes in which the
new, unbundled companies will operate, so that the goal of an efficient, competitive wholesale market for
power is realized. Progress on these reforns will need to be an important part of the PRS in the future.
38.    In the natural gas sector (Annex 1, B.6), the price increase made prior to SAC approval was
maintained. However, the semi-annual retail price adjustment scheduled for September 2001 under the
agreed pricing framework (SAC Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 10) was delayed until
the next scheduled date (March, 2002), when prices were raised by 8-20% for different categories of
consumers. There was also delay in the implementation of another important part of the gas pricing
reforms: the establishment of a new well-head gas pricing framework for the state-owned Palistan
Petroleum Limited (PPL) to link these prices to international oil prices and move them toward those
prevailing for private producers. This policy measure was expected to take place in July 2001, but was
postponed to March 2002 when the Cabinet agreed (in an action supported by SAC-Il) to the phased
adjustment of PPL prices over a five year period and made the first revision in the well-head prices of
almost 50%. At current world oil orices, the new policy implies an approximate quintunling of PPL's
- 13 -



well-head gas price over the next five years. It is important not to underestimate the severe opposition that
go,-   - C ---   +U;qt  --ocnr -e  - -;-nn,ir DPY -,c lin,aS knc. -- f-, _1. nns-1- ne-- -
gVIlUUIace I toI thl s r.eO a.sure 00 ir.expens .v J.  g as0 has bn a soiAe -VI r.elaLdvely inexpensive
natural gas to large sectors of the economy (industry, power, domestic consumers). While these delays in
i.~slenatonwe-e r.ot A-s;_Ubl -ue mpr rl of   ;_        -4au yngsuog w ese refor-. mer.ts e--hasi
UUVJIVIJJ.LVLaLUUUJ WtL I. *Lb  UL'Oaa,11. ""4tLjJU±W14 .. 1..CAly 15 4UU5 ~VurLL -u.L.O *1IULlIfL £141.S C110 MILjla01.
The consistent implementation of the new gas pricing framework should, over time, reduce the subsidy to
ga users. kVeXcvt forI feiUJL:4 ndU 'X-, dor.eSLIk LhEeille' slab, wILchL MUe DU fa; exc~lIuded), rIVU cleare;
signals for private oil field development, facilitate the planned privatization of PPL, and allow the
govemerrinto capture pas.L I oUf 11e socLi U e Id LL LU ilprJIVS its Ciscal balancV. HFoW-VVeL, IulUl1r sze
will be needed to realize the full benefits of a market-based gas pricing policy, including limiting or phasing
out the subsidies to the fertilizer industry (estimated at 0.3 percent of GPr); improving tne targeting of the
subsidized "lifeline rate" by reducing the (currently very large) quantities to which it applies; and giving
incentives for efficiency to the gas transmission and distribution companies by eliminating the guaranteed
return mechanism and by converting the current gas development surcharge to a volume-related excise tax.
39.   In the petroleum sector (Annex 1, B.7), the government has implemented, and farther improved, its
pricing policies, so that the retail prices of all petroleum products are either futly deregulated (as in the
cases of LPG and, to some extent, furnace oil) or are adjusted automatically every fortnight consistently
with international prices. In addition, oil distribution companies are now free to import their requirements
directly; some limited improvements have been made in oil transport pricing by allowing prices to reflect
differentials in transport costs to secondary markets; and subsidies to refineries have been made transparent
and provided through the budget. These are major steps, especially when compared with the situation just
two years ago. However, as in the case of natural gas, further significant reforms are needed to realize the
full efficiency benefits of these measures. These would include: complete deregulation of the diesel market
(which is 45% of the petroleum products market, and currently operates under a scheme that pools import
costs across distributors, undermining incentives to reduce import costs); setting the product prices as
ceilings to encourage competition among suppliers; firther decontrol of product transport to reflect
transport cost differentials filly; and phasing out the subsidies to the older refineries.
Pillar HI: Human Development and Social Protection
40.    In education (Annex 1, C.1), the federal education ministry has continued to work with the
provincial governnents to start implementation of the Education Reform Strategy (ERS) articulated iast
year, and supported by the SAC. The follow-up steps at the federal level include: an additional federal
allocation of Rs. 2 billion to be used at the provincial and district levels (in particular for school
rehabilitation, teacher training and girls' feeding programs); the signing of Memoranda of Understanding
between the federal and provincial governments regarding implementation of the ERS and the school
rehabilitation program; the launching of the National Education Assessment Initiative; and steps to promote
private participation in education, including cabinet approval of a strategy, a new charter for the National
Education Foundation and a package of incentives. At the provincial level, the level responsible for
virtually all aspects of education, high-caliber secretaries have been appointed to lead departments of
education, and, in a critical break with past practice, are being retained in post long enough to make
progress and be accountable for results. Provincial governments are pursuing several initiatives to improve
service delivery, including more effective staff deployment and teacher training programs, and continuing
efforts to reduce absenteeism. Sindh, for example, has initiated a program to test teacher competency and
provide remedial training where needed, reopened over 3,700 closed schools by redeploying staff and hiring
new teachers on contract, and has increased total primary enrollment by 5% in FY02. A number of these
activities are to be supported by SAC-Il and parallel provincial level adjustment operations.  A
Bank-financed LIL is under preparation to support the National Education Assessment program.
- 14 -



41.    These are promising developments, but Pakistan has far to go before making a sustained reduction
realistic objectives and outcomes, and programs to realize them. This is especially important for the
ST>DR object-hve ofTTv-ni--sa P.u.- duca,,.i.o (TVTPT), the +T;=_- of+  VDQPS.os ieyt, aef.
greatest impact on poverty reduction. A better fix on the baseline enrollment situation and causes for low
e-=olUUIUL.ILOW UULIAt1)J w 'h lpdei  UILl gap betLWeenU ULhe tUIUlIIL aiLtLL*UI and L' Loals, iVaU : progr-r.
priorities and measure progress (for example, the primary school enrollment ratios used in the ESR are
luhilgh  Uiail u1uo LeLtuaL4UU Iil'IrJl hVoushldU s.L vey Uata uy nleaily 2.'/0%  I ofLIe, schoul agv UpUpi.uatUU).
Widespread communication to the public of the enrollment and leaming outcomes the government is
WIIULULLMU LU iW._VVU1r, 4lIU UiC IILICUMM, UUeAIIN.Iuia  kUIU  V a VI.vU M4MULUbu UIr pUUILI bLLULU UUAPr;IL,
could be helpful in building understanding and consensus around these priorities, and alignment behind
heIn at ail levels ui guverunnent, and -tus hielp to ensure they are pursued in a s-usained and consistent way
in the new decentralized system. In particular, it will be important to ensure that the fiscal mechanisms in
place ensure that the ievels and composition of spending, as weil as budgets, are adequate to achieve the
desired primnary school enrollment and learning outcomes, and that there are adequate funds for non-salary
spending. it appears that this year, as in the past, spending in education will be well below budgeted ieveis,
especially for the critical non-salary items. Correcting this should be seen as a top priority goal in the
coming year. T-h ere is also a need and opportunity to build on the continuity achieved so far in posting
education secretaries, using that continuity to establish the stable capacities and systems needed at
provincial and district levels to monitor, supervise, and assess implementation of the ERS against its
objectives and outcomes, analyze the results and take corrective action as needed. In this way the
effectiveness of the recent initiatives could be assessed and modified or replicated, as appropriate.
Restructuring the education departments with the incentives, skill mix, equipment, systems and
organization needed to play this dynamic, results-oriented role in a decentralized system would help sustain
the reforms into the future. As a starting point, specifying realistic area- and school-specific enrollment
goals both for the coming year and for the medium term, and communicating this widely, would be a useful
way to focus attention on this important objective at all levels of government and among all communities.
42.    In health (Annex 1, C.2), overall program strategy.and priorities were articulated in a National
Health Policy (NHP) and in the I-PRSP. In line with the priorities placed on prevention and maternal and
child health care, and the initial steps supported by SAC-I: the expansion of the Lady Health Workers
(LHW) program continued and now appears to be on track; steps were taken to launch an enhanced
immunization program for children (now anticipated to start in the last quarter of FY02); the coverage of
the TB control program was expanded; a national strategic HIV/AIDS prevention program was formulated
and is about to be launched; and a strong leadership team has been maintained in place at the federal level.
An intensive immunization drive was carried out in Punjab and appears to have raised immunization rates
in that province significantly. In addition, initial steps have been taken to restructure provincial health
departments in line with devolution. These and other complementary activities are being (or are expected to
be) supported by SAC-II, the AsDB-funded Women's Health Project, provincial adjustment operations, the
Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI), and grant funding from several other donors.
43.    Despite this progress, gaps remain between the priorities articulated in the NHP and PRS and
actual implementation. These gaps include: the initially very low FY02 allocations for such high-priority
federal public health programs as the Lady Health Workers, immunization, and family planning (adequate
budgets for these programs were provided only in the second quarter of FY02, after substantial additional
donor grant financing was made available in the wake of September  1); delays in the release and spending
of funds, especially on non-salary items; the continuing administrative constraints limiting contraceptive
availability at health facilities; and the slow pace in processing the enhanced immunization program. As in
education. the government could help focus efforts on the priorities by ensuring that the nublic at large. and
- 15-



all levels of government, understand and share the government's commitment to improved health outcomes,
a-.d in  t*4 -. 1a.- to -p.ever.tiv and p-h-, U-4uy health  j1,pogms.  A--S.l jrac ai  f-  pub-lic
of the health outcomes the government is committed to achieving, and the intermediate interventions,
A I       l 1.-+ t  ...  -11A --       I-A    I.1 U-A --A -A-    A.     A
service standarAd ar.d te.WIItUIIEfLI  tMat UP.. pUblIIc soAULLU expect, could h.elp UilUd  . UitQtLLUiU5 and
consensus around these priorities and align all levels of government behind them. This could help ensure
susta-udu ardu cunsistnt LivluvinauvL.ii ui a duvL-nLLan4lLu - ystmu. uIn FaL.;iai, IL Wi 1.1 U-UjULanL LU
ensure that the fiscal mechanisms in place ensure that the levels and composition of spending, as well as
vuuugcL, aire aUuquaLe LU ach-ive ulu - UUL ou -..LUS ill usa- p1rVVVLIUUI ardU 4basi carV, aLUU Ul4L iUhIC
are adequate funds for non-salary spending. There is also a need and opportunity to build on the efforts
underway to establish uhe stblue capacities and systemus needed at provincial and district le-vels to oitor,
supervise, and assess implementation of the NHP against its objectives and outcomes, analyze the results
and take corrective action as needed. in this way tae effectiveness of the recent initiauves could be
assessed and modified or replicated, as appropriate. Restructuring the health departments with the
incentives, skill mix, equipment, systems and organization needed to play this dynamic, results-oriented role
in a decentralized system would help sustain the focus on improved health outcomes into the future. The
govemment should focus on making concrete progress in these areas in the coming year, especially in
communicating its objectives and expected outcomes in health, and in ensuring adequate funds for basic
medicines and operating expenses are available and effectively used at the facility level.
44.    In the area of overall PRS monitoring (Annex 1, C.3), the government has established a PRSP
Secretariat at the Ministry of Finance to coordinate the further development of the PRS and the monitoring
and evaluation of its implementation. Technical work has progressed in agreement on a poverty line.
Progress has also been made in developing outcome indicators for monitoring, though it appears that
further work is needed to clarify the baseline information for some key indicators, and in developing a
range of intermediate indicators that will permit the meaningful monitoring of year-to-year developments.
An IDF is under consideration to support the development of the Secretariat. Quarterly monitoring of
PRSP-related expenditure has already started, and the results for the first quarter of FY02 have been
published. More work is needed here to enable more disaggregated and meaningful assessments of
expenditures against budgets and historical spending levels. The Secretariat is expected to work closely
with the major implementing departments, drawing on their work and providing them assistance to develop
their M&E capacities at the federal, provincial and district levels. Moving forward in developing these
capacities needs to remain an important part of the PRS agenda.
45.    The social protection programs identified in SAC-I include targeted income transfer programs as
well as a targeted micro credit program (Annex 1, C.3).  These programs have been expanded and
strengthened in FY03, and an evaluation has started on one of them (the Food Support Program). Such
programs can make a major difference in the lives of the most vulnerable, but in the context of Pakistan's
very large poverty target, and scarce financial and administrative resources, there are difficult choices to be
made on the balance between targeted interventions and expanding access to basic services. The initial
underfunding of the federal health programs in FY02 puts this issue in sharp focus: the programs could
have been fully funded with a fraction of the funds used to increase the targeted interventions. These are
the kinds of tough choices that the PRSP Secretariat and the government will have to deal with as the
prgam is imnlemented. As a starting noint. a careful evaluation of the targeted interventions; their
targeting mechanism, effectiveness and sustainability, would help inform the government's decisions.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
- 16 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
Impact on Institutional Development:
46.    SAC has supported, through the PRS, the initial steps in a major institutional development
program that is both broad and deep. If well-implemented, the reforms will mean nothing less that the
fundamental transformation of the public sector, restoring integrity to the institutions of state, making them
more effective and results-oriented, focused on improving the lives of Pakistan's people, especially the
poor. This will call for a radical change in the corporate culture of Pakistan's public sector, in its
authorizing environment, and in its operational procedures and organization. Pakistan is at the very
beginning of such a change, but there are clear signs that there is a beainning. Within the government's
policy matrix there are actions ranging from the broad, system-wide level to the level of specific functions.
The most imnortant system-wide initiatives include devolution, the civil service reforms (esDecially the
strengthening of the federal and provincial Public Service Commissions), and a range of measures to
improve public financial management throughout the system. More specific areas of institutional
development include the CBR reforms, the steps to establish a Pakistan Procurement Regulatory Authority,
the estabLishment of a Deregulation Committee. the snlitting off of SBP's non-core functions; the staffing
and branch reductions in the nationalized commercial banks, the steps to unbundle and corporatize
WAPDA, the retention of hicrh-qnialitv secrebtries as lezfders in the nrovincial education and federal health
departments, and the establishment of the PRSP Secretariat. In addition to such measures to improve
ninhlic nnnnnitieq th. nrnomgm inchidesT mneamireq that will pn bhlp thp cnvernment tn uwithdr2w frArn
activities (e.g., privatization of SOEs; deregulation to reduce unnecessary, distortionary, or rent-seeldng
interventions; and the new policies that allow petrolelm prices to adjust automntically), freeing it to
concentrate on core functions.
47.    While a start has been made, huge challenges will face Pakistan as it attempts to reestablish the
_siutialonal ndeipinnings of a ...... 5,M A,moc eor.omyn an.d socie--.  It ,-,oId seapprop,-. w for
Pakistan to take stock of the many initiatives that it has launched and assess its institutional development
lprvioti,es systema-^ti%calily fuhmiuh ar; Ins tut-o,_ar, .-A nac  veiv D .GP). fr_U or -;,\ria ap--ac. Iti
u y 3L11U.   Jy UU Uv i.&i 111SU.LULAWL,A.1WUS% VLA11W , L~V L~ Y1,W.J ML OUIAA.U ajijFI.LU. It la
likely that the priorities would include development of stable, high-quality leadership and policy-making
capaciuv:e  L.n  Jore publicnIcies, aLdU resUU1c , VI.U of . 1 AJUor srViLc, Ude':very U;GaIL L s13 (o kU-ubly 1 uh1
provincial health and education departments) to improve service delivery in the newly decentralized system.
Iln uheq-1 lonag run, +ttie success of 1-h pDe Lis liel toI deen A---  how well -its -eom  _e  :_lode  in -
1.11UW UU~,I LL, U  3UA.~3 1) UI1~ A I%LJ AO IZrlyi IA) U~FvnUU UU- 111.W W%-L 113 1L-~IJIIJ. a., ~IAAIUVWV1U EU I1iU1%,
effective institutions, better able to adapt to meet future challenges. Subsequent stages of the PRS will
neeU 'to fLUC 1SLU%U1.,ly Oii UUb UIIIILuIL aire (see paaUd. UY UblWo).
c Major Fators A    t-nl4n  T,nen.n   :   onA an u+.en-
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
48.   As noted above (para. 28), the drought led to lower than projected GDP growth in FY01, and also
contributed to lower than projected revenues. While manufacturing and exports grew faster than expected,
private sector confi6ence and perceptions of opportunities, the critical driving force for growth in the PRS,
remained limited. The events following September 11, the heightened tensions with India, and domestic
tensions reflected in sporadic incidents of terror, have combined to create a highly uncertain and risky
environment, undermining the confidence of the private sector, both domestic and foreign. There were
immediate effects on imports and exports, shipping costs and insurance, tax revenues, and growth. While
the strong support provided by the intemational community (see paras. 29-30) has partially mitigated these
- 17-



effects. and to some extent has reduced Pakistan's short-term macroeconomic vulnerability, the net imnact
is likely to delay the restoration of private sector confidence. As a result, the private sector supply
response expected under the PRS to restore robust growth and reduce poverty, will be more muted and
longer in coming. While implementation of the govemment's reform program was never expected to be
easy, it will now reauire even more skillfil management
49=   Another factor largely outside the govemment's control is the use of the riort system by refnrm
opponents to delay action. The government has been effective so far in forestalling such actions by
hbuilding rnnsenRus hehind. the refnrm. Omne PeYentinn wAs the delav in Petahliching thp na hoc PAr in
NWFP due to a court challenge. The challenge was recently vacated and the NWFP PAC has now been
fnrm,pA
5.2 Factors generally subiect to government control:
50.    The govemment has shown a high level of ownership of the evolving program and the PRSP
process, continuing to deepen its analysis and refine its objectives, while engaging in broad consultations
with various stakeholders. It plans to extend the consultations to build continuity with the successor
government. While more needs to be done in refining the PRS, improving its implementation, and
deepening the consensus behind it (see para. 53, and Sections 7 and 8, below), a reasonable start has been
made. The government has also followed up the key prior actions of SAC, in most cases implementing
them fully and extending or deepening them. In the particularly imnortant and difficult area of social
service delivery, it has provided long-needed continuity as well as quality in the leadership of federal and
provincial.education departments and the secretary and managers of the federal health department. The
governrnent was less successful in some other areas. For example, the natural gas pricing policy and the
automatic adiustment of electricity tariffs to changes in fuel costs were not imp,lemented as anticiDated. and
the progress in restructuring WAPDA was slow. The reasons are not clear, but may relate to concerns
over the social conseauences of the pricing changes, and bureaucratic inertia and onnosition to the
WAPDA reorganization. Measures to be supported by SAC-II, however, have helped put these reforms
back on track (see naras. 37 and 38 ahove) Tn social service delivery, priority federal health prnoramn
were initially seriously underbudgeted for FY02, and non-salary expenditures in schools remain very low,
demite the clear prioritv these exnPnditiTrPs hnve in the PRS  The tntal ammonts nf mnnpe invonveAd arp
small, so Pakistan's severe fiscal constraints do not explain this. The reasons more likely relate to
in.tithihtin^il wpi-nekqeq a_dl hre%unr t  inprth andi nnint to the nieed for mn ;nr-Sang fnp,,
institutional effectiveness, and for the monitoring mechanisms that the PRSP Secretariat will put in place.
Concrete prnoress in overconing these obstacles would provide a good indicator of toe g
success in implementing its PRS.
51.    The government has made significant progress in implementing its devolution program. As the
new loc --I - --+..ts +-+ -R-44-oing :. -w1 " e po nthatef        ne=        acssobvi
kP.VYiiJua 5'JV  1-1 SW IMCUO 'JLL  LE WAI UOV LJJIjJVLIaU%, UWai. LUL% IV%JLLU 1)11 VAPaUULLUr W.A.V2 LU UUbM.;
social services, and improving their quality, is maintained and strengthened. Transitional financing
arrangements, including ear-mar--g, m-ay be apporiate to ensure spending leve s and composition are
adequate for improved social service delivery. Consultations with communities, and district and provincial
govemnmnedu s, on the ex-pectedot ucomLes ad-uu' iU uanudau fu[r ies services cuowu heip ensure alignment on
priorities and consistent implementation. The restructuring of the major service delivery departments so
ihey can work effecuvely in uie decenriiaized system wouid also help achieve the desired outcomes.
.3 FaetiJor ger,erll&y OuUJCLI to .,-,.p.*mer,t.rgfl ageneyL eor,-,ol:
Covered in Section 5.2 above.
-18 -



5.4 Cnwts and financing:
Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
J52.    LLe DLuZLaUlU1a y ULaLWn fU VI LIAiY  b d UseUMUII  Mal MIMS a,ud assuiiijJuU1io. I'LLL, ULIV
government's ownership of the program supported by SAC, its PRS, is strong. It has continued its efforts
,_ 'I 1_ L A. 'LA -_ A_- 1 AS A-                           M_    :      ,_ATL___L 1___ t  :_,-  L__
LU UWVv1Up UIC pIuOiani *UIUIW, diU ULAIImUtatiUU WIUI WakhUIIUdiUs. IUC JPJLVu64LI Uu1u rVU1VVU UILU UIC
I-PRSP, favorably reviewed by the staffs and Boards of the Bank and IMF. This has led to further
financial suppOrt utuoughi a PRGF, a mLajor debt rescheduiiLng, and a follow-up SAC-U, as well as
substantial, coordinated support from other donors. Second, the SAC was clearly rooted in the CAS where
it was seen as the firstini a series of one-iranche adjustnent operauons to support the longer-term
government programn. There is an almost complete congruence between that program, the CAS objectives,
and the set of measures and policies supported by the SAC. Tnese policies and actions are thus expected to
be (and so far are) reinforced and/or deepened by the proposed SAC-Il and subsequent operations, both at
the federai and provincial levels. Tne government's progress in implementing the program is expected to be
at the center of the Bank's dialogue, with lending and non-lending activities focused on supporting different
aspects of the program. T1hird, at least so far, this approach is on track, closely following the scenario
outlined in the CAS. Progress under SAC has been broadly,satisfactory, and the most of the policies it
supported have been reinforced and/or deepened under the proposed SAC-il (Annex 1 and Section 4.2,
above). The PRS has been further developed, and external financing for it has been mobilized, as
anticipated in the CAS-PR (paras. 7-8). The main assumptions behind this rating are that the govemrnment
will continue to implement the PRS, with follow-up measures to deepen the reform and achieve the desired
outcomes, and that the Bank, in coordination with other donors, will continue to support this process with
advice, analysis and appropriately designed lending operations.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
53.   In the particular context of Pakistan's reform program and the CAS, a "transition to regular
ss __~~~~t.         IA _AA _   -rA- rvIr  A_  A *LA A_ .L_*_AC_  I I- :,  zL_  ----IS _
OUpetaivlUb WUUIU I1i4au LUUb ViULbUUIlIVIII, Ui UI, kUIMS UJJ ;IU1ti UIV UILUV pii.ILb UILV LUC, UUIIIii V UUCI4L1UUb
of government. As noted above (paras. 46-47), this would require a dramatic change from the past, a
chliaug5 wicUhI isi uouy a4 tz Uit gUninUg1. I  li tL,k" LU ULo  U pgrmIll, as ca egrV[LU by lu JSAi, include loss of
continuity, with a new government expected in October, 2002; various types of opposition to the reforms;
lufisucient ifluttutioial cupwcity M LU 1esUig, UJImplUMUL  U and IflUIULUI7 rU1L1; and exogenusu 5fULIAh. Soiie
of the approaches the government is considering, or could consider, to sustain the impact of the program in
the face of these ns-s include:
(a) more extensive consultations with stakehoiders, particularly those likely to be influential in the
successor government, to try to build a deeper consensus around the reforms, both outside the govenrent
and more broadly within the government, to ensure continuity;
(b) a strong, well-publicized commitment to the puiblic, from all levels of government, to achieve the
key outcomes of the PRS, expressed in terms of reaiistic near-term benchmarks and service standards
(e.g., for increasing primary school enrollments or immunization coverage); such a public commitment
might help to lock in future governments to support the same objectives, as well as avoid the potential
"disconnect" between national objectives and those of local governments and mid-level bureaucrats;
(c) identification, within the overall strategy, of a few realistic "quick wins" that would bring clear
benefits to the people quickly, helping to restore their confidence in the govemment and build their
support for the program; such interventions would need to be carefully selected and designed to ensure
- 19 -



success (examples could include a much accelerated increase in immunization coverage- or provision of
funds for instructional materials and minor repairs in primary schools).
(d) develonment and imnlementation of a svytematic qtrategv to revitili7e the rnre niihlic
institutions, building on the governance reforms already underway and incorporating them in the key state
ttltions, CA thev hernme nagncies thQt cuietnin the refnrm mrnmpntnm intn the f_ihimp e1nd
(e) careful monitoring of the program in terms of both its ultimate outcomes and intermediate
benrhmaite (fnr ,,,liri, the leveul anti nnrnonitinn nf snenArinc) en thakt arhipeumante arn be pintw- ainA
problems identified and corrected at an early stage; the newly-created PRSP Secretariat, working closely
with other agencies responsible for  _E&B at the fpsetril crn,Anpial and Aisr,-t level-,  d  be
well-placed to coordinate this effort.
54.    Given the medium-term horizon of this operation, and the normal lags in generating data on the
i.-.idence1 ofl povc1.y, it wo 'd .ev sense to consAder ODizcev  L dn -^+;   4- hou-t fiv -e   An
*  ~ ~   .+. ..tA.,~~~~~I,.+A         W~                                     A...v& A
Intensive Learning ICR could be considered after two years.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
55.    Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the SAC is discussed in some
detai uer Qalty at Enry- (pars. 19Y-25) abouve. i.kUe uie QAGi panel, tuhe ICR  tc LUC MiBai
performance as "Satisfactory". Important features leading to this rating include: government ownership;
the Bank' s high-level uaiogue witn the government as it aevelopea the rS; mue cIose niKs oerTween tus
operation, the CAS and the PRS; the use of extensive economic and sector work and implementation
experience to inform the dialogue (e.g., in banking, accounts and audits, civil service reform, and social
service delivery); close coordination with other financing partners; and the operation's timeliness and
responsiveness.
7.2 Supervision:
56.    As a one-tranche operation based on prior actions, the reui.red actions we.re all conpleted befnre
Board approval, the Credit was signed on 12 June 2001, and was fully disbursed by 14 June 2001.
('nncorn.ntl.., the nnra.ol4 a,,a ~nont c,mnnnc.aA in the hdoAt4nno fnrol .QSnSe. TncteoA the flflJpDlyfpl*4
ongoing progress in implementing and further deepening the PRS was the main focus of the Bank's entire
%VoLUu y  xssn.ce efa.4 , der +-he 1enAe... p  ofhe fiel.d e,--bs  try Director. IX VQQ th,.3 posile to
orchestate the whole range of Bank assistance instruments to follow up on the government's reform
pUil, aiimDILr 'JILL _ecJU1%, OW"U.1ai %UiaUALaOU1 auu a.UaLYIy UL.a.Lwui OLu%,1 ao i LLV, u%,LL)' a0a2aaani~lL
and the JSA, to preparation of follow on operations (e.g., SAC-I[, adjustment operations in Sindh and
N vwrrP, lui BDPPXr, anu UpUrudUU  LU SUppOULL eUULcaLIU;o   adbbVZObL.ts dLU t^LJJ prIvVLLUUIJ. ni uus way
the Bank, working in close coordination with other agencies, particularly the IMF, maintained an intense
invovement in tie miiiwrUng Vui Lel prUgnLL aUU lib IuruIeI UVVULpIeCUL.
7.J LJVrU&l LIIaq/r,keJvo ,,.aree:
S7 AQ indicated above overall Bank performance was "Satisfactorv".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
58.    The government's preparation efforts were highly satisfactory. In developing its program, the
- 20 -



government sought input from the Bank, as well as other donors, but also received substantial input from
stakehoiders through extensive consultations. Tnroughout, the government's ownership oI the program
was explicit. The govermment worked well with the Bank preparation team with the MoF in an overall
leadership and coordinating role, and with lead counterparts identified in the many agencies, departments
and organizations involved at the federal and provincial levels.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
59.    As discussed above (Section 4), overall implementation performance was "Satisfactory ", both in a
narrow, seense and In a broader sense. InT a ".rmix, sense, the +pr.or - tions wvere implemene.tAed and the
macro-economic framework maintained, which, together with the associated package of extemal financing
in'l, preeonted a                      .-A r-cnnnnmic crc dislocations th,a+  -A 'd - veha
particularly adverse consequences for the poor. In a broader sense, a sweeping medium-term reform
p.ogrMaLL  beer. Launls Ached   Imost agreed poULIics cULLUiurIg to UV UaimpileIn-r.te as antLic.pateU, proUgess
being made in the further development of the program, and substantial levels of external support in place.
Ll soljue ar-eas (oavynt- gas adecuitpr.,g'v1D1rA                            __rg-u.,n  anfIl-U,tU
IIl kUUld14     VILa'I.ULY laLdLLald r  LlU V1VV.LL1LAFLy jJ161J, VVYt17I.JI- 1IU1.UIaLHZLU1, MU~  U JILIU4 IkLUL
subsequently corrected) funding of some important comnponents of social service delivery) performance has
nUo Ubeen cUosIsteiiUy StLlislaLUOy. (COnUIuedU U alVnUUU0 lb Is LneU eU *to ure sUGbsWUbnU prUb-si  th ese
important areas (see para. 66 below).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
60.    The Ministry of Finance, as lead and coordinating agency for the PRSP, has monitored the overall
nrogram efficientlv.  The audit reauirement for the Denosit Account was satisfactorilv met  It is
particularly noteworthy that the Govemment prepared its own assessment of the implementation of SAC-I
in nprallel with the preparation of the ICR and provided its input in a timely way (see Section 9, and Annex
8).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
61.    The govenmment's overall performance is rated as "Satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
62.    Less than a year has passed since the SAC was approved. It is therefore rather early to attempt to
draw very firm lessons about the operation and the strategv it embodies. Nevertheless. the exnerience so
far suggests at least some tentative lessons and issues to consider as the program moves forward.
63.    So far the approach of using a one-tranche operation seems to be working well, and this seems
signifiantly related to the way in which the operAtion is rootMA in the CAS and supported hy other lending
and non-lending components of the assistance program. The strategic approach seems particularly
we11-siiited fnr a conintrv where confidence in the =rovernm-_nt's ahilitv to innlen-ment a refarm nr^.amm
needs to be reestablished. The possibilities for this approach to become a model for other similar country
sitohoi-nQ uiggests th tat it mi rht he ,ivefiul to crnn,i,,t an Tntprn ivp T ePm.ina TrC afer th.e next o.ne -or two
one-tranche adjustment operations.
64.    The PRSP process also seems to be working well. It has provided a process for the govemment to
develop ad deepn its program and establish ownership of it. It hs received iput fromn a w,de range of
stakeholders through extensive consultations. It has produced a very ambitious, but coherent and
well :+-n+-gA' refor  -aged  -A~vn  -hich        _42l efrts+ -an Aono  _-+r call Iecoiaed  As~
wLUI-LL.1Vr,LQLA4 IVAU xLI aa...U' WLJU11U, WIU..I1 rJV LdUI-1jL VL1LL QUU U-UUA OUjJjUL VaLJ U UIu. IL&
- 21 -



noted above (paras. 50 and 53), and outlined further below (especially in paras. 65, 66, and 69-73), there
L..LaLU -i- p.W  es           U  I which  L;Ue UP  .  e LUuin, u.iUJi-.LeLaLuIu c.di ub Unpovvdu, aduu ul
consensus behind the PRS can be broadened and deepened. As an evolving approach, the PRSP provides a
65.   In irs         theii  CAS throuugh L   ai L .   uj oufrn-,ru,ic-he uperat,inly, ii wi be impotauint iU
maintain a medium-to-long term focus in the actions supported, to ensure actions start in a timely way
on measyures that have a lo,ger lead time. wlile uhe progress made under SAC appears irnpressive (and
is impressive given the short time span), it is just a beginning compared to what Pakistan seeks to achieve.
I uUiewre WiI Ue 4 UeCU oLU [SiSL ally Lenllency to Iocus too exclusively on the reforms that are feasibie in
the short term. This could easily happen in a process of preparing a series of closely-spaced, one-tranche
operations. A systematic periodic review of the longer-term reform agenda, while preparing each discrete
operation, could help identify areas where initial actions could start in the near term to prepare the ground
for reforms with a longer lead time. This will De particuiarly important for the critical areas of institutional
development and capacity building (see para. 69 below).
66.    It will also be important to ensure that implementation of actions already taken is sustained and
effective in producing the intended outcomes. For example, in social service delivery, it will be essential
to ensure that the higher aggregate budgets for poverty reduction translate into higher actual spending for
social services and a better mix of expenditures, particularly for instructional materials, basic medical
supplies, and other non-salary expenditures at the facility level, and that this leads better learning in
classrooms and improved health services at health centers. A careful analysis of spending levels and
composition, from the point of service delivery upwards through each level of the departments concerned,
may prove useful, as it has in other countries, in highlighting the problems, identifying bottlenecks, and
suggesting solutions. Similarly, in the energy sector, it will be essential to ensure that the agreed pricing
policy for natural gas, and the agreed steps to restructure WAPDA and improve its finances, are
implemented on schedule and consistently.
67.    Other follow-up and supporting operations, both adjustment and non-adjustment, are playing
(and will play) an important role in reinforcing and deepening the reform agenda, and in helping ensure a
focus on the medium term. Such operations include both adjustment and prograrnmatic operations at the
federal and provincial level, and operations like the BSRPP and the operations under preparation to support
national education assessment and AIDS prevention. Non-lending activities, such as the JSA, the PSIA
and the Poverty Assessment, the use of WBI programs to train reform-oriented education and health
officials, and the potential use of an IDF to support the PRSP Secretariat, also have a role to play in
supporting the govemment's overall program. Such complementary lending and non-lending activities can
be particularly useful when the refornns call for analytical approaches and capacities and for institutional
and organizational changes that require substantial time, attention and special skills to implement.
Identifying and developing such operations and activities implies the need for ongoine close coordination
with the key line agencies (especially those responsible for social service delivery), as well as the core
economic ministries, in conducting the analysis necessary to deepen the reforms and to develop the
institutions and capacities needed.
68.    The Pakistan Improvement of Financial Reporting and Auditing Project (PIFRA), provides an
imnnrtant rrnmnle nfhnw nther nneratinnv ran vitnnnrt and dppnon rritirnl arpn.sq nftthe rofnrm nrnarnm
- -r   ----.~-A- -r- -J - ----  ------'.-- ---.--_--rr-1-- - --~ -r----*----------'-J -* -- *  J, -.
This operation, designed to improve Pakistan's systems of public accounting and auditing, had languished
fnr  .evPrny vears nsfter heincg annrnv.ed in 1FV97 die1 tn wavering anv mmPnt numprehin and1 rrnmrnitmrnt
There were strong pressures to cancel the operation in order to improve country portfolio perfomnance
indictors. (yVeen the repntm1 rnro  nf imnnrnvina aovPrn2nSp in the ('AS nne rp,-oni,m,ng the st..ei
-22 -



importance of this operation in any effort to improve govemance in Pakistan, the country team resisted
these pressures. As a result, the Bank maintained a technical and policy dialogue on accounting and
auditing issues and had an instrument in place to respond quickly when the new govemment made
improvements in public financial management one of its core priorities.  This suggests that it is
appropriate to give country teams some flexibility to use their judgment in assessing the costs and
benefits of canceling specific operations and in overall portfolio evaluation.
69.    Looking into the medium-term, it is likely that the program will need to focus increasingly on the
revitalization of core state institutions, already an important objective of the PRS agenda. The
sustainability of the PRS will largely depend on the extent to which its reforns are embodied in a more
focused set of more effective, results-oriented institutions, procedures and systems. As noted above (paras.
46-47), a number of important, even fundamental, initiatives are under way. It will be important to build
on these reforns to find ways to enhance institutional effectiveness, even though experience around the
world provides little in the way of successful, transferable models or instruments. As one input to this
effort, it might be useful to carry out a systematic stock-taking of the efforts underway through an
Institutional and Governance Review (IGR). or similar aDDroach. An IGR could be used to develoD a
framework and a strategic approach for Pakistan to meet its most significant institutional development
needs. It could also provide a basis for the government to coordinate various formns of donor support for
this effort to ensure the priority needs are met. The experience with Thailand's Country Development
Partnerchin could also be examined for nossible relevance for Pakistan.
70.    The cgnvernmPntv' hnid dovnhutinn nrogram nrnvides nnnnrtunitihv nnd rikvs The onnnrhtnities
include a greater voice for Pakistan's people and a major shift in the authorizing environment for the public
sc,rtor. The- risks innh-!ude ai pntf-mtin] disconnec-.t bwen nahina! anti Inc-A! pnririfpcs nArt^-iilArIv wherp.
local bodies are captured by traditional elites, or where the new leaders have not seen or fully appreciated
the benefits of effective disease prevention propram.s or universal access to quality prinmary education. To
reduce these risks, the government could consider: (a) transitional financing arrangements to ensure that the
levels an.d composition of spenkd,ng on basic social seAr-ces at, the difhict lev,el are adpfnm,te to achie;ve
desired outcomes; (b) a major information, awareness and consensus-building campaign to articulate the
gove .eMent's commitment to key ppI outcomes, to buIld understrndir.g and support for theI at the grass
roots, and align all levels of government to work towards achieving them; and, (c) a systematic program to
put in place as rapidly aS possible the cap-i- n.eeded for effec A-e deliver; of social services.
'71.   C-1u        l      OoLU&4&L u. be geth  p----a,,. 's--- ba', bver,n,un-
and broader measures to support growth and improve social service delivery. Particularly where
1Ui1U1114u 4LIU aUlUIinUisUftiVV LbUULLcVb 41V UtULIgly JlsUMLLIUV, UIV JUVVIL5 L argetL Iis so larg, kdaUVUL oeIV-UhiU
of the people), the targeted programs are relatively untested, and the needs for improving social service
delivery are so great, thve argeted prograiLrs raise questlons of equity, effecti-veness, costs, susainability,
and irnpact on incentives. The targeted interventions clearly have a role, and efforts should be made (and
are beuing miade) to evaluate them and im-UHprove UhCemI. Expardirg uheir fundinsg, howe-v-er, should be
carefully weighed against the relatively low levels of funding provided for critical activities like the federal
programs aimed at disease prevention and control.
IZ.   As the PrS unfolds, the Bank wll necessarily work closely with the government, but it will also
need to maintain an independent and objective view, to enable it to make the sorts of constructive
assessments of the program that would be most useful to hie government and consistent witi tne Bank's
fiduciary responsibilities. To maintain this independent view, the Bank mainly needs to continue doing
things it is already doing, including continued consultations with a broad range of stakeholders (as was
done in preparation of the CAS), and carrying out analytical work, such as the Poverty Assessment, the
- 23 -



PSIA, and, importantly, the recently-completed Development Policy Review. As suggested above (para.
54)- an Intensive Leamingy ICR could be conruidered after one or two more onerationn in this te.rieq
Increased use of third party assessments would provide another source for independent views. In addition,
fiurther qtrengthening of the government's monitnoring and e-valiuation and policy analysis capacity colld
help generate the government's own source of objective candid assessments and provide good input for a
frnnk dialnoue on emert ng isqies. in nnrtirilnr it will hp imnnrtrn,t tn m2intnin and ctrPnothp,n the
ongoing intensive dialogue to identify areas of slippage (e.g., natural gas pricing or WAPDA restructuring)
early on, assess the reasons and id-ntify ways to move forward.
73.    Th. government needs to continue mar,n.5gig it.t chall.,i.n.g and cor..l ,-o..por
adroitly. The government's room for maneuver is limited in terms of time, resources and domestic support
.oV.         --      t-or,- . ^   prs.  .   As riy en-      to- restoe conidc znd zhieveLAWL VJA - AAF-  *Aj ,  --e +- -, -  mf;Alc  -A -1U' - t
anticipated supply response and growth is even greater than it was a year ago. The government should
cont-Wnu- -o    lookfo ways to accele>t 1--;. reUo-A--A znd - +U- vLe-e9^f- +U-.e are ----teA to 1-:--n ir
L.iLLULLV, LU IUOL'.101AWCA L%U hI'sss'IUL' Ul~I' L'LJUaJI, aJ.IU UIUZ U.L's LPU'slLZL UI's3 a.AV, VAFV%sbU LUJ ULIUr LIi
terms of growth and poverty reduction. They could also try to identify some "quick wins" (para. 53) that
. 1A ___A_.A   AA_--  .U            L    -   AAXA LA I A. A. .:1IA .3  4___  C  A   _ T_ -  A 1: _ .AI_A--
LAUAU ULAY MJlUV i.miy ILV LV  U I PJ)Ijk aLIU LU UAIU v wPVUL IVI ILULIiL AL dUUIUULL, UIV AVV1UI11LV L
could deepen support for the PRS and help ensure its continuity and sustainability by expanding and
Umpunli g iLb vLLAJUMUL4UU1 wu h key mwiizuuuera, ild uy cuteuvUly IuUmmu,nuu ung uhe twevueuiins aiuu
benefits of the reforms to the wider public on an on-going basis.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
74.    As noted earlier, the Government has prepared its own assessment of the implementation of the
SAC, which is attached as additional Annex 8. The Government is in general agreement with the ICR's
assessment of the SAC and of the performance by the Govemment and the Bank.
175.   T,.e & amno o+U=e A.-ec+ --+ers in +uL.- ope--on  -u ---s coor4 A-a+4o -o9--ue washU -uA.er'
I- .)  I "C1u assI)uLA'sAUI's's uu1CaA F`U's3 ALI UUO UFJiLauu1L, Luvu&lA S.4UOl6i %sIJuLLU.uGuU -suULUIW'- wYLUI vLLI
multilateral and bilateral financing and donor agencies, hence the following two sub-sections are not
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Please see Annexes 7 and 8.
-24 -



PAKISTAN STRUiCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
KEY POLICY MEASURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
*,=iml=fI_                                                                  U                       9 - -- - E-mm 
Actions talken before SAC; Board                                   Follow-up actions taken after SAC and Commnents
-___  __            _    J     p(rSC keypor actions In bold)              -SAC41 keypiactions in bodl; Comments In Italics)
____________               _OVERALL PROGAMN
*    Successful oompletion of Stand-By Arrangement
iJunch hWal support for   Preparation of Drft t-PRSP                           Completion of I-PRSP discussed at IMF and Bank Boards;
Launch Iriftial support foir      *   Imlnrnat  Wn of IMrSa nd - ByS                                        *    PRGIF approved
Govemment PRS                 *    males eatib osfieduaing.                                             *    Debt resstucrinng agreement reached with the Paris Club
*    FolloN-up Second Structural Adjustmeni Credit approved by the Board of tie
____________________       ________________________________________________________ _           _              Bank.
A. GOVERNANCE
A.1 EFFICIENT AND              .   To document the economy and broaden the tax base a tax survey and registraffon  .  A medunn4eam reform strategy and acton-plan foir the CBIR has been
EQlITABLE MOBIULATION OF          drive is undenvay. First two phases based on the! twenty-six lgest cities  approved by the GCovernmenL As a  oart of this process, the iuncffonal
RESOURCES                          completed leading to updated documentation of about 1.3 million businesses and  reorganizafion of CIBR has been conpteted as; prescribed by the mediurm term
nddiviiuals and the registration of 120,000 new taK payers.                strategy. CEBR leadtarship changed.  nishing returns to hNrLier tax sujvey arel
To bnproe tax poilcy and tax   .   Action plan fao the funcfional and personnel refonn of CBF completed.      registnation drives pedIng b7p1 er6nntatioon of more hrudamental C8R rfomis nowv
administratfin to increase                                                                                    undetway.
revenues and iprOVE            *   Committee charged whh the preparmtion of a new modem Income Tax Ordihance  .  A New Income Tax Ordinance based on self-assessment. minirnal exemptions, and
gornarr   .                        has submitted its final report to t,ovemment.                             simplified and more equitable rates has been promulgated.
*   To broaden the tax base and achieve a rnore equitable distribution of the tax  E Each Povince has apr ld such a tax on rgdcuture; s gnitficant political and
burde'n agriotihrral income is being brought into the tax net. Provices have  acrnlnistrartive obsticdes are stoving rnptee"ntation.
introdluced a No tier agnicultural income tax with acreage-based land tax and
Inoome tax for large farms.
*   To Increase the efficiency of the tax syisem, the GST has been extended to  *  To increase the efficiency of the tax system the GST has been extended to
services, which were subject to exdise taxes, and to scnem agriculture inputs.  agricultural inputs, Induding fertilizer, and non-essenial pharmareuticals. To
Increase the effidency of the tax system the GST compliance requiremernts have
been extended to all traders with annual tum-civer in exces of Fts. 5 miiUon.
A.2 EFFICIENT AND              .   To Improve thIe quliaty of the public Investment program, the process for approval  .  To improve quality cl public investmenet program: (a) thie Planning Cotnmission's
ACCOUNTABLE USE OF                 of new road infrastructure projects has been revised. The integrity of the process  Chief Eonoxmist signs off on all prject appraisals subrnitted for te 8poval of the
RESOURCES                          has been restbxed by subiecting all proposals to the scrutny of the Planning  Central Development Working Party, tihe ExecLtive Cormmittee of the National
Commission, the Central Development Working FParty, anci final approval by the  Economic Council; (b) progress reports on prqiect implementation are being prepared
To stengthen expenditure           Executve Conmitee cil the National Economic Council. Improved qualilyofthe  on a semi-annual basis; and (c) the public Investment program Is being prepared as a
conltdos and improve the quality   public investrrent budget in the FY01 budget through reduction in new initiatives,  three-year rolling plin for a medium-term budget framework.
of the expenditure prcgram.        focus in completion of exsting prcorams -specially in the road seclor, and  a  To promote fiscal transparency and sustalnability, all new public enterprise borrwimng
reallccation of resources towarcls poverty reducfion.                     and other contingent liabilities are published in the budget and economic survey.
.   To improve expenditune prograrnming by increasing predkitability in budget
releases a New systemoffinanocia cntrolsand budgetingn isbeirgimplemented Foollow-up nc nolementtion rneded to ensure lnew system' wrks well, especlaPy
____________      sinco     ~     ~      maidl onrlsan bdgfng i birgimle0.ntd               for, high prMky social programs at fedeeal and provncial level.



Actions taaken before SAC Board                                   F:ollow.up actions taken after SAC and Commnents
_    _                    ( Toimprove __SAC key prior actions irn bold)                  (SC4lkey pnor actLons in bold; commrients In italics)
. To improveoverall budget management, including the strategic focIus of  *  The federal budget for fiscal year 2001102 has been prepared within a medium term
expenditures and the quality of the invesiment program, the government is  budget framework. The federal and the provindal budgets of Srindh and INWFP fcor
adoptin9 a medium-term budget framework (MTBF). Preparation or the FY02  fiscal year 2002103 are being prepared within a medium term budget framnew k.
budgiet is underwvay with MTB framework. This includes ulpfront approval of broad
sectorexpenditureallocations bt the Chief Executive and joint conn;ideratior of
rncunenl and capital ependitures in sector budgets.                  *    The uovemment has impleiented the separaiion of the audit and accounting
*   The govemmient has Issued: (a) an Ordinance definingi the functions, powers  functions. The accounting function is; now under the purview of the CGA. Continued
To improve public financdal        and terms and conditons of service of the Auditor General of Pakistan; and  follow-up auring im:lementation needed to ensure CGA has adequate budget,
accountability through             (b) an Ordinance establishing a new office of the Controller General of  facilities, andauthoy to hire needecf staff amd suprvise povhicial AcoDuntants
improvements in procurefient,      Accounts (CGIAL all with a view to separating ithe public accounting and  Geneni, sD that a clear line of accountabiity is establshed over th cadhe
accounUntg audfits, and hlenteal   audWflng funchons.                                                       responsib/t7 for miiitatining accounts, Mdtbe retbmrnhas its intisnded etred ofmore
controls.                                                                                                   accurate timely and consistent accounts.
*   The govermment has adopted a revised form, principles and methods of  .   The timeliness and reliability of the public acounts ha; been in7ptoved at the feberal
accounting fir the federation and the provinces, with a view to meeting the  and provincial levels. The CGA has established a shol and medium term program
requirements of a modem Integrated financial management system            to improve timeliness and reconciliation of aco(unts, reduce unidentified
designed to provide timely and relable Informatlon for budget management.  expenditures; and strengthen intemal controls. ReFomis indudie: ta) einlnating
financial conlrol, cash forecasting and trend analysis, fiscal admilnstrtdion  settlement accounts; and (b)l requIring daily bank recoraciiationd . Reconiliation of
and dlebt management purposes.                                            acxounts between line Departments end the Accountant General has inreased lo
C)                                                                                                                       almost 100% at the federai Ive, NWFP. and Balhislan and to about 80%
*   The govemment has established fiscal monitoring committees at the federal  inSindh. Ptogress hias been limited in Punjab where less than 50% of axounts are
and provincial levels to oversee the preparadion and dissemination of timely  reconciled.
reconciled expenditure data, Ith a viFw to Imiproving the quality and  .    rrilentg'o of imDroverents in finandal managementontinues wii finada
reliability of public financial statements. The preparation and dissemirnation  smpltion oF  impro   sei fi   naFenint cnt        with inac  s
of such data at the federal leviel has been completed for the finst semester of  suppor helo PndFr thPaistn Impog reforms in a cohmal t R rtinganAl  rnje f ) durIs
f Y 2tW041.                                                               lrmewa*, with associated systems, hardware and soalware. Trating rograns
strould ettempt to irned a sWft u in ulunre as well s techniques. PIFta andAre
possible PIFRA-I culd suppoit a progarn to stngthen financlar management d
the distict leve1.
*   Tbe government has Issued an orcinance lo estabish the iakistan
*    The govermment has agreed with the Biank through a CPAR on a strategy for  Ptrocurenment Regilkatory /authority with a view to regulate the prourement of
procurement nform. Procurement reforrn in education sector undertaken to allow  goods, serves, and vorkis In the public sector.
free entry to publishers for textbook bids.
A.3 TRANSFPARENC'Y,                 olwn     osiair     rcs lanhdin April 2000, the Devolution Flan was  *  Elections A) the representatve bodies at DistA*t Tehsil, and Union lescoped
PARTICIPATION, AND                 prom-lgated on August 14, 2000.                                          successfullythroughout Pakistan on schedule. The Iocal Government Ordinances
ACCOUNTABIULCTY                                                                                             to reconstruct and regulate ltcal governments were promulgated on AugSust 2001 In
   Constituton of Provn al Finance Committees to develop rechanisms and      each of the four provinces. The local govemments have started their functio  with
Devolution to make government      arrangements for fiscal decentradization from the provincial goverinment to tine  their own budget unider transition arrangements with the provincial gover'nments.
morei accuntable to the people      itat                                                                    Cl'ose monitoonng of expenditures shctud beudertaken to ensure adequfate levels
and increase the quality of public  dscs.and composition of spenincj on basit, educatiDn and health pIrograms. 1l#or*
services in eucatin, health,  *   Estabtshment fd legal framework defining the personnel, administrative, fiscal, and  continues oput in iehe caacites and administrasive, fnanciaand
security, justice, and basic      budget managementlaccountability arrangements during h firpase of         account abiliY systems needed for el'aiv~tle operfatins. This proces wilti need
infraitructure.                   devolutUon. Work undelaken with technical assistanc ron the Wridd Bank and  continued monitoring and support.
Asian Development Bank.



Actions talken before SAC Board                                   Follow-up actions taken after SAC and Comrnents
(SAC kw pn'or actions in bold)        _A_IC-l key prior acdons in boldl; comments in italics)
o ii>    accountabiSiii j by  .  T                                                                         Tlle timeliness of PAC reviews, and Their availability to the pess, has prompted
enharndng the public's aess to    hoc public Accounts Committee (PAC) have been estabhished. To increase    muc mnore dreci acwuntatility, pubic scauiny and debate on pubic firiancal
infotmation,                      transparency and accountability, the press has been provided access to the  ianement ano prourement itclin huch areas as defe Over time INs
deiRberations of federal PAC.                                             pFoss colud substantially improve pubc resourcie use.
*   The provnLncid ad-hoc PubifcAccAunts Commites have opened their
haarlngS lb the press.
*   The cutstancring aucdi reports of the Federation fcr FY98 and FY99 have been  *  The FY01 Public Auit Repoft has been carried In a timely manner and with
released to the ad-hoc PAC.                                              increased attenion to the aLuit of systemic problems. It has been released and
made public in Marh, 2002. Efiletpmocedurs nes dto bed pVlfobermiw
oaWfts by dparVtment concemed, so that most disputes canl be reded and
caxrcive adtions taken at in eady stage, freibg PACs to fboss on mou systen*
issues.
*    Initialed publication and dfissemination olp ubic fi nancial inrfomation through  *  Tlhe Federal Minisby of Fmance and Sdh Depatnirt of Finance are naking
Maistry of Fmace we site.                                                qjartery fiscal data availabie to the public. Publicatio of cntingern lbelties have
b3en made part of lhe Annual Economic Survey.
A.4 CML SIERVICE REFORMI      *    The lovernment has issued an Ordinamce amending INs Federml Pubbc    .   Parallel steps to strengthen Provindal PSCs being undertaken in provices (e.g.,
Service Commission (FPSC) Ordinance, so as to enhance FPSC's             Sindh), with support from pcitenial prv al programmnatic adjustment operations,
To improve the performanose cf     Independence, increase its fiandal autonomf, expand is role in the       under preparation.
the dvf service by restoIng        recnitanent of pubic servants, and innit and lefSne the posts wnhich are
hitegriy, autonomy, and adopton   outsIde it purview. [Th FPSC has initiated review of all appointnents made in
of rodem personnel and             contravention with established Fpocedures. Unquarietd appointmenits are being
maragemenl pracdes.               terminated.
.   To imarove performance and reduce corruption the Civil Service Act has been  *  To improe perorrmaknce and reduce camuptkin the Cml Service Act has been
amended to enable the government to prematurely retire cMI servants who are  amund to be Inefiiernt and have rmenteted 20 years rd setie   Sorne 2,s73 h av
foundl to be 5 mgffident End have wripeted 25 years of serbee. A Femoval hom  rtwts have beer retired earty under this provision. Over 2,500 employees have
Serice (Special Powers) Ordinance has been issued to eclaediliously mors  been removed under the Removal from Service (Special Powers) Ordinance. Sirmlar
from Ihe seMve officers invoved in corruption.                           provincial ordinanc  have riot yet led to significant numbers of removals, but send
an important signal.
*    New systems and regulakions being implemented to strenclthen career  .   To improve the quafity and performance of hiclher level staff, examination
management, promoticn, and evaluation procedures. Delegation of powers In all  requirements have been established as a prrequisite for pomotions go, grades 17,
these areas granted to line managers.                                    19 and 20j.
*   Commnittee on Civil Service Restructure and Downsizing has completed analysis  *  The govemment has implemented initial phaseof right-sizing program of the
and recommendations for broad reform ci federal govemmrenL Prcgram started in  Federal Secretariat by elimbiaing vacant posts and pladng reclundant personnel In
Pakistan railways. Finandal viability being restored and reforms indude the  a surplus pool.
elimnniaton of 4O,000 (out of 135i,000) posts and ;23,000 'ghost' pensioners.
*    Cominittee on Civil Service Pay and Benefits Reform andl Establishment Division  Tihe first phase of the pay and pension rfornm prolram for the federal
have comleted analysis and recommendaions leading to broad based dvil    government's cMUasn and miliay personnel has been mplmented through:
service retonrms                                                         (ai) the reision of pay.cales; and (b) the rationalization of pensoion benefitls.
Puy scales inceased by 50%6 over scales lasi set in 1994. Su uequwnt refomns in
pay scales reed to be based on dw dugh aoanator studies and further mubmer of
the pensiorn syst em, need to be anchored in a careful firnandial and actuadial analysis.



Actions taken before SAC: Board                                  IFollow-up actions takein after SAC and Comments
- -   -  -_ _______        (SAC key pnor actions in bold)                                                 actC.l keypoadions In boldl; commebnts in tlics)
B. ACHEVING BROAD BASED GROIWTH
8.1 TAX POLICY REFORM         .    Package of fiscal measures to underpin tihe revenue targets for 199912000 and  N Note: These measures wereiomplemented. Follow-up on tax measures covered in
FOR MACROECONOMIC                  2000i01 was enacted. Measures indude: (a) colledion of GST to electricity; (b)  soxction A 1 above and B.2 lelow and on petboleum pncing policy in a;' below.
SUSTAINABILITY                     quariedy adjiustments of petroleum prices In line with interatonal prces;
(c) elimination of subsidy on furmace oil; (d) elimiration of income tax whitener
To achieve a significant increaie  schemes; and (e) elimination of exemptions for GST, income tax, and custom
in revenues to reduce the fiscal   duties.
detict create! fiscal space for  *  Fuller int ration of agiculture into the lax net by extending the GST to selected  *  See Section A. I on extension of GST, which now also includes pestiddes.
poverty reduction, andl promote a  agricultural inputs (2001).
more equitable distribution of Die
tax burden.                   *    Impementaion of far-reaching program lo increase user-charge fees in the  .  Toll collections have risen A) about Rs. 2 billion per year and &a8 expecWed to reach
transport sectox through expansion of tolls. Revenue increased fifteen4old to Rs.  Rs. 3 billion in 3 years.
1.5 billion.
B.2 PRIVATIZATION AND         *    Cabinet appnoval of a short and medium term strategy andl Umetable for  *  The Sui North LPG plant has been privalized, and the bidding for a large fertilizer
DEREGULATION REFORM                psivalization. The program focuses in the pnvaUtzaion of ariUcal large public  plant (Saudi-Pak) and for working interest in nine oil and gas fields has been
enterprises in power, telecommunications, banking, oil and gas.           campleted
To pmmot,,e growUfi by redudintl
the lole of the state in productive  .  To facillate privatzation, a Privatizaton OrdInance has been enacted. The  .  Preparatons continue to conplete transactions in:
activifies, imroving governance    ordihance viewto provides fir: (a) a fair and transparent privatization  .  Habib Bank Utl., or United Bank Ltd.
by lib-ibng the opportunities for  process; (b) tire ulizaton of pnivatiton proceeds to retfederal          *  Pakistan TeteoDmmunicatons Company ILtd.
rent-seeking behavior.             govemrnment debt andc alleviate poverty; and Cc) an expedidous mechanism  * Oi and Gas Develpment Corporation
for nsolutoni of prlvatization-related disputes;.                            Pakistan Petroleum Ltd.
* Karachi Electricit Supply Corporation
.   The privatization of Sul South LPG Plant has been completed.              ,  At leasd one distribution companyf from WAPDA's hiolcring.
Current investment dimate mnakes timetable fDr privatization uncertain.
. The Preskient has consttuteud an nbter-Ministerial Deregulation CommIttee chaired
by the Minister of Finance to oversee and guide deregulaton across sectors. Tte
Deregulaton Comrnittee at the Mnistry of Commerce and Industries has already
been established to implement a program to Improve the business environment iby
modernizing laws and regulations in the areas of (a) labor legislation; (b) health
Industrial, and environmental regulations; and (c) SROs through their simplificaion
and consolidation. It maybe useful for th CmmiHtee' to focus especiy aon
deregulation of sectors (such as agncufture, energy, telecommuniatons, trasort,
sbeal end cement) iwhich sarve as imipotant inWuts for th rest of the eomory.
Survey of small andl medfiumi businesses undeBrway to hep In design of deregulatin
strategy.
*   Price and profiteering andl hoarding controls on all but tvni of the sibty-six
essential producs specR9ied in the Schedule to the govemments Price Control
and Prevention of Profiteering and Hoarding Act of 1977 [lo XXIX] have been
removed.
*   Continued Implementation of program to grant no new exemptons or special
privileges regarding inoome tax, cuslom dufiis GST, ix to impDse new regulatay
dutes. Phasing olt of time-bound regulatory import duties and no adorpton of neo
ones except tor existing coritracts or international corinitmnents.



**,=3S, immmmmmmu mmmmmmmm
Actions taken before SAC Board                                      Follow-up acdons taken after SAC and Commnents
________________       _                        (SAC key prlor actions in bold)                                 (SAC-II keypr!ioractions in bold; commrents In italics)
8.3 TRADERIEFORMI                   To reduce nominal protection and bribg the maximum nominal effective  *   To reduce the antieport bias and enrcourage exports, the maximum tariff rate has
tariff to 35 percent. the differential application of excise taxes on Imported  been reduced from 35 percent to 30 pIercent and tie tariff slabs reduced from 5 to 4.
To improve export perlormancE       and domestic products has been eliminated for all bul eleven productsl now  Fu,lhr red ctudions (to 25% a*nd 3 slabs) e)pected Janutay 2003.
by red    anti-export bias of       subj.ct to regulatory duties.                                         *   (al Actions have been taken by CBR to Increase thE transpirency and speed of
trndeponi                      .   To reduce effective protection and increase the trnsparency of trale pCicy  refunds of the GST and duty drawtbacks to exporters; and (b) such refunds In
custoim duty exemptions have been largely eliminated and those that are trne-  the first 9 months of FY02 have registered an Increse of about 456 ever such
bound will be allowed to lapse. .refunds in the correspondling period of FY01.                                          
a   The federal and prvincial govemmeits have removed al restrictions to interdisliid
*    To eliminate distortions and promote agciculture exports, unit value of exporl  and/or Inter-province transport of agrculture commodities, induding wheat, The
norms; for ac9riclture products have been eliminated, raw otton e"ports have  provindal govemrnments havel removed all restictions to the freei movement of
been liberalized. Wheal subsidies reduced by raising procurement prioes clser to  cefrtified seeds throughout each provinoe. The government has liberalized the
_        inlemanionai pces. Whiean  cts authcyzed yet not ona pernent basis.       imports amd exports of alt aiculture Drodud_s.
8.4 BANKING AND FINANCLU       *   Strengthening of state-owned finrandai inAitutions through the reowery of PlRs.48  .  As part of the restnrcturing non-perfcrming financial institutions, the countrys
SECTOR REIFORM                     billion of outstanding non-performning loans.                              largest non-bank instution - the National Finance Development Corporation - has
been closed through a merger with the state-owvned Natonal Bank of Pakistan.
Improve sectir govemance                    .                                                                 To strengthen barnrig system regulations and enhance the quality of nronetary
N              trhergh ed bvaldin a              Continued strengthening of banking supervision. The Baniking Companies Act has  palicy, the non-core funcions of the State Bank of Paiistan (S13P) have been
D             ssrengtn    ankng                  been amended to enfori ecapital adequacy ratios in line vAth international  devolved to a newlv created SBP Banking Servioes Corporation. Regulatons on
*  supervision,                    standards                                                                   opening aid closing bank biranches have been liberarized.
*   TD improve financial sector govemanie and strengthen the banking system, the
1!997 Loan Recovery Act has been amended to fadHitate foredosure of bank
*    In preparation for pnivafizafion, ihe three large nalionalized commercial banks  ollatsral
have prepared, and calinet has approved, restructuring pograms based oni a  .  Tlhe restructuing of the three naionalized oonmercial banks has been initated. Six
signHicant reduction in personnel and unproductihe brancties.              hundred and fifty branches have been dosed and eighit thousand staff have taken
voluntary ietrement. Program also supported by Banking Sector Resinjturing and
*    Divestment of 8% of gcoemment shares in Muslirn Commierdal Bank completed.  Privatization Project, which is progressing well.
Govemment mninorty shares now at 150%.                                .    The government has divested 10 % of its shares In thei Naional Bank oif Pakistan,
and further divested its minwrity shares of Muslim Comrnercial IBank frorn 15% tCI
Reduoe financial market       .   To recluce financial market segmentation and the ciost of borrowing:       9S
distortions and increase the       * the interest rate on Nabonal Saving Schemes (NSS) has; been reduced and  .  Pakistan Ihvestmerit Bonds (PlBs) ofvarying matufies now sold at regular aucions
effim     of gnl emretdebt           in pliaut dosrto he   bein raecs. lah               t     Sind have raised about Rs. 40 billion. Rates en new NSS issues wilt be based oii
management Ithrough ireforms in    # ntitucanatnestrhaebnpecLddfofpuhsigN(alSvg                               benchmarks set by PIB issues. NSS interest rates have declineDd by about 5.5
the National Savings Scheme        . NSIS interest rates of Defense certificalles are determined through      percentagt points since Ma, 1999.
(NSS) System.                        benchmarkiing with m ne long-term debl instrumnits.                               _
B.5 POWER SECTORt REFORtM      .   Finanial restn durunn of WAPDA initiated. As part of it WAPDA's S650 million  *  VArth a view to cornpleUng the corporalizatlin of WWNDA  (a) the transfr ol!
outstanding debt service liabilities to GOF was canverted into GOP equity.  staff In Basic Pay Scales (BPS) 1-116 from WAPDA Ito the GENCOs ithe tTDC,
To establish a competbive electric  Onlgong process to transform WAPDA s holdings of distribution, transmission,  aind the DISCOs has been completed; (b) valid operating lIcenses have been
power systerri consisti]ng of      and generatior cornpanies into twelve autonomous and financially viable entities.  issued by NEPRA to the DISCOs; and (c) the prfnciples for the supplementary
privately-owned, financially       Actiorsindcude:(a)creationofthreegeneraionacmpaniesx(GENCOs) one            Business Transfeir Agreements, providing for the transfer of assets, labilities,
viable, and eficienty operated     transnission (NTDC), and eight distribution companies (DISCOS); (lb) license  and other rights and obligations from WAFIDA to its succerssor companies,
companies.                         applications for new companies submitted to the regulatory authoritf by all th e  have been approved by the Govemnment Ihe rermlining staff levels 17 and
newly crealed DISCOs; (c) independent accounting prepared for all the new  above are scheduled to be transtfemd in September 2002
companies; (d) tontinued progress on transfer of assets, liabilities and staff, from
WAPDA to the new companies; and (e) appointment of prnsessiona management
in the companies.



Actions taken before SAC: Board                                   I:ollow-uip actions taken after SAC and Comrnents
________________  _(SAC key prior actions in bold)                                        (&AC-II_key pror acfons In boldl; commients in Italics)
.     Implementation of 4.9 percent tariff increasein Decembter2000 and 4.5  *  (a) A flnancial Improvement plan has been agreed between the government and
percent In Man:h 2001 1o help WAPDA reach targets of Its financial        WAPDA, setting out the measures needed hor WAPDA and Its successor
restructuring plan.                                                       cornpanies to become financbily viable, Including taiff and non4arff
adjustments which wvil enable WAPDA and Its sueeessor companles to achievev
under a reasonable forecast of revenues anid enpenditurs, an overall debt
service coverage rato of 1.t by the end of FY03; and (b) pursuantto such plan,
a tawIff Incnrase of ils. 0.045 per kWh on account of the fuel adjustment cost
dettrmined by NEPRA as at the end of March 2002, logether vwth an interlm
together wtth an Inteim strnctural triff Increase of IRs. 0.08 per kWh, hms been
Introduced effective May 15, 2002. The inteiim stmdural adjustment amounts to an
inciease of 3 %.
.   A fornula-based automatic fuel adjustment clause for quartertV adjustments  *  O terty austmenis have taken place, but usually aftir delays, and not
In electricity ariffs has been riotified aind two adjustments undertaken under  autiomatically.
these! provislons.
.    Ministry of Water andl Power Ihas Issued new ltarff settng policies to
NEPFA, that will allov for:
.  Ditfferentil tariffs or KESI: and for each oi the DISCOs.         *  AsDosuppcoted efforts underway to improve fiaancdal viability of KESC and prepare It
.  Reducion of cross subsidlies betwAieen consumer categories, except for  for ipdvatization.
O                                                   lifeline railes.
*  Establishment of formula-based, rnultl.year tariff aidjustments.
B.6 NATURAL GAS SECTOR        .    Adoption of a ne-wgas pricing framevworrk providing foritsettng o    *    (a) a new Gas Pricing Framework for Pakistan Petroleum ltd (PPLJI gas hall
REFDRM                            well-head prices based on International crude (or fuel) ol pHces: (ii) the  been established, which will bring the PPL welhead price up to, an mainiain
semi-annual revision of consuimer prices; (ill) ithe phasing outlof subsidies  it at about half of the price fixed for the Zcine Ill gas fields as defined In the
To enhance sector development     overa three-year period, excqpt In relaigon tothe Fertilizersectrand a    government's Petroleum Fxplmoraon and Production Pollc; dated MNay 1, 2001,
thirogh lariff refonm, privalization,  lifeline rate for domeslic consumers; amd (iv) the phasad adjustment ol  through successhre semI-annual adjustments over a perod of five years; and
and improved regulatory           consumer prices, so ais to reflect the cost of service. 1The first semi-annual  (b) the finrst adjustrment of IPPL gas prices under this Framevwrk has taken
environment.                      consuimer price adjustment ol 44 percent under the rnew gas pricing       place and Is reflected In consumer prices. The incrDae in PPL's gr was abDUt
framework for, the seniester eniding June 30, 21001 was Implemeinted In Nah U  The new price will be linked to the pricespaktdfor gas horn wereently
2001.                                                                     deve4tped private sector fields, wkch are based on wotd matnet oil prices.
.*        lack of a retail tariff adjustment in September 2001ifwhich was delayed to March
200Z has delayed the efficbency and equity gains antilcipat ad from this riportant set
of policies, and postponed time li twrhen the polides wll be conrsidered predtdable
and ancha red in epedaftiocis. Once the policies are constafyimplaenented,
incentives for the more effloant development of gas fields and lse of gas should
improve; the distortionaty ard very podty targetad consumer aid producer
subsidias should d cline; and the scope for government to capture a laler sharen of
the associated rents to improve iDs fiscal position should expamt. Subsequent
refomms wil be needed to realize the full benefits ofthis policy, ospeclalit through
redudions of the subsidy to fertilizer pnoductkc, betler targeting of the '7ifeline rae'
for households, anc revising transmission anc distnibuLion pricing policy to promote
*   improved managernent of public: sector entities by the appointment of a Board of  elficency and more stable govemrnment revenies. Subsidies not yet reflected
Diredors conSin9 private sector professionals that have been granted greater  explicitlyin budget.
aulonomY snd waccountability
.   The government has issued an ordinance to establish Ihe Oil and Gas Regulatory
*   A nrr Gas-Regulatory Authority (GRA) has been establistied.               Authority.



Actions taken beforei SAC Board                                   Folliow-up actions; taken after SAC and Comments
ISAC key prior actions in bold)                                 (SAC-Il ke  rlpor actions In bold; comments In italles)
B.7 PFTROLEIJM SECTOR         *   The govenmmenit    e etablishet a system for quarterly adjustments of  .  a)        i     e     iedI  bye govennme nt n           t       a
REFORiM                           petroleum pnces at the consumer level inline with internaional price      ex-nafinery prices of all petro,leum products are based upon intemational
movemients.                                                               pricas and adjusted automatkcaly on a fortnightly basis; and (b) sInce July 1,
To nrcrsase sector efficiecy nd                                                                             20.01 vith thi? exceptlon of the perod behweer Mawrh 15 and Ilay 15, 2002. all
growth through deregtaulon and  *  Furnace oil pricas and markets deregulated since July 1, 2000 through    scheduled price adJistments have taken pblace. This Is a maor policy
market liberalindion to sihanoe                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~achievement. Its impac on efficidency and competton Would be Aurtherenhranced j
market libifio iontoenhance       liberalzation of imports, transpit and prices thirough the production andi  the rnarket for diesel ci (about 45% of IDatl onsumponJ were fwther deregulated
distribution chain.                                                       and tf the intemational prcews mere treated as ce7rings.
*   LPG prices and markets deregulated by liberalizing prices through the- -   The import of oil products has been liberalized, with refineries and the oil marketing
produclion and distbibullon chain from Oct 1 2000.                       cormpanies authorized to import their reiuirements directly. The continuing diesel ao
pri pooling arrangemnents amrong marketing companies limits compeIti
.    The transpot pdties of petroletm products have been dereguate=orse day
markets. Prices allowed to difffer acromssom geograhidaes The etllcienrw
inrpac of this measure will be Iimr7ed sinco secondarl market fransport costs area
smai fraction Of otal trensport costs.
.   The proision of subsidies to tle refineries has been made transparent antl they an,
B Board ofr Directors of State Owned Enterprises have been re-oonstituted with  prvide through the rational tudget.
private sector professionals and giDen grealer autonomy, corporate responsibility,
CA)                                             and aonDuntability.
*   Program for privaization cif oil and gas develpment corporalion has been agreed  Finac  advisorso E adnted and due dilige  nctehiew C ingd outr
*                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and approved by Cabinet.                                *    Privatization of Sui North LPG plant conipleted and the bidding for prvate sector
*   Privatizadion of Siji South LPG plant compledtec                          wtrktng intere?st in nine oil fwelds has been competed.
Introduce dearf products to   *   Discontinuation of use of FON 80 ( asoine.*                               As part of the programn to imprcve the qjality of petroleum produds, unleaded
protec the environ dteno.                                         . n.                                      gasoline has been made available thrxghout sevent percent of the counlry.
____ Unleaded Qasrollns nonr repn sents over  4tihs o total gasolint consumotron.
C. hUMAN DIEVELO0 MENTiND SOCKfL PR1TECTION.
CA1 EDUCATION                 .    Development of a comprehensive Education Relfrm Stndegy and Action  .    Purnuant to Ithe Education Secor Refbrm Program: (a) addhtional budgetary
Plan by the Federal Goveemment and the Provinces.                        resources (Rs 2 bn.) for education have beerni dkrectei at tie provincial,
Increase the percentage of                                                                                 terrhTorW and disbtit govemrnent levels; the Natonal Education Asstssment
elernlenrtary age children enrolled                                                                        tnitidve has been laiunched; and (c) ischool rehabilitation, teacher traIning,
in and compirg primary                                                                                      and girls schiooling and feedl[ng programs at ithe federal, provincal aid local
sdooing, while narrowing the                                                                                govermment levels have beern expandled. Ongoing wu(r underway to: translate
gaps between males ancl females                                                                             ESR inio spe  c prgrams ani polcies to arievet Me desired enrlment itd
and urban and rural students.                                                                              leainhg outcomes; and to morin  rientelan Btter estimatieof curnrnt
enrmlment levels and causes needed to ascertain gap behveen current siftation aml
UPE goats, identfy pongranms, and measure pmrgress. A possbl'e Wodd Bank-
finanead LIL is under preparation to assist with the National Education Assessment
effoL MoUs signedbet weenp vfoinces and fedtelrlgovaemmnetn ESR
implementation.
*   The consolidated budget allocations of the federal, provinial, and district
Inc   e the knoedge and skills                                                                                                 eduaion have increased to Rs 72.5 billicn or 2.0 percent of
detenrentary shoiJ stu7ents by                                                                              GDP.Systen o7 nslers todi;trcts andschool;needs tD be developed and
improving the qutality of resource                                                                                                                      ding (as W   as budgets)
inputs and achaengdequate                                                                                             acisve desirdprmary s  ol enrome antd eamig outcoes. No
effectIve use of l.h                                                                                        measurable progrss so farn use of non-salary budget. Total spendig likely lo be
well Ibelow budgets, especiadly lin non-sadary areas.



IM*                                  1mmmmmmm                                                          :mmmm,mmmmo
Actions taken before SAC Board                                    Follow-up actions taken after SAC and Comment;
(SAC key prior actionti in bold)      __             -          (SAC41 key prior actions in bold; conments In ltalihs
a -  7T  provethe delinery of services and the use of scarce resources the Prrovince  *  Provinces, territories, and the fedrwal goverment are implementing programs to
and terrntonies are undenaking the fol*nng actions:                      impro seice delivery fhrough improved human oesource manageant,
*  Rationlizing of linvestmnent programs ri all provinces. Iocus In       rndeploymsentvolstafftiv throu-ased tnproved hutrants re sedexamna nate n
finishing ongoing school-buildIng programs belore inisiting new ones.  prcedrites, teacher training programs, control of staff absenteeism; and incentive.
*  Provinces havet establisthed stronger montoringl systems for teacher   based payments based cnpertorrnance. Sindh, for example, has initieted a program
absenteeism and enforcement of sanctions.                              to test competercy of teachers and provide remedil retraining wres? naedeo hired
Hiring of new teachers largely being conducted through contract hinng    significwnt number of new teachers on contract and made progress in empopveing
.  Intensfied efforts to devolve management of non-salary budgets to Om school  parenteacheressocaticans. The extent and effectiveness of these initiatives nseds
level through parent-leacher assoxations or teachers.                 to be assessed so they cn be relcated cr modified as apprrate. As indi'cated In
the ESR and l-PRSP, the= educthn departnts need to develop shible capacities
and systems at district, provincial and natinal leves, to monihor, superviste ard
evafustie bnplementathon of the education strategy /against iveodissaminated
service standarcs, benchmarks and outcomes), anlyze the resuts share with the
public and take c orrectv? action. The govemment has taken an Imnprtant finst step
in this direction byappoiritng high calibersecretaries to leaC provincial educaton
departments, and maintalning theMrn in place ionf enough to be aCCiuntable for
results. Wdespread communication to the pubtic of nabonal provM icat and dishict
commniment to these standards, benchmarks and ixftme2¢ could help elign and
focus eftfots ina dwcedrslized system  Pttental UWord Bank pmrgrammatc lending
for provincial adjustment programs (under preparaton in Sindh and NWFP), and for
proposed PRSC operations would assist inl devebping the capaces and systems to
design and Impirment programs bt imprwv enrollnent and leaming otomes.
. To Increase public financing of pitvate education, tIhe federal govemrnent has
approved a new charter for the Naidonal Education IFoundaton.
*   The Cabinet has; approved a nabonal strategy to promote pr vate sector participation
in education. A new pacrage ofincentives orpvate. nonw-pfit schools has ibeen
nnMounced.           _                                                 -
C2 HEALTH                     .    Family Plarining ancl maternml and child health care programs have been  a  Pursuant to the National Health Policy: i a) an enhanced Expanded
strengthened through increases in fenale health staff mrostly through the Lady  immunnu atlon F ram for children has been lauched; (b) the Lady Health
Inmprove the health status of the  Health Workers, which already reach 43 000. To reduce matemal morbkfily and  Workers Progam has been strengthened through the appointmeint of an
populstion through the expansion   moitality, targted programs in 20 rural districts are undlerway.         additional10,O0 Lady FHealth Workers (ind the merger of stffrom a simniar
and improved qualit of                                                                                      progamn under the Ministr of Fopulaton and 11elfare); I(c) the Tuberculosis
peventive and pub  health                                                                                   Controll Progran has been expanded; aud (d) a nnatiens sutegh: HIVAIDS
systems.                                                                                                    prevention proiram hasi been formulated and b about to be lunchded. Inbtl
FY02 bihdgets for EPI and other fadera6 healh programs wee inadeqtuate untY
suppler7ented by edditional forein grsnf assistance made avasable i second
quarter. Use of irunds on sorm pronrams may be dilayed bJy slow clwarance rnd
release procedures. Toted health snding likely to be well tebrw budgets
espedally on the cr9itcal ron-salarp armes Given the priy these Progranis have In
the PRS, budgealocatikn and use need o be- carefully mordtoredi Contraceptive
suppty iroblms need to be rsoAed to improv Impact of fondly plarn nug efrts.
Stongo leaders hp and continuity have ben mnabttalrrd In Fderal Hfealth
Department. World Bank financedl operabcm to support HIVIAIDS prevrention
prgram Ih advanced state of preparation. AsDB financed Women's Health Poect
under inpe ,menlatdon to improve mnatemal health serices In 20 disIcts and Flns
are being developed for another 35 districts



Actions taken before SAC Board                                       Follow-up actions taken after SAC and Comments
_ .            _      (SAC kypDr actions in bold)                                       (SAC   key   ror actions In bold; comments in Ktallcs)
The federal and pmvlncial govemments have prepared thie proect poposaLs (PC-
Is) and financing mechanism fcr implementation of the enhanced lxpanded
Programr of Irmmunizahion for childten wilh GAVI assistance. Implementation could
slta in the last quaner of FY02.
* Then) are somea preliminary indicteons of hmnp,oymenls Ag coverarae of
a    Imrnunization prorams have been strengthened to achieve specific targets over  communicable disease prevenhion efforls: TB control prgramn ei*nded to cover
le Inxcro earse ni.nzto  OT)cvrg        fcilm     22                        anme with 22% of the populatIon; confinrned polio cases dropped from 199 i I 2000
i Increase9  n Immunia tiont(nP0d)coverageovchilldren 12-23menthsfrom5B%  70 1Din200 -dis        'indicate a r ise In 1T immutization co 1 ".av.
in 1999tD 707   in 203.        ,                                         However, immiunization coveraga remains low asid R wil he imnport ant to implement
*Incemase in bimmunizalicn coverage of TT' from 35% to 70%  O 0            GA Vi-assist ad immunL'fi apri)gnron ebdAivey and aggressively toin crease
*Increase in pcpulation with access to tuberciulosis control hforn 129to3%  covereagertapldly, andrdue einf'antand childnmortalitys IIe baseline figure used for-
aCompletely elimninate the confirrned polici cases by 2002.                DPT3 coverage (58%) appears high compared with PIHS estmate (49%): this may
lead to underesismation both of effort needed to reach targets, and ofporgnress in
increising coverage.
.    As indicated in the NHP and the I-PRSP, the heath departments need to deivelop
stable capacif8s and systems at distrt provinniial and nafional lels, to monifor,
*    Provincia.l Departments of IHealth in the three largest provinces are preparing for  supe vise andW evauate implaimentation of the heaith policy (against well-
C)                                                 devoluGion. Reviews of rolnes and rensponsibilities aniong different tiers of  disseminated service standarids, benchmirks and out comas), anarze the resuhl,
o ovemment are underway, induding plans for capacilty buildfing at the clistfct level.  shame with the public eid take corcive aclon  Widespread cowmunicafion to the
pubtic of natki7sa provineial and district c ornlimnent to thes staind ads,
benchmarks, and outcomes coxlid help align and focus effoxts In a lecentaltized
systerm IniGal steps haNe been taken to restrcture provirnial heath depamments in
line with devolution. Potentiaf World Bank programmatIhlending fr provincal
adiustnent programrts (under preparation in Sindh and NWFP). and for proposed
PRSC operations woul d assist bn develqong tine capacitie; and syE;lems to design
and inplemeni programns to improve enrultfenl and laming outcomes. GAVI
program Indurles assistance to build immunization capatlies in disticts with
greatest needs.
*    System of transfers to districts aind health facilities needs to be developed and
imrnplrnentedt ensure levels anrd composition of spandntg (as wel as budgets)
adetqate to achieve desinred ouicomes fiom the key pro gams for disaase
prevention, matemal and child heafth, and family planning.
.    Provinces have Introduced programs for monitoring and disciplining health  *  Wh?le systematic data are not ailaiable, rsports ibdicate improvement in field staff
staff absenteeism.                                                          presenc.
C.3 SOCIAL PROTECTION               Increase in fund allocation for poverty reduction from 2.5 percent of GOP In  .  The FY02 budlget allocations of the federal, pnelnclal atnd local govemments
1999100 to 2.9 percent of GDP in 20O/01.                                   for human development and propoor expendilures under the I-PRSP have
To hei p reduce poverty, deelop               .been increased, ln total, to Rs 164 bilDon4 or Uo                                                         4 perceittof GDI. There appear
human capiat, aid reduce                                                                                       to be some definitinal differencss with figures used In SAG-I (see column on f),
gender imbalanoes through more                                                                                  and in IlPRSP, Table 5 1, which should be reconciled. Laoge to  budget makes
active public policies.                                                                                        initial low budgets forfederta health programs diftcul to understand. Actual
spending likesl to be wel below budgets. The systicm of fransfers to provicess,
distrcts and scrwic delvery poins needs to be developed and rnpfemented to
ensure levels rnd composition of spending (as wEil as budgets) adequat to, achieve
desired outconmes from the keyprmograms forpprstry education, disease prevention,
materrial and child health, and fitmdy planning.



*inu ~~~imimmmmmm                                                                                :mmmmm
Actions taken before SAC Board                                      Followup actions taken after SAC and Conmmnts
-SAC keq prior ations In bold   -                           JSAC-11 kLrlar actions in bold; comments lln ftaticiL
.The govrnment Ihas estWalished as a part cd the 14RSP an expenditLre tracing
medan=lsmn for pro-poor (or I-PRSF' expenditures). Quarterly expenditure reports
are beingl preparid and esserlnaaled to the publk
.   Impnemntation of srfor progrann (Kusha1 Pakistan)) to provide emnrioyment  The Pakistan Kwihal program has been strengened and it cc budget a locati
and basic seneces to the poor. The prcgram is tihe largest public investnment  ncreased to Rs. 15 billion or about 12 peromt of the countrys pubk investnent
To develop the govemmnrfs         pixotram in the countiy with a budget of 0.6 penrent of GDP.            *                 Iarnmen a Ihs iniiated the monitoring and evaduation Co the Food Suppcd
capty to prepare imd           *   Launching of a direct cash-transfer parao m (-Food Support Program') targeted to  Pr n through thinrd par surys. The &ft survey has been condLcted on a pilot
implmnent these potides.           200,000 pocirfadltiies -1.2  lion peqs                                          by  e Unive     of Imnjab.
.  *  The inndng oftIhe offtbudget Zalat pgramn has been incratsed from Rs. 8 lilion
Strnghenirg of the lsmlc-based Zaa charty prgam that pnkvies cash          to Rs. 10 bil  raon h eacuboretha i 2m 2ltori bencfioaries.
transfers to the mfost vulnerable groups in socety.                        The cret program of the Mlao Cred Banti has been sirengthened. Bran   have
been expanded to) 30 (out of 100) dIstrits.
Establishment of a MicoCredxit Bank to servicet the poor, especialy In rural areas  *                c         ndusta        o   sa*Pst
Micro-credlit bank, and ZalW  as wtUl as the Food Supportpogran  ould be
carefll evaluatsd to idendfy possible impnrvemernit
*   A Natonai PRSP     lamentatiorn Comnittbee has besn eitabhshed In the
Federai Minisrby of inalce to vese inmpemnttIon olf the goveraneitr
PRS at reflected In the I-PRSP, amd to heip build cemmus in support of the
full PRSP under preparation, togherwttith a PRSP SecrtarIat tooord te
the actions dimtted by the N onal PRSP beplementaton Connmise. Asi part
of this process: (a) a national pe*ty rline and methodology havs been
establihed; anl (b) Intermedlakt health and edwcatlon outcome Indicators
have been fonrmlated and are bing evaluated, vth a vlew to preparing en
action plan not later than Septemnber 2002 to beprove the montorng tool
estabfls hed to monitor Implrnintation. Large dhTerences In baseii4os for
outcom  Indkicatos need to be resolod. Additona sok is nfeded an some critical
idicnaors (noteblV sdool ennrmed rates and dcld rnmunlravton) as substantial
ilbexnces perskst across sources. IDF to support the establishment al the PRSP
Secretariat under considerabon. Cl'r ne, dt Is ejpaced that tne PRSP Secnrtrfdt
will bemer wsfl4inkedto and coointed idth exsing  loring and evaluation
capacities in social sawn4  deifvery departmaens at leNa7. pronWbdaal land district
bvels, thich need to be hin he strengthened to enable them to assess otcomes of
pois andpograms axndmake edjustmiesasneeided A DFID-sujposted
ptory povty assessment has been caured out and ai World 8a U-maraged
P   ove  sesssment is underway. These vifil help deepen understaxldng of ths
poverty proie and assist In the andysis of Issues arid options. A Joint Bank-1bF
poverty and social Impact analysis (PSIA) of past Increases in public tity prices
________                      ___________________ ____ _    _                                         _     a    lnd petreum product DaDs is aD danned.



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-                 I Appraisal I Actual/Latest I Percentaae of I
~2 -1  S  g !i1-|i Jr jilhl!'ojl [ |Estinmate   --Estimate   .     m;prai;al
Project Cost By Component            .    mUS$ tmillion
350.00         350.00            100
[Total Baseline Cost                            J  350.00         350.00
I---I T  D                 I    cn      I nn
Total Financing Required            350.00         350.00
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I|                                    ~    ~~~~~~~ .                  Percentage or Appraisal
Component            Appraisal Estimate  .    Actual/Latest Estimate  !
IDA      GAv CoF.           DA   |Govt. I CoF. |DA I GovL I CoF.
EDA                 1 350.00 |                 j 350.00                     100 0
-35 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 36 -



Annex 4. Bank inputs
ta) A^as-ions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e g= 2 Ecnnnmicqtq I PMS etc      I1.,,0+;,+t.Tn D            1
MonthYear     Count _Specialty                               Progress     Objective
ioenniicauion/rreparauon
December 2000                3   Economist                          s             sA
Marcn 2001                   2   Financiai Mgmt. Specianst          S             S
I   Procurement Specialist              S            S
2    Legai                              S
2    Research Analyst                   S             S
| AppraIsal/Negotiation
A-nrril 2001                3     .aa    c   
June 2001        I       ~       Eoim~
June 2001                    2   Financial Mamt* Specialit          S             S
I    Procurement Specialist             S             S
2    Tea Pon                           Sz4
Supervision see ICR                     .2   Research Analyst                   S             S
I upervision 
|        ~~see ICR                                                                   j
ICR
DecemDer 2001    j           2    Economist                          S             S
May 2002
(b) Staff:
stage ot Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate  (
No. Staff weeks     |US$ ('000)
| Identification/Preparation              41.95                       157.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                (included                    included
Supervision                            above)                       above
|Supervision
ICR                         I            6.11         |              33.7
Total                       1           48.06         [              191.4
Includes labor, travel and other costs.
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High. SU=SubstanWal, M=Modest N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                      O H *SUOM O N O NA
OSector Policies                     O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Physical                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Financial                          O H OSUOM O N O NA
IN Institutional Development         O H O SUO M O N 0 NA
? Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N O NA
1Gender                        O H OSUOM O N O NA
OOther (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N O NA
Ui2 Private sector development       0 H 0 SU * M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
D Other (Please specfyC) OH               0 SU 0D M OD N  0J IVA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and.Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory,.S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
i7 Lending                                          O HS O S     O U   O HU
F Supervision                                      O HS * S     O  U   O HU
S Overa!!                                           O HS@. A     O U   O   U .
6.2 Borrowerperformance-                           Rating
F Preparation                                       *HS OS      O u    O HU
0 Government- implementation performance            0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
F Implementation agency-performance                 O HS OS      O U   0 HU
1g Overall                                          OHS *S       O U   OHU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Pakistan: Country Assistance Strategv Progress Report, World Bank, Report No. 22219-PAK, 16 May
2001.
2. Pakistan: Report and Recommendation of the President of the Intemational Development Association
to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit ... to the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan, World Bank, Report No. P7443-PAK, 16 May 2001.
3. Development Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit! between Islamic Republic of Pakistan
and International Develogment Association, Credit No.3515 PAK, World Bank, 12 June, 2001.
4. Pakistan: Staff Report for the 2000 Article IV Consultation and Request for Stand-By Aimngement,
IMF, (EBS/00/230), 20 November 2000.
5. Ouality at Entrv Assessment-IV, Quality Assurance Group, World Bank, 24 July 2001 (On file).
6. Pakistan: Interim Povertv Reduction Stratenv Paper (I-PRSP), Government of Pakistan, November
2001. (Text also in JSA, referenced below).
7. Pakistan: joint Staff Assessment of the interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, IDA and IMP,
Report No. 23189-PAK, .15 November 2001.
8. Pakistan: Reqgest for a Three-Year Arrangement under the Povertv Reduction and Growth Facility,
iivir, krnB,u1/Iy i), 2L6 November 2001.
9. Pakistan: Development Police Review - A New Dawn?, worid Bank, Report -No. 239i16-PAK, 3 Aprii
2002.
10. Pakistan: Country Assistance Strategv. World Bank, Report No. 24114-PAK, 15 May 2002.
11. Pakistan: Program Document for a Proposed Credit ... for a Second Structural Adjustment Credit,
IDA, Report No. 23847 1-P , 5iviay 2002.
I i  7  -  *- - U. Xff   I......   A P.t..I  -l.                - --  - i-. -C  -
I2. LVLLC[ io ivir. iviuewU AftZ, ,eSm=tary Uenera; of riuinc, iviuusry o1 Finance, Government of
Pakistan, (dated December 18, 2001) regarding Implementation Completion Report (ICR), and Mr. Afzal's
response. (Ona fie)
!3. LTffter to MMrv Raiad 4hZih,lrh  epnuty Scretaf, MUndn,l of F nanao of PA ;st, (AJ+-A
- ,-               P j-  FV  - j-     -j -          -..aa.n~~tfStf
April 18, 2002) regarding draft ICR (On file).
14. ICR Peer Reviewer comments, informal memorandum, 9 May 2002 (On file).
-40 -



A lA ~ .I A ...,   0          1  -  --
AdiUULor.a: Arui, 8. Br o uwer' Comments
No. 1(13) P-1112001
di i   30 may 700   *Government of Pakistan
I, X I K RECEIVED]                         Ministry of Finance
A741        _                 I-Uock, Pak becreanat
Phone No. 9206367
EE ax L U0. 7962907
Waqar Masood Khan
%UUIiu1UF rFULci ar.WvUUY                   ;Isamabad, May 30, 2002
Subject:        SAC-I: Implementation Comoletion Report
Dear John,
1.   The Government after coming into power in October 1999 has adopted a
home grown economic reforms program aimed at sustaining pro-poor growth and
strengthening basic social services as the central pillars of its poverty reduction
strategy. To reach these goals, the Govemment is determined to pursue sound
maduoeonoilulI, poUsmwa, crIeate uhe itLauiuuii iu* VIbadnIL priva.e suetui
development, and strengthen efforts on basic education and health as well as
socia!I sa.fet nato
2=    Economic growth in Pakistan during the 1990s had been on the decline
resulting in a rise in the incidence of poverty. The present Govemment has taken
a serious view of the situation and devised a comprehensive strategy linking
social and poverty related expenditures with human development outcomes by
focusing on key success drivers. Pakistan is faced with the twin challenges of
reviving growth and reducing poverty. This requires rapid and quality economic
growth that is equitable in nature and broad based in reach. Therefore poverty
reduction in Pakistan requires rapid growth with focus on three areas as
identified in the SAC -I; improving governance, reviving broad based growth, and
II 1-JI mpo Iv. gI I I Iu I human development and social pI otec.tion. S:r-.4u1l AdJ1u- en:
Credit-I had supplemented the govemment's endeavors towards poverty
rae rutinn
3.   With reaards the disbursement of Structural Adiustment Credit I. the
govemment completed all the prior actions before the Board's presentation (June
12, 2001) and the single tranch Credit amount was fully disbursed two days later.
This timeliness assisted the govemment towards balance of payment support
thereby stabilizing the economy and providing, in concert with other financiers,
critically needed resources.
4.   A number of prbr UUUUIW wree brioiad daeIO uf
SAC-I helped govemment to focus Its efforts for a timely compliance. To this end,
the G-t,sernan  rAmfewmainendearaen nh the r.vn mm nt aimed at araoominn
t~ 10~~ V~  SEW  -,- 1 . e.. ...- by  -.- Go  ... en   W -   d.-h* ...
four major issues: devolution, civil service reforms, reduction In corruption and
improvement in financial management and transparency. and institution of more
-41 -



realistic and open budget processes. In termns of reviving broad based growth,
the prior actions directed concrete and tangible steps towards increased tax
revenues, limi'uaton on defense expenditure, vdu-An in 1osses of s-l-
enterprises through induction of professional management and/or privatization,
..~4~ei'.n.1 .~.ff.n n.,~   ,'nrn oaWY~        . ..... & iii
ratlonaI'. ;o..0n of IW . i*tn pon  and. -np mw secto.^, rt o.r Wf ISn.int,-
liabilities, and reduction of ant export bias. Priorities included strengthening
raniilatnrv role of State Bank of Pakistan. and adhenna to the nrivatization
schedule for NCBs and closing most DFls, creating conditions for a modem and
efficient banking system, and fostering a vibrant capital market. Much progress
has been made in strengthening prudential regulations and supervision of banks
and the capital markets. Arbitrary use of SROs (statutory regulatory orders) was
eliminated that had affected the level playing field necessary for investors to
compete based on business fundamentals rather than their ability to secure
special deals. Pakistan under performs other countries with simiiar per capita
income in just about all social Indicators (for both expenditures and outcomes
across aUuCa'U" Uon.U, hUalth ad Iu IUU :ionI. I I 80 0u%AI1 andI WWI y a9.I yaLp n ily
stunt the lives of those who remain afflicted by illiteracy and ill health, but they
also limit ponsfi$i* ^f nfornnemir empnwu-rmanf Tha (`vnumment man v ei!oru
the l-PRSP that promises a new priority in spending commitments toward the
ftocial sectors. and is also hoping that the devolved local authorities will increase
the effectiveness of service delivery.
5.   Throughout the gestation period of SAC-I, the Bank staff had been in
close contact with the government in delineating the prior and the follow up
actions and monitoring the progress made thereof. Tne detailed strategy matrix
was a consultative process, developed in close coordination with the line
ministries, and stakeholders were fuliy updated and kept in piures -with the
progression. Ministry of Finance acting as an umbrella and coordinator was very
compaJI   Lble with it  counter .pa0 tS1 n 'uhe B iJ -nk. I l,. t  owes - .t s sin  thank  to
the Bank's team for all their technical support and help rendered in successful
acrcomplishment of the Credit.
6.   The Govemment's reform agenda embodies a courageous attempt to
redress the problems of the past and create a foundation for sustained growth for
the future. The Govemment will stay the course, maintaining a proper balance
between increasing development spending and exiting the debt trap, and
restoring investors' confidence while trying to limit corruption and populism that
marred its reputation in the past. Designing the structurai credits programs had
been a leaming experience for both the govemment and the Bank. The
govemmeri iudnu,iedu ky areas vi iiiim iat1 eIC11 UIIU dwIui Bank's
assistance devised adequate strategies to reverse the trends. Wth the inception
of prlnc.al _ st woul be *i     to a,n nroin,n! _ACs (pInor and follow-
up actions) within the broader govemment policy.
7.   At the end I must say that immediate objectives of SAC-I have largely
been achieved in time. Govemment had been able to take control of
macroeconomic imbalances and key indicators show an optimistic trend. SAC-I
assisted govemment efforts to lay the foundations for its Poverty Reduction
Strategy (PRS), both by supporting initial actions within that strategy, and by
-42 -



enabling the govemment to develop the strategy further and articulate it as an
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). The l-PRSP was positively
reviewed in a Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) and by the executive boards of both
the World Bank and the IMF. It paved the Govemments IIne of action to
strengthen its long-term relationship with the development partners that resulted
in successful accomplishment of Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF),
subsWflUUI U UI IU*iUU;IIulnI WiuI un irwPn LCIUD In Umumuer 2001, anu
faclitations for further Structural Adjustment Credits from the World Bank. ICR
mfwri  nrnpr f#nA prb and fhOowi in aino of CM C! andI C-A!!i arL_ v  Mn  h
* ....a  ~ . ~ r, ..tur  w . - _  - -... r  -  ,O -s-1   . Id
progress made thereof is also enclosed.
Regards,
Yours Sincerely,
Ak
r   v 
Waqar Masood Khan
Mr. John Panzer,
Lead Economist,
Tne Worid Bank,
Washington



KEY INDICATORS FOR PIROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
AND OPERATION STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMEINT CIREDIT (SAC-I) CREI)IT 3515 - PAK
-    2   Keiy Prior Aclions._                             ?   '* .-~ 
PLr~r~c1io         _       ~       :l±,TrIgers  of SEOther SAC41,,n
_                      ( ~i)~1Board 2002)  _`                                                       _ _    _
tY  Launcmhjinitial sup ortjfor Pakistan's Iove   Reduction Strateqly        -       .________-        gt                           E
a  IMF SBA in place; January, '01      PRSP Secretarial established to   The Ifollow Up actions of SAC 11 woould  SBA completed successfully; positive 1-
agree ment on debt: relief; work    coordinate PRSP preparation and   become the prior actions lfor Poverty  PRSP review In JSA and by IMF and WB
underway on I-PRSP and preparation of monitor implementation; increased  Reduction ';tructural Creclit (PR'SC).  Boards: PRGF approved; debt restructuring
SAG-I                               budget allocations for human      PRSC woulid be on World Bank's Boardl  agreement reachied; Poverty Assessment
development and pro-poor          agenda in 2003                      undlerway and expenditure tracking reports
expenditures.                                                         of IPRSP expenditures are quarterly
pubilished and posted at MOF website
compared with corresponding eixpenditures
last year (Respective budgeted allocations
and salary./non-salary break-up would be
Incorporated from FY 2002-03); Program
wisea expenditure break-up not built intD
system. BSRPP approvetd; preparations of
SACt-Il underway; preparations of provincial
operations undenNay. Provincial
govemments are in process of preparing
their own fPRSPs
.A    E FICIENID EQUITABLE MOBILIZATION OF RESOURCES;:JTo improve tax policy and tax administration*to increase,reven         4ln   Impo         t
a To documerit the economy and broadenr                                  Diminishing retumrs to further tax survey  Survey for documentation for national
the tax basei a tax survey and                                        and registration drives pending     economy was lunched in May 2000, and is
registration drive is undenway. Fiirst two                           impleimentalion of more fundamental  now in third visit stage. So far in Phase 1, in
phases based on the twenty six largest                                CBR reforms, now underway (see     initIa;l 13 cites, out of the total 402.527
cities completed leading to updated                                   below).                             business survey forms diistributed, 358,921
documentation of aibout 1.3 millicin                                                                     fomis havei been iretrevend whereas out of
businiesses and individuals and the                                                                       371,255 residential survey forms
registration of 120,000 new tax payers.                                                                  (properties) distributed. 328,507 forms have
been retrieved. Irn phasei 11, so far 369,938
busilness survey forms and 698,954
residential survey forms Ihave been
disbilbuted In total of 26 cities. Out of these.
so far 308,067 business survey forms and
602,936 residential survtey forms have been
collected. Third phase of the program for
detecrmination of annual tumover of tladers
-   -_____________________              -_ _ ___       ____________-                                         is also in pj rogres5



#         ;   i    ;     3      ;     1   Key Prior Actions . ,Sk-
~~~~~ ~~~riggers of.SAC'41""                                       o
b Atction plan for the functional and  The President has approved the   * The functional reorganization of CBR  Cabinet appnrved CBR restructuring
personnel reform in CBR ha-s been  mediuirn term strategly and action-plan  has been completed as prescribed  progr.-m. Five new rnembers from private
c ompleted.                        for the reform of the Central Board of  by the recently approved mediurn  sector have bieen ilucted. CBR
Revenue,  term  ~     reengineering and automation is wnderway.
CBR leadership changed.          Reforns would span over the next two
_ __________               ______________._______                  ________________                     years.                _
c  Committee charged with the preparation                               A New llncome, Tax Ordinance based on  Promulgated since September 137-2001
of a newN modem Inocime TaK                                          self-assessment, minimal exemptions,
Ordinance has; submitted its final report                            and simplified and more equitable rates.
_  It GovemmenL                                                          i _  has been proiulgated.  - -
d To impirove govemance and deter                                                                          Tax Ombudsman has been appointed and
abuse in tax administration, a Tax                                                                      necessary legisltion has also been made
Ombudsman office has been                                                                               through a Presidential Ordinance. Office of
established.                                                                                            the Tax Ombudsman Is operational since
2000.
o ro broaiden the tax base and achieve a                                                                   Agriculture income tax has been imposedl by
more equitable distribution of the tax                                                                  all provinces. However
burden, agricultural Income is being                                                                    significant political and administrative
brought into the tax net. Provinces                                                                     obstacles have slowed Its requisite
have introduced a two-tUer aigricultuiral                                                               implernentation.
income tax with acreage-based land tax
a3nd InoDme tax for large farns.                        _      ___-
f To increase the efficiency of the tax                                 * To inrcrease the efficiency of the tax  . General Sales Tax has been
system, the GIST has been extended to                                  system the GST has been extended   implemented to agri-inputs since March
services which were subject to excise                                  t a          i     ing              2001 and non-essential pharmaceuticals
laxes, rnd to some agriculture inputs                                  fertilizer, and non-essential       since Mar,h 2002.
pharmaceuticals.                 . GST compliance requirements have
been exteinded toi traders with turnover
. To increasel the efficiency of the tax  between Fcs. 5 million to Rs. 10 million.
system the GST compliance          This woulJ facilitate record simplification.
requirements havei been extended to  * Sales tax and duty drawback diuring Jualy-
all traders with annual turn-over in  March of FY 2001-02 is Rs. 54.354 billion
excess of Rs. 5 million.           as against Rs. 37.528 billion foir
corresponding period last year. The
incirease is of 44.7%
-2;*,,EF FI_,IEN__AND_ ACCOUNTABLEUSEOF .RESC,URCES:To strengthen expenditure controls and improle th quaCitWof thea expend iturearl ti
a 'ro improve the quality of the public  .                                To irnprove quality of public    parameters befCre approvirig a developmient
Investrent prcgram the process for                                     inveistment prograim: (a) the    prJecmtInuding reapprrent aost dmelatoimns.
approval of new road infrastructure                                    Planning Commission's Chief      Three year fInmewoirk is an intergrec   part of
projects has been revised. The integrity                               Economist rsigns off on all project  pTannhre  and budgeing. PISDP is a part of
_ of the process has been reslored by     _                              appraisals submitted for the                        . P



CU~~9S  ~  ~    ~~'v Key Prior Acti-os                   - Othi,SA;II
subjecting all proposals to the scrutiny                             approval of the Central Development the three-year rolling Medium Term
of the Planning Cornmission, the                                     Working Party, the Executive   Bucigetary Framework. It incdudes a revised
Central Developme nt Working Party.                                  Committee of the National Economic; budget calendar wvith upfront approval of
and final aplproval by the Executive                                 Council; and (b) progress reports of  broad sectoral expendliture allocations
Comimittee of the Nationall Economic                                 project irnplemeentation are beting
Coundcil.                                                            preparecd and made public on a
semi-annual basis. (c) the public
investment progcram Is being
preparecl as a tlree-yeiar- rolliing
plan to support a medium-tern
budget framework.
b Improved quality of the public                                                                      IPRSP as agreed by the World Bank, mnd
investment budget in the FY01 budget                                                                fomis the basis of anti-poverty expenditures
through reduction bin new Initiatives,                                                              and projects. Sodial and poverty related
focus in completior of existing                                                                     expenditures will be increased to 4% of GDP
programs -specially in thet road sector,                                                            over the medium lterm
and reallocation of resources towards
poverty reduction
c To improve expencliture pirogramming                                                                 * Implemeanted vide MCIF OM F3 (4) IExp
by incireasing predictability In budlget                                                              111/2000. Followf-up on implernentation
releases a New system of financial                                                                    needed to ensure 'new system' woirks
contbDls andl budgeting' Is being                                                                     wvell, especially for high priority social
implemented since July 2000.                                                                          pirograms at federal and provindcial level.
lo promote fiscal transparency and
sustalnability. all new public ianterprise
borrowing and other contingent liabilities
are published in the budget and the
economic survey.
d To improve overall budgel                                                                            * The federal bulget for fiscal year
managemerit, including the strategic                                                                  2001/02 has been prepared within al
focus of expenditures and the quality of                                                              medium term budget framework.
the Investmnent program, the                                                                        * The federal and the provincial budgets of
government is adopting a mediun-term                                                                  S indh and NWFP for fiscal year 2002103
budgist framework lMTBF). Preparaton                                                                  awe being pripired vAthin a mediumi term
of thek FY02 budgel is underway with                                                                  budaet framewark.
MTB framewiork. This includes up-front                                                                bdethframework.
approval of broad sector expenditure                                                                * Over the medium term the govemmilnt
allocaions by the C:hief Executive and                              _                                  alms at ftirther cagi g and rabonalIzIng



P~~OI~Ac~~OII       x      'T Prig  r AO&
TRigje`rs,. of SAC-1l              F ~   OterII1~
joint consideration of recurrent and                                                                  the composition of expenditures by
capital expenditures In secdor budgets.                                                               ensuring adequate levels of non-salairy
spending to raise the quality aind
efficiency of service delivery.
,Td imirv&publid firiancial accountabilitb through improvements in procurem nt accountin g_audits anudinteracontrolsr.oi
a The government has established fiscal                              The tirneliness and reliability of the  - FMCs aire operational at fedieral andJ
monitoring committees (FMNCs) at                                  public accounts has been inproved at  provincial levels. Focus persons are in
federal and provincial levels to oversee                          the fecderal level. The coverage of  place aind Principal Accountilng Officers
the preparation and dissemination of                              reconc:iliation of accounts betweeni line  hiave been made responsible to ensure
timely reconciled expenditure data. with                          Departments and the Accouintant      timely reconciliation cif data.
a view to improving the quaility ancl                             General has increased from 72.5   *  However, persistence of un-reconciled
reliability of public financial statements.                       percent at the end of June 2001 tc 98  accounts suggests unresolvegd system
The preparation and disserminatiorn of                            percerit at the end of December 2001  issues
such cdata at !the fedieral level has bDeen
completed for the first semester of FY
2000401.
b The government has issued: (a) anl                                                                   *  lrhe govemment has implemented lhe
Ordinance deifining the functions,                                                                     separation of the audit and acocounting
powers and termTs and condJitions of                                                                   functions. The accounting function Is
servio of the Auditor General of                                                                      now unider the purview of the CGA.'
Pakistan; and (b) an Ordinunce                                                                         Corporate Audlit Plan 2001-02 has been
establishing a new office of the                                                                       approved to respond to the challenges
Controller General cf Accounts, to                                                                     under the new audit a; accounts
separate public accounting and auditing                                                                ordinances. Efforts are underway to
functicins.                                                                                            implement modernization of Auditor
General's Office to lmiprove the quality
_-            ___                    -   .__                         ._     _-                             of cujl' audits.
c The government has adopted a revised                                                                 . This should help anchor the account'ng
form, principles and methodis of                                                                      reforms in a cotierent institutional anid
accounting for the feideration and the                                                                procedural framework, with associated
provinces, with a view to mieeing the                                                                 systems, hardware ancd software.
requirements of a modem integratied                                                                   Training programs should attempt to
financiial management system designed                                                                 irribed a shift in culture as well as
to provide timely and reliable                                                                        techniques.
ifnaforatfon fror budgat management.                                                                * PIFRA and a possible FIFRA-II could
finandal control, cash forecasting and                                                                support design and implementation oif a
trend analysis, fiscal administrastio and                                                             program to improve finaincial
debt nmnagement purposes.                                                                            mmanagement at the district level.



*                 'liT7: i          Key Prior Actions .                         SAC-I -
d The government ha:; agreed with the  The goverrment to, issue an                                      The office cof PPRPk has been established in
Bank through a CPAR on ak strategy for  ordinance to establish the Pakistan                           MOF. Cabinet approval is expected in the
procurement reform. Procurement    Procurement Regulatory Authority                                  next Cabinet meeting.
reform in eduicaton sector undertaken  with a view to regulate the public
to allow free entry to publishers for  procuremerit of goods, services, and
textbook bids.                     works in thet public sector,
A .3: RTANSPARENC:Y,,PARTICIlPATIC N, AND ACCOUNTABILITY: Devolution to rnake govemment rnore athountable to the peopte aricteincreas
ai      -ogUksveiida                 WLtsalhusecuritV iustie and basic infraistructure.  :              ______________
a * Following a consultation process                                                                    * District govemrnents are operational
launched In April 2000, the                                                                          since August 14, 2001. Phased
Devolutoin Plan was promulgated on                                                                   imnplemeintation of the full partoply of
August 14, 2000..                                                                                    administrative, fiscal, and accountability
* Constitution of Provincial Finance                                                                    mrieasures envisioned In the devolutbon
C ommittees to de3velop mechanisms                                                                   pplan needs to continuet. These will
and arrangements for fiscai                                                                          include a fiscal framework, adminisbtative
decntralizanentio   foroth proincial                                                                 arrangemnents, civil seirvice structures
decentralizaUon t rom thi provitcial                                                                 and managemeint, effectve accountability
golvemmeint to the districts.                                                                        and panrticipaon mechanisms, and the
implementation of stronger financial
management systems. The process will
need cose contnued mnonitoring ami
support to ensLire programs atre
adequately fundled andi Implementedi
well.
NRB Is presently holding metiUngs wih
all stakeholders regarding fiscal
devolution and formation of Provincial
Finance Committees.
b Establ'ishment of legal framework                                   Local Government Ordinarices to   * The locail governments have started their
definihg the personriel, administrative,                           reconstruct and reguiate local       functions under transition arrangements
fiscal, and budget management I                                    governments were promulgated on      with the provincial govemments
accountability arrangements during the                             August 2001 in each of the four   * Close monitoring of expendihires should
first phase of devolution. Work                                    provinces.                           be undeirtaken Ito ensure adeqiuate levels
undertaken with tecinical aissistance  *                                                                and comiposition of spanding on basic
from the World Bank and Asian                                                                           education and health programs.
Development Bank.



Ido~ctions SACS                    - Key Pior Actions,_,.o,               Ot hiA
.To'imprveaccountbbility by enhancing he.public's access to information.                         -PAiCa-              f    ni  at fedt_al and
a To complete the financial accountability  The provincial ad-hoc Public  p__                                  vACs arie funcvsaning at federal and
chain, federal ad-hoc and provincial ad-  Accounts Commiftees have opened                                 provindal levels and are open to media. At
hoc Public Accounts Committee (PAC)  their hearings to the press.                                         federal levelliot of the total recoveries of
have been established. To increase                                                                        Rs. 1425:26 milion ordered since 1996-97
transparenicy and accountability the                                                                      effected recoveries are Rs. 2,943 million
press has been provided access to the
deliberations of federal IPAC.
* 'The fecderal PAkC has Initiated review  Sid  PCscurninIseves
b The outstainding audit reports of the                                    of the FY l999/00 Auidit Rets and  * Sindh PAC is current in its reviews
been releasedotiothe and-hoFY99 have                                    the FY1997/93 and 1998/99 reports)  * Efficient procedures need to be
bwith a view to dear the backlog in  developed for review of audits by
ithese reviews by endPOctober 2002  depaitment concerned, so that most
* The fedleral PAC has released its   disputes can be resolved and coirective
report on the 1996/97 audit Ito the  actioris taken, freeiing PACs to focus on
public.                             more systemic issues.
.* The FY2000/01 Public Audil Report
Ihas been carded in a timely manneir
and with increased altention to the
audit oif systernic problems and
increased wcverage to envinonmental
__________ _________ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ __________ _________ _________au d its                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
c The preparation of a Freedom of     _                                                                      A draft Act has been preparedi and is under
InfoTrmation Ordiniance has bee!n                                                                        consultaUon and feedback from respective
completed and is; being discussed                                                                         stakeholders.
through a process of consultation.
d  Initiated publication and dissemination  _             __                                                           q   tFederal MOF and Sindh's Deptt of Finance
of public financial infomiaton UIrough                                                                    are making quarterly fiscal data available to
_Mintrar oF Finance web site         _ _     __                         __          __                    the public
A.4:4,CIVIL,SERVIICE,RlEFORIM:jTo improve the performnance of the civil service by,restoring integrily autonomy, ar n doptiori           I 
a The government has issued an.                                          Parallel steps to strengthen Provincial  The FPSC (amendments) Ord1inanc  has
Ordinance amending its Federal Public                                 PSCs being undertaken in provinces  been promulgated since 17-11-00.
Service Commission (FPSC)                                             (e.g.. Sindlh), with; support from potential  This has given finanidal autonomy and
Ordinance, so as; to enhiance FPSC's                                  provincial prograrnmatic adjustrnent  FpSC has initiated review of all
Independence, increasei its financial                                 operations, under preparation       appoibnients made In contraention with
autlonomy, expand Its rolle in the                                             .established proceduresi. Unquaalified
recruitmeit of public servants, and limrit                                                                appoitments am being temnated.
an,d define the posts which are outside
its purview.              ____       ____________              __ _     _______________                  _______                  _____



(Iey FPrior Actionls:-~
b To improve performance and reduce                                   To improve perlormance and reduce  Implemented vide Establishment D!v's no
corruption the Civil Service Act has                               corruption, the C ivil Service Act has  SRO 276 (1)12000 dated 25-6-200CI. Some
been amended to enable the                                         been amended to enale the         2,873 ci senrants have been retired earty
government to prematurely retire Cdil                              govemment to prematurely retire cdvil  u'nder t7is c vidslonn Over 2,500 enployees
Servants hvho ac e found t2 be ineffident                          strvants who are fbund to be inefficlent  have been removed tnder tle Removal
ans havic completed 2fo years of                                   and have complleted 20 years of   from Service (Speciall Powers) Ordinance.
(Special Powers) Ordinance hfas been                               sevie.
Issued to expeditously remove from the
seirvice officers involved In corruptior.
c New systems and regulations being                               _   To lmpve the quality and peirfofnaice  * Implemented. Further dellegatlon1 of
lmplemeoited to strengthen career                                  ol higher level staff, examination   powers to secretairies for appointments.
managernent, promotion, and                                        requirements have beetn established as  promotions, and disciplinary actibns up to
evaluation procedures. Delegiation of                              a prerequijsite for promotions [to gracdes  grade 19.
cr*              powers In all these areas granted to Iline                         17 19 and 201.                    a To Improve the quality and performanoa
on           l   managers.                                                                                               of higher level staff, examinatiorn
requilrments have been established as a
prenrquisite for promotions [to grrades 117,
19 and 20
d Committee on Civil Seirvice Reastructure                            The govermment has Irnplemeinted Initial As first measun rights.ing voluntarily
and Downsizing has completed analysis                              phase of right-sizing program of the  proposed by various ministrieldivislons Is
and recommenclatons for broad reform                               Federal Secretariat by eliminating  as under
of federal government. Strong) program                             vacant pasts and pliadg redLindant  Posts to be abolishel=268.5C7
aliready implemented ki Pakisitan                                  personnt1 in a surplus pool.      Abolished=22.500
railways. Financial viabflty being
restored and refrmfs icidude the                                                                     IntlIathies In RaIlways Restructuring:
elilmination of 40,000 (out of 135.000)                                                              *   Wafias eliminated In Purchases.
posts and 23,000 ghosr pensioners.                                                                   * Theft and pilferag e brought down to bare
minlimum.
Annexe houses of Raihlay Bungalows
allotted to employees resulting In saving
of House Rent of such employees.
Ralhway Housing Societies dissodated
from Railway thereby redudng the
Electridcty and Gas expenditure.
20,000 ghost pensioners eliminaited.
* Illegal Electricity connections ani misuse
of Alr-conditioners eliminated.
* All Railways Schools handed over to
Beaconhouse School system
Karachi ancl Rawalpindi Ftailway Hospital
____.__________  Privatized.



* Fuel cynswtnpion reduced on
l                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~locomoatives; thmuglh betteir marukgemernt
I                                                                             * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reliable baiterles lhave been provided on
boomonogs; so that these caan bei shut
down on frelight trains whian these are
held up for comirng passenger tnains.
* Strength of total Railway esmployees
reduced froim 1.35,000 to 96,00(1.
* 103 Telephone connections eliminated.
* Eliminated theft of elctricity fronm
Railway installatons and colonies.
e Committees on Civil Service Flay andl  T he federal govemment has                                     * Pay scales of 1994 have been inicreased
Benefits Refrmi and Estabflishment  implemewnted the first phase of Its pay                             by 50%. In second phase, remaining
Division have completed analysis and  and pension reform program for                                   differential vis-&-vis increase in cost of
recommendations leading to biroad  military and civilian personnel through                              living will bei filled.
based civil service reforms       the adoption of revised pay-scales                                 * Net pension has been inbcrased by 159S
and the rationalization of pension                                   (befoire 1991 retirees) andl by 106 (after
benefits.                                                            1994 retirees)
*  Commutatbon ratkis have been changed
from 50:50 lo 60:40.
Clther salilent Isatumrs are:
5' Pay Scales to Increase with reference
to change in CPI from 1994-95
> Discontinuation al Financial
Advancemnents and SpeIal
Dispensations
> Reclucing the gap, between govermmenit
and market salaries to aktract talent in
govemment employment
>   New pay packagei option available to adl
govemment servants
>   Rationalization of commutation factors
>   Cornmutation ratios changed from
50:50 to 60:40
>   Discontinuation of additional benefit
>   Rationalization of fture Increases In
pension
* Creation of an actuarial office in
_-_                _        __       _          .  _.        .     __           _          ______ -  ___ _   Finance Division  _



~Key Prior AkctifSOhrSCl~-                                                       onr      rss     A
t         - -)<           Triggers of SAC-Il                 Follow up      i   s
OB.t,Xij>Ol 410VY-REFORM FOR MACROECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITYV To ;3chieve a siginiicarit incre ase in tevenues to jeduce'.the    aIcfefc, ate ,,
d                           tf, - ni,ndpromote a more equitable distributj'on of lhe tax burden.  1 .
a  Package) of fiscal measures tD undeirpin                                                                Implemented
the revenue targets for 1999/2000 and
2000/01 was enacted. Measures
include: (a) collection of GST to
ellectricity; (b) quarterly adjusitments of
petroleurm prices in line with
international prices; (c) eliminaton of
subsidy on fumace oil; (d) elimination of
Income lax whitener schemes; and (e)
el;lmlnation of exemptions for GST,
income lax, ancd custom duties
b  Fuller inlegration of agriculture into the  _  -                     _                              _   Implemented. GST exemption on Liras
taix net by extending the GST to                                                                        fertilizer and pestcidegs has been mithdravm
selected agriculltural Inputs (2001).                                                                   effect from 31-3-2001
c  Irmplementation of far-reaching program                                                                 'Toll culture has been introduced
tc increase user-charge fees In the                                                                     successfully on national highways. Within a
trmnsport.sector through expansion of                                                                   lperiod of three years,, an amount olF Rs. 3
toills. Reivenue increased fifteen-foldl to                                                             lbillion per annum Is eixpected from tolls,
Rs. 1.5 billion.                                                                                        which vwould adequately meelt the
irequirement of maintenance costs, thus
realizing the self-reliance objective of the
Government. Current collecton of tolls Is
around Rs. 2.0 billion per annum. NHA has
also started a plan foir revenue
e3nhancement througlh commercdal uLse of
right of way.
-B. 2: PRVTIZAION AND DEREGULAT ION REFORM: To promote growth by reducing thei role cf.the s;tateinn prodLctive acUvities improvingi,goveiaince,
AX dbyIlrnitlng    ' pport6nitieFs for rent-seeking behavior.      - ,
a  Cabinet approval of a short and medium                               The governmernt has clivested 10   * The privatikation cf Sui South LPG Plant
teirm straitegy and timetable for                                    percent of its shares ih National Bank  has been completed.
pilvatizalion. Tlhe program focuses in                               of Pakistan, anid furtheir divested its  , The privatizations of Sul North LPG plant
thUe privaization of crilical large public                           minority shares, of Muslim Commercial  is completed. Latter of Award for
enterprises In power,                                                Bank from 15 to 9 percent.            privatization of Pak Saudi Fertilkier has
gas.                                                                                                       Transfer would take place by end June
_-gJas                                _                              _-_  - ._ __  ___                     _  2002.



2 SrKey Prior Acticons
Divestment of 8% of goverfment
shares in Muslim Commercial Bank                                                                      *PrparatDns conUnue to complete
completed. Government minority                                                                          transacbibns In:
shares now at 15%.                                                                                     o Haibib Elank Ltd. or Unil:rd Barkk Ltd,
s   Paldstan Telecommunications Company
Ltd. Oil and Gas Devellopment
Corporation. Pakistan FPetroletim Ltd.,
Kairachi Electricity Supply Corporation;
. At least one distribution comprany from
WAPDAs holding.
CumBnt Investment dimale makes
timelable for privatlzation uncertain.
b To facilitate privatization, a Privatizafion                        _                                   * Prvatization Commission Ordinance
Ordinance has been enacted. The                                                                          2000 duly vettedl by Ministry olf Law was
ordinance view to provides abr: (a) a                                                                    considered and approved by Cabinet In
fair and transparent privatization                                                                       its meetirg held on August 16. 2000 with
process; (b) the utilization oF                                                                          minor modification. The said ordinance
privatization piroceeds to retire federal                                                                was promulgated on 2E09,2000.
govemment debt and alleviate poverty;                                                                  * PC's exclusive jurisdict'on to undertalce
and (c) an expeditious mechanism for                                                                     privatizatlon of public sector uniits other
resolution of privatiz.abon-related                                                                      than those declaired strategic.
disputes.                                                                                              * SpeciaW courts to have Jurisdiction to hear
dispute on privatization matters.
* Transparency of the process.
* Reiservation of a portion of dis-Invested
shares foir labor.
* Reservation of a portion of the dis-
investment for thie stock markets.
* Use of net privatizabon proceeds
exclusive for retirement of most
_  _. _________________________         -                          -    _____-____________      _e_ exoensive pubic debt.
c                                                                      Establishment of Deregulation     * The President has constituted an inter-
Committee to streamline business     Ministerial Deregulation Committee
procedures and remove bottlenecks    chaired by the Minister of Finance to
;and irritants fnrm various sectors of  oviersee and guide deregulation across
Industry.                            sertors. Inter-Ministerbal comnnittee on
deregulation is wiorking on eigght areas to
rermove irritants and bollenecks. These
inciude: labor laws, provincial Irritants,
irritants emerging due to new clistrict
govemments. Investmeint and corporate
_ _-                                                                                                         law related problems hesalth and



ii~- iPrior Adtionis
MAC;                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other,SA-iI
pharmaceutical problems, irritants
emerging from CBR prccedures,
problems associated with Utilities, anid
the irritants relatad to transactions
involving land tiles, both urban and niral.
Final report woulid be presented to the
President by encl May 2002.
The Deregulation Comrnittee at Ministry
of Commerce and Industries has already
been estiblishedJ to implemenit a program
to Improvia the business envircinment by
amendingi laws cnd regulationis In the
areas of (a) labor legislation; (b) health,
inclustrial, and envinrnmental regulations;
and (c) SIROs through their simplification
_ ____________________________ .__________         ____________    _ ____________________________       and  consolidation.
d                                    The government has amended the                                     Govemnment has anmended the Schedule of
Scheclule of the Price Control and                                 the Act, eliminating controls on sixty-four
Prevention oif Profiteering and                                    products. Remaining products under control
Hoarding Act of 1977 [No XXIXJ and                                 are textbooks: and fertilizeir. Ministry of
eliminated alil controls on silxty four of                         Industry has prepared further amendment of
the sixty six products referred to in                              Scheclule to eliminate controls over
the Act                                                           remaining prDducts and pnrparing
submission tD Cabinlet to repeal the Act.
e                                                                     Continued implementation of program
to grant no new exemptions or special
lprivileges regarding income tax, custom
cduties, GST. c,r to impose new
regulatDry duties. Phiasing out of time-
Ibound regulatory Import duties and no
adoption of new ones except for
existing contracts or intemal:ional
-  --                    --____________             c~~~~~~~~~iommitments            ~~
.iB3:fJTRADE RE.FORM: To limprov e   rtperoranc by reducing anti-exp it bias of tradle policy and                             ;M     MEW
a To reduce nomninal protection and bring                            'To reduce the anti-export bias and  By January 2003. govemment expects t o
the maxdmum nominal effeclive tariHf to                           aencourage exports, the maximum tariff  reduo maximum rate to 25 percent, and the
:35 percent, the diffeenntial application of                       irate has been reduced from 35 percent  number of tariff slabs to 3.
excise itaxes on Imported and domestic                            Ito 30 percent iand thei tariff slabs
producis has been eliminated for all but                           reduced from !5 to 4.
eleven products now subject to
regulatory dutles.



TIrigg~rsT$AC-ll  .,         OtheriAC41l-
IZ~~~~ 1l        S                                                        Follow uP"*li                                        i
b  To redurce effective protection and  The Central Boaird of Revenue has  The Central Board of Repvenue has  Implemented
Increase the transparency of trade  expedited the processes for refunds  agreed wHth the Elank and the IIMF on an
policy, custom duty exemptions; have  of the General Sales Tax and duty  actiion plani to increase transpairency
been largely eliminated and thcse thalt  drawback and cleared the backlog of  and expedliency in the rnefund of the
arei time-bound vAill be allowed to lapse.  refunds dlue. The refunds during  General Sales Tax and will have
July-Jantiary of this fiscal year  initiated its implementation.
2001102 JUS$755 million] have
exceeded the refunds for the same
petriod in fiscal year 2000/01 by
fUS$260 million]
c To eliminaite distortions and promote                                 * [ he feder and provmnc          I Govermient hais announced policy limiting
agriculture exporis, unit value cf ex(port                             g ovemrnments tiave removed all  thgoemn'srlinwataktngt
norms for agriculture products lave                                    restrictions to inter-district andlor  managenent of strategic securitycstk, of a
been eliminated, raw cotton ex:ports                                   inter-province transport of agriculture  siz to be determinedn March ;anl ach
havfe beeni liberalized. Wtheat sujbsidies                             commodities including) whea-t.   ya.Poueetpie o            ha n     n
reduced by raising procurement prices                                                                   other conmmodities for Nhich tie government
closer to international prices. Wheat                                * The provincial govemments have   intervenes (cotton, rice and sugar) Vw Il
exports authorized, yet not on at                                      removed all reistrictions to the free  brDadly reflect Intemational prices; issue
permanent basis.                                                       rnovemient of certified seeds    prices vAll cover the cost of storage and
throughout each province.        transportation. Iln addition, the federal and
* The governments has liberalized  provincial governments; have abolished all
imports and exports of all agricultural  restrictions on inter-provincial or Inter-district
products                         traide of agricultrarl comnoditles and seeds,
and confirmed that private operators may
fretely export and import any agri comimodity
(except edible oil) without any non-tariff
________.______                                              barriers            ___
d                                      -                                                                      Habib Bank has assigned 21 branches
exclusilvely fcor dealing with SMEs.
* New prudential regulatons specific to the
SME sector have been developed by
SBP for consultation of stakeholders.
SBP is also working with the Woril Bank
to set up a Credit Information Burcau in
private sectoir to assemble data and
current status of smal bomowers.
* IFC and ADEi have been approached by
SBP b) examine the possibility of a Credit
enhancement fund for SME.



r 131 E 1           X>Key Prior Acio-ns L§                          OteS      A(i1 2
Triggdrs-bf SAC-11    ' 
xB:4wtB,AKINGANID F.INANCIALSECTOR REFORM: Improve sectoi gove nancei through privatization andcstren    henebankingus           i    .     i
a' Strengthening of state-owned firnancial                             The restructuring of the thre      Program also supported by Banking Sector
institutIons througlh the riEcovery of                              nationalized comrnercial banks has  Reistructuring and Privatizatiort Project.
PRs.48 billion of outstanding non-                                  been initiated. Sixc hundred and fifty  whilch Is progressing well.
perfoDrming loans                                                   braniches have been closed ancd eight
thousand staff have taken voluntary
retirement.
tb Continued strengthening of banlcing  -                                                   ~SEP has formed a new subsidiary to
supervision. The 13anking Companies                                   rl strelingthen bankine systeqit  separate Its core acivites from the non-core
Act hias been amended to) enforce                                     reflamonetary i enharic the quality  activities, the Banking Services Corporation.
capital adequacy ratos hi line with                                   of monetary polif y the non-core  Under thel new arrangements, the SBP has
inernational standards                                                 F;akistan (SBP o  have been dBak lvf l  transferredts prize bonds, treasury, training
to a nev1y created SBP BanWng    and currency functions to wholly own ed
niervices Corp    Paration.     subsidiary and would focus on core and
Services Corporation.   reglulatory functions only.
* Regulations on opening and closing
bank branches have been liberalized
. lo improve financial sector
govemance and strengthen the
banking system, the 1997 Loan
Recovery Act hias been amended to
facilitate foredosure of bank
collateral.
c  In preparation for privatizaton, the                                As part of the restructuring non-  . National Development Finance
three largei nationalized c ommercial                               perfomningi financial insttutons, the  Corporation has been merged witti
banks have prepared, and cabiinet has                               couintry's largest non-bank institution --  National Bank of Paldstan. SBFC and
approved, restructuring programs                                    the National Finaince Development    RDFC have been merged into a new
based on a signiflcant reductiorn in                                Corporation - hais been closed through  enUty named Small and Medium
personnel and unproductive branches.                                a myerger with the state-owned National  Enterpirises Bank Ltdl (SMBEL). Due
Banik of Pakistan.                   diligence by clualflfed bidders for tthe
privatizafton of Natonal Investment Trust
(NIT) has been completed. Mutual funds
of Inveistment Corporation of Pakistan
(ICP) hiave been advertised for
privatization and the rest would be
wound up.
* House Buildirig Finaince Corporation and
Agricultural Developiment Bank aret
undergoing a major institutional
__                                 _ _                               _ -                          _   _ -- -- _  restruc:turing.



Key PricrActions.                    Othi BA     iI
* Federal government hias provided fuding
for HBL. NBP and UEIL to facilitate
human resounre restbucturing.
* 1rivatizatlon of UBL Is in advanced stage
while process of privatizafion of HBL has
been Inifiated Iby PC
* Statements of Qualifications have been
issued lto potential bkfders of ABL.
Recently four directors of AEIL Board
have been removed, who were Involved
In manipulaffon of sale of shares of ABL
lo M/S IFateh Textiles Ltd.
. NBP is implemenfing a restructurIng
exercise. 10%, of the GOP owned shares
have been offered to public through stock
exchanges.
SRrue ifinandial mairket.diistortons antl i ncrease the efficiency of   dbcf government debt manalgemerit through refoimslnt  3atiol.Savl 'sScBheme' NSS'a
zSL~~~~-                     -   .,,'   .;-  -e<    _ _              _ _ _ _ _
a To reduce finandal markeit                                                                               . Interest rates on NSS; have been
segmentation and the cost of beirowing:                                                                    reduced by an average of 5.5 per cent,
* the Interest rate on National Saving                                                                     since Nlay 19S9.
Schemes (NSS) has been reduced                                                                        * InsUtutional inestments have been
and placeld closer to the market rates.                                                                  stopped to ease pressure on the market.
* Institutional investors have been                                                                     * I'akistan Investment IBonds (PIB). with
precluded from purchasing National                                                                       maturites of 3,5 andl0 years have
Saiving CGrtificales.                                                                                    generated Rs. 40 billion. Regular
. NISS interest rates of Diefense                                                                         auctions are now being held.
certificates are dletermined through                                                                  a  rhe new Issues of NSS will bollow tlhe
benchfnarking with new long-term                                                                         benchmarks established under PIB
debt Instruments.                                                                                       issues.
a All exernptions; on NSS havei been
removed.
B.5:,-POWER ,SECTOR REFORIM: To establish a competitve electric lpower systern consisting of privately-owned,.flnancially viable,3nd efl'identI'f'oper,5tedI-
s.^ s't ^ '+ ; rl S * < t] > t -t. lt  ',- -                         _-  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __  ,   K .  .  PEPO CI  ha   n,_naN  as  draft, n;ner Z j l-f or
a *    Financiial restructuring of WAPDA  * rowards completion of the                                         PEPCO has prepared as dralR papeir for
Initiated. As part of if WAPEANs  corporatizatiorn of WAPDA: (a) the                                   approval of EC  on princilesa
$650 million outstancling debt   N4ational Electric Power                                              uodalities for transfer of liabilities.
service liabilities to GOP was   1Regulatory Authority has issued                                      of LESCsO has been penpared and
converted into GOP equity.      Ithe licenses for the operation of all                                 signedS
_ ____._____     ____________ j   eight ol WAPDA's successoir                                         signed.



| i1|1|E       E     E     FRrl~~~~~Pror ACt        UCn ZZi              1iii           |11           ill         1     l
T~gi  J~6f,,SACII-0the o           'SAC
*   Ongoing lprocess to transform     distribution companies; and (b)                                      Two licenses out of total eight have been
WAPDA 's holdirngs of clistribulion,  supplementary Elusiness Transfer                                 issued. Draft Supplementary Business
transmission, and generation      Agreements providing for the                                         Transfer Agreerrients hiave been
companies into twelve autonomous  transfer of assets, liabilities, and                                 prepared for appiroval of competent
anid financially viable enitUes.  otier rights and obligations from                                    authofity.
Actions indude: (a) creation of   WAPDA to its successor                                             * Noififcation of Punjab govemment
three generation companies        comtpanies have been approved                                        relarding provincial tax exemption
(GIENCOs), one transmission       by the Govemment.                                                    related to corporatization has been
(NrDC), agnd eight distributon                                                                         issued. WVAPDA financial imprDvemenit
coirnpanies (DISCOs); (b) license                                                                      plan is being finalized.
applicatons for new companies
submitted to the regulatory
authority by all the newly created
DISCOs; (c) Independent
aorounting prepared for all the new
comrnpanies; (d) continued progress
CA                   on transfeir of assets, lialbilites and
stalff, from WAPOA to the new
coimpanies; and (e) appointment of
professional managemetnt in the
coimpanies.
b  lImplemientaton of 4.9 percent tariff  The government and WAPDA
increase In December 2000 and 4.'5    he agrese necessaryito  plafe o
lpercen't In March 2001l to help WAPDA  hcaseuareed on sar credcibevpano
reach targets of its financial        the, financial viability of IWAPDA,
restructuring plan.                   Including tariff and non-tariff
adjustments to allow WAPDA It
adhieve a reasonable debt/service
coverage ratio in fiscal year
2002103.
c A formula-based automatic fuel                                                                           Quarterly adjustments have taken place In
adjustment clause foir quarterly                                                                        November 2001 and FebruLary 2002
adjustments in electicity tariffs has                                                                   respectively.
Ibeen notified and two adjuslments
undertaken under these provisions,
d  Ministry of Water ancd Power has issued                                                                 * Govemment Policy Stalement on Power
new tariff setting policies to NEPRA,                                                                      Sector Reiforms expecteid to map out
that will allow for:                                                                                       strategy for subsequent reforms,
Diffl'erentiail tariffs for KESC ancl for                                                               particularly to Improve the financial
each of the DISCOs.                  _____- _                                      -          -



LKey Pror Actions ,
.iig                                lth '  'F eIi"'~o h                       t   n  otbi      h
* Reduction in cross subsidies                                                                           viability of the s      es   si
between consumer catego-ies,                                                                            regulatory and Istitutional fraew-oric In
except for lifeline rates.                                                                             which the new, unbundlled oompanies will
* Establishment of formula-based                                                                         orerate.
multi year tariff adjustments.                                                                       * AsDB supportecl effirts underway to
imiprove financial viability of KESC and
revfore iMEivatization.
-B&!:M    URALGAS SECTOR REFORIlTo enhance sector develop         ent Uhiough tariff  Prnfioionr
a A new Gas Regulatory Authority (GRA)                                  The govermnent has Issueid an      Estatbished
has been established.                                                ordinance to establish the iDil and Gas
b  Improved management of public sector                       -Regulay                th(_                             __mpleomentei-
entities by the appointment of a Board
of Directors comprising private sector
professionals that have beetn granted
greater autonomy and accountability.
c * Adoption of a newv gas pricing    The govemrnent hals adopted a new                                    Following have been implemented:
framework providling for (i) the -  gas pricing framework for Pakistan
setUng of iwell-head prices based on  Petroleum Ltd (PPI.) which is yet to                           * Semi-annual review of gas tariff based on
intematiorial crudle (or fiel) oil  be announced. Thea new framework                                    suipply
prices: (ii) the seni-annual revision  will bring PPL well-head prtces to                            * Rationaltzation of gas prices of domestic
of consumer prices; (iii) the phasing  about half of those prevailiing for                              sector by removing substidy over three
out of subsidies over a three-year  private sector fields; over ai period of                            yetars wef 1-3-2002
period, except in relation to the  five years through successive semi-                               * Gas purchase agreement withi PPL is
fertilizer sector and a lifeimne rale for  annual adjustmentsi acconding to a                           being replaced with marirket based
domestic consurmiers; and (iv) the  pme-announced plan. Thet first piue                                 formula b) be implemented over 5 years.
phased adjustmeint of consumer   adjustment under the plan has talken                                   Cabinet has approved well head price
prices, so as to naflect the cost of  place and is reflected in consumer                                from 20 cents to 31 cents. Reimaining
seivice.                         prices                                                                 differential shall be male over next 4.5
* The first se!mi-anriual consumer price                                                                  yeiars in semi-arnual adjustments.
adjustment of 14.4 percant under
said new gas pricing franmework for
the semester ending Junle 30. 001.      _                  _                                           _
B. 7:'ErROLiEUM SECTOR REFORM: To increase sector efficiency and growth through d.regulation and mrarket liberalization to enhance -'       ;,
cometiii;W__      Ld         *r>4S*t.- -- , -               ..           ,s",                      g,"
a The govemment has estabilished t    *   The retail and ex-refinery prices  * Thei imporl of oil products has bieen
system for quarteriy adjustrnents of   of all peitroleunm products are  liberalized with [refineries and Uiel oil  An Oil Price Advisory Committee adjusts the
petroleum prices at the consumer level  based upon international prices.  marketing companies authorized to  petroleum prices on fortnilghty baisis as per
in line withInternational price       .LPG and Furnace Oil fully      import their requirements directly.  iteratonal prces Pie are adJus  on
movements.                             deregulated.                    The, continuing diesel oil price  prcing mechanism has following
pooling arrangements armong      components:
_ .      ____       ________________        _____-                -.      marketing companies limits



nsSACiI EKy                 Prior Actions -
~~          - ~~'    Trlggeisobf SAC41                    OteSA-I
AJI prices are adjusted         ccimpetiton.                   .    *   Import Price Parity
automatically on a fortnightly  * Tne transport prices of petrolelum  *  IFEM
basis. Since July 1, 2001 *all  products have been deregulated for  *   OMC Margins
scheduled price adjustmenlts    secondary markets. Piices allbwed   *   Dealers Margins
have taken pIlace.             to differ aicross some geographical  *   Petroleum Development Levy
areas.                           Refinery prices are also fixed on fortnightly
*Thie subsidies top the refineries; have  basis based upon Import Parity formula.
Prices of LPG ancd furnace oil aire fully
beben made transparent and are   deneulated. Its hmpact an efficiency anbd
provided throughi the national   cofiptiUon woulcd be further enhancedi If the
budget.                          market for diesel oil (about 45%6 of total
consumption) were further deregulated and
if the internabonal prices were treated as
aeilings.
*Refineries havs been allowed to
coptimlziifmport a porlion of their
requiretnents as crudie oVsemi finished
products
The efficiency Impact of this measure will be
limited since secondary market transport
cosis are a small fraction of total transport
costs.
b Fumrace oil prices and markets                                                                         Implemented
deregulated since July 1, 2000 through
liberalizationi of imports, transport, and
prices through the production andl
distribution chain.
c LPG prices and markets deregulaited by                                                                  Implemented
liberalizing prices through the
production and distribution chain ifrom
Oct 1, 2000.
d  Board of Dinactors of Statei Owned                                                                    implemented. Prfessioral management Is
Enterprises have been re-constitUted                                                                  in petae
with private sector professionals mnd
given greater autonomy, corporate
responsibility, and accountability.



_               ~                ~~.Key Porior Aiction is
SAC-I ~~~~     *Trlggbrs-;o-fSAC,I   t%N '.                   f.1
e F rogram for pnvatzation of oil and gas                                                                 Meryil Lynch for OGDCL arId J P Morgan
dlevelopment CDrporation has been                                                                      for PSO havei been ;appoined as financial
agreed, and approved by the CabineLt                                                                   advisors. Due diligence for PSO lis
undenvay andi preliminary rnarketing is
expected to commence In last quarter of
2001. For OGDCL, due diligence is
undenvay and privalizatlon plan is expecited
to be completed by November 20C11 by FA
Preliminary markeUrig Is expected to
commiBnce by December 2001.
Board of Privatizatlon Comrnission on
Augusit 11. 2001, approved the appointment
of FA for PPL. Contract wilIl be finalized
_  _ _________________________        _________________________  _     _ ____________________________        after GOPs decision on Gas p,-cridn_g
f  F rivatization of Sui South LPIG plant                              The privatization of Sui North LPG Plant Implemented
completed.                                                          has been completed.
g Introduction of deaner products to                                   As a part of thei program to improve the  RON 87 has been introduced. Unleaded
protect the environment. By                                         quality cif petroleum products, unleaded  gasoline now represents over two-thirds of
dliscontinuation of use of RON 80                                   gasoline has been made available-  total gasoline consurnption. -
gasoline                                                           throughout seventy percent cif the
t 
* iiimmn Im --1                                     mi!                            inrnUm 1mmmmmmu- 
C'IIEDUCATION tIncnease the penrentage of eliementary age children enrolled in and completing pnmary,schooling, ,while narrowinigthe gaps betwdeien t,-
a aaIestandeAmallesiancl:urbar nand rural students. Improve the quallity of education through holistic set of refomisr
a Developiment of a comprehensive  -                               _   The implementation of the Education  . Seven thrust areas of ESR are:
Education Reform Strategy and Action                                Sector Reforms has been strsngtheined  o  Literacy-14on-Fofmal (5-9;10-
F'lan by the Feceral Government and                                through additional buclgetary resources  14;&15+yrs)
the Provinces.                                                     (IRs. 2 bn) directed to the provinces and  o  Mainstreaming & Upgradation of
districts, the launching of the National  Madrassalhs (collaboration with Ministry
Education Assessment nitiative, anid   of Religious AffaIlrs)
the expansion of school rehabilitabon,  o  Eliementary Education: Rehabilitation,
teacher training, and girls feeding    Early Childhood Education, Compulsory
programis                              Primary Ordinance
A possible World Bank-financed LIL is  (Pre-school to Class V & Clas-s VI-VIII)
under preparation to aissist with the  o  Tetchnical Stream at Secondaiy Level &
National Education Assessment effcirt.  stbengthening Polytechinics (Class IX-
The consolidatesd budget allocations of  Xlil)
the federal, provincial, and district  o  Quality Assurance in: Pedagogy,
_ _                              -        _   _          _         -  _ovemment buedgets fr education hiave  Curriculum & Textbooks, Asselssment



i  iSSA  I    |     ~    KetPriDr Acitions                    Oh    SA3i.l                   -
rliggwsof SAC-il'ther-SIC.fl
increased to Rs 72.6 billion or 2.0    and hlanaging Change
percent of GDP                     o   Higher Education Reform: Quali,
Actual Expenditure in FY 2000-Cl was   Access & shift to science and
Rs. 51.362 billion and Dunng July     technology
March 2001-02 is IRs. 48.854 bllion  o  Public Private Partrierships at all llevels:
Restructured Founclations and Incentive
Package -
o   ShMft in Govermmenl 's role from Provider
to facilitator
Necessary agreements have been
concluded with all provincial education
departments, FATA, FANA, AJK, and ICT
for Implementation of ESR padkage.
Cabinet has approved the incenitive package
for private sector (public private? partnership)
ancd National Educational Foundation.
AdministraiUve approval has been sought
frorn Govemrnment of Punjab for NEAS
_    -             .                              -                      _   _______________           _  alpproval.       --
b To inmprove the delivery of services and  Provinces, terrtoiies, and the federal  *  Potential World Bank programmatic  NWFP
the use of scarce resources the    government are implementing         lending for provincial adjustnent  Overstaffed and undersiaffed schools have
Provinces aind territories are     programs 'to iMpnDve service dEtlivery  program-s (undJer prepDaratioir in  beeIn Identified. F:acility specific staff
undertaking the following actions:  through improved human resource     Sindh and NWFP), and for       positions have been authorized
*  Rationalizing of invesitment    management, redleploymient of staff,  proposed PRSC opeirations would  Puniiab Previncea
programs in all provinces. F7cus in  school-baed                                                   A   a her c ntracosi assist in developing the capacities  Anrua coinfidenal Reports of civil seivants
finishin,c ongoig school-buildiing  revised examinabon procedures,   and systems to design and            * Re rts by t          b
programs before initiatng new   teacher training programis, control of  implement programs to improve  Evaluation Reports that are more job
cones.                          stalf abseniteeismi; and incentive-  enrollment and leaming out omes.  specific and quanitifiable. With the District
*  Provinces have established  basedpayments based on  ~  and learning  ~    Goiernments in pl[ace, close monitorring of
stronger monitoring systemshe   based payments base on           *  To Increase pujblic firnancing of  field and administrative staff performance
teacher absentl eeism and        erorman.                            private education, the federal  has; become possible. FPerformance of
enforcement oif sanctions.                                          government has approved ai new  teachers has now a direct bearlng on Iheir
., Hiring of new teachers largely                                   charter for the National Education  promnotions, which has Improved class room
being conducted through                                          IFoundation.                    teaching and has facilitated effective
contract hiring.                                              *  The Cabinet has approved a      supiervisioin.
Intensified efforts to devolive                                        nationail strategy to promote private  Balochistan
management of non-salary budgets to                                    sector participation in education. A  Following lpolicy has beein approved:
the srchool level through parent-teacher                                new package of incentives for  Introduction of district adlministration cadre,
associations or teachers.                                              private, non-profit schools h,as  training of staff in administration and
been announced                 management skills (56 EDOs, DEOs and
DDiDs have completed training under PrrS
_                              _  _        .-                               ___________-_______     __       have been trainecl,reparation of senrice 



U,                             -'          Key Prior Aclions.                     hei iSAC                           c r
rIgervif.S AC41I                    thi'A       1 
rul s and Zsenionily lists with reference to
disbricts and introduction of appointments
ancd promotions cn district basis
NWFP
A system has been put Irn place and service
of several teacther's have been lerminated
due to persistent absenteeism
PunJab
Between Oct 200() to May 2001,.2006410
inspections; have been cairried out and has
reduced teacher absenteeism to less that
1%. Incenlive scheme has beefn introdluced
and Rs. 80 million were disbursed during FY
2001001. WVith the Inceplion of district
govermments and establishment of
community boards, closer monitoring s;
possible for qualibtaive and quantitative
delivery of iservices and punctuality of stafl.
Balouchistan Province,-
Necessary steps to enhance frequency of
visits by supervisors are being 'undertaken,
OthUer meassures include increase In
supiervisory staff, provision of vehicles,
enhianced funds lbr POL, repairs and
TAIDA. policy to reprimaind abscondeis,
awards for outstanding performances,
_- special allowance for rural female teachers
2,' 2.iALTF       roveth,e'heall status of ttiepoulatior through the expansion and imlarovedqaOty of _preven_            an'd  h
a Famiily Planning and mateimal and child  The implementation of the National  World Bank finana-d operation to  Initial FY0:2 budgets for EPI and other
health care programs have been     Heailth Poliicy has been strengthened  support HIVIAIDS prevention prcgram  federal health programs were irnadequate
strengthened through increases in  through the laundhing of the     in advancecl state of preparation. AsDEI  until supplementeid by additionazl foreign
female health staff mosUy through the  enhanced Expancded Immunization  financed Women's Health Project under  grant assistance made available In second
Lady Health Workers, which already  Program for children; the      implementation to improve maternal  quairter. Use of funds on some programs
reach 43,0010. To reduce matemal   strengthening of the Lady Health  health services in 20 districts and plans  may be delayed tiy slow clearance and
morbidity and mortality, targeted  Workers Program through the hiring  are being developed for another 36  release procedures. Given the priority these
progirams in 20 rural districts are  of 10,000 new workers and the  districts.                         programs have in the PRS. budget
undeirway.                         merger with a similar program under                                 allocation and use need to be carefully
the Ministry of Polpulation and                                     monitored. Contraceptive supply problems
Welfare; the expansion of the                                       need to be resolved to Imnprove impact of
Tuberculosis control program; and                                   family planning elforts. Strong leadership
the formulation of a national strategic                             and continuity maintained in Federal Hlealth
_        _                     __     HlV/AIDS Prevention program about    _____                          Departmeit.                          a



i *                                Key,i Piy,P =ri<rA riorA ns                  NMI
r~~~iohs~~~~~$AQ ~  ~         v"f 1                       -Ot
to be launched
b  Immtnization programs have been                                                                     _     Percentage of fully Immunized chc_ren-
strengthened to achieve specific targets                                                                  49% (PIHS 1998-99)e.
over the ne)t two years.                                                                                  District Suiveys through Thiird Parly
. Increase In immunization (DIPT3)                                                                      Evaluation of EPI In Punjab In yrd l 2000
coverage of chlIldren 12-23 months                                                                    shows overall post-cimpaign
from 58% in 1999 to 70% in 2003.                                                                     immunization coverage of 70%
* Increase in immunization coverage                                                                     Independent District Surveys being
of TT from 35% to 70%                                                                                 conducted In other provinceis (UNICEF
* Increase in polpulabtion with access                                                                  support)
to tuberculosis control from '2% to                                                                   Target: Achieve EPI Coverage of 80%
C 30%                                                                                                 by 20041
Completely eliminate the confirmed                                                                        5 year EPI Strategic Plan fhrmulated.
polio cases by 200:2.                                                                                     13GAVI support to strength Routine
Immunization program at district level
approved. Provincial PC-is under
process.
Auto disposable syringels introduced in EPI
since 2000I. Injection Salfety Plain undeir
_ .  _    _      _                                             _    _          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prelparatboir.
c Provincial Departments of Health In the                              Potential World Bank programmatic  Provinces have:
three largest provirices anr prepairing for                         lending for provincial adjustment  . Reorganized Provincial Secretarlats.
devolution. Reviews of roles andl                                   progirams (Linder preparation in Sindh  Directorates and District Health Offices In
responsibilities among dfflerent tiers of                           and NWFP), and for proposed PIRSC    line ith Devoluton Flan.
govemment are underway. includJing                                  operations would assist In developing  * lRe-distributed Provincial andi District
plans for capacity building at the district                         the capacities and systemrs to design  Functions and Respcnsibilities.
level                                                               and Implement programs to Improve  a IRe-deployed staff frorm the provindal and
enrollment and leaming o'utcomes.    divisional tiers to wor1k In the districts.
GAVI program inclides assistance to  * Strengthened district health offices to
build Immunrization capacities In districts  Indertaike planning functlon, as well as
with greatest needs.                 improved financial and personnel
management
a ConflIcL Resolution CDmmltlDes to
adcllItaten smooth transintbn olf power from
the provinces to the d1istricts.
* Departnent of Popubltion Welfare has
been placed under EDO (Health).
d Proviinces have Introduced programs for
monitoring and disciplining health staff
_  absenteeismn.                                                                                   __ -_



Key Prir Acitons.                     ~- 
~C.3:'SOC,lAL:PROlTECTION: TqjmyhelP educe! poverty, develop human capita! and reduoe genclerimbalancis tlIr6c-. h  lbr&  W bilbl 
a  Increase in fund allocation for poverty  The govennment has increased the  The govemment has estaiblished as a  | Implemenlted. The system of transfers to
rouuctuon firom 2.S percent cf GCP In  tbudget alloctions for human  part of the l-PRSP an expenditure  i provinces, districts and service detiveiy
1999100 to 2.9 percent of GDP in   development and pro-poor (I-PRSP)  tracking mechanism for pro-poor (or  points needs to be developed ind
2000/01.                           expenditures to Rs 164 billion, or 4.4  PRSP expenditures). Quarterly  implemented to einsure levels and
percent of GDP.                  expe nditurei reports are being prepared  cornposition of spending (as well as
and disseminated to the public.    bucigets) adequate to achieve desirgt
outcomes from the key programs f  primary
education, disease prevenbion, marfial and
_______   _____________ _                      ______________________                        child health. and family plannin g
bh ImplementaUion of small-wvorks program                              The Pakistan Khushal program has   Rs. 15 billion has been released to
(Khushal Pakistan)) to provide                                      been strengthenecd and it s budget  provinces.
employment and basic services to the                                allocation iricreased to R.. 15 billion or
poor. The programi is the largest public                            about 12 percent cif the country's public
investment program in the country with                             investment program.
a budget of 0.6% of GDP.
c Launching of a direct cash-transfer                                  The govemment has initiated the    A system of means testing at lcical level is
program ('Food SUpport Prograrn)                                    monitoring and evaluation of the Food  operational for idientification of Ibeneficiaries
targeted to 200,000 poor families -1.2                              Support Program through third party  by llinking it with Zakat system. During July-
million people.                                                    surveys. The first survey has been  Dec 2001. a total of 1.081,656 beneficiaries
conclucted on a pilot basis by the  were given Rs. 1081 million.
_                      _   _____  -_________                        University of Punjab.  ____   ___  -___                             -
d Strengthening of the Islarnic-based                                  The financing of the off-budget Zakat  The revamped zakat 'stem se eks to
Zakat charity program that provides                                 program has been increased frorn Rs. 8  provide funds to ien  iaries riot only to
casht transfers to the most vulnerable                              billion to Rs. 10 billion to reach more  fulfil basic needs buslsO to permanently
groups in society.                                                  than 2 million beneficiaries.      rehabilitate them through zakal rehabilitation
grants uptD Rs. 50,000 tD undertake self
_ __         _~ _       _-                     -    -_______                            employment projects.
e Establishment of a Micro-Credit IBank to                             The credit program of the Micro-Credit  Law has been promulgated to allow private
service the poor, especialily in rural                              Bank has been stnrngthened.       sector to open micro-finmncing services.
areas                                                               Branches have been expanded to 30  During July-Dec 2001, micro credit
(out of 100) districds.            disbursements (ADBP PIPAF aind Khtushali
bank) totaled Rs. 476 million.



KyPrior Act1ions -:           ~       e   A    '
rigeirs of, SALC  I
_ To develop the government's capacity to re are anid implement these polici S.
The govemment has establishedl a  * The targeting mechanisms,       Over time, lit is expected that thei PRSP,
PRSP Secretariat at the Ministry of  effectiveness, and sustainability of  Secretariat needs to be well linked to and
Finance to coordinate the preparation  Kushal Pakistan, Micro-credit bank,  coordinated with elxsting monito,ring and
of thie PRSP and the monitoring and  and Zakat, as well as the Foocd  evaluation capacitles  social siervice
evaliation of implementalion. To    Support program are being carefully  delivery departments 'ederal, provincial
moniitor ancl evaluate progress in the  evaluated to identify improvemnents  and district levels, whic.. need to be further
I-PRSP the government hias: (al  * Additional work is needed on some  strengthened to enable ttitm to assess
established a natioinal poverty linte;  Adiioa wor is eeedo n sciome  outcomes of policies and pro6,~Pmrs and
and (b) established intemiediate    crollmentlrates and   chi        make adjustments as needed.
outcome indicators for health aniJ  enrollmernt rates and chiild
education wfith agreed baseline dlata  immunization) as substantial
and lprograrns to monitor these     differences persist across souirces.  Newly established Center for Research fbor
outcomes.                          lOF to support the establishment of  Poverty Reductioni and Inicome Distribution
the PRSF' Secretariat under      (CRI;RID) in the Planningl Division would
consideraition. A DFID-supported  undertake the impact analysis of poverty
participatory poverty assessment  reduction strategy. Newly formeid district
has been carriecd out, aind World  governments are also developing frameiwork
Bank-managed P overty Assessment  for monitoring and effective implementation
is underway. These will help cleepen  of various programs aimeid to ai,eviate
understanding o0f the poverty profile  poverty in respective provinces
and assist in the analysis of issues
and optons. A Joint Bank-IMF
poverty and social impact analysis
(PSIA) of past increase.s in public
utility prices and petroletum product
taxes is also planned.






Report No.:       23931
Tynpe    ICR
.JI--.~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -1



