Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3515 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 12, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3515 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 2001, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by 
its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
April 23, 2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve reduction of poverty through a broad-based structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
Page  2
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit."; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning 
July 1 of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the following calendar year; and
(c)
"Rupees" or "Rs" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two hundred seventy-six million one hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 276,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Page  3
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2011 and ending January 15, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2021 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
any action shall have been taken or any omission shall have been made 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or 
any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Page  5
Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division or any Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of that Division of 
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the  Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECONOMIC 
ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Tanwir Ali Agha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John Wall
Country Director, Pakistan
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
Page  6
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member Country 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or 
(b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
Page  7
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to
this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has extended the coverage of the national value added tax (general 
sales tax or GST) to include all services previously subject to excise taxes.
2.
The Borrower has established fiscal monitoring committees at the federal and 
provincial levels to oversee the preparation and dissemination of timely reconciled 
expenditure data, with a view to improving the quality and reliability of public 
financial statements, and the preparation and dissemination of such data at the 
federal level has been completed for the first semester of FY 2000-01.
3.
The Borrower has adopted a revised form, principles and methods of accounting 
for the federation and the provinces, with a view to meeting the requirements of a 
modern integrated financial management system designed to provide timely and reliable 
information for budget management, financial control, cash forecasting and trend 
analysis, fiscal administration and debt management purposes.
4.
The Borrower has issued: (a) an Ordinance (XXIII of 2001) defining the 
functions, powers and terms and conditions of service of the Auditor General of 
Pakistan; and (b) an Ordinance (XXIV of 2001) establishing a new office of the 
Controller General of Accounts, all with a view to separating the public accounting 
and auditing functions.
5.
The Borrower has established ad hoc federal and provincial public accounts 
committees (PACs), and opened up the hearings of the federal public accounts committee 
to the press.
6.
The Borrower has issued an Ordinance (LVI of 2000) amending its Federal Public 
Service Commission (FPSC) Ordinance (XLV of 1977), so as to enhance FPSC’s 
independence, increase its financial autonomy, expand its role in the recruitment of 
public servants, and limit and define the posts which are outside its purview.
7.
The Borrower has issued an Ordinance (LII of 2000), with a view to providing 
for: (a) a fair and transparent privatization process; (b) the utilization of 
privatization proceeds to retire federal government debt and alleviate poverty; and 
(c) an expeditious mechanism for resolution of privatization-related disputes.
8.
The Borrower has initiated the market liberalization of petroleum products by: 
(a) liberalizing the import, transportation and pricing of furnace oil; and (b) 
liberalizing the pricing of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).
9.
The Borrower has: (a) put in place a system of quarterly adjustments of 
petroleum product prices in line with international price movements; and (b)  made the 
first six adjustments under that system.
10.
The Borrower has: (a) announced a new gas pricing framework providing for: (i) 
the setting of well-head prices based on international crude (or fuel) oil prices; 
(ii) the bi-annual revision of consumer prices; (iii) the phasing out of subsidies 
over a three-year period, except in relation to the fertilizer sector and a lifeline 
rate for domestic consumers; and (iv) the phased adjustment of consumer prices, so as 
to reflect the cost of service; and (b)  made the first bi-annual consumer price 
adjustment under said new gas pricing framework for the semester ending June 30, 2001.
11.
The Borrower has notified the revised electricity tariff for energy sold by its 
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), as approved by its National Electric 
Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) during the quarter ending March 31, 2001.
12.
The Borrower has: (a) notified the fuel adjustment formula for the quarterly 
revision of electricity tariffs for energy sold by WAPDA, as approved by NEPRA during 
the quarter ending December 31, 2000; and (b) furnished to the Association evidence 
satisfactory to the Association that WAPDA has carried out the first two such 
revisions based on said formula.
13.
The Borrower has adopted and communicated to NEPRA new policy guidelines for 
setting electricity tariffs, which: (a) allow for differential tariffs for the Karachi 
Electric Supply Company (KESC) and for the electricity distribution companies forming 
part of WAPDA; 
(b) provide for reduction of cross-subsidies between consumer categories except for 
lifeline rates; and (c) allow for formula-based multi-year tariffs.
Page  8
14.
The Borrower has reduced or eliminated the differential application of excise 
taxes on imported and domestic products, so as to bring down the maximum nominal 
effective tariff to 35% on all but eleven specified products made subject to 
regulatory duty.
15.
The Borrower’s federal, provincial and territorial governments have developed a 
comprehensive education sector reform program (ESR) and action plan.
16.
The Borrower’s provincial and territorial governments have: (a) introduced a 
competitive selection system for new teachers, with selection panels including 
community representatives; and (b) commenced making teacher appointments under a 
school-based or area-specific contract system.
17.
The Borrower’s provincial and territorial governments have consolidated their 
education sector investment programs, with a major portion of the development budget 
going to complete ongoing works and rehabilitate existing buildings. 
18.
The Borrower’s provincial and territorial governments have introduced programs 
for monitoring and disciplining teacher and health staff absenteeism.
