Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2319-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
May 8, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                 P P 7.40
P 1 I                US$0.135
P 1 million    =     US$135,135
ABBREVIATIONS
CB      -   Central Bank of the Philippines
DBP     -   Development Bank of the Philippines
DOI     -   Department of Industry
IGLF    -   Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
IPD     -   Industrial Projects Department
LBP     -   Land Bank of the Philippines
OBUs    -   Off-Shore Banking Units
PDBs    -   Private Development Banks
PDCP    -   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
PISO    -   Philippine Investments Systems Organization
SBAC    -   Small Business Advisory Center
SMI     -   Small and Medium Industries
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:          Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
Amount:               $80 million equivalent
Terms:                The proposed loan would have an interest rate of 7.50% p.a.
The $30 million of the proceeds of the loan, which would
be earmarked for small- and medium-scale industry (SMI) and for
establishment of a training institute, would have a fixed
repayment term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace;
the $50 million of the proceeds of the loan for large-scale
industry would be repaid to the Bank on the basis of a
flexible amortization schedule reflecting the composite
repayment schedules of DBP's subloans.
Relending Term:       The Government would relend the proceeds of the proposed
loan to DBP on the same terms and conditions as those for
the proposed Bank loan except that the Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk on the subloans for small-
and medium-scale industries and for financing the cost of
establishing a training institute.  The foreign exchange
risk ont subloans for large-scale industry would be borne
by the subborrowers. DBP would charge an interest rate
to subborrowers of 12-14% p.a. plus a service fee of 2%
p.a. for loans of more than P 150,000 ($20,300). The maxi-
mum repayment period for small- and medium-scale industry
subloans would be 12 years, including a maximum three-year
grace period. Subloans for large-scale industry would
have a maximum term of 15 years, including an appropriate
period of grace.
Project
Description:        The project provides long-term finance for the establish-
ment and expansion of industrial enterprises of all
sizes with the exception of cottage industries. About
$50 million of the proposed loan would be earmarked for
large-scale enterprises and $29.7 million for small-
and medium-scale industry. In addition, about $300,000
would be used by DBP to establish a development banking
institute to train the management and personnel of
smaller development finance institutions. In addition
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
to providing the resources required for expanding
the industrial base of the Philippines, the project
would help in further improving the institutional
capacity of DBP. There are a number of financial
and industrial sector issues which the Government would
need to address within the next few years. The degree of
success of the Government in addressing these issues
would have a significant effect on the development impact
of DBP's industrial lending.
Estimated                                              ----- ($ million) ----
Disbursements:                            Bank FY   1979  1980  1981  1982
Annual                     9.3   22.7  41.0   7.0
Cummulative                9.3   32.0  73.0  80.0
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 1972-PH, dated April 21, 1978



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
1.        I submit the fcllowing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $80 million.
The loan would be at an interest rate of 7.50% p.a. The proceeds of the
loan would be relent to t:he Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) at the
same interest rate for on-lending to specific productive small, medium and
large-scale enterprises. The portions of the proposed loan ($30 million) for
SMI lending and for the training institute would have a repayment term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace; the portion for large-scale industry
($50 million) would be repaid to the Bank in accordance with a flexible
amortization schedule reflecting the composite amortization schedules of DBP's
subloans. These would have a maximum term of 15 years, including an
appropriate grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /j
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum PHL77-2 on October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled "The
Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development" (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if the country's considerable natural and human
resources had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were
also distributed relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and income
classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the population
and labor force. Low letvels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Poor export
performance combined with the heavy import dependence of domestic industry
led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO) Project (SecM/78-63),
which was approved by the Executive Directors on April 27, 1978.



- 2 -
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly,
exports and imports of goods and services were roughly equal, and the shares
of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable at still relatively
low levels. Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher
prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand, agricultural
production rebounded strongly from the natural disasters of the previous
year, and the balance of payments registered a substantial current account
surplus. The export-led income boom of 1973 was followed by an investment
boom. The resulting high investment rate, together with favorable sugar
prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil price
increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP growth
was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first half of the 1970s also saw
significant structural changes in the economy, the most important of which
were an increase in the level of public investment, financed in large part
by a greater tax effort, a recovery in export growth, a shift of the domestic
terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the population
growth rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier
declines in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external
situation dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975, and as a
result the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP, and the overall balance
of payments deficit to $500 million. Thus, the necessity of restoring balance
to the external accounts was superimposed on the Government's longer-term
objectives of faster economic growth and a better distribution of its benefits.
To maintain the momentum of growth and investment, the Government adopted a
policy of increasing capital inflows in the near term to finance the resulting
expanded current account deficits while accelerating export growth in the
longer term. In 1976-77, the economy - led by exports, public investment,
agriculture and construction - has continued to grow at 6% per year. Unfor-
tunately, much of the stimulus from an expansion in export volume was offset
by further deterioration in the terms of trade. However, inflation, which
reached a peak of 31% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on
domestic prices, has slowed to a rate of about 7% because of the deceleration
in international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call
for further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater selfsufficiency in food and energy, strengthening the balance of
payments, and increased development in rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes strategies for development in each of the country's thirteen regions.
In general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by



- 3 -
the Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the
Bank's basic economic report, although investment, manufacturing output, and
exports are projected to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It
should be feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms
of trade stabilize, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and effort needs to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
7.        For a country with fairly good soils and a reasonably literate
rural population, agricu:Ltural yields in the Philippines are relatively low.
Possible reasons for this situation are the low quantity and quality of
irrigation facilities and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure
patterns; and weak agricu:Ltural credit, extension, and other supporting
services. Agricultural production has, nevertheless, grown at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year in the 1970s. The performance of the sector was
exceptionally strong in 1976 and 1977, as production increased by 7%, and the
Philippines has been virtually self-sufficient in rice, its main staple, for
the past three years.                                 /
8.        The Government gives high priority to   riculture and rural
development.  It has undertaken a number of step to increase the availability
of irrigation and supporting services, and has-/also expanded programs to
improve living conditions in rural areas, including rural electrification,
health and family planning, and rural roads. However, while irrigation
investment has been raised substantially, improvements in the quality of
supporting services - particularly credit and extension - are necessary.
9.        For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The land transfer program, which has been in
operation for five years and covers rice and corn growing areas, proceeded
quite rapidly when larger landholdings were the focus of concentration, but
progress has been slower recently as the focus has been on a larger number
of medium-sized holdings, which often belong to middle-class landowners. As
of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the total tenants under
the program, had received Certificates of Land Transfer, which established
their claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the process of implemen-
tation, the transfer program remains an important part of the Government's
rural development strategy.
Industry
10.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and introduced
policy changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives. Further
efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import substitution and
capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate of
industrial growth as projected in the Five Year Development Plan.



- 4 -
11.       Manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average rate
of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
two years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base as their exports increased almost fivefold in the
four-year period 1973-76 in response to exchange rate adjustment and special
measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and thus
reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted above,
further efforts in this direction will be needed if industrial exports are to
continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry has also grown
rapidly as the expansion of relatively construction-intensive public investment
and large tourism investments in the Manila area raised construction expendi-
ture from 6% of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in 1976.
Employment, Incomes and Population
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was Lhe growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1975/76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and account
for most of the growth in total employment.
13.       Preliminary survey data show that the share of income received by
the poorest 40% of families, which remained constant during the 1961-71
period, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share of the
top 20% of families remained about the same as in 1971, while that of middle
income families declined correspondingly. Due to the improvement in agricul-
ture' s terms of trade, the growth of agricultural production, the decline in
urban real wages following the devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of
industrial employment until 1975, the ratio of the average rural income to
the average urban income rose from 48% in 1971 to 57% in 1975. Real per
capita consumption increased by about 2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, after
allowance for price increases, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the
poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have
remained about the same.
14.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.8% as compared to a 3.0% growth rate during the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approximately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of
reaching rural areas, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased from 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.



-5-
Investment and Savings
15.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975.  Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6-1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP. Although the private investment rate is well over the 14% average of
the early 1970s, the revival of private investment is an important short-term
problem. Furthermore, the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively
modest growth of manufacturing output and employment, and the structural
underutilization of capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency
of investment also needs to be improved.
16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that: of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1976-77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achieved in 1975 aLnd financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreLgn savings. In order to increase the efficiency of
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Govern-
ment has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned
in 1976 and again in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings
into time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and
to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural e-ctor and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs, creating a difficult policy dilemma. On the one hand,
the programs have become costly means of achieving their objectives, and the
growth of arrears reduces the overall efficiency of resource mobilization and
allocation. On the other hand, the programs do redress imbalances in the
availability of credit so that arrears have to be reduced without closing
necessary credit channels.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
17.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP.  Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to



- 6 -
correct the situation and raise both the overall level of expenditures and
the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1977 govern-
ment expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP, and public investment,
which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about 6-1/2% of GNP.
18.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by an impressive 1.5 percentge points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compli-
ance and collection performance.  However, much of the success in mobilizing
revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Total tax
revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
only an estimated 14.1% in 1977. Greater resource mobilization by government
financial institutions and government corporations, whose investment programs
have grown rapidly, is also needed.
External Trade and Capital Flows
19.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade in 1975,
the current account recorded a deficit of $900 million, or 6% of GNP. To meet
the immediate payments problem, the Government drew down its international
reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and expanded its
borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer term, a
strategy was adopted of accelerating export growth both to hold the current
account deficit about constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and
to meet the debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
20.       Some progress in these directions was made in the last two years.
In 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade def cit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit was stabil-
ized at 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to $1.1 billion.
Most of the inflow was from medium- and long-term loans, two-thirds of which
were public loans reflecting in part increased disbursements from official
sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial expansion in export
volume which, with little expected change in the terms of trade, import
volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current account deficit to 4%
of GNP and eliminate the overall payments deficit. Hence, on the whole, the
balance of payments position has strengthened significantly.
21.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and



a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required. Assum-
ing continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced maturity
structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt of the
Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt
service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average about 19%,
of which 7% would be public debt service, during the plan period (1978-82).
22.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures which will be required during
1978-82 and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits,
the Government sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million
in 1978 at the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in
Tokyo on December 1 and 2, 1977. This amount is likely to be available.
However, since many of thet planned projects which are to be financed from
external sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost finan-
cing is necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external
financing requirements.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.       As of March 31, 1978, the Philippines had received 51 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,332.5 million and
three IDA credits amounting to $32.2 million./2  At that date, IFC investments
totalled $86.3 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to increase to about 19% and 8%, respectively, by
the end of the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits,
Bank loans and IFC investment as of March 31, 1978 as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding irrigation systems to
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain produc-
tion and processing, livestock and fisheries production and tree farming.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation because substantial improvement in
basic infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many years of past
neglect and to provide the basis for future growth of the productive sectors.
In the industrial sector, the Bank's main thrust has been on strengthening
the capacity of public and private development finance institutions with
/1  Part II of this report is substantially the same as that of the Philippine
Investments Systems Organization (PISO) project which was approved by the Board
on April 27, 1978.
/2  Since then, a loan of $60 million for rural electrification was approved
by the Executive Directors on April 4, an IDA credit of $28 million
for a rural infrastructure project on April 11, and a loan of $15 million
for the Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO) project on
April 27, 1978.



- 8 -
increasing attention given to meeting the needs of small and medium industries.
In the social sectors, the Bank Group has provided support for education
programs, designed to improve the quality of primary and secondary education
and to meet trained manpower requirements in agriculture and industry.  In
urban areas, assistance has been provided for water supply projects and for
programs to upgrade living conditions in low income urban areas and to develop
low cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to the Philippine
population program through assistance for the construction of multipurpose
rural health units and for training of family planning staff.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the results of supervision and
project completion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most
projects are likely to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the
overall rate of disbursement is marginally below what would be expected
given the generally good project implementation, and the Government is
currently reviewing disbursement performance on an agency-by-agency basis
to identify possible reasons for disbursement lags and to find appropriate
solutions.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year Devel-
opment Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of productive
employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy and increased development in
rural areas. The Bank Group's future lending program has been designed to
assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agriculture and rural
development will account for the largest part of future lending, with continued
emphasis on food production and increasing the productivity and incomes of
small farmers. However, the program provides for several new initiatives,
including a first loan to support the strengthening of the national agricul-
tural extension service and a first loan for developing multiple cropping
systems in rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased
support will also be provided for integated rural development projects which
will support the Government's objectives of redressing region.al imbalances ii'
income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry
with special attention being given to expanding the development of labor-
intensive, small and medium industries outside the Metropolitan Manila area.
The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to
increase as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban water
supply and sewerage systems and further assistance to the lower income urban
areas through low cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will also
continue to provide support for improving the quality of education and for
expanding the Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank
Group will continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastruc-
ture projects needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share
of Bank Group lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead
primarily because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a
large part of the power generation program.



- 9 -
27.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years,
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain substan-
tial amounts of foreign assistance on concessional terms to support its
expanding development program.   In view of this consideration, the per
capita income of the country and the generally good management of the economy,
a limited amount of IDA financing will be proposed for the Philippines; the
first IDA credit since 1974 was recently presented to the Executive Directors
and a second is scheduled for FY79.
28.       This is the ninth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year and would bring total lending to the Philippines to $208 mil-
lion. Loans for urban development, water supply and multipurpose dam projects
are expected to be ready for presentation within the next few months.
PART III - THE :[NDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE /1
29.       The industrial sector (defined as manufacturing, mining and con-
struction) in 1976 accounted for about one third of GDP and 15% of total
employment. Manufacturing is by far the largest component of the industrial
sector accounting for about one quarter of GDP and about 11% of employment.
Food and beverages are the largest manufacturing group followed by chemicals
and textiles. Manufacturing enterprises are predominantly privately owned
and generally concentrated in large capital-intensive units.
30.       Industry grew at a rate of about 6% per annum between 1955 and 1971.
Its growth rate accelerated in the early 1970s. However, as the Philippine
economy was adversely affected by the worldwide economic slowdown and the
sharp deterioration in t!he Philippines' terms of trade, the growth rate
declined to 4.6% within the last three years. Capital investments for plant
and equipment increased by only 5% in 1976 and are estimated to have increased
at about the same rate in 1977. Exports and growing government expenditures
should give increased stimulus to the economy and contribute to an expansion in
the rate of industrial growth and investment. The longer-term prospects for
industrial growth are favorable because of the good natural and human resources
of the Philippines and its active private sector.
31.       There are, however, a number of important issues confronting the
industrial sector. Historically, Philippine industrial production was geared
primarily to the needs of the domestic market and there has been heavy
reliance on protection policies applied through the tariff system and some
degree of import control. In the late 1960s, the Government became aware
of the problems implicit in this approach and through the Investment Incen-
tives Act of 1967 and the Export Incentives Act of 1970 has sought to expand
/1  With the exception of paragraphs 35 through 38 which have been added,
this section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO) Project
(SecM/R78-14), which was considered by the Executive Directors on
April 27, 1978.



- 10 -
,he nontraditional industrial base and to expand exports and industrial
employment. In addition to the incentives provided under the Export
Incentives Act, the peso was devalued in 1970, an Export Processing Zone was
established and an Export Council was created to make recommendations on various
aspects of export promotion. Partly in response to some of these measures, non-
traditional manufacturing exports grew rapidly during the period 1973-77. However,
Philippine industry still remains heavily protected and differential rates of
protection combined with selective export incentives to various industries
are still producing less than optimal industrial and export growth. To
rationalize the industrial sector and to provide the basis for future growth,
it will be necessary for the Government to move toward a less restrictive
trade regime by gradually removing import restrictions and reducing tariffs.
The Government, with the assistance of a Bank-financed consultant, is
undertaking a major review of industrial protection and incentives and is
considering a major tariff reform. Further stimulus could be provided
through continuing analysis and information programs on foreign market
potential, simpler export procedures, larger credit programs and establish-
ment of trading houses.
32.       Philippine industry has contributed relatively little towards
alleviating the problems of unemployment and underemployment. Between 1960
and 1974, manufacturing employment grew at an annual rate of about 2.5%. The
rate of employment generation, however, has markedly improved during the
last two years as employment in manufacturing grew at an annual rate of 8%
in 1975 and 1976, partly as a result of Government's programs designed to
foster the growth of small and medium industries which have considerable
employment potential.
33.       Manufacturing enterprises remain heavily concentrated in the greater
Metro-Manila Area which accounts for about 40% of such enterprises. The
problem of the geographic concentration of industry is receiving increasing
Government attention. Measures already taken in this regard include provision
of incentives for projects located in less developed areas, promotional
measures by the Board of Investments and its practice of negotiating the
location of the project before its approval, a ban on new plant establishment
within 50 km of Manila (except export-oriented projects) and a requirement
that the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) and the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP) direct at least 60% of their small-scale lending
outside Metro-Manila.  Further decentralization of industry will be encouraged
by the Government's rapidly expanding public infrastructure program (particu-
larly roads and rural electrification), major regional planning and development
efforts, and a planned program of regional industrial estates.
34.       The Government's Five-Year Development Plan (1978-82) projects
that the manufacturing sector will grow at an annual rate of 9% during the
Plan period and that manufacturing investment will grow at an annual rate
of 15.5% (from $1.7 billion in 1977 to nearly $3 billion in 1982). The
Government's plan calls for the rapid growth of labor-intensive, small and
medium industries producing for both domestic and export markets, and the
establishment of some large, resource-based projects to deepen the industrial
structure and develop further the country's natural resources. An example of
such a project is the planned construction of a copper smelter to process
copper concentrates that are currently exported.



- 11 -
Role of Small and Medium Industries (SMI)
35.       In 1974, small and medium industries together accounted for
84% of modern manufacturing firms, employed 31% of the labor force in the
industrial sector and contributed 20% to gross value added. The relative
growth rate of SMI vis-a-vis large-scale industry has been historically
uneven. Between 1962 and 1968, SMI grew more rapidly than larger industrial
firms. This pattern was reversed between 1968 and 1971. Since then a more
balanced growth has been achieved between SMI and large industry. In 1974,
the specific industries in which SMI accounted for over 50% of employment were
furniture, leather products, metal products, machinery and miscellaneous
industries.
36.       A Commission on Small and Medium Industries was created in 1974 in
the Department of Industry (DOI) to promote and assist the growth of SMI and
to coordinate the programs of both Government agencies and Government-supported
institutions for assisting small entrepreneurs. A number of specific programs
have recently been set up to assist small-scale entrepreneurs: the University
of the Philippines runs an entrepreneurship development program; the Medium
and Small Industry Coordinated Action Program (MASICAP) assists small entre-
preneurs in preparing project feasibility studies and in applying to financial
institutions for loans; Small Business Advisory Centers (SBACs) provide mana-
gerial and technical consultancy services to SMI; Trade Assistance Centers pro-
vide marketing assistance to SMI and coordinate their operations with those of
the SBACs; and the Design Center of the Philippines and the Food Terminal Inc.
also provide marketing-related assistance to SMI for product design and
development, storage and distribution.
37.       The major sources of medium- and long-term financial assistance
for SMI are DBP and the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF). The IGLF
is a long-term rediscount and guarantee fund, which is administered by the
Central Bank.  It provides credit to small industries through a network of
intermediary financing institutions and gives priority is given to small
businesses which do not possess sufficient collateral to borrow from other
sources. The volume of term credit provided by both DBP and IGLF increased
substantially in 1975 whLen the Bank's first loan (No. 1120-PH) for SMI in the
Philippines became available. However, SMI enterprises, which are generally
short of working capital, are constrained by the relative lack of institutional
sources of short-term credit. The Central Bank is devising ways to induce the
commercial banking sector to lend more for SMI.
38.       While the Government has provided considerable financial technical
assistance to SMI, the provision of adequate infrastructure and support



- 12 -
services has proceeded less rapidly. The handicaps to SMI in the regions from
power shortages, inadequate repair and maintenance, and delays in obtaining
financial assistance appear to be substantial. The Government, as part
of its Five-Year Development Plan, plans to establish a number of industrial
estates to provide the necessary infrastructure for the development of SMI
in the regions outside Metro-Manila.
Industrial Finance
39.       The core of the Philippine financial system is a large commercial
banking sector, both local and foreign, that operates under the branch banking
system and is the main source of working capital and trading credit. In
addition to the commercial banks, there are a number of investment houses,
savings and loan associations, rural banks and regional development banks.
The Government Insurance System and the Social Security System are active in
real estate and mortgage financing. Investment houses operate in the active
short-term money market. In late 1976, the Government allowed foreign bank
branches or offices to establish Off-Shore Banking Units (OBUs) and expand the
Foreign Currency Deposit Units to undertake foreign currency credit operations.
The Government-owned Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Private
Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) are the only two specialized
long-term lending institutions.
40.       As noted in paragraph 16, the aggregate savings performance in the
Philippines has improved generally during the last decade and is comparable
to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic development.
Since 1975, gross domestic savings have been at a level of 25% of GNP and
financed approximately 80% of total investment. However, in order to reach
a gross investment level of more than 31% of GNP by 1982 and reduce the
country's dependence on foreign savings, the Five-Year Development Plan
(1978-82) calls for an increase in gross domestic savings to a level of more
than 28% of GNP at the end of the Plan period. To achieve this objective,
gross domestic savings will need to increase by more than 17% per annum during
the next five years, requiring a marginal savings rate of nearly 30% per annum.
41.       In addition to raising the level of savings, there is also a need
to increase the maturity of financial assets. While the gross acquisition of
financial assets by the private sector rose from approximately 7% of GDP in
1965 to over 12% in 1974, the relative share of short-term assets increased
from only 17% to more than 40% during the same period. This was mainly due
to statutory limits on deposit rates of credit institutions while no ceilings
existed for money market rates. Given the needs of the investment program
for long-term finance, the present preference for financial assets with
shorter maturities represents an important issue for the Government's financial
policy. With a view to lengthening the average maturity of financial instru-
ments and to encouraging the mobilization of savings through banking institu-
tions, ceilings on bank rates on savings deposits were raised from a range of
6-6.5% to 7-7.5% and on time deposits from a range of from 8-11% to 8.5-12%.
Ceilings on interest rates for loans with maturities exceeding two years were
raised from 12-14% to 19% in January 1976. As the rate of inflation has been



- 13 -
about 7%, the real interest rates are all positive. In June 1977, a 35%
withholding tax on interest paid on short-term financial instruments was
introduced, while a 15% wiLthholding tax on interest paid on savings and time
deposits was set. These measures have resulted in a 36% increase in real
terms in savings and time deposits in 1977.
42.       The Philippine financial system does not yet include an effective
bond market mainly because longer-term interest rates have been statu-
torily controlled. An addlitional constraint is the dominance of the term
market by Government financial institutions because of the preferential treat-
ment given to their debt :Lnstruments. Only very limited capital expansion
is being financed through the stock exchange partly because private owners
are reluctant to share control over their enterprises and prefer financing
through borrowing. Recently, however, a 5% tax was introduced on closely
held corporations to encouirage them to go public.
43.       Financial institutions and credit programs in the Philippines have
experienced deterioration of loan recovery rates during recent years which has
seriously affected their financial performance. This is due, in part, to the
rapid expansion of credit programs to the productive sectors and to interna-
tional economic conditions which have had an adverse effect on some domestic
enterprises. The Government is devoting increased attention to the problem
of arrears so that loan recovery can be expected to improve.
44.       It is important for the Government to adopt a systematic long-term
plan to develop the Philippine financial sector along lines which will more
fully support the development of the economy. A financial sector mission is
scheduled to visit the Philippines in the fall of 1978 and the Bank is intending
to continue its discussions with the Government in this important area of
development policy.
The Bank's Role
45.       The Bank has assisted industrial development in the Philippines by
providing financial and technical assistance to financial intermediaries to
help them expand and improve their medium- and long-term lending programs to
productive enterprises. The Bank lending for the sector so far has been
channelled through DBP, PDCP, the Philippine Investment Systems Organization
(PISO) and IGLF. Total Bank lending for this purpose has amounted to about
$295 million, including a loan of $30 million for the Fifth PDCP Project,
signed on February 9, 1978 and a $15 million loan to PISO, approved by the
Executive Directors on April 27, 1978. Increasing attention has been given
in recent years to the needs of small and medium industries as $55 million of
the proceeds from existin,g Bank loans is being used for financing such enter-
prises. In addition to the portion of the proposed loan to DBP, which would
be earmarked for onlending to small and medium industries, a second loan to
help support the Industriial Guarantee and Loan Funds' (IGLF) program of
financing small and medium industries through privately-owned financial inter-
mediaries is scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors in FY79.
These projects have been designed to meet the medium- and long-term capital
requirements of industries of all sizes and to strengthen the institutional
capability of public and private lending institutions.



- 14 -
46.       Progress under the ongoing industrial projects financed by the Bank
is generally satisfactory. With the exception of the Fifth PDCP and PISO
loans, which were approved only recently, most of the funds under previous
loans have been committed. Results of post-implementation analyses indicate
that both the financial and economic rates of returns of subprojects financed
are well above the opportunity cost of capital in the Philippines. The
results of the Second Industrial Investment Project are summarized in Part IV
of this report.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed loan would be the third for financing the industrial
development of the Philippines through DBP./1 This project was appraised in
October 1977, and negotiations were held in Washington, D. C. in April 1978.
The Philippine negotiating team was led by His Excellency Eduardo Romualdez,
the Philippine Ambassador to the United States, and Mr. J.V. de Ocampo,
Vice-Chairman of DBP. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report on the Development Bank of the Philippines" (No.1972-PH) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary Project Data are provided in Annex III.
48.       About $50 million of the proposed loan would support DBP's program
for lending to large industries, including manufacturing, mining and ocean
shipping. About $29.7 million would support DBP's Small and Medium Industry
(SMI) lending program. It is expected that about 90% of the SMI component
would be used for financing of enterprises with assets not exceeding $250,000,
or projects with average cost per job not exceeding $3,600 (1977), the urban
poverty threshold figure determined by the Bank for the Philippines. A small
component of $300,000 is included in the loan to finance the establishment of
a development banking institute in DBP for training of management and personnel
of smaller development finance institutions, particularly of Private Development
Banks (PDBs)./2 The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of
/1 DBP has to date received eleven loans aggregating $245.3 million. Of
these, two loans were for industrial development, one for SMI, seven for
agricultural projects and one for inter-island transportation.
/2 These banks established in the provinces with the assistance of
DBP provide finance to small-scale entrepreneurs and farmers. So
far 34 of these are in operation. Their total resources, as of the
end of 1976, amounted to 1P 476 million with loans outstanding of about
P 360 million.



- 15 -
directly imported capital goods and would also finance the indirect foreign
exchange cost of locally procured equipment, civil works and initial stock of
inventories.
49.       As for all previous loans to DBP, at the Government's request,
the proposed loan would be made to the Republic of the Philippines. The
proceeds would be relent to DBP under a subsidiary loan agreement which would
be signed before the proposed loan becomes effective (Section 6.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The large industry component of the loan would have a
flexible amortization schedule reflecting the aggregate of repayment schedules
of sub-loans made by DBP whLich will have a maximum repayment term of 15 years
including an appropriate grace period. The portion of the loan for SMI and
the training institute would, however, have a fixed repayment schedule of 20
years, including a 5-year period of grace. The SMI subloans would have a
maximum maturity of 12 years including a grace period of up to 3 years. TLe
large industry sub-borrowers would assume the foreign exchange risk. The
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk on the portion of the loan
used for SMI lending and the training institute. In accordance with its
present policy, DBP would charge its sub-borrowers under the proposed loan
interest at 12% per annum on loans secured by land mortgage and 14% per annum
on loans otherwise secured. In addition, a service fee of 2% per annum would
be charged on subloans over P 150,000 ($20,300). DBP's "free limit"
for large industry subloans, above which the subloans would require Bank
approval, would be $1.5 miLlion (Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of the draft Loan
Agreement). DBP would not be required to obtain the Bank's prior approval
for financing SMI projects. Instead Bank staff would monitor closely
the quality of appraisals through a mechanism of post-disbursement reviews
and regular field supervision. A subloan ceiling of $6.0 million is proposed
for large industries to ensure that DBP uses the loan for a fairly large
number of projects. The SMI loans would range between P 50,000 (about
$6,760) and P 2.5 million (about $338,000).
DBP's Legal Framework and Scope of Activities
50.       DBP was set up in 1958 as a successor to the post-war Rehabilitation
Finance Corporation. Today, DBP is the largest source of long-term finance in
the Philippines and it accounts for about 80% of term-lending in the country.
DBP's activities consist cf loans, guarantees and investments in almost all
sectors of the economy. lThe industrial sector has been the largest recipient
of DBP's assistance (66%) followed by agriculture (20%), real estate (10%) and
others (4%). DBP's authorized capital is P 3.0 billion, of which P 2.6
billion was paid in as of September 30, 1977.
Economic Impact of DBP's Operations
51.       DBP is the largest supplier of long-term credit in the country.
Over the period FY1973-77, DBP's operations amounted to P 15.4 billion,
representing 13% of gross fixed capital expenditure in the Philippines. At
the end of 1976, DBP held 11% of the assets of the Philippine financial
system. DBP's planned industrial investment is equivalent to about 9% of
the total under the Five-'fear Development Plan (1978-82).



- 16 -
52.       The impact of DBP's operation can be seen by considering the indus-
trial loans made over the last two years. Eighty-five large industrial
projects were financed having a total cost of P 2.3 billion, of which DBP's
financing amounted to 37%. An estimated 15,000 jobs were created at average
cost per job of $18,000, lower than the Board of Investment (BOI) approved
projects ($22,000). Over $250 million will be generated in exports. The
weighted ex-ante internal financial rate of return, was 27% and the economic
rate of return, 29%. From the proceeds of the two previous Bank loans,
DBP had financed, as of August 31, 1977, about 800 SMI projects involving a
total investment of P 410 million and creating about 14,000 new jobs. The
weighted average economic rate of return was about 50% and the average invest-
ment per job, under $4,000.
Organization, Management and Staff
53.       Overall responsibility for DBP's policies and operation rests with a
government-appointed Board of Governors comprising nine members, five of whom
including the Chairman constitute DBP's top management team. The Board has
almost complete operational autonomy within the framework laid down in DBP's
Charter. DBP's present organization consists of the Head Office in Manila and a
network of branches throughout the country. DBP's industrial lending and
guarantee operations are handled by three industrial projects departments:
Industrial Projects Department I (IPD I) handles large industry loans; Indus-
trial Projects Department II (IPD II) deals with cottage industry and SMI; and
Industrial Projects Department III (IPD III) mainly concentrates on financing
transportation, tourism, public utilities and industrial services sectors.
54.       Since October 1976, Dr. Placido Mapa, Jr. has been the Chairman and
Chief Executive of DBP. He has considerable experience in banking and economic
management. Since his appointment, Dr. Mapa has undertaken a number of steps
aimed at improving DBP's institutional capacity. A number of personnel
changes at middle management levels have resulted in improvement in the
overall quality of management. Organizational changes necessary to handle
more efficiently the growing volume of operations have also been undertaken.
These have resulted in noticeable improvement in the functioning of departments
and in interdepartmental coordination. DBP's plans for further organizational
changes in IPD I and IPD II, responsible for the implementation of this
project, were reviewed during negotiations and are satisfactory.
55.       As of the end of August 1977, DBP's total staff numbered about
3,500, divided almost equally between the Head Office and branches. About 60%
of them were professional staff. DBP's staff increased by more than 12%
between August 1976 and August 1977. However, it still faces some staff
shortages, particularly in specialized technical areas. DBP has budgeted
for about 970 additional staff positions (70% of them professional), which it
expects to recruit within the next 12 months. DBP's salary structure,
has been revised and is expected to enhance DBP's ability to recruit and
retain qualified staff.



- 17 -
Appraisal and Supervision
56.       The quality of appraisal of large-scale industrial projects carried
out by IPD I has been steadily improving, although at a slower pace than
originally expected. This is because the staff in this department is rela-
tively inexperienced. Special training programs, already in progress, are
expected to remedy this problem. Appraisal reports tend to be excessively
descriptive. Market analysis is weak and economic rate of return (ERR)
analysis is restricted to only Bank-financed projects of over $2 million.
IPD I is now in the process of setting up a unit for market and economic
analysis of projects and expects to include ERR analysis for all projects over
$500,000. It will also take into account more explicitly the employment
impact of projects it finances, including cost per job created and possible
choices of technology. The quality of SMI appraisals has improved consider-
ably. Appropriate analytical techniques adopted a year ago are now routinely
applied to all SMI projecits. IPD II plans to apply ERR analysis to all
projects above P 1.5 millLon ($200,000).
57.       Supervision of Large-scale projects by IPD I is generally weak and
irregular. However, DBP's management is currently considering separating the
supervision and account servicing functions within IPD I, which together with
recent management changes and the recent completion of a project supervision
manual, should improve the quality of supervision. Until 1976, supervision
of SMI projects carried out by IPD II was inadequate. However, corrective
measures are being taken.
Operating Policies and Development Strategy
58.       While there have been no changes in DBP's Statement of Policy for
industrial financing over the past three years, a number of Board resolutions
have been passed within the last two years, resulting in major policy changes
aimed at: (a) streamlining internal operating procedures; (b) strengthening
DBP's financial management; and (c) standardizing and rationalizing lending
terms for industry. Similarly a number of improvements have been made in
policies affecting DBP's SMI lending since 1974.
59.       DBP has just formulated a short-term industrial development strategy.
The objectives spelled out in the strategy in respect of DBP's large industry
financing operations include inter alia: (a) greater emphasis on relatively
smaller and medium size industrial enteprises; (b) intensified promotional
activity to attract new entrepreneurs; (c) adoption of investment priority
plans for SMI and large industries on the basis of contribution to development
of the country's natural resources, impact on balance of payments, geographic
decentralization, and employment creation; (d) mobilization of additional
resources both from internal and external sources; and (e) development of
staff. DBP's development strategy also provides for increasing its technical
assistance to the country's smaller development finance institutions such as
Private Development Banks (PDBs).
60.       DBP's procurement procedures ensure that purchases under its subloans
are made with due regard for economy and efficiency. It usually requires at least
three competitive quotations, and its staff carefully checks the suitability of
equipment. Disbursements are made after detailed scrutiny of supporting documents.



- 18 -
Operations
61.       As of June 30, 1977, DBP's cumulative approvals /1 of financial
assistance amounted to P 27.6 billion. Since FY75 loans have replaced guaran-
tees as the most important type of operations as a result of increased avail-
ability of long-term resources; equity investments have been insignificant.
Over the period FY72-76 DBP's total approvals rose from P 1.8 billion to
P 3.9 billion. In FY77 approvals dropped to P 3.1 billion as a consequence of
decreased agricultural lending, a fall in guarantees, and a significant
reduction in hotel financing. Industrial loan approvals rose from P 55
million in FY72 to about P 1,080 million in FY76 and FY77. Of the manu-
facturing projects approved in FY75-77, consumer goods industries accounted
for 61%, intermediate goods 29%, and capital goods 10%. In the past three
years, DBP has made concerted effort to diversify its lending away from
Metro-Manila. As a result, only 23% of new loans approved in FY77 were for
projects in Metro-Manila compared to 37% in FY75. Concurrently, the share of
the relatively less developed region of Mindanao increased from 14% in FY75 to
48% in FY77.
62.       DBP's SMI portfolio recorded a twofold increase rising from P 132 mil-
lion ($18 million) as of June 30, 1975 to P 384 million ($52 million) as of
June 30, 1977. The majority of SMI loans fall within P 100,000 - 500,000 range.
They are fairly evenly distributed among industries, with labor-intensive industries
being a major beneficiary. While the share of Metro-Manila in the total number of
loans approved dropped from about 42% in FY76 to about 30% in FY77, it increased
from about 35% to 49% in value terms reflecting the larger average size of loans.
To ensure a better regional dispersal, not more than 10% of the SMI component of
the proposed loan would be used for loans over P 1.5 million in Metro-Manila
Area (Section 2.02 (b) (iv) of the draft Loan Agreement). The majority
of DBP's SMI subborrowers continued to be small entrepreneurs. In FY77,
over 80% of the recipients of SMI loans had assets, at the time of application,
of less than P 500,000.
Financial Aspects
63.       As of June 30, 1977, DBP had total assets of P 14.3 billion, debt
(including guarantees) to equity ratio of 5.5:1 and a current ratio of 1.2:1.
In the last two years, the Philippine Government took a number of measures to
bolster DBP's long-term resource position. These included an additional
contribution of about P 880 million to DBP's share capital and conversion of
P 940 million of the Government's short-term deposits into medium- and long-
term deposits. In addition, DBP, on its own, raised long-term resources of
about P 1.9 billion. Despite its considerably stronger financial position,
/1 Including the approvals made by DBP's predecessor institution.



- 19 -
DBP's liquidity is still dependent on the rollover of short-term Government
deposits, a consequence of the persistent imbalance between maturity structure
of DBP's assets and liabilities. An additional financial problem that DBP
faces is its excessive exposure to foreign exchange risks, which increased from
$107 million in 1975 to $267 million as of December 1977.
64.       To improve DBP's cash position, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that: (i) DBP's share capital would be increased by P 1.5 billion
to reach P 4 billion by 1981 (Section 4.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(ii) the Government would assist DBP in raising further long-term capital
(Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement); (iii) DBP would liquidate its
investments in two subsidiaries and in one affiliate company (Section 4.02(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement); (iv) the Government would compensate DBP for
defaults on loans made at Government's behest (Section 4.02(e) of the draft
Loan Agreement); and (v) in the future DBP would handle all the Government behest
projects, which do not meet DBP's normal financial and economic criteria, on an
agency basis administering funds to be provided by the Government (Section 4.02 (d)
of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, an informal understanding was reached
with the Government that when withdrawing its deposits from DBP it would give due
consideration to DBP's liquidity position.
65.       DBP's net income for FY77 was about P 82 million, or only 3.2% of
the average equity. DBP has taken a number of steps in the past two years,
including raising interest rates and strengthening collection efforts to
increase its net income. Furthermore, the agreement by the Government to
compensate DBP for defaults on Government behest projects should also improve
DBP's profitability.
66.       In relative terms DBP's loan arrears position has considerably
improved in the past two years; between June 30, 1975 and June 30, 1977 as
percentage of total outstanding loan portfolio, actual arrears declined from
15.5% to 10.5% and portfolio affected from about 59% to 44%. Part of this
reduction is due to growth in portfolio and rescheduling of loans. However,
DBP has taken a number of steps to improve collection rates, including more
relaxed loan terms, higher penalties for delinquencies and more intensified
supervision. In addition, DBP, since mid-1977, has launched an aggressive,
institution-wide collection drive. The performance of each department is
judged against meeting given collection targets. The services of collection
agencies have also been used for recovering small loans. Bank staff will
monitor closely DBP's progress in this regard against targets which DBP has
established and which are satisfactory.
Projected Operations and Resource Requirements
67.       DBP's resource requirements for new commitments up to June 30,
1980 are estimated at P 7.8 billion/l which DBP proposes to meet
/L Industrial loan approvals only are projected to be P 1.4 billion in 1978,
P 1.5 billion in 1979 and P 1.6 billion in 1980.



- 20 -
through increase in capital, internal cash generation, divestment of some
of its investments, borrowings from the Central Bank, issuance of bonds and
foreign exchange borrowing from the Bank, ADB and commercial sources.
DBP expects to fully commit, in the second quarter of 1978, the existing Bank
loan (No. 1190-PH) for industrial financing. DBP would therefore need the
proposed Bank loan in early third quarter 1978. The large industry component
of the proposed loan would provide 45% of the total foreign exchange require-
ments of DBP's large industry lending up to June 30, 1980; the remaining
requirements would be funded through an ADB loan and DBP's direct foreign
exchange borrowings from commercial sources. The proposed SMI component would
provide 75% of DBP's SMI loan commitments during the next two years. The
remaining costs of SMI projects would be met by DBP from its own resources.
Financial Projections
68.       According to DBP's financial projections its total assets are
expected to grow at an average rate of 15% per annum in the period between
1977-82, increasing from P 14.3 billion to P 29.2 billion. This projected
growth rate is conservative considering the 35% growth achieved in FY77 and
22% growth projected for DBP in the Government's Five-Year Development Plan.
The forthcoming Government contribution to DBP's share capital and its growing
retained earnings are expected to enable DBP to maintain a declining trend in
its debt/equity ratio despite sizeable borrowings.
69.       DBP's net income is estimated to rise rather rapidly in the period
from P 118 million in 1977 to P 979 million in 1982. The major factors
contributing to this rapid increase are: (i) growth in portfolio; and (ii) an
assumption of improved loan collection ratio. Even if the non-cash income from
hotels is ignored the projected improvement in profitability would be reasonably
satisfactory. The projected debt service coverage is positive in all the
years.
Justification and Risks
70.       The project would provide the needed long-term resources for DBP's
lending program for large, medium- and small-scale industry. It would assist
the Government in attaining its objectives of employment generation at a
reasonable cost, export promotion and regional dispersion of productive
economic activities.  Although DBP has made considerable progress in the last
few years in developing its institutional capacity, in which the Bank has
had a key role, there are a number of areas referred to in the text of this
report which still need to be further improved. The Bank's continued
association with DBP through this project is expected to contribute toward
further strengthening of DBP, which is the most important development
finance institution in the Philippines.



- 21 -
71.       The effectiveness of DBP and other development finance companies in
the Philippines in mobilizing and allocating medium- and long-term financial
resources for economic development will depend to an important degree on
the adequacy of measures, which the Government will need to adopt within the
next few years, to resolve the broader financial and industrial sector issues
referred to in Part III. These sectoral concerns will form an important part
of the continued policy dialogue between the Government and Bank staff over
the next year or two.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and DBP, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
73.       Special conditions of this loan are referred to in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of
the Philippines and DBP has been established as an additional condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 8 , 1978






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                             Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
_----------.  PHILIPPINES                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      300.0                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     109.6                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           THAILAND       TURKEY         KOREA SOUTH **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     140.0*    230.0*    410.0*/a            210.0 *    500.0*       280.0*
POPUL.TION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           27.4       36.9      43.3/a              36.3        35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       91.0      123.0    144. 0a               71 0        46.0       327.o
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       328.0      375.0     395.0/a             263.0        65.0      1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         45.1       44.2      43.8                44.3        40.6        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          17.9       13.2      10.5                13.7        14.4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOu)       84.6         .0       72.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       49.4      55.6       srj.s               55.5        54.4        65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5/a      3.3       3.3                 3.2         2.6/b,c    2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                 3.0        3.0       2.8                 3.1         2.5         2.3
URBAN                                 4.0        4.0       3.9                 4.9         4.9/d       6.4
URBAN PDPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          25.3       27.6      29.8                15.0        38.7        41.2
AGE STRUCTIJRE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.7      45.6       43.2                45.1        41.7       42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51.6      51.6       54.0                51.8       54.0        54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7        2.8       2.8                 3.1         4.3         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9       0                   0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RArIo               1.3/b      1.5       1.3/b               1.1         1.1/e       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..    320.0   4065.0/a                470.0          ..     4424.7
USERS (% OF MAARIEO WOMEN)             .,        2.0      25.0/a              10.0         8.2       42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        10100.0   12400.0  15400.0/a             i6700.0    14500.0/f  10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        e61.0/C    ss.o/a   52.67i                79.0        67.0        50.4/a
1INFOPICYrn (% Oe LABOP FORCE) I.?                 7.5        4.C                 .          4.0/&       4.
INCOMLE D:STRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            28.8         ..                          22.0        32. /h     17.i
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            58.2      54.0       53.3                51.1        80.60 h    44.5
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.2                                     5.6         2.9  1r
LOWEST  40% Of HOUSEHOLDS            11.9      11.7       14.7                14.3        9.4 Th    17.7
DISTRIsUTION OF LANO GWN-R.,il
I OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..       43.0/c               ..       53.0        28.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        2.07                *-         0.9        2.o
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..         .    11Q. 0/d            7970.0      2250.0      2110 0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..         ..    42U.01i            6650.0      1770.0 /i  2170 o/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1180.0     850.0    880.0                 890.0      500.0      1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (K OF REQUIREMENTS)         83.0       93.0    105.7                103.0      110.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0      45.0       55.6               52.0        78.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0/d    22.0                           1 17.0/a    22.o       19.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             9.0/e      6.g       7.5                  ..        14.7 /k
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      95.0       113.0    117.0                 81.0      109.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     26.0       49.0      49.0                16.0       28.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0      10.0       10.0               12.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARY)                     14.0/f     6.o/b      9.0               14.0 /b    14.0         t6.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  *-         *-      87.0                79.0       55.0 /1    87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..         ..                 ..        t.9         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                      80.0      76.0         *                   ..       64.0        80.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 17.0      23.0       31.0                  ..       41.0        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     *-        7.0      10.0                           18.0        30.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         22.0      72.0          *-               78.0        89.0      126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0        8.0       8.0                 s.0        4.0         2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          100.0      235.0     291.0               124.0      247.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               1.3        2.0        1.5                1.0       .0.7         3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSIE



No    fA paes.
NOTES
mIc.  oheriennoed,dat  fo  190  efe  toanyyea  btween 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwee 1968 aod 1970 god for KMot Recent tatimete between
1973 god 1975.
.  COp par -apja data are based on the World bank 4tl.s eathodololy (1974-76 basis).
1O Koreg haa been selected as go objective country on the basis of its similar Population, location ond Income level end, like the Philippioms, tt
ts -cp.,,ld to groas repidly tn the toning years.
AjU,jjj&j      960     la  1950-55; - lb  Ratio of population uondr 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  As pelcmsetp  &f malayeati
__ - /d  1960-62;    In  1962;    IL  Not inclssdimg vocational ehort-torm  coucee.
1970     /a  A. percentage of emloyment;    lb  Not Lmciaading private vocational schools or vocational ehort-term  courses.
,10Sr RECtOr E_ST_RIjI       /a  1976;      Lb  Ratio of population under IS and 65 Saw ower to total labor force:                 /c  0971;
LI Regietered emly; beaoved to be oer-estlmeta of ambaer mctually practicing.
TIIAILAND         1970    Ia  1964-66;    lb  Public schools, which Include technicel education  at the poot-soand.eiry leawl.
nIRgrrY           1970    /a  1967;    /b  jxcldade  17 eastarn provinces;    jc  196S-67;                Id  1965-70;    to  Ratio of population unader 15 cnd 65
and over to labor farce 15 years and over;    If  15 yeans cod avar, eseleds masseloyed:    La  Regitered only;
/h  Diaponable income;    a1  lecludiag  aasitmat wmaw..  amd eUnwives;               a   1964-4;    L_  1967.48;    /I  peroaw
eio year end -oer who tall the eaneus tahers that they cem read amd writs..
LOREA Rpp. IF   1970          AsN percentage of emplayment;    /b  Ragiatered, met all precticing  im  tthA couantry;    15. Water piped inside.
Rio, Nowember 17. 1977
DWIITlcOu OF SOCIAL INICATOILS
L-nd Atea  ~thOO_oJ.                                                                           Popuslation Psr nursing Parson -Populatiom  dividad by v-bSr of p-attcing
Total   T rog1-f araar.  copr ,lagn load greg ad inland weters.                                   male and fesala  ra-duate nurana,  trainedl or 'cartifi.d'- ...rag., gd
fat.     0 ..  r..... rs ti-st  of agricultural area used tomporarIly or pam-                eaMISIa'y Personnel with trainiang or emperloc-
onatly f-r 0-op, p.atur.a  -gk.t 6 kitchen gardena or to lie fallow.                         ponualatt oner baital bed - Population divided by n...br of hoaSpit.  had,
available in publ  end Pli'ata general cMi aPacialisad hoepital end
GRP per -atit. (US$) - GlNP per -apita  atiomatas at currant market pricea,                       rehabLIttation teeters; estcldes meurim, he  mad eatab,lalmat. for
-calcult.d by  a.-  covrsion nthod as World Rank Atlee (1973-75 basis);                         custodial cod preventive cr.-
1960; 1470 god 1975 data,                                                                    per capit, supply of caloria  Cl4 of reesirm teet   - Csawatd from  snegy
eqvivalamt Of eat food SuPPlies "avaiable is cousstry par capita par day.;
Fooulation a-d dit.  stgti.tic,                                                                   eeilable euppliea comprise demean. pOduction, import. leca  Saporta, god
P.p.l.tioo (mid-year million)   us of July first:  if sot aveilabla, "verage                      choogee i.e etock; met Supplies neciude anjmat feed, seeda, quantities uscd
of tw  and-year eaclmatee; 1 '60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                          in food Proceasing and 1saae0 in dietribtcion; raquirmMMnta -ar. astict.d
by FAO baaed on physiological needa for eomal activit, and health ronald-
Population danairo - par Squat. he.. -Mid-year population par equare kilonerer                   ering eneirommntal tmperaturs, body ueaghts, age aed See diatribionna of
(100hctrs  of total are.                                                                       popuSlatlO8 md allowiag 10% for waest  at beomeheld level.
Popul.tiLn danaity - par esare kE ofLaeric. lead - Conputad -  above for                       Pe   aiaapyo   rtamfr                    e   aS-Potein content of Par Capita
agricultural land only.                                                                        net F11isuppl  offodpe  dy  ntaupl     fo  is defifedl us above; require-
moter for all casatria. eatablished by UBDA goomomic Reaaerch S.rvicee
Vital stteigprovid  for O eotinsom alloance of 60 grow of total Protein par day, end
Cr,j'. 1,4- robrar  p-r thousand. awarcee - Annual live birtha par thousand of                    20 green sf animal and pulae Protein, of which 10 green sbould be _nieal
aid-year popult ion; ten-year arittestic averagen mdivg in 1960 and 1970,                       prorate; these ateodarda are loner than theme of 75 gr,_  of total prtotin
and flv-ya-raver.ge ending i. 1975 for mact recent -tiNate.                                    and 23 grome of enisal prot-ai  us an average for the wasrld, Wp_oond by TAO
Crude death rate par thousand, average - Asns,l deatha par thousand Of m1d-year                   in teb  Third World faod survey.
popolstion; ten-year aritimric. vavrag"  ending in 1960 and 1970 cnd five-                   Par "aPita protein susul, froman imal and nulae - prtein Supply of food
ysar  roraaenig io 1975 for amot recent  atimata.                                               dariv.d from a.nialsan  plaus in S.m  par dany.
InIant mrliyrt   /oUl  -) Annua  deaths of infnts eunder on  year of age                       Death raea C/thou) ames 1-4s - Annuel deathe par thoueaad in Sae group 1-4
par thousand live births.                                                                      year., to chiidratn in th. age sroup; suggeated aS an indivator of
Lifa oxne-a-Ten   at birth lyre   Avea.ge number of year. Of life remaining at                     almatritimn.
birth; uaully five-yaar cverag aacding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develp-
008 coautriso.                                                                               Education
rroa. roprodution rote -  veraga masher of live daughter. a samn will bear                      Adjusted enrollment rai  -Irmr,aho  - zorollment of all gaas So Pr--
io her .ornal reproductive period if She  papei.ance  precent aga-apecific                      centage of primary ocolaspplto;includes childrm   aged 6-11 yea.n
fertility rat.g; ugualy fi-e-year avaraega  endling in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      but adJusted for different length. of primery education; for countri.a  sith
for developing countries.                                                                       univrera1 education, enrollment may aeteed 1001 since Same pupils ar_ bab_
population groats rate CXl - tots1 - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                     or shov  the official school agge.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  dAluat   enolctrto- Secondary scobsi - Comuted -  abov; seO-dery
poplaltion growth rate (l-urban - Computed lika growth rate of total                              edctonrqir. at Ieast four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas soy affect tonprability of                     provides general, vocational or teacher training inatructiona for pupils
dat.a mong coutriec..                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of age; corependeece omarem  are generally eacuded.
Urban poPulation  (% of total; - Ratlo of urban to Ctots  population; different                 yeere of echoolie. provided (first         eecsn,nd lavelg) - Tot.1 yero of
defi.itiog  of urban areas my affect comparability of data mOnag conresbcooling; at 8ScO-erY lc.ml, voce2tinel inatructim  ma" he partially or
completely eacluded.
Age struts- cuyrcent  - Childt.o (i-li years), -crbing-age (15-64 years),                       VMoctional enrollment CX of  .cmodary)-Voainliaioaalcad
sod  etir-d (65 year. and over) sa pr-cet.gas of mid-year population,tcnaliduraloOtrprgn wht-ichopeat itndapandao;-  ordg
lfdpednc   aio - Racic of Ppoplation onder 15 and 65 .nd over to thugs                    dcpertnanit  of ec-4ary L-atitutiona .
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                        Adult literacy' rate  MX  - Litertat  adults (able to read and write) aS par-
E-oonic d-ped-oy ratio - Ratio of population ondor 15 -nd 65 and ovr to                           -etase of total adult Popu.loato  agad 13 yasra adovr
thc lohor foo- to ago group of 15-64 years.
Faily ol-oiM     -cccvs(2           ,ra to) - Cumlative comber of acce ptors                    Housing
of birth-cotrol d-ic.. -oder aupic-  of national fatily planning profram                      Persona gar room  (urban) -Aeaeosa   fproaprro   nocp
Fatl, plovaciu  - -grys (7. of nrrird .noo) - parc..ntages of married woan Of                      onattuoture  ad ucaccopiid prts..ae;  -ig   Ol
child-hearing ass (15-44 pears) shy use biorth-ontro1 davices to all eared                    Ocusd tr.uo dwllngd uaithout  patsa wae   X       caidceecoa   vig
vomen to seen age group.                                               ~~~~~~~~in urban and rural areaa. without imaids or  toutide piped water facilities
as pa Seta   of all ocupeddelins
Tota  laor  orc  (tousnd)- iconoica11Y active parsons, including armed                    alactricity is living quartera  ac par-ent of total dvallttga  i  urban and
forceg and .-apIoyed but occluding housewives, atudents, etc.; definitions                      rural areas.
to vaiou   -otnriag Sre not  -oparabla.                                                      Rural duallinaw connected t.oel.ctricity  MX  - Computad as above for rural
Labor for.. In agricultur   (X) - Agricultural labor force (i. fataing, forestry,                 dwellings only.
bunting and fisbing) as prcentags af total labor forc..
Unemployed (7. of labor force) - Itneployd are usually defined as proona who                    Cougomption
Sra able and willing to take a Job, out of a Job on a give  day, rmetied out                  Radio racaivrs fpear thou popl - All types of roceivars far radio hoadc-ate
of a Job, and seebing work for a spcified mininom  period not ......ding one                    to genaral Public per thougad of population;  -ncld.a otlc.ood r-ci-rs
scek; may noat b, coparable bet.e.n coutriga due to differant defiuitione                       in countri.a and to yearn.when registration  of radio sets vaa to  ffor,;
of uneployed and vource of data, e.g. , eaploynt, office atacitolS, aempla                      data for recat Year. maY not be comparabla SInce neat countrIes aoliahad
survYs, c-puleo-Y -seploy-ct iooranc..                                                          li-na in,.
PIa..e:grcarCottopol Psegra. comris  mtor -eora. rn
loom  dicribuciooParc...tage of private lnoom, (both in~ cah and kind)                      lua  oLse  aight zpersonuPa;- .nbda  embulances  bseaend military
croc.i-d bp richest 5Z, richoac 20%, pooret 20%, ad pororet 401 of haous-                       vehiclas.
holds.                                                                                        Electricity (kwh/yr Lear .ap) - Annua  consumption of tadustrial,nprtl
pjjjr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~public and pri-tn electricity In kilowtt hours per capita, ge..eralIly
Ocacibuioc  f lnd onerhip- Pe-r-agS.  of land oucd by veclchiest 10%                      b.asd on production data, without allema... for looses in grids bot allo--
cod poorest 10% of lend w-oro.                                                                  tug faor inport  and eWmota of c1,,tricity.
H..l th .~~~~~~~d N.tritl- ~~~~~~Newsprint (ba/or per cap) - Per ..pic.a cnu-I coneaupoton in bibogroem
lies) tb sod fiuitrdiiti                   by-v-of  raoftes.timtatd from  domestit p-odoction plus net imports of enowspri.tr
physiciona q.alifiod foe a  edlIca  school at univrsity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
US$ million      x           1966-71            1971-76              1976
GNP at Market Prices            17,631       100.0            5.1               6.6                 6.4
Gross Domestic Investment        5,519        31.3            5.9              12.5                 6.3
Gross National Saving            4,413        25.0            2.4              10.8                 6.6
Current Account Balance         -1,106        -6.3
Exports of Goods, NFS            3,115        17.7          -0.5                5.6                18.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            4,270        24.2           4.1                6.5                 1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                  Labor Force                  V. A. per worker
US$ million           %        Million         %              US 
Agriculture          5,156              29.0         8.1         50.0              637           58.0
Industry             6,029              33.9         2.3         14.2            2,621          238.7
Services             6,607              37.1         5.0         30.9            1,321          120.3
Unemployed              .                .           0.8          4.9            .__
Total/Average    17,792              100.0        16.2        100.0            1,098          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                       Central Government
(P billion)          % of GDP             (P billion)           % of GDP
1976          1976          1971          1976          1976          1971
Current Receipts          20.9          15.8          11.3          18.3          13.8           9.2
Current Expenditure       18.2          13.7          10.1          16.1          12.2           7.6
Current Surplus            2.7           2.0           1.2           2.2           1.7           1.6
Capital Expenditures       4.9           3.8           1.6           4.5           3.4           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975      1976      August 1977
(P million outstanding end period)
Money Supply                        6,500      7,300      9,000    10,300    12,100        12,800
Bank Credit to Public Sector        3,900      2,400      2,000     5,800      8,900        9,200
Bank Credit to Private Sector    12,600    16,200    24,200    28,500    23,600            34,900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as X of GDP                     11.5      10.1        9.0       8.9        9.2
General Price Index (1972 - 100)  100.0        117.6      154.4     166.8      180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   6.7       17.6       31.3       8.0        8.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector         -2.1      -38.5      -16.7     190.0       53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector        21.7       28.6       49.4      17.8       17.9
/a All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
*  not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                                    V5S million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                    539       21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,431   3,076   3,330   Sugar Products                        613       24.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          3,784   4,116   4,383   Forest Products                       298       11.8
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    -353  -1,040  -1,053   Mineral Products                        437       17.3
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    178          7.1
Interest Payments (net)           26     -53    -185   Other Manufactures                    456       18.1
Other Factor Payments (net)   -154    -149    -138         Total                           2,521      100.0
Net Transfers                    276     318      269
Balance on Current Account    -205    -924  -1,107   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         28      125     144
Net MLT Borrowing                                        Public Debt, including Guaranteed         2,216
Disbursements                  456     677   1,407   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  1,812
Amortization                   312     318      368   Total Outstanding and Disbursed           4,028
Subtotal                     144     359   1,039
Other Capital (net) /a           143     -80    -236   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)         110    -521    -160
Public Debt, including Guaranteed           7.2
Gross Reserves                                          Nonguaranteed Private Debt                 10.5
(end year) /b               1,978   2,079   2,205   Total Outstanding and Disbursed              17.7
Petroleum Imports                573     710      801
IBRD/IDA LENDING,  March 31, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages        End Period  Outstanding and Disbursed             423.9   29.1
1975   1976  Jan-Aug 1977   Aug 1977   Undisbursed                            789.0    3.1
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed  1,212.9   32.2
US$1.00 -  P   7.275  7.447       7.418         7.403
P 1.00  -  US$ 0.138  0.134       0.135         0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/c  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/d Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page I of 12 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                                           Amounts (S million)
Number      Year       Borrower         Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credits fully disbursed              218.5    19.5
637-PH     1969    Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation          34.0                0.3
720-PH    1971                         Rice Processing
and Storage       14.3               4.4
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation      Power               22.0                 4.3
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II                 12.7        3.1
891-PH    1973                         Fisheries            11.6                1.1
939-PH     1973                        Ports                 6.1               2.8
950-PH     1973                        Second Highways   68.0                 13.9
984-PH    1974                         Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation         9.5               5.9
998-PH     1974                        DFC-DBP I           50.0                 7.3
1034-PH     1974    National Power
Corporation      Power               61.0               22.1
1035-PH    1974    Reptublic of the
Philippines      Population          25.0               18.7
1048-PH1   1974                         Shipping            20.0               15.0
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
Naitional Bank   DFC                  30.0              18.1
1080-P11    1975    Repuiblic of the   Tarlac
Philippines         Irrigation        17.0              10.9
1102-PH     1975                        Rural
Development       25.0              21.2
1120-PH     1975                        Small and Medium
Industries       30.0                8.0
1154-PH    1976                         Magat
Irrigation       42.0               32.7
1190-PH    1976                         DFC-DBP II           75.0              55.5
1224-T-P11  1976           "            Education III       25.0               20.1
1225-PH     1976            '           Livestock II        20.5               12.3
1227-PH     1976           "            Chico Irrigation  50.0                 47.6
1272-T-PH  1976                         ISanila Urban        10.0               8.9
1282-PH     1976                        Manila Urban         22.0              19.7
1269-PH     1976                        Second Grain
Processing        11.5              11.5
1270-PH    1976                         Second Fisheries  12.0                   9.9
1353-PH    1977                         Third Highways    95.0                 92.9
1367-PH    1977                         Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                  15.0
1374-PH     1977                        Fourth Education  25.0                 24.3
1399-PH    1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit             36.5               34.9
1414-PH    1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines         tion Systems
Improvement      50.0               48.3
1415-PH    1977                         Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                22.3
1421-PH    1977                         Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0                15.0
1460-PH     1977    National Power
Corporation      Seventh Power       58.0               58.0
1506-PH *  1978    Republic of the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines         Farming            8.0               8.0
1514-PH *  1978    Philippine
National Bank   DPC (PDCP)            30.0              30.0
1526-PH *  1978    Republic of the   Second National
Philippines         Irrigation
Sys tems
Improvement      65.0               65.0
Total /a                                        13_32.5    32.2    789.0
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                        110.7         -
Total now outstanding                            1,221.8    32.2
Amount sold                        22.0
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                  13.1              8.9        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                 1,212.9    32.2
Total undisbursed                                  785.9      3.1    789.0
la A development credit of $28 million was approved on April 11 and signed on
April 21. A loan of $2 million for an Educational Radio Technical Assistance
Project was approved by the Executive Directors on March 21, 1978 and signed
on April 21, 1978, a loan of $60 million for rural electrificatiin on
April 4, 1978 and a credit of $28 million for a rural infrastructure
project on April 11, 1978 and signed on April 21, 1978. In addition two
loans, one for $6D million for rural electrification and the other for
$15 million for Philippine Investment Systems Organization (PISO) were
approved on April 4 and April 27 respectively.
a   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1978
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973 Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                 15.0     4.4      19.4
1967          Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0       4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                            4.5        -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                    -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1       8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                 15.0       -      15.0
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3       2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5        -       1.5
1974          Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5       2.0
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2        -      1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                  7.0       -       7.0
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6     0.2       2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -        3.5
Total gross commitments                       71.0    15.3      86.3
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                        25.2    12.0       37.2
Total commitments now held by IFC            45.8      3.3      49.1
Undisbursed                                    5.0       -       5.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /I
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry.  Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice mill:ing facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have be,en fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
/1 These notes are desigrned to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed on April 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation. Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness:  April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of. land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
completed. The water management training is under way and satisfactory
progress is being made on civil works.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70X above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supervision as well as project monitoring.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Consultants for the Erosion
Control Study and for input-output monitoring have been engaged. A start
has been made on civil works for rehabilitation of the Chico West and Tuga-
Gobgob areas. Bids have been received for the three road links included in
the project and contracts have been awarded for two of them. Government
evaluation of the third is still under way. After substantial initial delay,
the road component of thet project is now progressing more satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan is assisting the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
Construction work on the existing main and secondary canals improvement has
now begun.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium- and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months.  The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 ha and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 ha
of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The Loan became effective on August 9, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan became effective on October 27, 1977. A good start has
been made in setting up tlhe administrative structure of the project implemen-
ting unit and in improving its planning capacity. Physical progress is
somewhat behind schedule as a result of procedural difficulties in obtaining
local counterpart funds. This problem, however, is being resolved and
project implementation can be expected to be completed on time.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22, 1977
and signed on January 23, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project wiLl assist the Government to improve and develop irriga-
tion systems for a total of 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen
the National Irrigation Administration regional offices. The Loan Agreement
was signed on March 15, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Credit No. 790-PH Rural Infrastructure; $28 million Credit of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is assisting the Government to construct and improve
irrigation facilities on 9,400 ha, construct and improve about 1,390 km of
rural roads; improve three ports and construct 300 village wells. The credit
was signed on April 21, 1978. The project is at an early stage of organization
and mobilization.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Plorts Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. These problems have been resolved and
progress on civil works construction at both plants is improving. By June
1977, work was 36% completed in General Santos, and 6% in Cagayan de Oro.
The present estimated total project cost is 75% higher than the appraisal



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
estimate due to worldwide price increases. However, foreign exchange costs
are lower than appraisal estimates as the contractors are locally based.
Total traffic at the project ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a
reasonable financial rate of return is being earned. By June 1977 the
Philippine Port Authority had taken over 7 of the 18 national ports.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Overall progress on construction has been generally satisfactory,
with about 90% of the project works completed. However, progress on one of
the national roads is not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project
completion by about 12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed
engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in
August 1976. Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project was
substantially completed in October 1977. The total cost of the project has
risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of inflation
following the oil price increase in late 1973. About $12 million still remains
undisbursed and hence the Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. Most construction contracts
have been awarded. The major problem is delayed implementation of the road
restoration/maintenance component of the project. However, priority attention
has been given to this problem and, as a result, implementation of these
components are expected to accelerate during the coming year.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All of the 32 project institutions have been
completed and three fourths of the technical assistance program has been
completed. Cost overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of
inflation and earlier lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of
equipment purchased has been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.
Loan No. S-8-PH Educaticinal Radio Technical Assistance; $2 million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet effective;
Closing Data: December 31, 1981
The proposed project is assisting the Government to develop and
evaluate the cost effectiveness of educational radio in inservice teacher
training and primary classroom teaching. The loan was signed on April 21,
1978. The project is at an early stage of organization.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T  Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 MiLlion Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. A paper on the
status of this project was submitted to the Executive Directors in December 1977.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is financing:  (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
The Loan was made effective on September 9, 1977. Progress is generally
satisfactory according to the review of the preliminary engineering studies
and detailed design of the water supply construction.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296 of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which has
been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. A tariff increase was
approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable NPC to achieve
the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in operation.
Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable and
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commitments
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries
on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Loan was signed on February 9, 1978 and is not yet effective.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT THROUGH THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time take to prepare the project  :  About two months
(b) The agency that prepared the
project                                 DBP
(c) Date of the first presentation to
the Bank and date of the first Bank
mission to consider the project         October 1977.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                                 September 30, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   April 14, 1978
(f)  Planned date of' effectiveness      :   On or before August 31, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government of the Philippines (GOP) would raise DBP's paid in capital
to P 4.0 billion by 1981 and would assist DBP in raising additional long-
term resources to finance its lending operations and meet its maturing
debts (para. 64).
(b)  GOP would compensate DBP for any losses incurred on Government behest
loans (para. 64).
(c) In the future IDBP would handle Government behest projects, which do
not meet DBP's normal financial and economic criteria, on agency
basis administering funds provided by the Government (para. 64 ).
(d) Not more than 10% of the loan component for SMI would be used for
subloans of over E 1.5 million in Metro-Manila (para. 60).



