Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13430-LT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1994
Natural Resources Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
as of August 1, 1994
Currency Unit   =  Lithuanian Litas (LT)
1 Litas   =  US $0.25
US$1    =  LT4.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton                          =       1,000 kilograms = 2,205 pounds (Ibs)
I kilometer (km)                      -       1,000 meters (m) = 3,281 feet (ft)
1 meter (m)                           =       3,281 feet (ft)
1 centimeter (cm)                     =       10 millimeters (mm)
I millimeter (mm)                     =       0.1 centimeter (cm)
I cubic meter (i3)                    =       35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
ACRONYMS
ASE                    -       Apartment Service Enterprise
BITS                   -       Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support
BOD                    -       Biological Oxygen Demand
CEM                    -       Country Economic Memorandum, published in an expanded form as:
"Lithuania: The Transition to a Market Economy"
CPAR                   -       Country Procurement Assessment Report
EMC                    -       Environmental Management Component
EU PHARE               -       European Union assistance program for Eastern Europe
FRR                    -       Financial Rate of Return
FSU                    -       Former Soviet Union
GDP                    -       Gross Domestic Product
GOL                    -       Government of Lithuania
HELCOM                 -       Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission (Helsinki
Commission)
IBRD                   -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank)
ICB                    -       International Competitive Bidding
ICZM                   -       Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IMF                    -       International Monetary Fund
IS                     -       International Shopping
JCP                    -       Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Programme
KSWSE                  -       Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise
LS                     -       Local Shopping
MIS                    -       Management Information System
MOEP                   -       Ministry of Environmental Protection
MOK                    -       Municipality of Klaipeda
NIB                    -       Nordic Investment Bank
PIU                    -       Project Implementation Unit
PPF                    -       Project Preparation Facility
PSC                    -       Project Steering Committee
SEPF                   -       State Environmental Protection Fund
SOE                    -       Statement of Expenditure
STD                    -       State Tourism Department
UN/ECE                 -       United Nations Economic Council for Europe
WWF                    -       World Wide Fund for Nature
WWIC                   -       Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
LITHUANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.   BACKGROUND
A.     Country Context ........................................... 1
B.      Sectoral Context ........................................... 2
C.      The Project Area  .......................................... 6
D.     Bank Environment Strategy in Lithuania, Past Experience and Rationale  ...         .... 9
II.    THE PROJECT
A.      Project Origin and Formulation  ................................ 12
B.   Project Objectives .......................................... 13
C.      Participation by Other Organizations in Project Activities ................ 14
D.      Project Components and Description  ............................. 14
E.      Cost Estimates . ..........................................  15
F.      Project Financing Arrangements ................................ 17
G.      Procurem ent  ............................................    18
H.      Disbursements . .......................................... 20
I.      Environmental Aspects  ...........             .......................... 21
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management ............................. 22
B.     Project Implementation Agencies  .............................   23
C.      Project Supervision .............................  24
D.     Accounts and Audits .............................  25
IV.  MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF KSWSE
A.  Past Performance and Present Position .26
B.  Tariff Levels and Revenues .27
C. Billing and Collection .27
D.  Accounting Policies and Audits .28
E.  Future Financial Performance .28
F. Tariff Affordability .29
G.      Financial Rate of Return ......................  30
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits ................ 31
B.  Project Risks ...............                                                            32



VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.     Agreements Reached During Negotiations .......          ................... 34
B.     Conditions of Effectiveness . .................................. 34
C.     Recommendation  .......................................   35
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1.       Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Table 2.       Disbursement by Year
Table 2.1      Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Table 2.2      Summarized Financing Plan
Table 2.3      Procurement Arrangements
Table 2.4      Disbursement by Year
Table 4.1      Tariff Increases
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I        Project Implementation Plan
Annex 2        Action Plan
Annex 3        Terms of Reference
3A Twinning Arrangement
3B   Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
3C   Project Steering Committee
3D   Project Implementation Unit
Annex 4        Water and Wastewater Improvement Component -
Environmental Aspects
Annex 5        Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 6        Review of Affordability
MAP
IBRD Map of Lithuania no. 26194
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission in June 1994. Members of the Appraisal team included:
Mr. Stephen F. Lintner (Task Manager), Ms. Sari Soderstrom (Deputy Task Manager), Mr. Hans Bergman
(Economist, Swedish Ministry of Environment), Ms. Camilla Brown (Operations Analyst), Mr. Lars Eklund
(Environmental Engineer, Swedish Environmental Protection Agency), Mr. Anders Halldin (Senior Environmental
Specialist), Mr. Frederick Hasselbaack (Financial Economist), Mr. Jaakko Henttonen (Program Director, Finnish
Ministry of Environment), Mr. Kari Homanen (Regional Environmental Specialist), Mr. Inesis Kiskis (Regional
Environmental Specialist), Mr. Arturo Roa (Procurement Consultant), and Mr. Peteris Zilgalvis (Regional
Environmental Specialist). Ms. Katherin Golitzen (ENVLW) served as the editor for the document. Technical
assistance for preparation was provided by the World Bank, Governments of Finland and Sweden, and the World
Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). Peer reviewers were Bernardo Gomez (EC1IN) and Carl Gustaf Lundin (ENVLW).
The Division Chief is Geoffrey Fox (EC4NR) and the Department Director is Basil Kavalsky (EC4DR).



REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summarv
Borrower:           Republic of Lithuania
Beneficiaries:      Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise
IBRD Loan Amount: US $7.0 million equivalent
Financing Plan:                                             Local    Foreign      Total
--- US $ million --------
IBRD, (loan)                           3.56       3.44       7.00
BITS, Sweden (grant)                   0.51       4.49       5.00
Min. of Environment, Finland (grant)              2.00       2.00
EU PHARE Program (grant)               0.07       0.53       0.60
Other Donors (grants)                             1.50        1.50
Government of Lithuania                6.00                  6.00
Municipality of Klaipeda                1.00                  1.00
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   11.14      11.96      23.10
Terms:              Twenty years, including five years grace, at standard IBRD variable interest rate.
Onlending Terns:    The Ministry of Finance would provide the funds directly to the Klaipeda State
Water Supply Enterprise (KSWSE).
Project
Objectives:         The Project would: (a) reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated
wastewater to the Baltic Sea; (b) restore and enhance water quality in Klaipeda
and adjacent recreational beaches; (c) improve water supply and sanitation
services in Klaipeda; (d) improve the operational efficiency and management
systems of the Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise; and (e) promote
environmentally sustainable management and development of the Kursiu Lagoon
and adjacent coastal areas.
Project
Description:        The proposed Project would be implemented as an environmental management
project for the coastal area of Lithuania and would include funding for a Water
and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC) and an Environmental
Management Component (EMC). The WWIC would consist of: (a) rehabilitation



- ii -
and expansion of the Klaipeda water and wastewater system; and (b) institutional
strengthening and training to assist in establishing an autonomous and financially
independent water and wastewater utility in Klaipeda. The EMC would consist
of: (a) technical and financial support for the development and implementation
of a comprehensive management plan for the Kursiu Lagoon and an integrated
coastal zone management plan for the Lithuanian coastline; (b) support for the
implementation of selected elements of these management plans by coordinating
and providing funding for identified investments such as access roads, parking
lots, sanitary amenities, information boards, observation towers etc.; and (c)
support in the development of recreational and nature-based tourism in the Kursiu
Lagoon and adjacent coastal areas.
Project Benefits:    The benefits of the WWIC would include: (a) improvements in water quality
through reduction of leakages of wastewater into the groundwater and reductions
in discharges of untreated and partially treated wastewater, thereby improving the
water quality in the northern section of the Kursiu Lagoon and the beaches north
of Klaipeda; (b) reductions in operating costs and maintenance requirements in
the water and wastewater systems; and (c) improvement in the quality and
reliability of the services through establishment of an autonomous water and
wastewater utility. The benefits of the EMC would be: (a) expanded recreational
use of Kursiu Lagoon and Baltic beaches through reducing pollution; (b)
upgrading of environmental management of the Kursiu Lagoon and coastal areas;
and (c) expanding the opportunities for environmentally sound tourism along the
coast.
Enviromnental
Aspects:            Implementation of the proposed Project would have positive environmental
benefits through: (a) reduction of untreated wastewater discharges to the Baltic
Sea; (b) amelioration of water quality in the town of Klaipeda; (c) pollution
reduction in Kursiu Lagoon; and (d) protection of Kursiu Lagoon and Lithuanian
coastal areas through effective environmental management. The proposed Project
has been placed in environmental screening category "B". An environmental
review consistent with the provisions of the World Bank's Operational Directive
4.01, "Environmental Assessment" and the applicable environmental procedures
of the GOL has been prepared for the WWIC and is under review by MOEP.
Supplemental environmental reviews would be prepared as part of the detailed
planning process for activities supported under the EMC.
Project Risks:       The main risks are: (a) the political commitment of the Klaipeda City Council to
support an independently managed water and wastewater utility; (b) political or
macroeconomic factors which may interfere with the commitment of the Klaipeda
City Council to raise tariffs sufficiently to repay the Bank loan; (c) a longer
implementation period due to limited implementation capacity; (d) continued
difficulties in the effective collection of water bills; and (e) possible resistance
from local governments and private landowners to land use controls
recommended under coastal zone, protected areas and tourism management plans.



- iii -
These risks would be reduced by: (a) carefully monitoring the requirements for
tariff increases and providing significant institutional development support to the
utility to improve its financial management, billing and collection practices; (b)
ensuring appropriate project management arrangements are in place in a timely
manner; and (c) incorporation of an active local participation process in
development and implementation of the proposed land use management systems.



- iv -
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
exchange rate: US $1.00 = LT 4.0
---  US S Million-
Local    Foreign         Total
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
Project Implementation Unit                                    0.19       0.37       0.56
Water Supply and Distribution                                  1.46       1.53       2.99
Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment                              6.22       6.38      12.60
Contract Coordination / Supervision                            0.27       0.32       0.59
Technical Assistance & Training                                0.07       0.53       0.60
Base Cost for Water & Wastewater Component       8.21        9.13      17.34
B. Environmental Management Component**                                   1.14       1.14
Physical Contingencies                                         0.82       0.91       1.73
Price Contingencies                                            2.11       0.42       2.53
Total for Water & Wastewater Component                         8.21       9.13      17.34
Total for Environmental Management Component                              1.50       1.50
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:                                       11.14      11.96      23.10
: Additions may not be fully consistent due to rounding up.
* Local contributions for this component would include land and services in
kind, the value of which has not been estimated at this time
Table 2: DISBURSbEMENT BY YEAR
US $ million
1995    1996    1997    1998      1999
Bank Fiscal Year
Annual                                       1.75    8.98    8.63    3.04      0.70
Cumulative                                   1.75   10.73   19.36   22.40    23.10
Cumulative % Total                         7.58%  46.45%  83.81%  96.97%  100.00%
Estimated Closing Date:         March 31, 1999
Poverty Category:               Not applicable
Map:                            IBRD No. 26194



I. BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1. 1         Lithuania is the most southerly of the Baltic countries. It covers an area of 65,200 km2,
with a population of about 3.8 million. During the Soviet period, Lithuania had a strong economy, based
on specialized industries and agriculture, which was fully integrated into the larger Soviet system. Since
the restoration of Lithuanian independence in 1991, the country has undertaken a major program of
political and economic reforms, which has brought it from a centrally planned economy to a transitional
market economy. In this process, it has experienced adjustment shocks common to many economies in
transition, characterized by a significant decline in economic pioductivity and high inflation rates, with
the gross domestic product (GDP) declining sharply as a result of the collapse of trading relations with
Russia and other former Soviet Republics.
1.2          The Government of Lithuania (GOL) has been pursuing economic reform  and
stabilization, including price and trade liberalization. A formal macro-economic program was launched
in 1991, supported by two IMF standby arrangements (in October 1991 and October 1993). Since then,
Lithuania has been successful in containing monetary expansion and fiscal deficits. Lithuania introduced
the national currency, the Litas, in July 1993; it has been tied to the US Dollar since April 1994. Inflation
has been reduced from an annual rate of 1,020 percent in 1992 to an expected rate of 63 percent in 1994,
and is projected to decline further thereafter. The introduction of a currency board system in April 1994
is expected to be very effective in ensuring continued macroeconomic stability. The estimated per capita
income level was US $1,305 in 1993. The Bank expects the Lithuanian economy to recover from its
current economic recession and projects a GDP growth rate of 2 percent in 1994, 6 percent in 1995, 5.5
percent in 1996 and 5 percent per year thereafter.
1.3          The Bank's overall strategy in Lithuania is to support the country's efforts to accelerate
structural reforms leading to a full transition to a market-based economy and, at the same time, to support
efficient investments in high priority sectors to facilitate a return to economic growth. To date the Bank
has provided the GOL with a Rehabilitation Loan (No. 3737-LT) of US $60 million in October 1992,
which is being successfully implemented, and a Power Rehabilitation Loan (No. 3524-LT) of US $26.4
million in May 1994.
1.4           Infrastructure rehabilitation and development is considered one of the Bank's priorities
in Lithuania. The recently completed Public Expenditure Review, jointly prepared by the GOL and the
Bank, highlighted the need to support priority investments in energy, transport and environmental
services, including improved water supply and wastewater treatment. The priority given to investments
for environmental services was justified by the need to improve the quality and reliability of drinking
water and to address the water quality problems and health risks created by the discharge of partially
treated and untreated wastewater to water courses and the marine environment. The proposed Project
would support the improvement of water and wastewater services in the important port city of Klaipeda
and demonstrate the application of a variety of management methods to support environmentally sound
development around Kursiu Lagoon and in the adjacent coastal area of Lithuania.



B. Sectoral Context
1.5          Institutional Setting. The central environmental protection authority in Lithuania is the
Ministry of Environmental Protection (MOEP) which was established in June 1994 and is the successor
to the former Environmental Protection Department. The MOEP is responsible for: formulating and
implementing Lithuania's policy for environmental protection and natural resource use, supervising
environmental assessment procedures, establishing environmental standards and guidelines, and
administering and enforcing environmental protection and natural resource use throughout Lithuania, the
continental shelf, and the nation's Baltic Sea economic zone. The State Tourism Department (STD) is
responsible for promotion of private and public sector tourism development activities.
1.6          Under the overall guidance of the MOEP, eight regional environmental protection offices
with environmental laboratories are responsible for enforcing environmental regulations, issuing permits
for projects and providing public information services to the local governments. The regional offices are
supported by recently established municipal environmental units in a number of selected cities. The
principal functions of the regional environmental protection offices are: (a) determination of pollution
charges; (b) pollution monitoring; (c) inspection for compliance with requirements; (d) imposition of
penalties for non-compliance; and (e) negotiation of steps toward compliance.
1.7          Responsibilities for municipal services, including water and wastewater services, have
been passed to local governments as part of the process of decentralization. However, water and
wastewater utilities are still legally under State ownership. The municipality is empowered to delegate
the execution of urban services, including water and wastewater services, to municipal enterprises and
to appoint their respective directors. The municipal enterprises are directly responsible to the City
Council, which has authority to establish tariffs and to make personnel decisions.
1.8          Legislative Framework. Environrnental legislation is still under development in Lithuania.
The current transitional status of the country is characterized by a combination of administrative
procedures, legislation, and standards that were in use when Lithuania was part of the Soviet Union and
some new laws and provisions stipulated by the GOL. Currently, there are eight laws directly related to
environmental protection. The General Environmental Protection Law, passed in 1992, is the core of the
system and is complemented by a Lithuanian environmental assessment procedure. Nine other
complementary laws are under preparation and review. The most important of these are the Law on
Environmental Impact Assessment and the Law on Waste Management. A Marine Environment Protection
Law is being drafted and is expected to contain detailed provisions concerning the protection of the
coastal zone. Currently development of the coastal zone is allowed following approved land use plans.
However, it is still necessary to modify or pass more regulations to complete the legal system.
1.9          Current environmental standards in Lithuania are mostly those inherited from the Soviet
system and are contained in the Order of the Environmental Protection Department no. 11 of January
1991, "Concerning the Norms of Pollutant Emission into Environment and Issuance of Permissions to
Use Natural Resources." There were almost 4,000 water quality indicators applied in the FSU. In the
aggregate, these water quality standards were more stringent than those of the European Union or United
States and are seen as being too strict, too large in number and impossible to monitor and analyze. The
Law on Taxes on Usage of Natural Resources (March 1991) and the Law on Taxes on Environmental
Pollution (April 1991) establish charges for use of natural resources and release of effluents within
standards and impose sanctions against users who exceed permitted levels. The State Environmental
Protection Fund (SEPF) is allocated 30 percent of the imposed pollution fees and taxes, 70 percent being



retained by the local government. SEPF is used to finance environment related expenditures, including
investments. However, non-payment of fees and fines, especially by financially weak or bankrupt
industries, is currently a major problem for collection as well as efficient use of the SEPF.
1.10         Lithuania is a party to a number of international environmental conventions and treaties.
It has signed the "Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area"
(Helsinki Convention), which obligates it to undertake concrete actions to reduce marine pollution from
land based sources and to implement a wide range of recommendations on various environmental matters
developed by the Helsinki Commission (HELCOM) through a process of active input, review and
approval by the signatory parties to the Convention. In this context, Lithuania has been an active
participant in many programs of HELCOM, including the Programme Implementation Task Force which
is responsible for coordinating implementation of the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental
Action Program (JCP) adopted in 1992. In addition, Lithuania has adhered to, or is in the process of
doing so, the Bern, Ramsar and other Conventions concerning the conservation of animal and plant
species including their critical habitats and wetlands. It is also active in the Environmental Action
Program for Central and Eastern Europe and the environmental working groups of the United Nations
Economic Commission for Europe (UN/ECE).
1.11         Water Supply Service Coverage. Groundwater resources are increasingly being exploited
in the major urban and industrial areas in Lithuania due to widespread pollution of surface and shallow
groundwater from point and non-point sources. In general, deep groundwater supplies are of good quality
and require only limited treatment before consumption; their use has high pumping costs, though, and
in some areas groundwater tables are declining. In rural areas, surface and shallow groundwater sources
are causing serious health problems. Of the shallow groundwater wells in rural areas, used by over one
million people, about 77 percent are above the established limits for bacteriological and nutrient
contamination.
1.12         About 90 percent of Lithuanian households in urban areas receive piped water, the ratio
in rural communities being significantly lower. Average water consumption per capita has been estimated
at 250 liter/day, which is relatively high compared to an average of 175 liter/day in western countries.
This high consumption is partially encouraged by the absence of metering, but can also be explained by
severe leakages in the water distribution system which is in generally poor condition, as well as extensive
leakage in homes. Leakage rates of drinking water are estimated at approximately 25-35 percent and can
be as high as 50 percent in some water supply systems.
1.13         Sewerage Service Coverage. Water pollution, resulting from organic nitrogen and
phosphorus loads from point and non-point sources, is one of Lithuania's most serious problems. Surface
waters are also somewhat polluted with heavy metals, oil products and phenol. Chlororganic pesticides
are no longer found. In 1993, the MOEP estimated that 345 million m3 of wastewater requiring treatment
were discharged into surface water bodies, of which 25 percent was biologically and mechanically treated
and 50 percent mechanically treated; the remaining 25 percent (19 percent in 1992) received no treatment.
Furthermore, only 26 percent of the treated wastewater met quality standards.
1.14         About 80 percent of urban households are connected to piped sewerage systems. Most
systems separate sewage from drainage water. Most existing wastewater treatment plants are severely
overloaded, resulting in large portions of their flow being discharged after partial treatment or being
bypassed with no treatment. Existing sewerage systems are in poor condition leading to groundwater
contamination and an imminent risk of contaminating the water supply system through pipes built too



closely together. In addition, infiltration of groundwater and surface run off into the sewer system
increases wastewater flows, causing additional overloading of the treatment plants.
1.15          Sector Investments and Financing. User charges for water and sewerage are now the
responsibility of the municipalities but have to be approved by the city councils. Although water and
sewerage tariffs have generally been increased, they are still inadequate to permit proper maintenance of
infrastructure or investment in new assets. In general, most water and sewerage enterprises cover their
operating and maintenance expenses in theory, but investment costs are financed by transfers from state
and/or city budgets. Budgeted tariffs are based on number of consumers, but non-payment has and
continues to be a serious problem for all cities. Real cost recovery is therefore not taking place.
1.16          In order to implement sound management practices, tariffs would need to be increased
by the majority of the country's water and wastewater utilities and collection performance would need
to be improved to cover not only operational and maintenance costs but capital costs as well. Strategies
for financing the replacement and rehabilitation of old equipment would have to be explored, along with
strategies for leakage reduction and tariff collection methods.
1.17          Sector Objectives and Priority Needs. Environmental issues are a central concern for the
GOL which takes its international environmental commitments seriously. As noted in the May 1994
presentation of the Lithuanian Prime Minister at the Bank sponsored "Public Expenditure Conference"
in Paris, the GOL is committed to improving water supply in the country and intends to develop new and
more effective mechanisms for water pollution control. This is hampered, however, by the current overall
economic situation of the country, which makes it unlikely that the GOL can undertake any major public
infrastructure investments in the water and wastewater sector without external funding support. However,
the GOL has prepared a national plan for the most urgent environmental investments and intends to target
its resources for water and wastewater improvements into five localities, all identified in the JCP: Kaunas,
Klaipeda, Palanga, Siauliai and Vilnius.
1.18          Privatization Issues. Privatization of state-owned property in Lithuania is proceeding, but
there remain difficult issues to address. The privatization process is well advanced in a number of
industrial sectors in the economy. There have been some obstacles in the privatization of large-scale
entities over the last three years. Nevertheless, the first, voucher-based phase of privatization is expected
to be concluded in the end of 1994. A second tranche of cash-based privatization will be initiated with
the objective of privatizing the remaining state-owned assets. There are no imminent plans for mass
privatization of water supply enterprises in Lithuania. It is expected, however, that after the formal
ownership of water supply enterprises has been passed from the state to the municipalities, there will be
more flexibility to enter into different kinds of joint ventures or concessional agreements with foreign
private companies for operation of the utilities.
1.19           Country Environment Policy and Strategy. Lithuania's environmental problems are
concentrated in urban industrial areas, water and wastewater issues being one of the priorities. The
objectives of the national environmental protection policy are: (a) to create a legal system corresponding
to international norms of environmental protection; (b) to establish a system of environmental standards
reflecting European norms; (c) to develop an effective monitoring system; (d) to improve the system of
market based incentives; and (e) to join basic international agreements and conventions. As noted at the
"Public Expenditure Conference," the GOL has established the following intersectoral investment
priorities, taking into account the criteria of impact on human health, loss of productivity, risk of
irreversible ecological damage and economic efficiency of funds involved: (a) reduction of water



pollution, with an emphasis on construction of wastewater treatment plants; (b) hazardous waste
management, including construction of regional temporary storage sites and later construction of
hazardous waste treatment facilities; and (c) clean-up of contaminated sites which pose the most serious
threat to public health and the environment. The GOL also seeks to maintain Lithuania's rich biodiversity
through protection of areas of critical habitat.
1.20          A national environmental strategy is being prepared by MOEP with assistance from a joint
Lithuanian and Irish consultant team with financing EU PHARE program. This study would allow a
thorough evaluation of the current situation and available resources, and provide a program of short and
long term actions. An important part of this plan would be the formulation of policies and actions to
reduce the generation of pollution at the source, complementing ongoing efforts to construct wastewater
treatment and hazardous waste treatment facilities.
1.21          Coastal Zone and ProtectedAreas. Compared to the other countries around the Baltic Sea,
Lithuania has a short coastline, only 99 km long. The quality of that coast in terms of natural values is
high, however, with white sandy beaches and dunes crowned by 60 m high mobile dunes of the Kursiu
Spit, separating the shallow, freshwater Kursiu Lagoon from the sea. To conserve these resources, the
GOL plans to establish the Kursiu Lagoon Biosphere Reserve, consisting of the already protected Kursiu
Spit National Park and Nemunas Delta Regional Park, together with the water areas off the Spit and the
Kursiu Lagoon between the two land areas. While no specific regulations exist in Lithuania for protection
of the shore, under new national land use procedures a number of activities are not allowed without
special permission in a 3-7 km wide zone from the Lithuanian coastal area.
1.22          Lithuania has protected areas covering approximately 11 percent of the total land area.
A system of protected territories is being created in order to preserve biodiversity and to protect other
components of the natural and cultural landscape. Biodiversity protection is motivated by the fact that out
of approximately 5,000 vertebrates, 25,000 invertebrates and more than 1,500 plant and fungi species
known in Lithuania, the state of only a small portion has been investigated. In addition, due to overall
environmental contamination and changes to the natural ecosystems, the situation for many plants and
animals has become quite critical. About 500 species are threatened with extinction.
1.23          Large-scale investments for agricultural drainage and the clearance of flood plain forests
have had a major influence on the status and distribution of natural areas of wetland habitat. Historically,
Lithuania was approximately 12 percent wetlands, including the delta of the Nemunas River. Through
reclamation programs carried out over the last 200 years, and especially during the last 50 years, wetlands
have been reduced to 7 percent of the land area. The size of wetlands has also shrunk through the
straightening of stream courses and the clearance of floodplain forests to increase the cultivable area,
especially in central Lithuania. In response, efforts have been made to conserve remaining wetlands, and
as a result approximately 80 percent of existing Lithuanian wetlands are now in strict or partially
protected areas. There are five Ramsar sites of international significance to migratory birds in Lithuania,
four strict nature reserves and the delta of the Nemunas River. While direct threats from further
expansion of agricultural drainage appear to be limited, most wetland areas, particularly those with large
drainage areas, are being adversely effected by agricultural runoff.
1.24          As the result of large-scale conversion and its adverse impacts, wetlands in Lithuania and
elsewhere in the Baltic Sea region have become the focus of major conservation efforts given their
increasingly recognized importance in regulating hydrological conditions, acting as traps and natural
treatment systems for nutrients and other organic pollutants, providing spawning and feeding areas for



- 6 -
fish, and functioning as critical habitat for a wide variety of plant species in addition to resident and
migratory birds. As a result of this increased awareness of their importance, greater efforts have been
made to conserve the remaining wetlands, with many areas being placed under various forms of
protection.
1.25           The maintenance of environmental values in the coastal and protected areas is becoming
increasingly complex due to the ongoing process of restoring land to pre-1940 owners and their heirs and
subsequent development and speculative pressures. In a number of cases, the returned property is part
of nature reserves established during the USSR/Lithuanian SSR period. In addition, farmers' strong
interests in obtaining additional agricultural land through drainage improvements is a potential threat to
the remaining Lithuanian wetlands.
1.26           Tourism Development. The Lithuanian coast is one of the important traditional vacation
areas of the FSU, with a large number of high density overnight accommodations, an attractive natural
environment and many areas of scenic interest, as well as a variety of recreational activities along the
broad sandy beaches, coastal dunes and forest areas. Klaipeda is the largest city of the coastal area, but
Palanga, to the north, has the bulk of the tourists during the peak summer season. Before independence,
the coast was visited by approximately 400,000-600,000 tourists per year from the FSU. Currently, the
entire structure of community activities, trade and industry of the coastal area is facing extensive change.
The area has suffered a significant decline of visitors. Many overnight accommodations are in need of
renovation. All major vacation hotels were previously owned by state institutions, state enterprises and
Ministries; currently, a transfer of ownership is in process which should lead to privatization of many
of these hotels and in some cases their sale to joint ventures with foreign partners.
1.27           According to many regionally-based tourism organizations, the entire eastern Baltic Coast,
including Lithuania, has a strong potential to attract tourists from the greater Baltic region who wish to
take vacations that include nature-oriented recreational and leisure activities in a relatively undeveloped
coastal setting. This view is supported by the findings of a recent tourism study. I The study indicated that
a large potential exists for tourism focused on nature, culture and historic heritage, including tourism
associated with observation of seasonal bird migrations, viewing wildlife species rare in other parts of
Europe and visits to traditional villages with unique architectural traditions. From an economic viewpoint,
the revitalization and diversification of tourism in the region is important for creation of employment to
replace jobs lost by closure of industrial facilities and creation of income generation opportunities in rural
settlements which have suffered serious economic dislocations during the restructuring process. However,
it should be kept in mind that the tourism potential is connected to future environmental conditions, e.g.
the quality of the sea water of the Baltic Sea and the general aesthetic conditions of the region.
C. The Project Area
1.28           The city of Klaipeda is situated on the Baltic Coast on the mouth of the Kursiu Lagoon.
With its population of 204,000, Klaipeda is Lithuania's third largest city. Klaipeda has a number of
diversified industries, mainly metallic and food industries, a shipbuilding dock, a fishing harbor, and is
Lithuania's only commercial port. Traditionally, local industry included a major cardboard factory, which
I      By Blukon Aps, Consulting Engineers and Planners, financed by the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs.



was identified in the JCP as a Baltic "hot spot" but which is now bankrupt and no longer in operation.
The possibility of reinitiating operation of the cardboard factory are currently under review by the MOK.
1.29          Kursiu Lagoon, a major physical feature of the eastern Baltic Sea, has a surface area of
about 1,600 km2 and is shared with the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia. The coastal waters outside
Klaipeda, as well as Kursiu Lagoon, are severely polluted and contaminated by insufficiently treated and
untreated wastewater discharges. In addition to the municipal and industrial wastewater from Klaipeda,
Kursiu Lagoon receives the total discharge of Nemunas River as well as a limited amount of
predominantly non-point source discharges from areas in the northwest section of the Kaliningrad Oblast.
This situation is of particular concern to the MOEP and municipal authorities, who have ambitions to
develop tourism in Klaipeda, which is well-endowed with natural areas, wildlife, scenic landscapes,
beaches and cultural attractions.
1.30          In their efforts to restructure the economy of Klaipeda and comply with national
environmental standards and Lithuania's international commitments, the GOL and the municipal
government are seeking to enhance water quality to improve the environmental conditions of the city,
Kursiu Lagoon and recreational beaches. In addition, there is an interest in implementing an effective
program for management of Kursiu Lagoon, the coastal zone and adjoining wetlands for the successful
long-term development of tourism in the area.
1.31          Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise. The Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise
(KSWSE) provides water for a population of about 194,000 and sanitation services for about 173,000,
as well as industry consisting mainly of maritime related establishments. In addition, KSWSE serves a
number of smaller municipalities outside the administrative area of the city, in particular the villages of
Rimkai and Jakai which are located east of Klaipeda city.
1.32          KSWSE has characteristics common to many water and wastewater utilities in Central and
Eastern Europe. It has a small core staff of committed managers who are seeking to change their utility
to make it function better, gain greater access to resources for investment and raise employee salaries.
In working with the MOEP, Bank and consultants, KSWSE has demonstrated a willingness to examine
new approaches to management, develop a balanced investment program and to place increased priority
on operation and maintenance issues. KSWSE also recognized the need to raise and effectively collect
tariffs if service and system performance are to be improved.
1.33          KSWSE's financial performance is hampered by the decline in water consumption due
to a significant drop in industrial demand, increasing energy prices and payment arrears. The management
has not been able to cut operational costs in relation to the lower production rates. It is clear that the
financial resources needed to bring Klaipeda's water supply, sewerage and waste water system up to
acceptable standards and efficiency are substantial.
1.34          Water Supply and Levels of Service. Water supply services in Klaipeda are generally
available without interruption. However, the quality of drinking water is worse than in other regions of
Lithuania. The drinking water supplied from groundwater fields 1 and 2, though meeting required
standards after treatment, has a bad taste. In the case of areas serviced by Well Field No. 3, there is a
strong color problem that exceeds the permitted levels, stemming from a high humus load in the raw
water supply.



- 8 -
1.35          The water supply, which serves approximately 95 percent of the population of Klaipeda,
is drawn from various sources including the River Smelte, the Kaiser Wilhelm Canal and groundwater
aquifers within the city. Water consumption in Klaipeda is very high, at 311 liter per capita per day, with
an estimated overall 275 I/c/d domestic consumption compared with a European average of 175 I/cId.
Average daily water extraction is approximately 89,000 m3 and domestic water consumption is currently
estimated to be 88 percent of the total metered use.
1.36          Major areas of concern are: (a) quality of drinking water; (b) excessive water
consumption; and (c) poor condition of some critical components of the water supply system (e.g.,
groundwater pumps).
1.37          Sanitation Facilities and Levels of Service. Klaipeda's sewerage system is estimated to
cover approximately 85 percent of the population of Klaipeda, consisting of about 343 km of sewers with
8 pumping stations. Approximately 95 percent of generated wastewater, or about 82,000 m3, including
groundwater infiltration, is discharged via a sewer system to a treatment works and then to the outfalls;
the rest, approximately 2,200 m3/d, is discharged untreated directly into Kursiu Lagoon. However,
current wastewater treatment is mechanical only and the treated water is then discharged to the Lagoon.
The plant is frequently overloaded and has variable treatment performances resulting in short retention
times and occasional bypassing of flows. In addition to Klaipeda city, KSWSE serves the villages of
Riimkai, Jakai and since April 1994 the town of Gargzdai (25,000 inhabitants). A collector from Gargzdai
connected to an outfall bypassing the treatment plant discharges approximately 2,000 m3 per day directly
to Kursiu Lagoon; however, these discharges should increase significantly (to 10,000 m3/d) as additional
service areas within Gargzdai are connected to the collector.
1.38          All wastewater, except direct outlets to the Lagoon, are conveyed through the terminal
pumping station and the terminal main to the treatment plant. Both are in poor condition, experiencing
frequent breakdowns. In thz case of breakdown, wastewater is directly discharged to the Lagoon without
treatment. The main concerns are: (a) poor condition of some critical components of the system (e.g.
termninal pumping station and terminal main); and (b) poor standard and unreliability of wastewater
treatment.
1.39          Coastal Zone and Protected Areas. The Klaipeda area is surrounded by long white
beaches and the Kursiu Spit National Park is located immediately adjacent on the west side of the city.
The National Park is endowed with a number of species of trees, shrubs, animals and birds. Kursiu
Lagoon itself is one of the most ecologically productive coastal environments in Northern and Eastern
Europe. The Nemunas Delta, which is circled by reeds and rushes offering waterfowl a refuge, is one
of the most important areas in the Baltic Sea region in terms of ornithological interest. The Delta is one
of the stopping areas on the Baltic portion of the East African-European-Arctic flyway for migratory birds
and is a critical part of a complex system of coastal wildlife habitats which includes Lake Pape in Latvia
and Matsalu Bay in Estonia. The initial stages of management planning for several of these areas is being
addressed by a regional program for coastal lagoon and wetland conservation funded by the WWF, the
European Union LIFE Program, the Government of Sweden and cooperating national and local
governments.
1.40          Tourism and the Demand for Tourism Facilities in the Project Area. The economic
importance of Kursiu Lagoon and coastal areas around Klaipeda relates not only to fisheries but also to
water transport and recreation. The Kursiu Spit and the area north of the Lagoon have a large number



- 9 -
of seaside and coastal resorts. The area has been traditionally dominated by large scale, high intensity
beach tourism, centered on the major beaches at Palanga.
1.41         STD, MOEP, the Municipality of Klaipeda and other local authorities have expressed
their interest in promoting the development of diversified tourism around the Klaipeda region. It is
understood that tourism development needs to be diversified in terms of types of activities, lodging and
seasonality to meet the new demands from the Baltic region which are taking the place of Soviet-style
tourism. From 1991 to 1993, the number of visitors to the area decreased by 35 percent, reflecting the
decline in economic conditions in the FSU areas from which visitors came to Lithuania. Future tourism
trends in coastal Lithuania are expected to have more visitors from the Baltic region and be more family
oriented and small scale, requiring a different infrastructure and attractions. This approach is supported
by the Blukon study which emphasizes the importance of: (a) developing nature and cultural heritage
tourism; (b) developing activities and sights which are a part of nature areas (e.g. fishery, navigation,
boat-building, amber, etc.); and (c) developing and diversifying types and scale of overnight
accommodations.
1.42         There are 337 hotels in the area with 33,480 beds available. The Blukon study proposes
that these hotels could be transformed to vacation apartments with the exception of Klaipeda City which
most probably will need an increased hotel capacity due to growing city tourism and business visits. New
developments should be directed towards small inns, bed and breakfast accommodations, overnight stays
at farms and camping sites. Recreational facilities at the beaches would need upgrading, including tennis
courts, horseback riding, bicycling, and wind surfing. In addition, infrastructure for nature tourism in
the protected areas is needed, including access roads, parking lots, toilets, observation towers, and
information boards.
D. Bank Environment Strategy in Lithuania, Past Experience and Rationale
1.43         The Bank's environmental strategy in Lithuania, consistent with the recommendations of
the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) and the recently completed Public Expenditure Review, is
to support implementation of a limited number of priority environmental investments which have
significant impact and are complemented by support for institutional strengthening activities. These
activities should be consistent with the objectives and recommendations of the Environmental Action
Program for Central and Eastern Europe, the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action
Programme (JCP) and national priorities as established by MOEP. The Bank strategy recognizes the need
to support: (a) preventive measures to avoid adverse environmental impacts, through the use of policy
and regulatory measures, environmental assessments, environmental planning methods and economic
instruments; and (b) curative measures to address existing problems of air, water and soil pollution in a
cost effective manner. The Bank also seeks to develop projects which can provide the basis for the
effective mobilization of resources from other international financial institutions, bilateral donors and
nongovernmental sources.
1.44         In the water and wastewater area the strategy for Central and Eastern Europe has been
integrated into the Bank's environmental program and presented by the Bank in a number of forums,
including the Workshop on Water and Wastewater Utilities held in Riga (1993) and the Resource
Mobilization Conference for the Baltic Sea Environment Program held in Gdansk (1993). The key
elements of the strategy are:



- 10 -
(a)    establishing strong water supply and wastewater utilities to support sustainable
investments in municipal water and wastewater treatment through the development of
autonomous self-financing municipal/regional public or private water and wastewater
utilities;
(b)    supporting least cost planning and investment selections for municipal/industrial water
supply and wastewater systems, which are properly sized and designed;
(c)    promoting water demand management to maximize investment resources and reduce
operating costs;
(d)    supporting actions for rehabilitation of existing systems, improvements in operational
efficiency, phasing and utilization of cost-effective technologies to reduce investment and
operating costs significantly; and
(e)    promoting the careful analysis of the impact of industries and taking into consideration
actions to reduce industrial water consumption and wastewater discharges.
1.45           Bank experience in the implementation of environmental management projects in Central
and Eastern Europe to date centers on the lessons learned from the US $27.3 million Environment
Management Project in Poland which is in its final year. This Project demonstrated the importance of:
(a)    establishing locally staffed project implementation units which have personnel well trained
in project supervision, financial management and competitive procurement procedures,
further supported with proper independent auditing; and
(b)    careful monitoring of the availability of local counterpart funds.
It also demonstrated the high potential of a well designed and managed project to attract donor support
for priority activities. These lessons have been considered in the design of the proposed project.
1.46          Previous regional experience in water and wastewater projects is limited; Bank experience
worldwide in the water and wastewater sector is extensive, however. Important lessons learned include:
(a)    justifying investments in municipal wastewater treatment plants within the context of a
basin-wide, least-cost strategy for improving ambient water quality, in accordance with
a phased plan for water quality improvements;
(b)    making investment decisions that are guided by a medium-term, prioritized least-cost
investment plan covering all of a utility's needs. The definition of this investment
program requires the preparation of comprehensive master plans and feasibility studies;
and
(c)    validating investment decisions by careful financial plans (including financial projections),
complemented by institutional strengthening action plans, to ensure that the proposed
investment program is financially viable and that the utility is prepared to assume the
responsibility for effective management of systems and facilities.



- 11 -
1.47         At the operational level, the strategy is to support projects that have a high demonstration
and replication value at the national and regional level. The investment components should focus on the
rehabilitation of critical infrastructure and/or support well justified and phased expansion of facilities at
priority locations. In this context the Bank has included, at the request of MOEP, a series of
environmental management activities which would be implemented in the greater Klaipeda region with
the specific objective of some of them being replicated elsewhere in Lithuania in the future.
1.48         The support of the Bank for the proposed Project would provide an opportunity to support
Lithuanian efforts to improve national environmental quality, protect the Baltic Sea and demonstrate
environmental management techniques. In the absence of Bank involvement, it is unlikely that the country
would be able to mobilize the technical assistance and financial resources required to implement an
environmental project for this environmentally and economically important area of the country. The
Project would provide a mechanism for the Bank to test the feasibility of rapid preparation and
implementation of small projects for priority environmental investment activities in the environmental area
in successor states of the FSU. It would also expand the range of Bank experience in supporting the
planning and implementation of eco-tourism related management activities and investments in coastal zone
and protected areas, which is a rapidly growing type of activity given the increased emphasis on
"environmentally sustainable development."



II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1           In 1974, the countries of the Baltic Sea region signed the "Convention on the Protection
of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area" in Helsinki. This convention, commonly referred to
as the Helsinki Convention, was the first international regional seas agreement and created a framework
for regional environmental cooperation. To accelerate the rate of progress in improving national and
regional environmental conditions, the Prime Ministers of Sweden and Poland jointly hosted the "Baltic
Sea Environment Conference" held in September 1990 in Ronneby, Sweden with participation at the
Prime Minister level. The conference included senior level participation by the Bank and resulted in the
establishment of the Baltic Sea Environment Task Force, comprised of representatives of the riparian
states of the Baltic Sea drainage basin, European Commission and international financial institutions, with
selected technical organizations and nongovernmental organizations participating as observers. The task
force, working under the coordination of the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission
(HELCOM), based in Helsinki, and with significant participation from the Bank, prepared the Baltic Sea
Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Programme (JCP). This program, which was adopted by the
Ministers of Environment of the Baltic Sea region in April 1992, identified a series of priority actions
concerning policies and legislation, actions for the control of point and non-point source pollution,
measures for the management of coastal lagoons and wetlands, institutional strengthening and human
resources development which should be undertaken as elements of a long-term regional environmental
program.
2.2           The Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Programme (JCP) identified
a series of priority "hot spots" in the region, which were selected following the preparation of a series
of pre-feasibility studies and site visits, and which require remedial action by national governments.
Actions to address pollution from the city of Klaipeda and management of the Kursiu Lagoon were ranked
by the Task Force as priority "hot spots" and subsequently by Lithuanian authorities as an element of
their priority program for national and foreign investment in environmental protection. This position has
been repeatedly taken by the GOL in a variety of international forums, most recently by the MOEP at
the May 1994 Bank-sponsored "Public Investment Conference" held in Paris.
2.3           The proposed Project would be the first internationally supported investment project for
improvement of environmental quality undertaken by the GOL. This Project is considered one of the
highest priority in terms of domestic environmental investments actions by the GOL and in the context
of Lithuanian legal obligations to protect the Baltic Sea. It supports the GOL's objectives to: promote the
decentralization of responsibility for environmental services to municipal governments; reduce the State's
role in the economy by strengthening local authorities; and restructure and modernize the water and
wastewater sector.
2.4           On the basis of a series of site visits made to various priority sites in Lithuania by Bank
staff during preparation of the JCP and CEM, the environmental significance of the Klaipeda region and
the Kursiu Lagoon in a national and regional context was confirmed, the general feasibility of a project
reviewed and the commitment of the national and local governments to undertake the proposed Project
assessed. These evaluations were supported by the findings of the "Pre-Feasibility Study of the Lithuanian
Coast and Nemunas River Basin," prepared by a joint Danish, Swedish and Lithuanian team under the



- 13 -
supervision of the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) to support development of the JCP. This study was
supplemented by preliminary studies of wastewater interventions in Klaipeda prepared in 1991 by Soil
and Water (Finland) with support from the Ministry of Environment of Finland; and in 1992 by SWECO
(Sweden) and Plancenter (Finland) with support from the Swedish Board for Investment and Technical
Support (BITS) and the Ministry of Environment of Finland.
2.5          In the context of GOL and Bank discussions concerning follow-up to the CEM, the GOL
assigned the Lithuanian Environmental Protection Department, recently succeeded by the MOEP, to serve
as the lead agency for coordination of the proposed Project. With Bank support, terms of reference for
the required feasibility, engineering and environmental studies were prepared. The GOL subsequently
obtained funding for preparation of the feasibility study for water and wastewater improvements in
Klaipeda from the Ministries of Environment of Finland and Sweden. Following a competitive
procurement process, a joint venture of the firms Rust VA Project (Sweden), Soil and Water (Finland)
and Baltic Consulting Group (Lithuania) were retained to conduct the study. Concurrently, personnel from
MOEP, the MOK and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), with support of regionally based Bank
environment staff, reviewed potential environmental management activities.
2.6           Preparation of the proposed Project included an identification mission in September 1993,
a pre-appraisal mission in April 1994 and an appraisal mission in July 1994. In between, a number of
preparatory field visits were made by Bank headquarters and regional staff to review specific issues and
to participate in the steering committee meetings for oversight of the feasibility study. These missions and
visits have also included the participation of representatives of the Ministries of Environment of Finland
and Sweden and the WWF. Currently, technical specification and draft bidding documents for goods and
works contracts are under preparation, so that bidding should commence on a timely basis. It is
anticipated that a number of contracts would be ready for award by the time of the Loan signing.
2.7           An  implementation  plan  and  performance  indicators consisting  of a Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) and an Action Plan for the WWIC were prepared during appraisal and agreed
with the Borrower during negotiations. The PIP appears as Annex 1, and the Action Plan as Annex 2 to
this appraisal report. This chapter, therefore, provides only a summary description of the Project
objectives, components, costs, financing, implementation arrangements, procurement, disbursement,
environmental aspects and supervision. A detailed description of each of these elements, including the
performance indicators can be found in the PIP. The Action Plan was finalized by the KSWSE prior to
negotiations. The Action Plan states the KSWSE's operational, organizational and financial goals in the
short- and medium-term. The Action Plan also includes proposed additional steps for achieving the
Project objectives and enabling efficient Project implementation of the WWIC. During negotiations, the
Borrower and the KSWSE agreed that the project would be carried out according to an implemenitation
schedule and performnance indicators agreed with the Bank.
B. Project Objectives
2.8           Project Objectives. The Project, the first environmental investment Project in Lithuania,
would have the following main objectives:



- 14 -
*     reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater into the Baltic Sea;
*     restore and enhance the surface and groundwater quality in Klaipeda, Kursiu Lagoon, and
adjacent recreational beaches on the Baltic Sea;
*     improve quality, reliability and cost efficiency of water supply and sanitation services in
Klaipeda;
*     improve the operational efficiency and management system of KSWSE; and
*     promote environmentally sustainable management and development of Kursiu Lagoon and
adjacent coastal areas.
C. Participation by Other Organizations in Project Activities
2.9          The GOL would provide US $6.0 million equivalent and the MOK would provide
US $1.0 million equivalent for financing of project activities. The following organizations are
participating in a number a different forms under the umbrella of this proposed Project:
(a)    The Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support (BITS). The Government of
Sweden, acting through BITS, is providing a grant of SEK 40.0 million (US $5.0 million
equivalent) to support investments in the wastewater collection and treatment elements
of the proposed Project. This funding is being provided in the context of Swedish support
for the Baltic Sea Environment Program;
(b)    Ministry of Environment of Finland. The Government of Finland, acting through the
Ministry of Environment, is providing a grant of up to FIM 12.0 million (US $2.0
million equivalent) to support investments in the wastewater collection and treatment
elements of the proposed Project. This funding is being provided in the context of
Finnish support for implementation of the Baltic Sea Environment Program;
(c)    European Union PHARE Program. The EU PHARE Program has indicated that it would
provide a grant of approximately ECU 500,000 (US $600,000) from the environiental
element of its Lithuanian national program for priority activities to improve water and
wastewater services in Klaipeda;
(d)    World Wide Fundfor Nature (WWF). WWF activities are being supported under the EU
LIFE and Government of Sweden funded program for development of management plans
for coastal lagoons and wetlands in the Baltic Sea; this program has activities in Estonia,
Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia; and
(e)    Other Potential Donors. The GOL and the Bank are currently consulting with the
European Union, the Governments of Denrmark, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden



- 15 -
and other selected bilateral donors and private foundations concerning possible additional
funding for both components of the proposed Project.
D. Project Components and Description
2.10         Project Description. The proposed Project would be developed as an environmental
management project for the coastal area of Lithuania. The Project has two complementary components:
(a)    Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC - US $21.60 million). This would
include:
*     rehabilitation, upgrading and expansion of the Klaipeda water and wastewater
system, including equipment and works, engineering services, measures to reduce
water demand and actions to control industrial discharges; and
*     training to support institutional strengthening to assist in establishing an
autonomous and financially independent water and wastewater utility in Klaipeda.
This would include twinning arrangements that incorporate consultancy and
advisory services, training, equipment and software. Annex 5 presents the terms
of reference for the twinning arrangement. That KSWSE would have entered ino
a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with a water and wastewater utility for the
twinning arrangement would be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan.
(b)    Environmental Management Component (EMC - US $1.50 million). This would include:
*     technical and financial support for the development and implementation of a
management plan for Kursiu Lagoon and adjacent coastal and protected areas,
including equipment and small scale works, consultancy and advisory services;
and
support for the development of a management plan for recreational and nature-
based tourism in the Klaipeda region, including equipment and small scale works,
consultancy and advisory services.
Details of the components are provided in Annex 1 (the PIP).
E. Cost Estimates
2.11         The total cost of the Project is estimated to be US $23.10 million or LT 92.40 million
equivalent, including contingencies. The estimated cost distributed among project components is shown
in Table 2.1 and in greater detail in Annex 1, Tables la and lb.



- 16 -
Table 2.1:   PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
-------- Litas Million* --------  -------- US S Million --------  %  %
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total  Foreign Base Cost
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
Project Implementation Unit                        0.76     1.48     2.24      0.19     0.37     0.56     66%        3%
Water Supply and Distribution                      3.00     4.24     7.24      1.46     1.53     2.99     51%       17%
Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment                 24.88    25.52    50.40      6.22     6.38    12.60      51%      73%
Contract Coordination / Supervision                1.08     1.28     2.36      0.27     0.32     0.59      54%       39%
Technical Assistance & Training                    0.28     2.12     2.40      0.07     0.53     0.60      88%       3%
Base Cost for Water & Wastewater Component    32.84    36.52    69.36  8.21      9.13    17.34     53%      100%
B. Environmental Management Component***                    6.00     6.00               1.50     1.50    100%
Physical Contingencies                             3.28     3.64     6.92      0.82     0.91     1.73
Price Contingencies                                8.44     1.68    10.12      2.11     0.42     2.53
Total for Water & Wastewater Component            44.56    41.84    86.40    11.14    10.46    21.60       48%
Total for Environmental Mgmt Component                      6.00     6.00               1.50     1.50    100%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:    44.56    47.84    92.40    11.14    11.96    23.10           52%
* Addoiior may nmx be fully consistent due to rounding up
Exchange rame USSI - LT 4.0
''' Local conuibutiorm for this component would inclWde land and services in
kird. The tol amount would be eCstablished after completion and review by
GOL of macgemnm plis to be prepared urder this comporent
2.12            The cost for the WWIC is estimated at about US $21.60 million or LT 86.40 million
equivalent, including contingencies. The total base cost is estimated at US $17.34 million. Physical
contingencies are estimated at US $1.73 million. Price contingencies between the appraisal conducted in
June 1994 and March 2000 would amount to approximately US $2.53 million or 13 percent of base cost
plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent 25 percent of the base cost. These conservative
contingency factors have been used given the limited experience with construction cost estimates and
prices in Lithuania. The foreign exchange component is estimated at approximately US $10.46 million
including contingencies, or about 48 percent of the total cost of the WWIC.
2.13            The cost for the EMC is estimated at about US $1.5 million or LT 6.0 million equivalent.



- 17 -
F. Project Financing Arrangements
2.14          The proposed IBRD loan of US $7.0 million would finance about 30 percent of total
Project costs. The Bank loan would be repaid by the GOL over 20 years including 5 years grace with
repayments calculated on an annuity basis at the Bank's standard variable rate of interest. An advance
of US $240,000 has been requested from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and would be used to
support the establishment of the PIU, preparation of bidding documents and to conduct a tariff study.
2.15          WW7C. Parallel cofinancing by the Governments of Sweden (US $5.0 million equivalent)
and Finland (US $2.0 million equivalent) and the European Union (US $600,000 equivalent) comprises
about 35 percent of component costs. The local counterpart contribution of LT 24.0 million or
US $6.0 million equivalent would be provided by the GOL, and LT 4.0 million or US $1.0 million
equivalent would be provided by the MOK.
2.16          The Project has been collaboratively designed with the direct participation of
representatives of the Governments of Finland and Sweden. Extensive discussions have been held
concerning the respective responsibilities of the cofinancers in implementation of the Project. Satisfactory
evidence that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the grants from Sweden and Finland have
been fulfilled would have to be submitted prior to the effectiveness of the Bank Loan. The MOEP and the
MOK advised that they would annually identify their counterpart in their annual budgets to be presented
to the Bank.
2.17         EMC. This component would be financed through grants. Grant financing is being
provided by the European Union LIFE Program and the Government of Sweden for preparation of the
Kursiu Lagoon Management Plan.
2.18          The summarized financing plan presented in Table 2.2 includes the proceeds of the Bank
loan, the GOL's contribution and cofinancing. Detailed financing plans can be found in Tables 2 and 3
of Annex 1.
Table 2.2: SUMMARIZED FINANCING PLAN
A. WWIC                    B. EMC
US S Million              US $ Million
Financers                         Local  Foreign     Total    Local  Foreign    Total
IBRD, (loan)                       3.56     3.44     7.00
Ministry of Environment, Sweden (gran  0.51  4.49    5.00
Ministry of Environment, Finland (grant)    2.00     2.00
EU PHARE Program (grant)           0.07     0.53     0.60
Other Donors (grants)                                                  1.50     1.50
Government of Lithuania            6.00              6.00
Municipality of Klaipeda           1.00              1.00
Total                              11.14    10.46    21.60             1.50     1.50



- 18 -
2.19         Onlending Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance would provide the funds directly to
KSWSE on behalf of the MOK. As a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan, subsidiary loan
agreements would have to have been executed between the GOL and the KSWSE.
G. Procurement
2.20         During negotiations, it was agreed that procurement willfollow the Bank's 'Guidelines
for Procurement Under IBRD and IDA Credits" (May 1992) and "Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency (August 1981). Procurement under parallel
cofinancing arrangements (US $7.6 million) would be carried out through tied procurement in accordance
with procurement regulations of the Governments of Finland, Sweden and the EU PHARE Program.
Procurement would be undertaken in the following manner:
(a)    All Bank funded contracts which are estimated to cost more than US $250,000 equivalent
per contract would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
The Borrower would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Supply and Erect
Contracts. Eight contracts totalling US $5.93 million for: (i) water rehabilitation; (ii)
service extension; (iii) water conservation; (iv) sewer rehabilitation; (v) sewer main; and
(vi) sewer main pumping station, would be awarded under ICB. Such contracts would
include all goods and civil works necessary for component implementation.
Packages procured through ICB would account for approximately 85 percent of the total
value of the Bank-financed procurement of the Bank's Loan. Invitations for bids would
be grouped in sizeable bid packages to enhance competition and benefit from economies
of scale in bid prices.
(b)    Procedures for International Shopping (IS) would be used for procurement of smaller
contracts up to US $250,000 because the cost of ICB would clearly outweigh possible
price advantages. It is expected that some small components such as office equipment
could be procured through IS. Contracts awarded under IS procedures would be based
on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from three eligible
countries in accordance with Bank guidelines.
(c)    Consultant services would be requested for three contracts: (i) analysis of alternative
treatment and pilot tests on Well Field No. 3 (US $0.29 million); (ii) contract
coordination and supervision of the water and wastewater component (US $0.74 million);
and (iii) consultant support for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (US $0.56 million)
would be shortlisted and selected on a competitive basis according to Bank Guidelines for
Use of Consultants (August 1981), and hiring would be on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
Table 2.3 gives a summary presentation of procurement arrangements. A detailed presentation of all
procurement arrangements can be found in Tables 4 and 5 of Annex 1.



- 19 -
Table 2.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total
Project Element                           ICB    Other*    N.B.F        Cost
A. Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component
Water Supply System                      3.54                           3.54
(2.96)                        (2.96)
Sewerage                                 2.39               13.27      15.66
(2.39)                        (2.39)
Training and Technical Assistance                            0.70      0.70
Project Implementation Unit and Support
Services                                           1.70                 1.70
(1.65)              (1.65)
B. Environmental Management
Component                                                    1.50       1.50
TOTAL                                    5.93      1.70     15.47     23.10
(5.35)    (1.65)              (7.00)
(- IBRD loan financed
N.B.F - Not Bank Financed
' Internaional Shopping - US SO. 11 million
and Bank 'Guidelines for Use of consultants' (August
1981) = US $1.59 million
2.21           Informal training was provided by the Bank's Procurement Specialist for representatives
of the MOEP, MOK and KSWSE. In addition, relevant personnel from the central government (MOEP)
and PIU will participate in more extensive procurement training courses organized by the Bank in the
near future in Lithuania. The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry out the Bank's
procurement procedures would be strengthened through ongoing training and the use of standard bidding
documents. In addition, provision of international technical assistance for the PIU should ensure adequate
administration of procurement.
2.22           ProcurementReview. All ICB procurement packages would be subject to the Bank's prior
review and approval, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. All prior review items would cover 80 percent of the total amount of the loan. Other loan-
funded activities would be subject to the Bank's post review during the supervision of the project, in
accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines.
2.23           Procurement Monitoring. Procurement data would be collected and recorded for: (i)
prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (ii) comprehensive quarterly reports
to the Bank by the Borrower; and (iii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.



- 20 -
H. Disbursements
2.24          The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four fiscal years (1995-
1999) with an estimated closing date on March 31, 1999. Disbursements per year are shown in Table 2.4.
Descriptions of the Bank loan proceeds and forecasts of expenditure and disbursements for the proposed
Project are shown in Annex 1, Table 6. The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 1, Table 7.
Table 2.4: DISBURSEMENT BY YEAR
US $ million
1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Bank Fiscal Year
Annual                            1.75   8.98   8.63   3.04   0.70
Cumulative                        1.75  10.73  19.36  22.40  23.10
Cumulative % Total                7.58  46.45  83.81  96.97 100.00
2.25          The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against:
(a)    For goods: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-factory
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b)    For works: 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures; and
(c)    100 percent of expenditures for consultancy services and training.
All cofinancers would manage their own disbursements.
2.26          Disbursement requests would be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the PIU. It is
expected that members from the MOEP as well as the PIU would participate in disbursement training
organized by the Bank.
2.27          Disbursement would be made against standard Bank documentation. The documentation
to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for review by Bank supervision missions and
verification by extemal audits. Disbursement requests would be fully documented except for expenditures
under contracts for goods and equipment valued at less than US $100,000 equivalent, where statements
of expenditure (SOE) would be used. Applications for direct payment and special commitment may be
submitted provided they are for amounts equivalent to at least US $50,000. The Bank would not honor
direct payment requests below US $50,000.
2.28          To facilitate Project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the
Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US $400,000, representing
about four months of average expenditures. At the request of the Borrower, and based on project needs,
the Bank would make an initial deposit or deposits into the special account up to the amount of the



- 21 -
authorized allocation. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly
or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation
requirements for replenishment would follow the standard procedure. In addition, monthly bank
statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all
replenishment requests. The terms and conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special
Account were set forth during negotiations.
I. Envirommental Aspects
2.29         Preparation of the proposed Project has included environmental studies consistent with
the applicable procedures of the GOL and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01,
"Environmental Assessment." In accordance with these procedures, a joint Finnish, Swedish and
Lithuanian team of consultants has prepared an environmental review, complying with the requirements
for a category "B" project for the WWIC. Implementation of the WWIC would result in improvements
in water quality through reduction of leakages of wastewater into the groundwater and reductions in
discharges of untreated and partially treated wastewater, thereby improving the water quality in the
northern section of the Kursiu Lagoon and the beaches north of Klaipeda. The findings of the review,
which have been used to support the design of the component, are summarized in Annex 4. Attached
as Annex 5 is the Bank's Environmental Data Sheet.
2.30         The environmental management component has also been placed in category "B." The
benefits of the EMC would be: (a) expanded recreational use of Kursiu Lagoon and Baltic beaches
through reducing pollution; (b) improved environmental management of the Kursiu Lagoon and coastal
areas; and (c) greater opportunities for environmentally sound tourism along the coast. Environmental
reviews will be prepared as elements of the studies and plans to ensure that their objectives and small-
scale works are environmentally acceptable. These environmental reviews would be subject to evaluation
and approval by the MOEP, concerned local environmental offices and Bank environmental specialists
assigned to the Regional Mission. Given the types of environmental and protected areas management
activities to be supported, it is not anticipated that any involuntary resettlement would occur.



III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1          Project Coordination. The lead agency for the proposed Project would be the MOEP
which would provide overall supervision of the Project, coordinate the actions of funding organizations
and local implementing agencies and manage the interactions with the Bank.
3.2          Project Steering Committee. To facilitate implementation of the proposed Project, the
MOEP has established a Project Steering Committee (PSC). MOEP has appointed a Project Coordinator
for the proposed project. The PSC includes the following: MOEP, Ministry of Finance, Environmental
Advisor to the Government, Environmental Advisor to the Nature Protection Committee of the
Parliament, Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction, STD, MOK, KSWSE, and representatives of
local government authorities where environmental management activities would be undertaken. A
representative from the World Bank Office in Vilnius would serve as an ex-officio member for purposes
of coordination. The role of the Project Coordinator would be to represent the MOEP in dealings with
the cooperating funding agencies, facilitate coordination between national and local government authorities
in Lithuania, provide specialized technical support and serve as the secretary for the project
implementation committee.
3.3           WWIC. The KSWSE would be responsible for implementation of the water and
wastewater improvement component. The Director of KSWSE would be responsible for supervision of
all project supported activities concerning water and wastewater, including institutional strengthening,
within the service area of the enterprise. To facilitate implementation of this component, including
institutional strengthening, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established within KSWSE. The
PIU would be assisted, as required, by non-resident international consultants to support the preparation
of technical specifications, bidding documents, tendering, bid evaluation, contract awards, supervision
of civil works and equipment installation and follow-up activities. An advance has been requested form
the PPF to enable the initiation of the activities of the PIU. The appointment of all appropriate stafffor
the PIU would be a condition for Loan effectiveness.. It is expected that the PIU become fully
operationally effective in January 1995.
3.4          EMC. This component would be managed by the MOEP with the participation of the
STD, local environmental protection offices, concerned local governments, and the WWF. Each of the
four small-scale activities under the component would have its management structure in order to allow
for a flexible approach to implementation of these demonstration activities. The Land Use Planning
Department of the MOEP would coordinate the activities under the EMC. Selected activities under the
EMC would be implemented in cooperation with the WWF. The appointment of all appropriate stafffor
the implementation of the component would be a condition for Loan effectiveness.
3.5           Project implementation would be expected to begin in April 1995 and would be carried
out over a four-year period. The Project implementation schedule is included in Annex 1, Table 8. A
summary of implementation responsibilities for the proposed Project is provided in Annex 1, Chart 2.



- 23 -
B. Project Implementation Agencies
3.6          Ministry of Environmental Protection. The MOEP is the successor organization to the
Lithuanian Environmental Protection Department. The ministry has a diverse range of responsibilities
including environmental protection, natural resources management and protected areas management. The
MOEP has adopted a decentralized approach to environmental management and has an established
network of regional environmental protection offices, including one in Klaipeda, which provide local level
support for the implementation of its policies and programs. With the MOEP, the Economics and Foreign
Relations Department is responsible for overall coordination of external relations with the European
Union, bilateral donors and international financial institutions. The MOEP has technical units which, in
close coordination with the Economics and Foreign Relations Department, serve to implement specific
internationally supported projects and activities.
3.7          Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise. The MOEP has appointed the KSWSE to
undertake implementation of the WWIC. This approach is fully consistent with the policy of the MOEP
to support the decentralization of environmental management responsibilities to local municipalities and
to have those parties which would be responsible for operation and maintenance of facilities take an active
role in their design and construction.
3.8          The KSWSE is subject to the supervision of the City Council of Klaipeda which is
ultimately responsible for the actions of KSWSE. In this context, the municipal authorities in Klaipeda
are ultimately responsible for the provision of water and wastewater services to the inhabitants. However,
the utility itself is legally still State property. The powers and duties of the enterprise are set out in a
statute. The statute's main provisions are that the utility is an independent legal entity, required to provide
water and sewerage services to the population of Klaipeda according to the national standards. The utility
is financially independent, and has its own bank accounts, although tariffs charged by KSWSE must be
approved by the City Council.
3.9          Although the MOK is responsible for water and wastewater services, KSWSE has a
relatively high level of autonomy in the management of the company, including the right to hire and fire
employees. The director is nominated by the City Council. Management practices are technically
relatively advanced. Billing is computerized and the enterprise utilizes remote control of the water
distribution system. Although all investments are financed from the municipal or state budget, the
KSWSE prepares a formal budget and capital expenditure plan every year. With regard to legal ownership
of the company, it is unclear when the ownership transfer from the state to the municipality is going to
occur. There appears to be consensus among the City Council members that KSWSE should become an
independent utility regulated by the local government. The legal transfer of ownership will open new
options for the municipality to address management issues.
3.10         KSWSE currently employs approximately 590 staff corresponding to about 3.2 employees
for 1,000 consumers. This is about 2-3 times more than in Europe on average, which leaves room for
significant staff reductions. Although there could be some room for staff reductions, it is not likely that
any major reductions in number will take place before it is determined which skill mix would be
appropriate to run the rehabilitated utility.
3.11         Other Implementing Agencies. Implementation of the EMC would be coordinated by the
MOEP with the activity concerning tourism development overseen by STD. The WWF, working through
its European and Baltic Regional Programs, would participate with the Land Use Planning Department



- 24 -
of the MOEP in the implementation of the protected areas management activities for Kursiu Lagoon and
Nemunas Delta. Concerned local level environmental, infrastructure, planning and tourism organizations
have a limited number of skilled personnel; however, with proper design and supervision of the proposed
activities, they should be able to have a significant role in implementation and benefit from Project
supported training activities.
C. Project Supervision
3.12          The proposed Project would be supervised by Bank personnel from both headquarters and
the Riga and Vilnius offices of the Regional Mission for the Baltic Countries. In addition, representatives
of BITS and the Finnish Ministry of Environment would also participate in supervision missions.
Personnel from WWF would also participate in selected missions. The proposed supervision plan is
summarized in Annex 1, Chart 3.
3.13          Recognizing that the proposed Project would be the first Bank project in Lithuania
involving installation of sophisticated mechanical and electrical equipment, it is anticipated that it would
require significant supervision. This supervision would focus on the first two years when considerable
input would be required for engineering and procurement aspects of the water and wastewater
improvement component. In addition, supervision by environmental specialists would be required for the
complex issues of preparation and initial implementation of activities under the environmental
management component.
3.14          A mid-term review would be conducted to evaluate project progress and assess the status
of actions to be undertaken to establish an autonomous utility, to develop and implement an amended
tariff structure and to strengthen the management capacity of KSWSE. The loan agreement would include
provisions which allow the Bank, in consultation with the Borrower to make adjustments in the details
of these items and the schedule for their implementation. It is anticipated that the findings of the tariff
study would be reviewed during the mid-term review and that long-term tariff rates would be then agreed
upon.
3.15          At the request of the MOEP, it is planned that Project supported training activities would
be open to personnel from other locations in Lithuania to support the dissemination of knowledge and to
prepare them for participation in other priority projects proposed for implementation in the short and
medium-term. This is especially important for proposed water and wastewater projects for Kaunas and
Vilnius which the GOL plans to implement, given that due to the currently advanced state of construction
of civil works in Klaipeda, the wastewater treatment plant could be commissioned in advance of facilities
in these other major cities. In this regard special emphasis would be given to providing support for
training of Lithuanian personnel in competitive procurement procedures for consultant services,
construction contracts and equipment. Benefits would also accrue through training in construction
supervision to improve the quality of civil works and equipment installation, thus avoiding many types
of operational problems. Given the importance of these activities to the Project and the valuable "lessons
learned" they may provide, Bank supervision missions would review activities and progress in these areas
on a routine basis.



- 25 -
D. Accounts and Audits
3.16         It was agreed during negotiations that the Project Accounts and the Special Account
would be audited in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank' (March 1982).
3.17          The Project Coordinator, with the support of the PIU and coordinators for activities under
the EMC, would prepare semi-annual descriptive and financial reports on each project component,
objective and activity (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness). To monitor the financial
performance of KSWSE, its financial statements (income statements, balance sheets), in addition to
Project accounts, an auditor acceptable to the Bank would be appointed, and the audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit reports would contain
a separate opinion on compliance by implementing agencies with all financial covenants under the Bank
loan. It is expected that a local branch of a private, international, commercial auditor, in association with
a local auditing firm if available, would carry out the audits, and this arrangement is considered
acceptable. During negotiations, it was agred that periodical reporting and preparation of the Project
Completion Report be carried out according to Bank Guidelines.
3.18          To gauge progress during the implementation of the Project, a series of project monitoring
indicators were identified during appraisal. These criteria would form the basis of the evolving sector
dialogue and give signals as to whether the Bank should remain actively engaged in the sector. These
project indicators are discussed in Section IV of Annex 1.



IV. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF KSWSE
A. Past Performance and Present Position
4.1           Overview. The KSWSE has been identified by the MOEP as being among the more
progressive and technically capable water and wastewater utilities in Lithuania. It is the objective of the
MOEP to have Klaipeda serve as a "model utility" for primary cities and provide: (a) an example of a
sound water and wastewater utility which may be applied elsewhere; and (b) a facility which could be
used for in-country training on "software" and "hardware" issues. To this end, despite the administrative,
financial and technical constraints which may exist, the MOEP, in cooperation with the MOK, intends
to focus its efforts on making KSWSE an autonomous and effective utility by mobilizing local and foreign
resources to support complementary investment and institutional strengthening activities.
4.2          Central to the approach of institutional strengthening is the development of a formal
"twinning arrangement," on a contractual basis with another water and wastewater utility. This twinning
arrangement would include specific activities, which would be defined as a component of the Action Plan
for KSWSE, to include support for: utility management; system investment planning; rehabilitation
program design; construction supervision; operation and maintenance; monitoring and use of laboratory
data; tariff setting; billing and collection; accounting and auditing; human resources development and
public information programs.
4.3           The KSWSE is also interested in considering, subject to the approval of the GOL and
Klaipeda City Council, contracting out the operations and maintenance services for water and wastewater
facilities. Such an arrangement may result in efficiency gains, improved quality of service and better
reliability in system operation. The mission has recommended that these services be obtained through an
open and transparent competitive process. This would allow Klaipeda to obtain the best service contractor
and under terms which are the most advantageous to the municipal government. If such a decision is
made, a portion of the funds allocated to the "twinning arrangement" and technical assistance would be
allocated for specialized consultant support to assist authorities in Klaipeda to prepare bidding documents
for these services, evaluate proposals, negotiate the contract and supervise the contractors. During
negotiations, it was agreed that KSWSE shall seek prior approval from the Bank to any change in the
administration, management or the execution of the operation and maintenance aspects of water and
wastewater services amongst MOK, KSWSE and/or a third party.
4.4          Past Performance. During the 1991-1993 period, the supplied (and invoiced) water
volume has decreased by about 14 percent due largely to the reducing output of industries and the overall
decline in the Lithuanian GDP. This reduced volume in turn decreased the real revenues of the company
by approximately 13 percent during 1991-1993 and decreased the percentage of net operating profit to
revenue by about 50 percent. Despite the slump in water volume production, KSWSE recorded a profit
over the period of 1991-1993 as summarized in Table 9, Annex 1. Profit creation is, however, misleading
as, by virtue of KSWSE's prevailing accounting system established under Soviet accounting laws, the
municipality makes a decision on the annual profit to be created based on the capital investment
employed. In reality, the designated profit margins insufficiently reflect undervalued depreciation,
suggesting the assets need to be revalued to reflect true market costs, and that real profit margins are
lower than the financial results reviewed later in this section.



- 27 -
B. Tariff Levels and Revenues
4.5           It is clear that current tariff levels are inadequate to cover full costs, failing to reflect
planned maintenance, depreciation, provisions for new investments, bad debts, etc.. The revenue and cost
budgets are revised each month for tariff adjustment, cost comparison and income tax calculation. Should
there be a need for a tariff increase, a request is sent to the MOK for approval. An obvious shortcoming
in the budgeting and reporting system appears to be the fact that it is based on the results of the previous
period without taking into account cost efficiency, responsive performance, accountability or future cost
increases.
4.6           Prior to 1991, tariffs had been stable and the domestic (and wastewater) rate (0.04 LT/m3)
was at the time subsidized through considerably higher industrial rates. Since 1991, tariffs have been
adjusted upwards 16 times to both compensate for inflation (1,020 percent in 1992, 190 percent in 1993)
and to converge the residential and industrial tariffs. The residential tariff increased in real terms more
than 5 times between 1991-1993, whereas the industrial tariff decreased by 47 percent during the same
period. In addition, a number of major industrial facilities have closed down or had significant reductions
in their output due to the economic restructuring process. The current combined tariffs were increased
in February 1994 and stand now at the level of LT 0.43/m3 for both residential and industrial consumers.
The wastewater tariff, 0.20 LT/m3 is also the same for households and the major part of industries.
C. Billing and Collection
4.7           Consumers are divided into residential customers and industrial customers. The service
sector and institutions (e.g. schools, hospitals, hotels and administrative buildings) belong to the latter
category. Although both categories pay the same tariff, special tariffs are applied for technical water used
by selected industries, and industrial wastewater charges are scaled according to the pollution load. About
90 percent of the connections to water supply have meters. However, residential connections to
apartments are metered not individually but in blocks of 10,000-15,000 inhabitants. As a result, payment
for consumer water use is not based on direct metering; instead, terms are set in a general contract
between KSWSE and the municipal Apartment Service Enterprise (ASE).
4.8           Collection is a major problem  for KSWSE. Accounts receivable have increased
dramatically since 1991, corresponding now to about 3 months' billing. Households are responsible for
75 percent of the debt. The eventual collection rate was 87 percent in 1993 and 98 percent in the first
quarter in 1994. For domestic consumers, collection is carried out by the ASE. Contracts for water
supply to apartment buildings are made between KSWSE and ASE, who pays KSWSE for monthly
consumption and divides the sum among the separate apartments depending on the number of inhabitants
in each. The billing is then carried out on a monthly basis and added to household charges for rent and
other utilities. Many residents do not pay ASE, which is therefore unable to pay its bill to KSWSE.
Collection is hampered by KSWSE's lack of direct contact with its customers as well as the lack of
individual metering. However, in recent years, apartments now are individually metered, and these
consumers do pay ASE according to some meter readings.
4.9           KSWSE plans to institute a direct collection program with household customers in 1994
which is expected to significantly improve collection. In this context, it should be mentioned that a major
meter installation program in Vilnius has largely reduced total water consumption in the city. The
proposed program includes consideration of means to improve collection such as: (a) administrative



- 28 -
measures; (b) technical measures; and (c) legal measures. Administrative measures include discounts on
bills paid promptly and penalties for late bills. Currently there is a 0.4 percent penalty per day for
delayed payment, but so far the company has not applied it. In addition, the salaries of personnel assigned
to collection could be linked to the amount of revenue collected. Technical measures include installment
of more meters. Legal measures include monthly deduction from defaulters' earnings. This should be
considered with provisions included to protect low income families and retirees.
D. Accounting Policies and Audits
4.10          Given the usage of past command accounting methodology, no formal external audits have
been performed. The accounting law of June 1992 transferred the responsibility of all financial issues of
the company to the Director of KSWSE. Three departments are involved in the financial management and
accounting issues. Accounts Department prepares the financial statements on a monthly, quarterly and
annual basis. The Department for User Service is responsible for billing and collection. The Economics
Department is responsible for the calculation of tariffs and operations and maintenance budget
preparation.
4.11          It is proposed that the project would support establishment of a Management Information
System (MIS) which would be linked with both operational budget planning and a strategic planning
system. An automated fixed asset portion would provide all pertinent information on depreciation and
easily readable means of handling revaluations as the economy experiences inflation. It is understood that
the implementation of an MIS system has to be phased over time due to investment requirements, not
only in terms of hardware and software but also with regard to human expertise. During appraisal
discussions were held with Klaipeda City Council and KSWSE concerning actions to be included in the
proposed Project to implement automated accounting systems linked to various Management Information
Systems (MIS) components.
4.12          A comprehensive set revaluation should be carried out in the next three years in order
to provide an acceptable estimate of KSWSE's assets based on current replacement costs and an
assessment of their physical condition, in order to make proper provisions in light of inflation. Given
that a proper asset revaluation is an expensive exercise, warranted only with an intent to privatize
KSWSE's assets, immediate asset revaluation is not required; KSWSE's priorities are to sustain a positive
and adequate cash flow. An interim and less expensive solution to establishing proper depreciation
charges is for KSWSE, with legal authority, to revaluate its assets based on a limited (and less costly)
physical inventory (to assess replacement value) and thus adjusting, as necessary, the past inflation
indexed revaluation approach.
E. Future Financial Performance
4.13          Projections of KSWSE's financial performance assume that KSWSE would adjust to
annual water tariffs equivalent to combined (water and wastewater) charges equivalent to 3 percent of
average household income. Water production and water sales are projected to remain approximately
constant throughout the 1994 - 2003 period, ranging from 28.2 - 29.2 million m3 annually. The proposed
tariff adjustments are presented in table 4.1 below. During negotiations, the KSWSE commited itself to
preparing a tariff study by January 1, 1996. It is expected that long-term tariff rates would be agreed
upon during the mid-term review, after completion of the tariff study. An advance has been requested



- 29 -
from the PPF to enable the initiation of the tariff study. The KSWSE agreed to produce total revenues
equivalent to not less than the sum of its; (i) total operating expenses; (ii) debt service requirements; and
(iii) provision for non-cash items, including maintenance and replacement costs.
Table 4.1 - Expected Tariff Increases (real)
Water Supply         Sewerage
Domestic &         Domestic &
Industrial         Industrial
ANNUAL INCREASES (pa)
1995                        20%                19%
1996                        20%                22%
1997                        26%                24%
4.14          When the proposed metering program  is completed and appropriate bills sent out
reflecting actual consumption, revenues would increase. Interest expense as a percentage of revenue
increases from approximately 4 percent in 1996 to 16 percent in the year 2002. Depreciation expense is
assumed to increase significantly as construction in progress is capitalized; clearly this is an interim
measure pending the outcome of the fixed assets registration and revaluation exercise which would
provide a reliable basis for calculating total assets. Despite these charges, the proposed tariff increases
will allow KSWSE to service debt adequately and maintain a debt service ratio equal to or exceeding 2.0
over the 1994 - 2002 period.
4.15          The projections indicate that KSWSE's financial position could gradually improve so that
by 1997, KSWSE would be able to contribute funds from internal sources to cover the local costs of
capital expenditures incurred and debt service. Accumulated surplus funds would be allocated to a
reserve for the Phase II investment period to be initiated in year 2000. The current ratio would be
maintained well above adequate levels largely due to balances in the Special Account. Cash balances are
expected to accumulate during the latter project years which would be required to support KSWSE's
contribution to the capital cost of possible new operations. The receivables position which has historically
been high, peaking at 3.5 months of billings in 1992, is projected to remain under 2 month's billing
throughout operations, with implementation of the MIS. A summary of the projected financial
performance is presented in Table 10, Annex 1. Detailed financial projections can be found in Appendix
2 of Annex 1.
F. Tariff Affordability
4.16          Current combined tariffs correspond to LT 0.43/m3 for both domestic and industrial
customers, which represents approximately 2 percent of the monthly average household income. Given
the estimated real tariff increase of approximately 135 percent over a period of five years and a real
income growth, the water services tariffs would correspond to an average of less than 3 percent of the



- 30 -
average household income. This is higher than today's level, but within the range of acceptability by Bank
standards 2
4.17           It should be noted that households in Lithuania often have a number of non-cash benefits
and undeclared income that are not reflected in the income level used in our affordability calculation
Assumptions underlying the affordability estimates are presented in Annexes 6a and 6b.
G. Financial Rate of Return
4.18           The viability of the project is driven by a selected combined tariff level representing 3
percent of average household income, which is sufficient to allow KSWSE to generate a cash flow
sufficient enough to service debt and to provide proper provisions for planned maintenance, bad and
doubtful debts, replace cost depreciation and provide for future investment needs. The Project is not
consequently driven by a financial rate of return (FRR). Nonetheless, cash flow generation must be
sufficient enough to generate a FRR that exceeds the average weighted cost of capital to KSWSE.
4.19   The FRR was calculated by the incremental costs and benefit streams to the capital investment.
The tangible, financial benefits comprise the higher tariff levels justified by the capital expenditure
program as well as the operations and maintenance cost efficiencies (reductions) established with the
investment program. The proposed investment on the water supply and sewerage systems of Klaipeda has
a combined financial internal rate of return (FRR) of 10.1 percent which indicates that the project is
financially viable3. The achieved FRR on the investment is largely a result of the selected tariff scenario
(justified by the investment) which is ensuring not only the recovery of operating and maintenance costs
and capital costs but also creates surplus financing for unforeseen costs and/or lower than expected
collection of revenues. Results from performed sensitivity tests are summarized in Table 12, Annex 1.
2      Three percent of average household income or five percent of the average income of the thirtieth percentile of total
income distribution.
3      These rates well exceed 3.3 percent, the weighed average cost of borrowing for the utility, reflecting the 66
percent grant element in the project investment.



V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1          Supply Improvement and Environmental Enhancement. The proposed Project would
provide benefits to the residents of Klaipeda and its surrounding region by improving water and
wastewater services and strengthening environmental capacities. These benefits would include
improvements to maintain a high quality and more reliable drinking water supply, reduced wastewater
discharges to the Baltic Sea, reduced wastewater pollution of groundwater and the surface waters of the
northern section of the Kursiu Lagoon and the beaches north of Klaipeda, which would reduce health
risks and frequency of beach closures, improve aesthetic conditions and increase recreational and tourism
opportunities in the area.
5.2          The proposed Project would also support the commitments of the GOL, as a party to the
HELCOM, to fulfill the recommendations of the JCP by reducing land-based pollution of the Baltic Sea
from a priority "hot spot" and taking action to effectively manage its coastal zone and coastal wetlands.
The measures included in the Project would reduce the current BOD emissions from 9.2 ton/day to
1.4 ton/day.
5.3          Employment Impact and Human Skills Improvements. The proposed Project would also
provide for direct short-term employment benefits for Lithuanian technical experts, skilled workers and
laborers during the construction period for improvements to be supported under the Project. At the
technical level, the proposed component would provide opportunities for Lithuanian experts to gain direct
practical experience in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of the modem water and
wastewater system.
5.4          If the City Council of Klaipeda, with the agreement of the MOEP and KSWSE, decides
to test the use of a competitively selected contractor for provision of operation and maintenance aspects
of water and wastewater services, the proposed Project would provide for a demonstration of this
approach under Lithuanian conditions. In this case, the proposed project would provide "lessons learned"
concerning the selection of a contractor, evaluation of contractor performance and assessment of potential
benefits to system users which may be achieved under such an arrangement. It would also allow MOEP,
other ministries and concerned local governments to see, on a demonstration basis, what types of
reductions in the work force of the utility would be required to make such an arrangement profitable.
5.5          It is expected that organizational restructuring, technical assistance and investment would
strengthen KSWSE's managerial efficiency, financial viability, service quality and capacity to plan and
implement investments. This should eventually result in cost containment and well structured tariffs.
Moreover, the concept of managerial accountability would be introduced to local industrial and domestic
consumers. Consumers would potentially benefit from the efficiency gains generated by the restructuring
process in terms of better water and wastewater services.
5.6          Financial Efficiency. A feature of the proposed Project would be activities to support the
transformation of the KSWSE into an autonomous water and wastewater utility to meet the long-term
water and wastewater service needs of Klaipeda more cost effectively. A major benefit would come from
institutional strengthening and human resources development activities, undertaken through both "twinning
arrangements" and "hands-on" experience in developing new skills required for administrative, financial,
technical and environmental aspects of water and wastewater utility operation. Implementation of the



- 32 -
proposed Project would also provide for real cost data for investment activities in the water and
wastewater area which would be of significant importance in development of reliable cost-estimates for
other proposed projects to be implemented in the post-Soviet period in Lithuania.
5.7    The combined internal rate of return of the WWIC of the Project is 10.1 percent, using the
projected tariff and corresponding revenue as a best proxy of the benefits attributable to the incremental
investments.
5.8          Demonstration Activities. The EMC would support a series of demonstration activities to
prevent future adverse environmental impacts through coastal zone management and tourism development
planning. It would also support the development of protected areas at Kursiu Lagoon and Nemunas Delta
so they could be more effectively accessed and enjoyed by Lithuanian and foreign visitors. In addition,
the Kursiu Lagoon case study of the economic evaluation of protected areas which was planned to be
cooperatively prepared by the MOEP, WWF and the Bank would provide important information
concerning the economic importance of providing proper management and access to these areas. This
study would review both direct and indirect revenues from local and international tourism and assess their
benefit to the local economy; it would also assess measures which could be taken to access a portion of
the receipts to finance environmental management activities.
5.9          Community Participation. The community participation emphasis in the environmental
management component would provide local governmental, nongovernmental organizations and individual
citizens the opportunity to directly participate in environmental protection and natural resources
management activities. These actions, especially the management plans for Kursiu Lagoon and Nemunas
Delta, would be prepared and implemented with input from locally based community organizations and
seek to provide local residents an opportunity to directly benefit economically from these interventions.
The proposed activities would serve to better manage natural values for the aesthetic and economic
interests of the local community. The local community is to be integrated into decision making processes
through the introduction of ICZM and the pilot projects would serve as models of how to balance nature
conservation with sustainable economic development (eco-tourism, reed harvesting, fishing etc.).
5.10         Replication of EMC Activities. These processes would provide both governmental and
nongovernmental organizations with an important learning experience which could be replicated elsewhere
in Lithuania and the Baltic region. In addition to the strictly local environmental benefits, the Project
would have regional benefits for the Baltic Sea and would benefit global biodiversity through the
conservation of some of the least spoiled areas of the eastern Baltic Sea coastline and support the
protection of critical habitat for native and migratory bird species.
B: Project Risks
5.11         Slippage. The proposed Project faces a number of political and technical risks due to the
fact that it is the initial project of this type in Lithuania. With regard to the Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component, there is a risk that the Project implementation could be delayed due to the
limited experience of the MOEP and the KSWSE in these types of activities. There is also a risk that,
given the very limited experience with actual costs for implementation of water and wastewater
improvements in post-Soviet Lithuania, the volatility of local price changes, and previous lack of
construction activities to international standards in this sector, construction costs may be underestimated.
In order to minimize these risks, the Project provides establishment of a strong PIU, the adoption of



- 33 -
conservative approaches to cost estimation combined with the use of appropriate physical and price
contingencies, and for significant supervision by staff from Bank headquarters and the regional office.
5.12          On the basis of previous Bank experience in Eastern Europe, there is also a risk that the
GOL and cooperating local governments may have problems with the timely provision of local currency
support and that the availability of adequately qualified personnel for Project management positions may
be constrained by government imposed limits on salaries paid to civil servants. It should be noted,
however, that these constraints were overcome by the Borrower and the Bank being closely engaged in
Project supervision and quickly taking actions to address these types of implementation problems as they
occurred.
5.13          Institutional and Financial. On the institutional and financial side the main risks concern:
(a) the political commitment of the Klaipeda City Council to support the transformation of KSWSE into
an independently managed water and wastewater utility; (b) political or macro-economic factors which
may interfere with the commitment of the Klaipeda City Council to authorize the KSWSE to raise tariffs
sufficiently for fullest recovery and debt service; and (c) continued problems with the capacity of KSWSE
to effectively collect water bills.
5.14          These risks would be reduced by carefully monitoring the requirements for tariff increases
and providing significant institutional development support to the utility to improve its financial
management, billing and collection practices. The acceptability and the ability of maintaining high and
increasing tariff levels should also be considered. Provisions to ensure that the authorities take the
necessary actions to increase tariffs and improve efficiency are included in the Action Plan and the Project
Implementation Plan of the implementation schedule. It is expected that the Action Plan, with a plan for
tariff increases, would be formally endorsed by the City Council, to ensure that the necessary tariff
increases would be realized.
5.15          Technology. The technology of the proposed Project is standard and involves no unusual
risks. The main risk is the utility's financial and institutional capability to carry out the proposed Project,
as it would require substantial strengthening of its ability to carry out an investment program in general.
Experience with other municipal water and wastewater authorities in transitional economies demonstrates
that close Project supervision and adequate technical assistance mitigate these risks.
5. 16         The principal risks for the Environmental Management Component of the Project concern:
(a) difficulties in coordination of activities between various national, local, nongovernmental and
consultant organizations; (b) resistance from local authorities and residents to proposed land use control
measures to be included in the integrated coastal zone management, tourism development and protected
areas management plans; and (c) unanticipated problems associated with the complex issues of restitution
of lands confiscated by the State during the Soviet period to their pre-1940 owners.
5.17          Coordination issues can be effectively addressed by the establishment of implementation
teams for each of the activities with the support of the Project Coordinator and various Activity
Coordinators, complemented by close Bank supervision. Resistance to implementation due to land use
constraints and conflicts with pre-1940 land owners can only be addressed by having the direct
participation of these parties, as proposed in the planning and implementation of these activities. It should
be noted that the demonstration activities by their very nature are intended to test the application of these
approaches in the Lithuanian context and to provide lessons which can be transferred elsewhere within
the country and the Baltic Sea region.






VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1          The following agreements were reached during loan negotiations:
(a)   It was agreed that the Project would be carried out according to an implementation
schedule and performance indicators agreed with the Bank. This schedule the PIP and the
Action Plan for the WWIC (para 2.7);
(b)    The terms and conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special Account for
the Project were set forth; (para. 2.28);
(c)    The KSWSE ensured that it shall seek prior approval of the Bank to any change in the
administration, management or the execution of the operation and maintenance aspects
of water and wastewater services between MOK, KSWSE and a third party (par. . 4.3);
(d)    The KSWSE agreed to produce total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its;
(i) total operating expenses, (ii) debt service requirements; and (iii) provision for non-
cash items, including maintenance and replacement costs (para 4.13); and
(e)    The KSWSE committed itself to preparing a tariff study by January 1, 1996 and that
following completion of the tariff study, long-term tariff rates would be adjusted
according to an agreed timetable (para. 4.13).
6.2          In addition, agreements on the following standard Bank requirements were obtained from
the Borrower and the KSWSE:
(a)    The use of the World Bank's Guidelines on procurement and use of consuh 'nts (para.
2.20);
(b)    Annual audits of financial accounts and Special Accounts, and financial reporting to the
Bank (para. 3.16); and
(c)    Periodical reporting and preparation of a Project Completion report according to Bank
Guidelines (para. 3.17).
B. Conditions of Effectiveness
6.3          Conditions of effectiveness would include:
(a)    KSWSE would have entered into a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with a water and
wastewater utility for the twinning arrangement (2. 10);
(b)    Submission of satisfactory evidence that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the grants from Sweden and Finland have been fulfilled (para. 2.16);



- 35 -
(c)    Subsidiary loan agreements had been executed between the GOL and the KSWSE (para.
2.19); and
(d)    KSWSE would have appointed all personnel, including international consultants for the
PIU (para. 3.3).
C. Recommendation
6.4          With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US $7 million equivalent at the standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 20 years,
including five years grace period. The Borrower would be the Republic of Lithuania.



ANNEXES 1-6
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT






Annex 1.    Project Implementation Plan
Annex 2.    Action Plan
Annex 3.    Terms of Reference
3A: Twinning Arrangement
3B: Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
3C: Project Steering Committee
3D: Project Implementation Unit
Annex 4.     Water and Wastewater Improvement Component -
Enviromnental Aspects
Annex 5.    Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 6.     Review of Affordability






Annex 1
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN






Table of Contents
Annex 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I.    THE PROJECT
A.    Introduction  ....................  1
B.    Project Scope and Objectives .................... I
C.    Project Description .................... 1
D.    Project Costs .................... 9
E.    Financing Plan ....................  13
II.   IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.    Organizations Responsible for the Project
and Interagency Coordination  .........     ....................... 14
B.    Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies ....     ........... 14
C.    Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies ......................... 15
D.    Role of the World Bank during Supervision  ........................ 18
III.   IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A. Time-Bound Schedule .21
B.    Procurement Arrangements and Schedule .......................... 21
C.    Disbursements .............................. 24
D.    Finance .............................. 27
E.    Project Risks .............................. 34
F.    Loan Covenants for Implementation  .............................  35
IV.   MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A.    Actions to Monitor Development Objectives .36
B. Project Indicators .36
LIST OF CHARTS
Chart 1:     Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (Project Overview)
Chart 2:     Project Implementation Responsibilities
Chart 3:     Supervision Plan



LIST OF TABLES
Table la:           Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Table lb:           Water and Wastewater Improvement Component: Detailed Presentation of
Project Costs, Procurement and Financing
Table 2:            Financing Plan by Year
Table 3:            Financing Plan by Financer
Table 4:            Procurement Arrangements
Table 5:            Summary of Procurement Packages
Table 6:            Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
Table 7:            Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 8:            Implementation Schedule
Table 9:            KSWSE's Financial Performance
Table 10:           Tariff Increases (real)
Table 11:           KSWSE Projected Financial Performance 1994-1998
Table 12:           Selected Sensitivity Tests
LIST OF APPENDICES
Appendix 1          Milestones in Project Implementation
Appendix 2          Financial Projections



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
1.            This Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prepared during appraisal and will be agreed
with the borrower in accordance with procedures set out in the OP/BP/GB 10.00'. The complete project
design is presented as an overview in Chart 1.
B. Project Scope and Objectives
2.            The Klaipeda Environment Project (the Project), which would be the first internationally
funded environmental investment project in Lithuania, would have the following main objectives:
*      reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater into the Baltic Sea;
*      restore and enhance the surface and groundwater quality in Klaipeda, Kursiu Lagoon and
adjacent recreational beaches on the Baltic Sea;
*      improve quality, reliability and cost efficiency of water supply and sanitation services in
Klaipeda;
*      improve the operational efficiency and management system in the Klaipeda State Water
Supply Enterprise (KSWSE); and
-      promote environmentally sustainable management and development of Kursiu Lagoon and
adjacent coastal areas.
C. Project Description
3.            The proposed Project will be developed as an environmental management project for the
coastal area of Lithuania. The main components of the Project are:
*      rehabilitation, upgrading and expansion of the Klaipeda water and wastewater system,
including equipment and works, engineering services, measures to reduce water demand
and actions to control industrial discharges;
OPR issued new procedures on September 17, 1993 requiring that an Implementation Plan be prepared and included
in the Staff Appraisal Report. These procedures will be incorporated and issued in the OP/BP/GB 10.00, 'Investment
Lending: Identification to Board Approval."



ANNEX I
Page 2
*      training to support institutional strengthening to assist in establishing an autonomous and
financially independent water and wastewater utility in Klaipeda. This would include
twinning arrangements that incorporate consultancy and advisory services, training,
equipment and software;
*      technical and financial support for the development and implementation of a management
plan for Kursiu Lagoon and adjacent coastal and protected areas, including equipment and
small scale works, consultancy and advisory services; and
*      support for the development of a management plan for recreational and nature-based
tourism in the Klaipeda region, including equipment and small scale works, consultant
and advisory services.
4.             Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC)2. The component would
address the following water and wastewater system improvements in Klaipeda:
*      Water Supply and Distribution
(a)    rehabilitation of well fields I and 2 to improve the level of supply security;
(b)    extension of the supply network to cover areas now supplied by shallow wells;
(c)    leakage detection equipment and limited rehabilitation of leaking parts of the
network and introduction of water metering to promote water conservation;
(d)    water treatment analysis and study well field 3 to examine least-cost solutions to
improve the quality of water provided to residents; and
(e)    rehabilitation of well field 3 to improve water quality and increase supply
security.
*      Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment
(a)    extension of sewerage network to cover areas now served by septic tanks;
(b)    rehabilitation of the terminal pumping station and the terminal main to the
treatment works to ensure continuous treatment of current and future wastewater
flows;
(c)    completion of the construction works currently under way at the new treatment
plant and supply and installation of electrical and mechanical equipment to meet
HELCOM standards; and
(d)    rehabilitation of sewer systems and equipment to locate system leakages.
*      Consulting Services for
(a)    technical assistance in Project implementation for coordination and construction
supervision of above works;
2   Detailed information concerning the WWIC is available in "Klaipeda Environment Project - Feasibility Study" prepared
by RUST VA Projects, Soil and Water, Ltd. and the Baltic Consulting Group for KSWWE.



ANNEX I
Page 3
(b)   technical assistance in  institutional development for strengthening  the
organizational arrangements through a twinning arrangement. The main objective
of this sub-component is to improve the KSWSE's overall performance through
changes in operational and financial management in accordance with the Action
Plan. The twinning partner would support and assist KSWSE in implementing the
Plan with regard to institutional strengthening and human resources development
for the first two years of the Project implementation period. Areas of assistance
include support for:
(i)   implementing a system rehabilitation and optimization program;
(ii)   developing and initiating implementation of a consumer interaction
program; and
(iii)  implementing the proposed recording and information system.
5.           The amount of wastewater pumped to the treatment plant is on average 82,000 m3/day,
including infiltration of groundwater. It is estimated that approximately 2,200 m3/day of wastewater
originating in Klaipeda city and an additional 2,000 m3/day (expected to increase to 10,000 m3/d) from
the town of Gargzdai, are discharged directly to the Kursiu Lagoon.
6.           The proposed Project would reduce the total BOD emission from Klaipeda by about
85 percent, or 2,800 tons/year. When the new wastewater treatment plant, currently under construction,
has been completed, additional wastewater discharges not currently included under the Project will be able
to be conveyed and treated without increasing the size of the plant. When these are included, the BOD
reduction will rise to 3,000 tons/year.
7.           Environmental Management Component (EMC). The Ministry of Environmental
Protection (MOEP) and local authorities reviewed and endorsed a program of environmental management
activities to be undertaken in the Klaipeda region to complement the proposed improvements in the
municipal water and wastewater system. The component would include activities to address environmental
management issues in the greater Klaipeda region. It is anticipated that the component would provide a
structured and well managed framework for the effective use of grants for environmental activities from
the European Union, bilateral donors and a variety of private foundations. Several of the activities
proposed for inclusion under the component have been identified by MOEP for implementation by non-
governmental organizations working in close cooperation with local experts and residents.
8.           Compared to the other countries around the Baltic, Lithuania has a short coastline, only
99 km long. The quality of that coast in terms of natural values is high, however, with white sandy
beaches and dunes, crowned by 60 m high mobile dunes of the Kursiu Spit, separating the shallow,
freshwater Kursiu Lagoon from the sea. To conserve these resources, the GOL plans to establish the
Kursiu Lagoon Biosphere Reserve, consisting of the already protected Kursiu Spit National Park and
Nemunas Delta Regional Park, together with the water areas off the Spit and the Kursiu Lagoon between
the two land areas. While no specific regulations exist in Lithuania for protection of the shore, under new
national land use procedures a number of activities are not allowed without special permission in a 3-7
km wide zone in the Lithuanian coastal area. The component would consist of the following activities:



ANNEX I
Page 4
Activity No. 1. Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan and Priority Actions.
An integrated coastal zone management (ICZM) plan would be developed for the entire
Lithuanian coastal area from the Latvian-Lithuanian border in the north to the Lithuanian-
Russian border in the south. The objective of this activity would be to prepare an ICZM
plan in the context of regional planning and support MOEP and local government efforts
for environmentally sound development of the region. It would support small scale
priority activities which have been identified during the planning process at a limited
number of locations. Development of the ICZM plan would include the preparation of
an environmental review consistent with the requirements of applicable GOL procedures
and the provisions of the Bank's Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment." Preparation of this study would be coordinated closely with the proposed
Eco-Tourism Priority Action Program.
The ICZM would be prepared by an interdisciplinary team of Lithuanian and
international experts and would be designed to complement the ICZM plan being
developed with support from the Liepaja Environment Project in Latvia for the area from
the Lithuanian-Latvian border in the south to Kolka Point in the north. Key issues to be
examined in the ICZM would be the various options for future development and
conservation of coastal resources, evaluation of environmental impacts from existing
facilities, assessment of potential impacts from proposed facilities, special requirements
for national security, tourism and protected areas management. The process used for the
development of the ICZM would place major emphasis on an interactive approach to
actively involve national, municipal and local governments; industrial and tourist
industries; nongovernmental organizations and private land holders. The findings and
recommendations of the ICZM plan would be presented in the form of a planning study
which would be fully complementary to other physical/spatial planning activities
undertaken in these areas by traditional land use planning authorities.
Priority actions would include support for governmental and nongovernmental
organizations to effectively undertake actions to implement various small-scale activities
associated with implementation of the ICZM plan once it has been reviewed and
approved by Lithuanian authorities. These activities may include, but not be limited to,
the following: preparation of area specific planning studies; field level surveys to delimit
and post areas which have been designated for specific types of uses; construction of
fences and other types of barriers to close off areas which may have restricted uses;
development of management agreements and incentives for parties which would have
restrictions placed on the use of their land; and outreach and information programs for
citizens to promote the implementation of the plan.
*     Activity No. 2. Eco-Tourism Priority Action Program.
The proposed activity would support implementation, under the supervision of the STD
and with the cooperation of local governments, of selected priority items to support the
development of eco-tourism in the Klaipeda region and adjacent coastal areas of
Lithuania. These activities would be based on the recommendations of the study prepared
by Blukon and would emphasize actions related to supporting eco-tourism as part of a



ANNEX I
Page 5
tourism diversification strategy. Activities would include supplemental investigations
where required, training of personnel for tourism functions, establishment of tourist
information centers, production of tourist information, posting of multilingual road signs
and interpretive information boards, improved access roads and paths, and other required
small scale facilities. The planning and implementation of this program would be
coordinated with preparation of the integrated coastal zone management plan.
The program would also include outreach programs for education of the Lithuanian
public about the opportunities and benefits of this new type of tourism, review how they
might benefit directly or indirectly, and stress the need for conservation of protected
areas, historical structures and traditional landscapes. The program would be
implemented with an active public participation process to assure that the views of local
governments, public and private land holders, and other concerned parties are factored
effectively into the process.
It is assumed that facilities for tourists, other than limited facilities for basic lodging or
camping in protected areas, would be undertaken by the private sector. As per the
recommendations of the Blukon study and a related study undertaken by German experts
in the adjoining coastal area of Latvia, emphasis would be given to the development of
farm and rural settlement based tourism to complement the existing large scale beach
tourism facilities which have been developed in Klaipeda and Palanga.
Activity No. 3. Managemenit Plan and Program for Netnunas Delta Regional Park.
The proposed activity would support the development and implementation of a
management plan for the Nemunas Delta Regional Park in the east central portion of the
Kursiu Lagoon, which covers an area of 24,000 ha of which 2,000 ha are on the Kursiu
Lagoon. The Park provides major year-round habitat for a variety of plant and animal
species and is a critical habitat for migratory birds on the East African-European-Arctic
flyway. The Regional Park is a critical part of a system of coastal wildlife habitats which
includes Lake Pape in Latvia and Matsalu Bay in Estonia.
The objective of the activity would be to develop and implement a community based,
environmental management plan for the Nemunas Delta Regional Park, which has been
recently established and is administered by the local government on behalf of MOEP.
Given the mixture of land uses in this heavily agricultural area, it would be necessary to
have an active public participation program to ensure widespread support for this activity.
The Regional Park combines areas which are natural delta with those operated as
artificially drained "polders" established over the last several hundred years through an
elaborate scheme of dikes and pumping stations. Within this wetland, the GOL is in the
process of implementing the following types of controls: (a) restricting intense highly
mechanized agriculture, including limits on types of land preparation, amounts of
fertilization, use of pesticides; (b) not allowing the extraction of natural resources, such
as oil, peat, sand, clay, gravel, etc.; and (c) placing limits on infrastructure developments
and having a procedure strictly controlled by the authorities. In this case, special permits
must be granted for each such construction; for example, minor roads may be built in the
area, and power or telephone cables may be extended through the area.



ANNEX I
Page 6
The proposed activity would include a survey and posting of the protected area,
development of a zoning plan for management of important areas outside the protected
zone, preparation of a hydrological management plan, upgrading of access roads and
establishment of parking facilities, posting of traffic and multilingual information signs,
development of viewing platforms and access points to the delta, and preparation of a
community participation program to ensure that the local population benefits from the
local and foreign visitors to the area. This activity would be coordinated with on-going
studies being supported by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
Activity No. 4. Kursiu Lagoon Management Plan - Supportfor Implementation of Priority
Activities.
The proposed activity would implement selected priority activities identified for the
Lithuanian portion of the Kursiu Lagoon management plan which is currently under
preparation by a joint Lithuanian, Russian and WWF team with support from the EU
LIFE Program and the Government of Sweden. This activity, which is being conducted
in the context of the Baltic Sea Environment Program, would provide a management
framework for the region and identify a series of priority actions related to policy, small
scale investment and management of this regionally significant natural resource. It should
be noted that WWF is currently seeking funds to support a more limited set of actions
in the much less intensely used southern portion of the Kursiu Lagoon which is under the
administration of the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia.
The Kursiu Lagoon has been identified as a priority "hot spot" in the JCP due to its
important role as a natural trap and treatment facility for nutrients from land based
sources which would otherwise be discharged into the Baltic Sea; its provision of critical
habitat for a wide range of resident and migratory wildlife; its role as a major spawning
ground for a variety of fishery resources; and its potential for further development of a
wide range of recreational uses. While control of pollution discharged into the lagoon can
only be addressed on an incremental basis by phased improvements to control point and
non-point sources of pollution from the Nemunas River basin and local sources
surrounding the lagoon itself such as Klaipeda, significant opportunities exist to take
preventive and curative actions to protect and effectively manage this complex area.
Actions to be considered include: establishment of an effective land use management
system, actions to control unnecessary conversion of wetland and shoreline areas,
establishment of clear and implementable boundaries for nature reserves and other types
of protected areas, and undertaking effective public participation programs to generate
a widespread base of support for management activities.
It is anticipated that the activities that will be proposed in the management plan would
focus on improvements to make selected sites more readily accessible for domestic and
foreign visitors, such as upgrading of access roads and establishment of parking facilities,
posting of traffic and multilingual information signs, development of viewing platforms,
and development of an effective community participation program to assure that the local
population benefits from the local and foreign visitors to the area.



Chart 1                                             LITHUANIA - KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Part A - Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
in US $ Million
Local       Loan       Grant      Total                           Element                                              Benefits
Contribution
7.0       World    Sweden:        21.6    Water:                                                  Would result in significant improvements in water
Bank      5.0                  Rehabilitation of Well Fields 1 & 2   0.92              conservation and improve quality of water provided
7.0     Finland:                                                                     to residents. Extension of network would result in
2.0                 Service extension                     0.35              improved water services to beneficiaries.
EU-PHARE:                           .                                         Rehabilitation of well field 3 would improve water
0.6                  Leakage detection, water             0.68              quality parameters, particularly color, a result of
conservation
raw water supply,
Water treatment alternative analysis
and pifot study
(Well Field 3)                        1.88      3.83
Wastewater:                                             Would support completion of major treatment plant
Service extension                    0.53               for which civil works are in advanced state.
Extension and rehabilitation of the network would
Sewer rehabilitation                  0.79              result in reduction of BOD discharge to the Baltic
Rehabilitation of terminal main and   1.07              Sea by 2,800 tons/yr. In addition, project would
pump station.                                           provide a facility for training of personnel from
Kaunas, Vilnius and other locations.
Sludge dewatering                    0.60
Partial completion of WWTP           1 2.67    15.66
Water and Wastewater Subtotal                  19.49
Engineering Services and                                Project would provide opportunity for Lithuanian
Construction Supervision              0.74              experts to develop new skills in project planning,
implementation and construction supervision.
Project would provide model training facility for
Institutional Strengthening and                         cities in Lithuania. A twinning arrangement would
Human Resources Development           1.36      2.10   be used to strengthen institutional capacity.
BASE COST                               17.34
Physical contingencies                          1.73   The project would provide accurate cost data for
both physical and price contingencies for projects
implemented in Lithuania and thus support
financial, economic and technical planning of
Price contingencies                             2.53   similar projects in the future.
COST FOR COMPONENT A                           21.60
_ _ _ _ _ _  ____  ______  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~ ~~            ~   ~~ I__ _ _ _ _                                  -.Jl



Chart 1                                                               LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Part B. Environmental Management Component
in US $ Million
Local        Loan         Grant       Total                           Elernent                                            Benefits
Contributior,
Provision of                 To be         1.5    Activity No. 1: Integrated Coastal Zone                  Would demonstrate use of integrated coastal
land,                      determineci            Management Plan and Priority Actions       0.40           zone management in the context of regional
personnel                    (some                                                                          planning and development. The study area
costs and                   potential                                                                       would include the coastal zone from the
contributions             donors have                                                                       Latvian-Lithuanian border to the Lithuanian-
in kind.                      been                                                                          Russian border.
identifiedl
Planning              Activity No. 2: Eco-Tourisrn Priority Action             Would support implementation of selected
activities for         Program                                    0.40           priority actions identified in the Blukon study on
the Kursiu                                                                     tourism development in the greater Klaipeda
Lagoon                                                                        region. Activities would emphasize actions
currently                                                                      related to supporting eco-tourism as part of a
being                                                                         tourism diversification strategy.
supported by            Activity No. 3: Management Plan and                      The objective of the activity would be to
EU-LIFE,              Program for Nemunas Delta Regional Park    0.30          develop and impiement a community based
Sweden and                                                                       environmental management plan for the
World Wide                                                                       Nemunas Delta Regional Park, a site of national
Fund for                                                                       and regional ecological significance. The
Nature                                                                        activity would include development of a
mnanagement plan and implementation of
selected improvements to make the site more
readily accessible for domestic and foreign
visitors.
Activity No. 4: Kursiu Lagoon                            The objective of the activity would be to
Management Plan - Support for              0.40          implement selected priority activities which
Implementation of Priority Activities                    would be identified under the Kursiu Lagoon
management plan currently under preparation
by a joint Lithuanian and World Wide Fund for
Nature team. These activities are anticipated to
focus on improvements to make selected sites
more readily accessible for domestic and
foreign visitors.
COST FOR COMPONENT B                              1.50
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              23.10
X_
Xon



ANNEX I
Page 9
D. Project Costs
9.            The total cost of the Klaipeda Environrment Project is estimated at about US $23.10
million or LT 92.40 million equivalent, including contingencies.
10.           The cost for the WWIC is estimated at about US $21.60 million or LT 86.40 million
equivalent, including contingencies. The total base cost is estimated at US $17.34 million. Physical
contingencies are estimated at US $1.73 million. Price contingencies between the appraisal in June 1994
and March 1999 would amount to approximately US $2.53 million or 13 percent of base cost plus
physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent 25 percent of the base cost. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at approximately US $10.46 million including contingencies, or about 48 percent
of the total cost of the WWIC.
11.           The cost for the EMC is estimated at about US $1.50 million or LT 6.0 million
equivalent.
12.           The estimated cost distribution among Project components is shown in Tables la and lb
below.
13.           Bases of Cost Estimates for the WWIC. Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a)    Base Costs. Cost estimates are based on: preliminary estimates prepared by the
consultants for the WWIC following review by the Bank. Cost estimates for the EMC
have been jointly developed by the MOEP, WWF and the Bank on the basis of previous
experience with similar activities;
(b)    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency for unforeseen physical
variations (US $1.73 million) equivalent to 10 percent of the base. Price contingencies
on base costs and physical contingencies are estimated at about US $2.62 million,
equivalent to 13 percent of base costs and physical contingencies, and reflect Bank
estimates of local and international price increases3. In estimating the price contingencies,
it is assumed that any differentials between domestic and international inflation rates
would be offset by appropriate adjustments in exchange rates; and
(c)    Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about
US $10.46 million including contingencies, or 48 percent of total costs of the WWIC.
3      Foreign inflation rates: 3.3% in 1995 and 2.5% thereafter: percent per year for the life of the Project. Local inflation
rates: 15 percent in FY95; 6 percent in FY96; 5 percent in FY97; 5 percent in FY98; and 5 percent in FY99.



ANNEX I
Page 10
Table la:   PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT,
Litas Million" --   --  US S Million ---
Local Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign    Total
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
Project Implementation Unit                     0.76     1.48     2.24     0.19     0.37    0.56
Water Supply and Distribution
Rehabilitation of Well Fields 1&2                1.00    2.00     3.00     0.25     0.50    0.75
Well Field 3. Analysis and Tests of Alt. Treatment  0.20  0.80    1.00     0.05    0.20     0.25
Rehabilitation of Well Field 3                                             0.71     0.47     1.18
Service Extension                               0.92     0.12     1.04     0.23    0.03     0.26
Water Conservation                              0.20     1.00     1.20     0.05    0.25     0.30
Rehabilitation and Leakage Program              0.68     0.32     1.00     0.17    0.08     0.25
Sub Tolal    3.00     4.24    7.24     1.46     1.53     2.99
Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment
Completion of Wastewater Treatment Plant       20.20    20.60    40.80     5.05     5.15    10.20
Sludge Dewatering Equipment                     0.24     1.88     2.12     0.06     0.47    0.53
Service Extension                                1.52    0.00     1.52     0.38             0.38
Sewer Rehabilitation                             1.40    1.12     2.52     0.35     0.28    0.63
Rehabilitation of Terminal Main & Pumping Station  1.52  1.92     3.44     0.38     0.48     0.86
Sub Total   24.88    25.52    50.40    6.22     6.38    12.60
Contract Coordination / Supervision              1.08    1.28     2.36     0.27     0.32    0.59
Technical Assistance & Training                 0.28     2.12     2.40     0.07    0.53     0.60
Base Cost for Water & Wastewater Component   32.84    36.52    69.36   8.21    9.13    17.34
Physical Contingencies                           3.28    3.64     6.92     0.82     0.91     1.73
PriceContingencies                               8.44    1.68    10.12     2.11     0.42    2.53
Total for Water& Wastewater Component          44.56    41.84    86.40    11.14    10.46    21.60
B. Environmental Management Component'*
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan                  1.60     1.60              0.40    0.40
and Priority Actions
Eco-Tourism Priority Action Program                      1.60     1.60              0.40    0.40
Management Plan and Program for                          1.20     1.20              0.30    0.30
Nemunas Delta Regional Park
Kuraiu Lagoon Management Plan-                           1.60     1.60              0.40    0.40
Support for Implementation of Priority Actions
6.00    6.00              1.50     1.50
Total for Environmental Mgmt Component                   6.00     6.00              1.50    1.50
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:   44.56    47.84    92.40    11.14    11.96    23.10
Additions may not be fully consistent due to rounding up
to the second from the third decimal
** Exchange rate USS I - LT 4 0
*** Local contributions for ths component would include
land, agreements on restrictions on land use, and services
in kind. The total arnount would be established after
completion and review by GOL of management plans to be
prepared under this component



Table I b.               WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT: DETAILED PRESENTATION OF PROJECT COSTS, PROCUREMENT AND FINANCING
Components         Procurent          1995                1996               1997               199s                19m               TOTAL               .FNANCING
L     F      T     L      F     T     L      F     T      L     F      T     L      F     T      L      F     T      %        jMoK   GoL Et3Ph  SWEDE FINLAN Extemal Fin
ftPe)..t WmAnw. onUk*       O&,       0071  0257  0328  0042  0 108   015  0039        0 0039  0039       0 0.039             0     0  019   037   0s5
Physicalcortnga n -10%                00 1   003   0 03   0 00   00 1   0 02   000 0o00 0o00 0o00 0o00   0 00   00 0   0o00   000   0 02   0 04   0 06
S.hbToIa                             008   028   038   005   012   017   004   000   004   004   000   004   000   000 0oo            021   040  0o1
PeC-tngeicei  %                     1500   200           600   250          500   270           500   250          500   260
UsS                                  001   001   002   001   001   002   001   000   0.01   001   000   001   000   000   000   005   0 1   006
TOTAL                        009   029   035   006   012   0,1a  0o05  0o    oo 0       o05   0 o06   0.00  00D 00 0 000   000   026   041   067         041  026
Water Supply
1Re~ab.ofWeiFelds1&2         ICB      0.05  010   015   010  020   030   010   020   030                                                025   050   075
Phyil Cortinen,s -10%                 0 01  0.01   0 02   0 01   0 02   0 03   0 01   0 02   0 03   000 0o00 0o00 0W00 0o00   0 0   0 03   0 05   0. 0
Sub Total                            00o   011   017   011   022   0.33   011   0,22   033   000   000   000   000   000   0 00   028   055   083
PrimeContirgencies %                15.00   200          60O   250          500   2 70         500   250           500   260
USS                                  0.01   0.00  0.01   0 02   0 01   0 03   0 03   002   0 05   00 0o   0 00   0.00  0o00 0o00   0 00   006   0 03   0 09
TOTAL                        0.06   011   018   013   023   036   014   024   0.38   000   000   000   000   000   0 00   034   058   092                092
2. Wd Fied 3. Anls sof
A ernuve TreatiwOt ard
PLoteTsts                  Oh6        0.03  0.10   0.13  0.02  010  012                                                                005   020   0.25
PhyucalConrtingan-10%                 000   001   0.01   000   001   0.01   000   000   0.00   0 00  0 00  000   000  0,00   000   001   0.02   003
SubTobl                              0.03   0.11   o.14   002   O1l   013   000   000   000   000   0.00  0o00   o.00   000  0o.0   00    0.22   029
PtnCorCtio., 1                      1500   20            6e00   250         5.00   2.70        500   250           500   260
UsS                                  0.00   o.0   00 1   0 00   00 1   0.01   0 00   000 o0.0   000 0o00 0o00 0o00 0o00 0o00   00 1   0 01   0 02
TOTAL                        0 04   0 11   0 15  0.03  0 12   0 14   0 00   0 00  0o00   0 00   0.00  0o00   0 00 0X00 0o00   09   02 3   0 29           0 29
3. Rdab0tni of Wel
Fidd3                        ICB                    000                000   0.36  021   057   035   026   061                          071   047   1 18
PhyslCortingas -10%                   000  0o00    00   0.00   000   0 00   004   002   0.0o   004   003   006   o.00   000   0 00   007   005   0.12
Sub Total                            0.00   000   0 00  000   0 00   0 00   0 40   0 23   0 63  0.39   0 29  0 67   000 o.00   0 00   o 78   0 52   1 30
Pne Contgncies 1                    15 00   2 00         6 00   2 50        5.00   2.70         5 00   2.50        5 00   2 60
usS                                  o.00   000   000   00   000   0 00   011   e0.2   013   013   0.03   016   0o    0.00  0o00   024   005   029
TOTAL                        0.00  o0o   o.00  000   0.    0.00   05 1   0 25   0 75   0 52   0 31   0 83   0 00   0 0o   0 00   102   0 56   1 59       1 59
3. Serrce Extenslon          ICB                    0.00  0 09  0 03  012   011            011   0 03         0.03                      0 23   0 03   0 26
PhysicalCofingan   -10%               oo   0o00   000   0.01    00   001   001   000   0.01   o.00  0o0   0o   0o00  0o00   000   002   000   003
SubTota                              0.00   000   000   010   003   013   012   000   0.12   0.03   o.00   0.03   000   000   0.00  025   003   029
Pnoa Cting"     %                   15.00   2.00         600   2 50         5.00   2 70         5 00  2.50         5 00   2 60
UsS                                  o.00   000   0 00   0.02   o.0   0.02   0 03   0 00   0.03   0 01   000   00 1   0o    000   0 00   0 07   0 0    0 07
TOTAL                        0.00   o.00   000   012   003   016   015   000   015   004   000   004   000   000   000   032   003   035                 035
4. WaterConservebon          ICB       002   015   0.17  0.03  010   013                                                                005   025   030
Physa Cotingroes - 10%                0 00   0 02   0 02  000   00 1   0 01   000   000   0     000   000   000   0 00   0     0 00   o.o1   0 03   0 03
SubT.al                              002   0.17   019   0.03   011   014   000   000   000   000   000   000   000   000   0 00   006   028   0.33
Pnce Congnes %                      15.00   2.00         6.00   250         5 00   2 70         500   250          5 00   2 60
UsS                                 o000   o.00   0 01  0.01  o.o1   001   000   000 0o00   0         0.0   000   0 00 0o00   000   0 1   0 01   0 02
TOTAL                        0.03   0.17   019   0.04   0.12   0,16   000   000   000   000   000   000   000   000   000   0 07   0 2a   o 35           0 35
5.Rehltallthon nnd
LeakaProgmi                  ICB       0.02  003   0.05  005   003   0.08  0.05  002   007   005   0.00  0.05                           017   0.08  0.25
Phy  lCor6nnc  - 10%                  o.00   o.00   0.01   0.01   000   00 1   0 01   000   0.01   0 01   000   0 1   o.00   0.00   o0    0 02   0 01   0 03
SubTobl                              002   003   006   o.o0  0.03   009   006   002   0.0   0.06   0o  0.06 0o00 0o00   0.00   019   006   028
Pnra Cwntngacuas  %                 15.00   2.00         6.00   2 50        5.00   270          500   2.50         5.00  2.0
USS                                  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01   o.00  0.01   002   0,00   0.02   002   0.00  0.02   0.00   0.00   000   005   000   o.o5
TOTAL                        003   003   006   007   0.03  010   007   0.02   009  0.07   o.00   007  0o00   o.o   0.00  0.24   006   033                033
BAIECOST                  0.12  0.38  0.50  029   0 46  0.75  0.62  0.43   1.05  0.43  0 26  0.69  0.00  0.00  0 00   1 46   1.53  2.99
Phc- COea -
10%               0.01   0.04  0.05  0.03  005   0.08  0.06  0.04  0.11   004   0.03  0.07                          015   0.15   0.30
5LIi                 013   0.42  0.55  032   0.51  0.83  068   047   116   0.47  0.29  0.76                            1.61   168   329
Pil  C00loarciee %                  15.00   2.00         6.00   2.50        5.00   2.70         500   250          5.00   2.00
USS                                  0.02   001  0o0    0.07   0.02   009   019   0.02   0.23   016   003   019   0.0   0.00   0.00  044   0.10   0.54
TotlWatrComgonent                     0.15  0.43  0.58  0.39  0.53  0.92  0.87  0.51   1.38  0.64  0.31   0.95  0.00  0.00  0.00  205   178   3.63
_11-viralXe



1.Cirinof  TP              N.S.F      0.90  1.78  2.66  3.12  2.71  5.63  1.03  006   1.9                   0.00               0.00  5.05   5.15 10.20
FPl  eUCwudaa-10%                    0.08   0.1   0.27  0.31   0.27  0.56   0.1   0.07   0.17  o.w   000   000   000   000   0.00  051   0.52   1.02
dSb ydm                             110.96   1 S    2.96  3.43  296  6.41   1.13   0.73  l.6   0.00   o0   0.00   Ow   0e00   0.00   S.56   5.7  1122
AiaaC_ _gmd   %                     15.00   zoo         6.00  2.50         5.00  2.70         5.00  2.50         s.w   2.90
us$                                 0.15  0.04  0.19  0.75  0.14  0.-9  0.32  0.06  0.37  0.00  00   000 0o00  0.00  0.00  1.22   0.23   1.45
TOTAL                        114   2.00   314   418  3.12   730   145  078  223   0.00  0.00   000   000   000  0.00   .77   5t9  12.67                    036      a             4.31       2       0.42
2. Shxlp ni_hg             N.8.F.     0.06  0,47  0 53              0o00                 0.00               000                      0.06   0.47   0 53
Roy   con.fIin- 10%                  0.01  0.0   0.06  0.00  0no  0.00 0o00   0 00   0.00 0o.        000 0o00   000 0o00  0.00  0 01   0.06   0.05
SA,b Td41                           0.07  0.52  0.58  0o0  000   000   0.00 0o00 0o00 0.w    0w    0.00  000 0w    0.00  0.07   0.52   0.5U
Pmm  C4dkig      %                 15.00  2.00         600  2.50          500   2.70         5.00  2.50          500   2.90
us$                                 0 01   0.01  0.02  0.00  o      0w00   000   0.00  0.00 0w00 0o00   000 0w00   000  0.    0.01   01   0 02
TOTAL                        0.08  0.53  o.9   0.00  00    0.00 0o       0w00  0 00   0.00  0.DO  0.00 0o00  0.00  0.00  0.08   0.53   0.60                                a'0                       aSS
3 Sw*eEx on                 iCB       003          0.03  014          014   0.14         0.14  0.07         007                      038   000   038
My   cirCencies - 10%                ow   0.00  oo   o.01   0.0   001   0.01   o 1  000   00o 001 o.w00  o.1   0 w00   0.0   00    004   0.w0   004
S.bTatI                             0.03   .00  0.03  0.15  0.00   015   015   000   015   0.08  000   0.08  0o00  o00    o.0   0.42   000   042
P4c.Cnrverciew %                   1500   2.00         a.00  2.50         6.00   270         s.00   260          6.00  2.00
usS                                o00    0.00  .o00  0 03  o0w   0.03   004   000   0 04  0 03  0.00  0.03   0 00  000  .o00  0 11   0.00   0.11
TOTAL                        0.04   00w   0.04  0.19  0.00  0.19   020   0.00  0.20  010   000   010   000   000  0.00  0,53   000   0.53             053
4. SewRehabliltn            ICa      0o0    020   0.25  0.13  0.03   016   0.08  0.03   011   0.09  0.02  0.11                       035   0.28  063
Pi  a Corningsnda-10%                001   002   0.03  o.o1   00o0   0.02  0.01   0.00  0.01   0.01  0.00  0.01   0.00  0.00  0W0  0,04   003   0.06
SLb Totad                          0o0    0.22  0.26  0.14   003   0.15   0.09   0.03  0.12  0.10  002   0.12   000  0.00  0 00  039   031   0.69
P4cmContinencies %                 1600   200          6.00  2.60         S.    2.70          w00   250          500   2e0
.uss                                0 01   0w0  .O01  0.03  o.0   003   002   0.00  0.03   003   000   004  0o00  0o00   o0   010   0 01   011
TOTAL                        o.06   0.22  0.29  0.17  0.03   0.21  0.11 e04   0.15  0.13  0.02   016   000   0.00  0.00  048   032  o0o                09 
5 Rehab of Ten*r  Main
&MainPo Stffbon             ICB       005  008   013  023  030  0.53  0.10  0.10  0.20                      0.00                     038   0.48   086
Physical Contranois - 10%            0 01   0 01  0.01   0.02  0.03   0  0. oo1  0.01   o 02  o.0   o.0    0 00 0o00 0w00  0         0 04   0 0s   0 09
S.b Total                           0.0   0.09  0.14  0.25  0.33  0 58   0 11  0.11   022   000   0 00   0 00   0     00   0 00   0 42   0 63   0 95
Prim Co*Wgso. %                    15.00  200          6.00  2.50         5.00  2.70          .00  2.50          500   260
is$                                0.01   000  0.01  o0.e   00D2  0.07  0.03  0.01  0.04   0.00  000   000   000 0o00   000  0.09   0.02   0.12
TOTAL                        006   009   0.15  0.31  0.35  0.66  0.14   0.12   0.26  o00   5 00 0.0     00   050   0.00  00w  1   0.5   1.07          1.00
CASECOST                  1.09  2.53  362  3.62  304  6.66   1.35  079  2.14  0.16  0.02  018   000  000  X00   622   638  1260
PtvscalCoa".- 10%                    0.11  0.25  036  0.36  0.30  0.67  014   008  021   0.02  000   0.02  0.00  000  000  062   064   1.26
S&.b-TotW             1.20  2.78  3.98  398  334   733   1.49  0.87   235  0.18  0.02  020   000  X00   000  684   702  1386
PtiicCo.4kiC   %                  15.00   2.00        600   2.0          5.00  2.70         6.00   2s0          500   260
USS                                 018  006   0 24  0.87  0.15  1.02   04 2  0.06        8 4 06 0o00 0o06   000   000  0 0   153   0 27   160
Total Sewarag
ComponenO                             138  284  4.22  4.85  3.50  8.35   190  093  2.83  0.24  002   0.26  000  0.00  0.00  837   7.29  1566
Training & Tachnical
Assistance                 N B.F      0.05  0.28  0 33  0 02  0 25  0 27                                                             0.07   0 53  0.60
Phy,aa Cr&*~  - 10%                  0 01  0.03  0 03  o.w0  0.03  0.0   o.    0 00   O.    000   0.00   0.00   000   0 00  0 00  0.01   0.06   0 06
S.h Total                           006   0.31   0.36  0.032  0.2   0.30  0o00  0.00    00  0.00  0,00   000  0.00  050   0.00 0o08 0o 58   06
POca Cont   la  %                  16.00  2.00         6.00  2.50         5.00   270          50w   260          500   200
LOSS                                0.01   0.01  0o01  0.00  0.01   0,02   000   000   0.00   000   0.00   00   0.00 o0.0   0.00  o.01   0.02  0.03
TOTAL                        0.06  0.31   0.3i   0.03  0.29  0.31   000  0.00  0.60  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  000   0.00  0.09   0 0    0.89                                      0 69              0.09
Contract
CoordinatlonlSup.rvllon    09w        005  0.06  0.12  0.10  0.07  0.17   007   012  0.19  0.05  007   012                           027   032   059
Phyaicl Conlancda - 10%               0 01  0.01   0 01   0 01  0.01  0.02  0.01  0.01  0.02  0.01   0 01   0 01   0.00   0 00  0.00  O3   0.03  0.06
Su TOW                              0.06   007   0.13  0,11  0.08  0.19   0.08  0.13  0.21   0.08  0.08   0.13  00   050   0.00  0.30   035   0.86
Pric Contnencaa %                   15.00  200         6.00  2.50          5.0   2.70         5.00  250          800   2.80
u$                                   0O1   0.00  0.01   0.02  0.00   0.03  0.02  0.01  003  0.02  0.01   0.03   0.00  0.00  0.00  007   0.02   010
TOTAL                        006  0.07  0,14  0.13  0.08   021   0.10  0.14   0.24  0.07  0.06  0.16   0W   O0    0.00  0.37   037   0.74             0.37 0,37
f      TZA4439JEC  COST               1.75  3.33  5.69  5.4   4.52  9.08  293  1.56  4.51   1.00  042   143   0.00  0.00  0.00 11.14  10.48  21.60                7    1      6     0.6        5       2       4.16
ca*elndes                             0.14  0.35  0.49  0.41  0.39  080   0.21  0.13  0.34  0.07  0.04   0,10  000  0.00  0.00  082   0.91   1 73
ToWRice Ca*gies                      023  0.08  0.31  0.98  020   1 18  0.64  011   075  026  004  030  000  000  000  211   042   253                                                                                    0     f
Total Contlngencies                   0.37  0.43  0.79  1.38  0.59  1.98   0.35  0.24  1.00  0.32  0.07  040  0.00  0.00  0.00  293   1.33  4.26
Toalt n BasCost                       1.36  3.51  4.90  4.07  3.03  I00   208   1.34  3.42  0.68  0.35  1.03  0.00  0.00  0.00  8.21   3.13 17.341



ANNEX I
Page 13
E. Financing Plan
14.             The proposed Bank loan of US $7.0 million will finance about 30 percent of Project costs.
The Bank loan will be repaid by the GOL over 20 years including 5 years of grace with repayments
calculated on an annuity basis at the Bank's standard variable rate of interest.
*       Water and  Wastesvater Improvement Component.  Grant-financing  corresponds  to
approximately 35 percent of total component costs. Parallel cofinancing would be
provided by: (a) the European Union, in the amount of ECU 500,000 (US $600,000
equivalent) for priority activities of the KSWSE, under the Environmental Element of the
European Union PHARE Program for Lithuania; (b) the Government of Finland, acting
through the Ministry of Environment, would provide up to FIM 12.0 million (US $2.0
million equivalent) to support investments in the wastewater collection and treatment
elements of the proposed Project; and (c) the Government of Sweden, acting through the
Ministry of Environment, would provide up to SEK 40.0 million (US $5.0 million
equivalent) to support investments in the wastewater collection and treatment elements of
the proposed Project. The funding is being provided by Finland and Sweden in the
context of their support for the Baltic Sea Environment Program.
Local counterpart contribution of LT 24 million or US S6.0 million equivalent will be
provided by the GOL; LT 4.00 million or US $1.0 million equivalent would be provided
by the MOK.
An advance of US $240,000 has been requested from the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) and would be used to support the establishrnent of the PIU, preparation of bidding
documents and to conduct a tariff study.
*       Environmental Management Compontetnt. This component would be financed mainly
through grants. Grant financing is expected to be provided by the European Union
through its LIFE Program and the Government of Sweden. Additional grants are being
sought from the Governments of Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, other bilateral
donors and private foundations.
15.             Tables 2 and 3 show the required financing by year and financer.
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN BY YEAR
US $ million
Bank Fiscal Year                     1995   1996   1997   1998   1999      Totad
IBRD, (loan)                         0.53    1.92   2.29   1.61   0.65     7.00
BITS. Sweden (grant)                 0.47   2.55   1.78   0.20             5.00
Ministry of Environment, Finland (grant)  0.15    1.05   0.70   0 10       2.00
EU PHARE (grant)                    0.01   0.59                            0.60
Other Donors (grants)                0.20   0.40   0 50   0 40              1.50
Government of Lithuania              0.32   2.28   2.80   0.60             6.00
Municipality of Klaipeda             0.07   0.18   0.55   0 14   0.06       1.00
TOTAL                                1.75   8.97   8.62   3 05   0.71     23.10
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN BY FINANCER
US S million
Local         Foreign          TotaW
Financers                            US S      %    U 5$       %    US S      %
IBRD (loan)                           3.56    32%    3.44    29Q%   7.00    30%
Ministrv of Environment. Sweden (grant)  0.51  5%    4.49    38%     5 00    22%
Ministry of Environment, Finland (grant)             2 ()0   17'T    2.00    9%
EU PHARE Program (grant)              0.07    1%    053      4%    0.60      3%
Other Donors (grants)                                1.50    13%     1 50    6%
Government of Lithuania               6.00   54%             0%7e    6 00    26%
Municipality of Klaipeda              1.00    9%             0 )     I 00    4%
Total                                11.14   100%    11.96   100%   23.10   100%






II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Organizations Responsible for the Project and Interagency Coordination
16.          Ministry of Environmental Protection. The MOEP is the successor organization to the
Lithuanian Environmental Protection Department. The ministry has a diverse range of responsibilities
including environmental protection, natural resources management and protected areas management. The
MOEP has adopted a decentralized approach to environmental management and has an established
network of regional environmental protection offices, including one in Klaipeda, which provide local level
support for the implementation of its policies and programs. Within the MOEP, the Economics and
Foreign Relations Department is responsible for overall coordination of external relations with the
European Union, bilateral donors and international financial institutions. The MOEP has technical units
which, in close coordination with the Economics and Foreign Relations Department, serve to implement
specific internationally supported projects and activities.
17.          Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise. The MOEP has appointed the KSWSE, on behalf
of the MOK. to undertake implementation of the WWIC. This approach is fully consistent with the policy
of the MOEP to support the decentralization of environmental management responsibilities to local
municipalities and to have those parties which would be responsible for operation and maintenance of
facilities take an active role in their design and construction.
18.          The KSWSE is subject to the supervision of the City Council of Klaipeda which is
ultimately responsible for the actions of KSWSE. In this context, the municipal authorities in Klaipeda
are ultimately responsible for the provision of water and wastewater services to the inhabitants. However,
the utility itself is legally still State property. The powers and duties of the enterprise are set out in a
statute. The statute's main provisions are that the utility is an independent legal entity, required to provide
water and sewerage services to the population of Klaipeda according to the national standards. The utility
should have a long term plan for the development of the services in Klaipeda and maintain and renew the
infrastructure accordingly, although this has yet to be done. The utility is financially independent, and
has its own bank accounts. Tariffs charged by KSWSE must be approved by the City Council.
19.          Other Irnplementing Agencies. Implementation of the EMC would be coordinated by the
MOEP with the activity concerning tourism development overseen by STD. The WWF, working through
its Baltic Regional Program, would participate in the implementation of the protected areas management
activities for Kursiu Lagoon and Nemunas Delta. Concerned local level environmental, infrastructure,
planning and tourism organizations have a limited number of skilled personnel; however, with proper
design and supervision of the proposed activities, they should be able to have a significant role in
implementation and benefit from Project supported training activities.
B. Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies
20.          The following agreements were reached between the Borrower and the Implementing
Agencies during negotiations:
(a)    The Borrower would identify how their counterpart contributions would be provided and
specify the procedures to be used for on-lending to the Municipality of Klaipeda on
behalf of the KSWSE;
(b)    The MOEP has established a Project Steering Committee (PSC);



ANNEX I
Page 15
(c)    The MOEP has appointed a Project Coordinator within the Project Steering Committee;
(d)    The Municipality of Klaipeda and KSWSE have nominated the personnel for carrying out
the WWIC, including the appointment of key personnel to a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU);
(e)    The PIU for the WWIC should become operational in January 1995;
(f)    Detailed Implementation Plans have been prepared for the WWIC and the EMC;
(g)    Klaipeda City Council would continue to approve regular tariff increases sufficient to
allow the KSWSE to cover water production and treatment costs, wastewater treatment
and disposal costs, operation and maintenance, depreciation, interest and make a
contribution to reserves;
(h)    The KSWSE committed itself to carry out the planned twinning arrangement with a utility
acceptable to the Bank;
(i)    The MOEP has appointed staff required for coordination of the EMC and facilitate the
appointment of personnel from local level government organizations; and
(j)    The MOEP agreed to execute a cooperative agreement with the WWF concerning its role
in implementation of nature conservation activities under the EMC.
C. Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies
21.          Project Coordination. The lead agency for the proposed Project would be the MOEP
which would provide overall supervision of the Project, coordinate the actions of funding organizations
and local implementing agencies and manage the interactions with the Bank.
22.          Project Steering Committee. To facilitate implementation of the proposed Project, the
MOEP would establish a Project Steering Committee (PSC). The PSC would include, but not be limited
to, the following: representatives of key departments from within MOEP, Ministry of Finance,
Environmental Advisor to the Government, Environmental Advisor to the Nature Protection Committee
of the Parliament, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction, STD, MOK,
KSWSE, and representatives of local government authorities where environmental management activities
would be undertaken. A representative from the World Bank Office in Vilnius would serve as an ex-
officio member for purposes of coordination.
23.          The PSC would provide overall guidance for the proposed Project and facilitate national
and local government coordination issues. It would ensure that financial resources required under the
Project are made available to the implementing agencies in a timely manner and monitor Project
expenditure and costs. The PSC would monitor the movement of official documents and contracts
through the usual approval processes and undertake measures to expedite their release. It would also
monitor compliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines in the acquisition of equipment and technical
assistance contracts.



ANNEX I
Page 16
24.           Project Coordinator. The project would be implemented under the general supervision
of the MOEP. Management of the proposed project would be the responsibility of a Project Coordinator
who would be formally appointed by the Minister. The role of the Project Coordinator would be to
represent the MOEP in dealings with the cooperating funding agencies, facilitate coordination between
national and local government authorities in Lithuania, provide specialized technical support and serve
as the secretary for the project implementation committee. Currently the State Secretary for Economics
and Foreign Relations has been appointed to undertake this role during the project preparation period
given the significant issues related to project funding. During the implementation phase, this individual
would be supported by a specialist with a science or engineering background to address a wide range of
technical issues associated with effective implementation of the proposed project. Finally, together with
KSWSE, the Project Coordinator would prepare a draft Project Completion Report (PCR) within six
months after the completion of the Project.
25.           Water and Wastewater Improvement Component. The KSWSE would be responsible for
implementation of the water and wastewater improvement component. In order to effectively implement
all Project supportt;d activities concerning water and wastewater, including institutional strengthening,
a PIU would be established within the KSWSE. Annex 3 includes Terms of Reference for the PIU.
During negotiations, agreement was reached as to the necessary structure, staffing, equipment, and other
arrangements for the PIU. The PIU would be assisted, as required, by international consultants to support
the preparation of technical specifications, bidding documents, tendering, bid evaluation, contract awards,
supervision of civil works and equipment installation and follow-up activities. The PIU would be headed
by a full-time Project Coordinator who would report directly to the Director of the Enterprise. In
addition, the PIU should be staffed with specialists with skills in water and wastewater treatment,
environmental planning, accounting, procurement, contract monitoring, information processing and
records management. The Director of KSWSE would be responsible for supervision of all Project
supported activities concerning water and wastewater, including institutional strengthening, within the
service area of the KSWSE.
26.           Other specific responsibilities of the PIU are the following:
(a)    improve and finalize TORs, preparation of short-lists, and technical evaluation of TA
proposals received;
(b)    preparation of detailed specifications and procurement documents for approved equipment
lists, review of bid packages and evaluation of offers received;
(c)    prepare and submit disbursement requests to the Bank and bilateral donors;
(d)    monitoring of detailed procedures, implementation schedules, and program(s);
(e)    review of physical targets and preparation of revised estimates of financial resources
needed to support future actions;
(f)    liaise with the Bank and other involved agencies for Project administration and
supervision matters;
(g)    prepare and distribute consolidated periodic reports to the PSC and other participating
institutions, including the Bank, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation progress,



ANNEX I
Page 17
problems encountered and corrective actions needed; and (ii) current costs of each Project
component and estimated costs of completion;
(h)    ensure the timely preparation and submission to the PSC and the Bank of annual audit
reports of Project expenditure, including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and accounts;
and
(i)    together with the Project Coordinator, prepare a draft Project Completion Report (PCR)
within six months after the completion of the Project.
27.            Environmental Management Component. This component would be coordinated by the
MOEP with the participation of the STD, local environmental protection offices, concerned local
governments and the WWF. Each of the four small-scale activities under the component would have their
own management structure in order to allow for a flexible approach to implementation of these
demonstration activities. A technical specialist from MOEP would serve as coordinator for the integrated
coastal zone management and protected areas management activities, and a technical specialist from STD
would serve as coordinator for the tourism development plan. Local coordinators would be designated
by the concerned local governments for activities which would be implemented within their jurisdictions.
Finally, the Land Use Planning Department of the MOEP and WWF would be responsible for
implementation of activities at Kursiu Lagoon and Nemunas Delta, in cooperation with the concerned
local governments.
28.            Chart 2 below shows the department responsible and implementing agency for each sub-
component of the Project.
Chart 2: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
Subcomponent and Activity               Responsible        Implementing Agency
Department
Component A.
Water and Wastewater Improvement
Water and Wastewater Improvement        MOEP               Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise on
behalf of the Municipality of Klaipeda
Twinning Arrangement                    MOEP               Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise
Component B.
Environmental Management
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan  MOEP              MOEP and local governments
and Priority Actions
Eco-Tourism Development Plan and Priority   STD, in coop. with  State Tourism Department, in cooperation with
Actions                                 MOEP               MOEP and local governments
Management Plan and Program for Nemunas   MOEP             The Land Use Planning Department of the
Delta                                                      MOEP, World Wide Fund for Nature and local
governments
Kursiu Lagoon Management Plan - Support    MOEP            The Land Use Planning Department of the
for Implementation of Priority Activities                  MOEP, World Wide Fund for Nature and local
governments



ANNEX I
Page 18
D. Role of the World Bank during Supervision
29.           The proposed Project would be supervised by Bank personnel from both headquarters and
the Riga and Vilnius offices of the Regional Mission for the Baltic Countries. In addition, representatives
from BITS and the Finnish Ministry of Environment would also participate in supervision missions.
Personnel from WWF would participate in selected missions. The proposed supervision plan is
summarized in Chart 3.
30.           Recognizing that the proposed Project would be the first Bank Project in Lithuania
involving installation of sophisticated mechanical and electrical equipment, it is anticipated that it would
require significant supervision. This supervision would focus on the first two years when considerable
input would be required for engineering and procurement aspects of the water and wastewater
improvement component. In addition, supervision by environmental specialists would be required for the
complex issues of preparation and initial implementation of activities under the environmental
management component. Savings would be realized by relying on staff from the Bank Regional Mission
for supervision. During the first year of implementation, training seminars will be organized in
procurement, disbursement, and accounts/audits.
31.           A mid-term review would be conducted to evaluate project progress and assess the status
of actions to be undertaken to establish an autonomous utility, to develop and implement an amended
tariff structure and to strengthen the management capacity of KSWSE. The loan agreement would include
provisions which allow the Bank, in consultation with the Borrower, to make adjustments in the details
of these items and the schedule for their implementation. During the mid-term review the findings of the
tariff study would be reviewed long-term tariff rates would be agreed upon.
32.          It is planned that about 18 staff-weeks of effort for the first two years and about 15 staff-
weeks thereafter would be required for supervision. Following the start-up mission, supervision
requirements would include two supervision missions and an annual review; in later years one supervision
mission and an annual review would be conducted. The final supervision mission would be to prepare
the Project completion report. It is planned that these missions, in order to minimize costs, would be
coordinated with those required for the proposed complementary Liepaja Environment Project in an
immediately adjacent area of Latvia.



ANNEX I
Page 19
Chart 3:  SUPERVISION PLAN
Env.                   Total
Approx          Activity           Staff Weeks      TM        Fin. An.   Proc. Off.  Disb. Off.    Engin.   Env. Spec. Sbaffweehs
Date
Mar-95    Supervision I        Headquarters         2           2                       1                                   6
(Project Startup)   Regional Office                             _                         2           1           3
F                                    BITS, Sweden                      I                                   2                       3
Y                                    Finnish ME                                                            I .
9                                    WWF               _         _                                _                    I
5
Jun-95    Supervision 2       Headquarters         2            2                                                   6_      6
Regional Office                                                      2           2           4
BITS, Sweden                                                         2                       2
BiTniswE        _______ _______  _______ ._______ _ _____    _______ ___t___
Sep-95    Supervision 3       Headquarters          2           1                                                           4
Regional Office  . _ _  _         _     __               __          2           2           4
BITS, Sweden                                                         2                       2
F                                    Finnish ME                                                            I
y
9     Dec-95    1st Annual Review    Headquarters          I                  _ __                                                 2
6                                    Regional Office                         _                             2           2           4
BITS, Sweden    _                                                    2                       2
Finnish ME                                     I_I
WWF            I_
Apr-96    Supervision 4        Headquanrers[                          I |   1                       1       F         I _______ 2
Regional Office  L                     I _          L                2           2           4
BITS, Sweden   |             _          j            _          -    2                       2
Finnish MEf                            LL. 
Sep-96    Supervision 5       Headquarters          2     |                                                                 3
Regional Office  |          I           _            1 _             2           2           4
F                                    BITS, Sweden   |             { _         _           L                2                       2
Y                                    Finnish ME                  I _          _           F _         _                      |    0
9
7     Dec-96    2nd Annual Review    Headquaners           2     |I                   I        I    |_     |_|    5
Regional Office            { _          _            _               2           I           3
BITS, Sweden   |_______                                              2                       2
Finnish ME        _                      _      _                    I                       I
WWF                                                                              I
Apr-97    Supervision 6/      Headquarters    |     I                                                                       I [ _   F __I__
Mid-term Review     Regional Office |            I           _           1                2           1           3
BITS, Sweden                                                         2                       2I  I  1_ ||
Finnish ME                j            L                             2                       1
Dec-97    3rd Annual Review    Headquarters         2     |     I                                                           4
Regional Office   _         I                       _           -    2           2           4
F                                    BITS, Sweden    _                        ______I                                              I -  I
y                                    Finnish ME                                                            I                       1
9                                    WWF              _           1 _         _ _ _                                          |    0
8
Apr-98    Supervision 7       Headquarters    |    2      |     I           I    F             _           [          |    4
Regional Office  | _        1 _          _                           2         1             3
BITS, Sweden   |       _  j _       _  j _                           I _   -                 I
Finnish ME                i            L I                                 I                 0
Dec-98    4th Annual Review    Headquarters         2                                                                           3
Regional Office                                                                              I I  -  I  _ _I
F                                    BITS, Sweden                                                                                  I
y                                    Finnish ME
9                                    WWF                                                                               I
9
Mar-99    Project Completion   Headquarters         2                                                                       2     |
Report Preparation    Regional Office                                                                             0 



III. IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A. Time-Bound Schedule
33.          Terms of reference for the twinning arrangement have been prepared and were discussed
during negotiations. Appendix 1 of this Annex and Table 8 below show a summary of milestones in
Project preparation, implementation and monitoring activities.
B. Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
34.          Like many other Eastern European and FSU countries, Lithuania does not have a tradition
of competitive bidding for the procurement of public goods and services. All procurement during the
Soviet period was done centrally. The GOL is now in the process of preparing legislation instituting
public procurement rules and regulations as part of its comprehensive program to transform its economy
from a centrally planned to a market-oriented system based on the development of a competitive private
sector. The GOL has requested the Bank to provide assistance in this area. A Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) is not required at this stage. Since the introduction of procurement legislation
is expected to take some time, assurance for this proposed Project should be obtained during Appraisal
that the GOL would apply procurement procedures which are consistent with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD and IDA Credits" (May 1992).
35.          Procurement under parallel cofinancing arrangements (about US $14.0 million) would be
carried out through tied procurement in accordance with procurement regulations of Finland, Sweden and
the EU PHARE program. All other procurement would be undertaken in the following manner:
(a)    All Bank funded contracts which are estimated to cost more than US $250,000 equivalent
per contract would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
The Borrower would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Supply and Erect
Contracts. Eight contracts totalling US $5.93 million for: (i) water rehabilitation; (ii)
service extension; (iii) water conservation; (iv) sewer rehabilitation; (v) sewer main; and
(vi) sewer main pumping station, would be awarded under ICB. Such contracts would
include all goods and civil works necessary for component implementation. Packages
procured through ICB would account for approximately 85 percent of the total value of
the Bank-financed procurement of the Bank's Loan. Invitations for bids would be
grouped in sizeable bid packages to enhance competition and benefit from economies of
scale in bid prices.
(b)    Procedures for International Shopping (IS) would be used for procurement of smaller
contracts up to US $250,000 because the cost of ICB would clearly outweigh possible
price advantages. It is expected that some small components such as office equipment
could be procured through IS. Contracts awarded under IS procedures would be based
on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from three eligible
countries in accordance with Bank guidelines.
(c)    Three contracts for consultants services for: (i) analysis of alternative treatment and pilot
tests on Well Field 3 (US $0.29 million); (ii) contract coordination and supervision of the
water and wastewater component (US $0.74 million); and (iii) consultant support for the



ANNEX I
Page 21
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (US $0.56 million) would be would be shortlisted and
selected on a competitive basis according to Bank Guidelines, "Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency" (August 1981),
and hiring would be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
36.          Informal training was provided by the Bank's Procurement Consultant for representatives
of the MOEP, MOK and KSWSE. In addition, relevant personnel from the central government (MOEP)
and the PIU would participate in more extensive procurement training courses organized by the Bank in
the near future. The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry out the Bank's procurement
procedures would be strengthened through ongoing training and the use of standard bidding documents.
Provision of international technical assistance for the PIU should ensure adequate administration of
procurement.
37.          Procurement Review. All ICB procurement packages would be subject to the Bank's prior
review and approval, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. All prior review items would cover 80 percent of the total amount of the loan. Other loan-
funded activities would be subject to the Bank's post review during the supervision of the project, in
accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines.
38.          A summary of procurement packages for works, equipment, and technical assistance,
indicating the schedule for tendering, the estimated cost and completion time is shown in
Tables 4, 5 and 8.
39.          Procurement Monitoring. Procurement data would be collected and recorded for: (i)
prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (ii) comprehensive quarterly reports
to the Bank by the Borrower; and (iii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.



ANNEX I
Page 22
Table 4: Procurement Arrangements
(US $ million)
Total
Project Element                                                       ICB         Other           N.B.F.                Cost
A. Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component
Civil Works and Larger Equipment
Water Supply System
Rehabilitation of Well Fields I&2                                    0.92                                              0.92
(0.92)                                            (0.92)
Rehabilitation of Well Field 3                                       1.59                                               1.59
(1.59)                                            (1.59)
Extension of Services                                                0.35                                              0.35
(0.35)                                            (0.35)
Sewerage
......................I......................... ..............................................
Completion of WWTP                                                                                 12.67              12.67
Sludge Dewatering                                                                                   0.60               0.60
Service Extension                                                    0.53                                              0.53
(0.53)                                            (0.53)
Sewer Rehabilitation                                                 0.80                                              0.80
(0.80)                                            (0.80)
Rehab of Terminal Main and                                           1.06                                               1.06
Main Pumping Station                                                (1.06)                                            (1.06)
Smaller Equipment
Water Supply
Rehabilitation and Leakage Program                                   0.33                                              0.33
(0.33)                                            (0.33)
Water Conservation                                                   0.35                                              0.35
(0.35)                                            (0.35)
Project Implementation Unit
Office Equipment                                                                  0.11   *                             0.11
(0.11)                               (0.11)
Consultant Services
Water Supply
.................. ..............................................................................
Treatment and Pilot Tests at Well Field 3                                         0.29   **                            0.29
(0.29)                               (0.29)
Training and Technical Assistance                                                                   0.70               0.70
Contract Coordination &  Supervision                                              0.74   **                            0.74
............I....................................................................................
(0.37)                               (0.37)
Project Implementation Unit
..................  ........................ ........................................
International Consultant and Staffing                                             0.56   **                            0.56
(0.30)                               (0.30)
B. Environmental Management                                                                          1.50               1.50
Total                                                                5.93          1.70            15.47              23.10
The Bank                                                            (5.93)       (1.07)                                (7.00)
( )   k   incw
NAT - Nx Balk Fina-,d
* - Ilwcatkoml Sh.Wing
Ban,k Guidclincs fm U. of Cou -umj (Ausit 19t1)



Table 5: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES
Est. Cost    Proc.        Preparation     Tender Doc         Bid         Contract       Contract
Component                                                  (US$ M)    Method        of Bidding Docs     Issued       Submitted       Signed       Completion
A. Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component
Civil Works and Larger Equipment
Water Supply
..............................-.........................................................................................................
Rehabilitation of Well Field I and 2                           0.92      ICB        Sep-94 - Dec-94     Dec-94        Mar-95         Jun-95         Dec-97
Rehabilitation of Well Field 3                                 1.59      ICB        Sep-96 - Dec-96     Dec-96        Mar-97         Aug-97         Dec-08
Service Extension                                              0.35      ICB        Apr-95 - Jun-95     Jul-95         Sep-95        Dec-95         Nov-98
Sewerage
..............  ... ...... ... . .. .....  ................................ ..... .. .............
Completion of New WWTP                                        12.67     N.B.F.      Sep-94 - Dec-94     Dec-94         Feb-95        Jun-95         Dec-97
Sludge Dewatering                                              0.60     N.B.F.      Sep-94 - Nov-94     Dec-94         Feb-95        May-95         Dec-95
Service Extension                                              0.53      ICB        Sep-94 - Dec-94     Dec-94        Mar-95         Jun-95         Dec-98
Sewer Rehabilitation                                           0.80      ICB        Sep-94 - Dec-94     Dec-94        Mar-95         Jun-95         Nov-98
Rehabilitation ofTerninal Main                                 1.06      ICB        Sep-94 - Dec-94     Dec-94        Mar-95         Jun-95         Dec-97
and of Main Pumping Station
Smaller Equipment
Rehabilitation and Leakage Program                             0.33      ICB        Sep-94 - Nov-94     Dec-94         Feb-95        May-95         Jun-97
Water Conservation                                             0.35      ICB        Sep-94 - Dec-94     Dec-94        Mar-95         Jun-95         Dec-96
Office Equipment to PIU                                        0 11   shopping          Sep-94          Oct-94         Oct-94        Nov-94         Jan-95
Jul-94 - Nov-94    Dec-94         Feb-95         May-95         Mar-99
Consultancies                                                                       Jul-94 - Nov-94     Dec-94         Feb-95        May-95         Dec-96
Well Field 3. Analysis of Altemative                           0.29 shortlist offirm   Sep-94 - Jan-95  Feb-95        Mar-95         Jun-95         Aug-95
Treatment and Pilot Tests
Contract Coordination & Supervision                            0.74 shortlist offirm   Sep-94 - Oct-94  Nov-94         Jan-95        Apr-95         Mar-99
Training and Technical Assistance                              0.70     N.B.F.      Sep-94 - Oct-94     Nov-94         Jan-94        Apr-94         Dec-96
Staffing of PIJ                                                0.56 shortlist offirm   Aug-94           Sep-94         Sep-94        Dec-94         Mar-99
Sub Total                                                     21.60
B. Environmental Management Component
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan                        0.40     N.B.F.      Feb-94 - Oct-94     Jan-95        Mar-95         Jun-95         Jun-98
Tourism Development and Management Plan                        0.30     N.B.F.      Mar-94 - Oct-94     Jan-95        Mar-95         Jun-95         Jun-98
Management Plan and Program for Nemunas Delta                  0.30     N.B.F.      Apr-94 - Oct-94       n/a           n/a          Jan-95         Jun-98
Kursiu Lagoon Management Plan and Support for                  0.50     N.B.F.      Apr-94 - Oct-94       n/a           n/a          Jan-95         Jun-98
Implementation of Priority Activities
Sub Total       1.50                                                                                                            I>
TOTAL         23.10                                                                                                            X



ANNEX I
Page 24
C. Disbursements
40.          The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four years (1995-1999)
on the following basis:
41.          The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against:
(a)    For goods: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-factory
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures other items procured locally;
(b)    For works: 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures; and
(c)    100 percent of expenditures for consultancy services and training.
42.          The allocation of the Bank loan proceeds and the corresponding local contribution grant
proceeds are shown in Table 6; Table 7 indicates forecasts of expenditures and disbursements for the
proposed Project.
43.          Disbursement requests will be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the PIU. It is
expected that personnel from the MOEP and PIU will participate in disbursement training organized in
Lithuania or Washington D.C.
44.          Disbursement would be made against standard Bank documentation. The documentation
to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for review by Bank supervision missions and
verification by external audits. Disbursement requests would be fully documented except for expenditures
under contracts for goods and equipment valued at less than US $100,000 equivalent, where statements
of expenditure (SOE) would be used. Applications for direct payment and special commitment may be
submitted provided they are for amounts equivalent to at least US $50,000. The Bank would not honor
direct payment requests below US $50,000.
45.          To facilitate Project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the
Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US $200,000, representing
about four months of average expenditures. At the request of the Borrower, and based on project needs,
the Bank would make an initial deposit or deposits into the special account up to the amount of the
authorized allocation. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly
or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation
requirements for replenishment would follow the standard procedure. In addition, monthly bank
statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all
replenishment requests.



ANNEX I
Page 25
Table 7: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
FY              Quarter    Loan Disbursement         Cumulative      Disbursement Profile
Since Approval    This Qtr.  Cumulative   Total %         Sector*    Regional*
FY 1995           Jun-95         0.57          0.57       8
FY 1996           Sep-95         0.45          1.02      15            0             0
Dec-95         0.44          1.46      21
Mar-96          0.50         1.96      28             6            3
Jun-96         0.58          2.54      36
FY 1997           Sep-96         0.58          3.12      45            10            6
Dec-96         0.55          3.66      52
Mar-97          0.62         4.28      61            18            6
Jun-97         0.59         4.87       70
FY 1998           Sep-97         0.52          5.38      77            26            14
Dec-97         0.32          5.70      81
Mar-98          0.31         6.01      86            34            18
Jun-98         0.36          6 37      91
FY 1999           Sep-98         0.37          6.74      96            42           26
Dec-98         0.26          7.00      100
Mar-99          0.01         7.00      100           54            30
Loan Closing Date:         March 31, 1999
All regions - subsector set.
Region - sector set. (ECA)
Table 6: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
US $ Million
IBRD                    Local
Amount       %        Contribution        %
A. Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component
Civil Works and Larger Equipmcnt
Water Supply System
Rehabilitation of Well Ficids 1&2                0.92       100%
Rehabilitation of Well Field 3                   1.59       100%
Extension of Services                            0.35       100%
Sewerage
Rehabilitation of Terminal Main and Pumping
Station                                          1.06       100%
Sewer Rehabilitation                             0.80       100%
Service Extension                                0.53       100%
Smaller Equipment
Water Supply System
Water Conservation                               0.35       100%
Rehabilitation and Leakage Progran               0.33       100%
Project Implementation Unit
Office Equipment                                 0.11       100%
Consultant Services
Water SuPp,y
Well Field 3. Analysis of Alternative            0.29       100%
Treatment and Pilot Tests
Contract Coordination & Supervision              0.37        50%            0.37        50%
Project Implementation Unit
International Consultant and Staffing            0.30        54%            0.26        46%
(including PPF Refinancing                       0.24)
Total Disbursement                               7.00       100%            0.63       100%
I Toal contrituiion from Governnent of Lithuania and Municipality of Klaipedla is US $7.0 million.
Of this amount. US $6.35 million is used to cover the local cost in the sewcrage component
Completion of WWTP.



Table 8: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
COMPONENT A. WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Pre-Project                    Project Year              Total   Procurement
Project Element                         Activities 1        2         3         4          5  Payment   Method
FY96  I  FY97  I  FY98  I FY99
Loan TiminR
Sign/Eff/Close Apnl 1, 1995 - March 31. 1999
Civil Works and Larger Equipment
Water Supply
Rehabilitation of Well Field I and 2    ----          _  _       _    _   _                        0.92     ICB
Rehabilitation of Well Field 3                                 _   _   _   _  .                    1.59     ICB
Service Extension                                        _                                         0.35     ICB
Sewerage
Completion of New WWTP                  ----          _  _        .    _   _                      12.67   N.B.F.
Sludge Dewatering                       ----          =    _                                       0.60   N.B.F.
Service Extension                       _ _ _ _          _   _  _ .  =   _                         0.53     ICB
Sewer Rehabilitation                           -      _  _        _    _   _   _   _               0.80     ICB
Rehabilitation of Terminal Main          -            _  _ .  _                                    1.06     ICB
and of Main Pumping Station
Smaller Equipment
Rehabilitation and Leakage Program      ----          -                                            0.33     ICB
Water Conservation                       ----         _  _        .                                0.35     ICB
Office Equipment to PIU                 ----                                                       0.11   OTHER
Consultancies
Well Field 3. Analysis of Alternative   ----          _  _                                         0.29   OTHER
Treatment and Pilot Tests
Contract Coordination & Supervision     ----          _  _        .    _   _   _                   0.74   OTHER
Training and Technical Assistance       -             _  _                                         0.70   N.B.F.
Staffing of PIU                                                                                    0.56   OTHER
TOTAL                                                                                             21.60
Bank Financed Project Elements (includes US $7.0 million from Bank and US $0.63 from MOK)          7.63
CbIZ
tQIri
o X



ANNEX I
Page 27
D. Finance
46.           Overview. The KSWSE has been identified by the MOEP as being among the more
progressive and technically capable water and wastewater utilities in Lithuania. It is the objective of the
MOEP to have Klaipeda serve as a "model utility" for primary cities and provide: (a) an example of a
sound water and wastewater utility which may be applied elsewhere; and (b) a facility which could be
used for in-country training on "software" and "hardware" issues. To this end, despite the administrative,
financial and technical constraints which may exist, the MOEP, in cooperation with the MOK, intends
to focus its efforts on making KSWSE an autonomous and effective utility by mobilizing local and foreign
resources to support complementary investment and institutional strengthening activities.
47.           Central to the approach of institutional strengthening is the development of a formal
"twinning arrangement," on a contractual basis with another water and wastewater utility. This twinning
arrangement would include specific activities, which would be defined as a component of the Action Plan
for KSWSE, to include support for: utility management; system investment planning; rehabilitation
program design; construction supervision; operation and maintenance; monitoring and use of laboratory
data; tariff setting; billing and collection; accounting and auditing; human resources development and
public information programs.
48.           The KSWSE is also interested in considering, subject to the approval of the GOL and
Klaipeda City Council, contracting out the operations and maintenance services for water and wastewater
facilities. Such an arrangement may result in efficiency gains, improved quality of service and better
reliability in system operation. The mission has recommended that these services be obtained through
an open and transparent competitive process. This would allow Klaipeda to obtain the best service
contractor and under terms which are the most advantageous to the municipal government. If such a
decision is made, a portion of the funds allocated to the "twinning arrangement" and technical assistance
would be allocated for specialized consultant support to assist authorities in Klaipeda to prepare bidding
documents for these services, evaluate proposals, negotiate the contract and supervise the contractors.
49.           Past Performance. During the 1991-1993 period, the supplied (and invoiced) water
volume has decreased by about 14 percent due largely to the reduced output of industries and the overall
decline in the Lithuanian GDP. This reduced volume in turn decreased the real revenues of the company
by approximately 13 percent during 1991-1993 and decreased the percentage of net operating profit to
revenue by about 50 percent. Despite the slump in water volume production, KSWSE recorded a profit
over the period of 1991-1993 as summarized in Table 9 below. Profit creation is, however, misleading
as, by virtue of KSWSE's prevailing accounting system established under Soviet accounting laws, the
municipality makes a decision on the annual profit to be created based on the capital investment
employed. In reality, the designated profit margins insufficiently reflect undervalued depreciation,
suggesting the assets need to be revalued to reflect true market costs, and that real profit margins are
lower than the financial results shown below:



ANNEX I
Page 28
Table 9 - KSWSE's Financial Performance -- 1991-1993
(Litas thousands)
1991         1992         1993
Sales - Invoiced water and waste water       77,370       67,650       58,760
(1,000 mI3)
Average Tariff (Cedis ml)                     0.004        0.037        0.137
Revenues                                       283         2,500        8,037
Taxes                                           21           152          733
Operating Expenses                             109         1,625        5,257
Operating Income (Loss)                        153          723         2,048
Less: Depreciation                              26           43           171
Net Operating Income                           127          680         1.877
Working Ratio (%)                              39%          65%          65%
Current Ratio                                  2.7           1.7          5.0
Receivables (No. months' billings)             < 1           3.5          3.0
Source: Company accounts and mission adjustments
50.             The largest cost item for KSWSE is energy (electricity and fuel). Its share of the total
operations and maintenance costs in 1993 was 45 percent, comprising largely electricity and to a lesser
extent oil and gasoline. In real terms, electricity costs increased 30 percent in 1991, 38 percent in 1992
(despite a reduced scale of operations), and is projected to increase 50 percent in 1994. Despite the
decreasing volume of operations in 1991-1993, operations and maintenance costs per cubic meter of
supplied water increased 72 percent in real terms, reflecting both rising energy costs and stable staff level
despite decreases in water production.
51.             Past and present financing for capital investments have been provided by the central
government, consequently no long term debt exists. Existing debt is in the form of short-term payables
to material suppliers for regular operations and construction works, unpaid salaries and taxes. KSWSE
may have underestimated the true costs of maintaining the services and operating capability of the system,
let alone the cost of expansions or enhancements. No provisions were made for bad or doubtful debts
in the accounting system; the present billing system does not group receivables by their age for purposes
of estimating potions of bad debt. It is estimated that accounts receivables are equal to about 3 months'
billing.
52.             Tariff Levels and Revenues. It is clear that current tariff levels are inadequate to cover
full costs, as they fail to reflect planned maintenance, depreciation, provisions for new investments, bad
debts, etc.. The revenue and cost budgets are revised each month for tariff adjustment, cost comparison
and income tax calculation. Should there be a need for a tariff increase, a request is sent to the MOK
for approval. An obvious shortcoming in the budgeting and reporting system appears to be the fact that
it is based on the results of the previous period without taking into account cost efficiency, responsive
performance, accountability or future cost increases.



ANNEX I
Page 29
53.           Prior to 1991, tariffs had been stable and the domestic (and wastewater) rate (0.04 LT/m3)
was at the time subsidized through considerably higher industrial rates. Since 1991, tariffs have been
adjusted upwards 16 times to both compensate for inflation (1,020 percent in 1992, 190 percent in 1993)
and to converge the residential and industrial tariffs. The residential tariff increased in real terms more
than 5 times between 1991-1993, whereas the industrial tariff decreased by 47 percent during the same
period. In addition, a number of major industrial facilities have closed down or had significant reductions
in their output due to the economic restructuring process. The current combined tariffs were increased
in February 1994 and stand now at the level of LT 0.43/m3 for both residential and industrial consumers.
The wastewater tariff. 0.20 LT/m3 is also the same for households and the major part of industries.
54.           Billitng and Collection. Consumers are divided into residential customers and industrial
customers.  The service sector and institutions (e.g. schools, hospitals, hotels and administrative
buildings) belong to the latter category. Although both categories pay the same tariff, special tariffs are
applied for technical water used by selected industries, and industrial wastewater charges are scaled
according to the pollution load. About 90 percent of the connections to water supply have meters.
However, residential connections to apartments are metered not individually but in blocks of 10,000-
15,000 inhabitants. As a result, payment for consumer water use is not based on direct metering; instead,
terms are set in a general contract between KSWSE and ASE.
55.           Collection is a major problem  for KSWSE.  Accounts receivable have increased
dramatically since 1991, corresponding now to about 3 month's billing. Households are responsible for
75 percent of the debt. The eventual collection rate was 87 percent in 1993 and 98 percent in the first
quarter in 1994. For domestic consumers, collection is carried out by the municipal ASE. Contracts for
water supply to apartment buildings are made between KSWSE and ASE, who pays KSWSE for monthly
consumption and divides the sum among the separate apartments depending on the number of inhabitants
in each. The billing is then carried out on a monthly basis and added to household charges for rent and
other utilities. Many residents do not pay ASE, which is therefore unable to pay its bill to KSWSE.
Collection is hampered by KSWSE's lack of direct contact with its customers as well as the lack of
individual metering. However, in recent years, apartments now are individually metered, and these
consumers do pay ASE according to some meter readings.
56.           KSWSE plans to institute a direct collection program with household customers in 1994
which is expected to significantly improve collection. In this context, it should be mentioned that a major
meter installation program in Vilnius has largely reduced total water consumption in the city. The
proposed program includes consideration of means to improve collection such as: (a) administrative
measures; (b) technical measures; and (c) legal measures. Administrative measures include discounts on
bills paid promptly and penalties for late bills. Currently there is a 0.4 percent penalty per day for
delayed payment, but so far the company has not applied it. In addition, the salaries of personnel
assigned to collection could be linked to the amount of revenue collected. Technical measures include
installment of more meters. Legal measures include monthly deduction from defaulters' earnings. This
should be considered with provisions included to protect low income families and retirees.
57.           Accounting Policies and Audits.  Given the usage of past command accounting
methodology, no formal external audits have been performed.  The accounting law of June 1992
transferred the responsibility of all financial issues of the company to the Director of KSWSE. Three
departments are involved in the financial management and accounting issues. Accounts Department



ANNEX I
Page 30
prepares the financial statements on monthly, quarterly and annual basis. The Department for User
Service is responsible for billing and collection. The Economics Department is responsible for the
calculation of tariffs and operations and maintenance budget preparation.
58.          It is proposed that the project would support establishment of a Management Information
System (MIS) which would be linked with both operational budget planning and a strategic planning
system. An automated fixed asset portion would provide all pertinent information on depreciation and
easily readable means of handling revaluations as the economy experiences inflation. It is understood that
the implementation of an MIS system has to be phased over time due to investment requirements, not
only in terms of hardware and software but also with regard to human expertise. During appraisal
discussions were held with Klaipeda City Council and KSWSE concerning actions to be included in the
proposed Project to implement automated accounting systems linked to various Management Information
Systems (MIS) components.
59.          Future Financial Performance. Projections of KSWSE's financial performance (they were
prepared by a water utility economist and revised internally) assume that KSWSE would adjust to annual
water tariffs equivalent to combined (water and wastewater) charges equivalent to approximately 3 percent
of average household income. Water production and water sales are projected to remain approximately
constant throughout the 1994 - 2003 period, ranging from 28.2 - 29.2 million m3 annually.  A
comprehensive asset revaluation should be carried out in the next three years in order to provide an
acceptable estimate of KSWSE's assets based on current replacement costs and an assessment of their
physical condition, in order to make proper provisions in light of inflation. Given that a proper asset
revaluation is an expensive exercise, warranted only with an intent to privatize KSWSE's assets,
immediate asset revaluation is not required; KSWSE's priorities are to sustain a positive and adequate
cash flow. An interim and less expensive solution to establishing proper depreciation charges is for
KSWSE, with legal authority, to revalue its assets based on a limited (and less costly) physical inventory
(to assess replacement value) and thus adjusting, as necessary, the past inflation indexed revaluation
approach. Detailed financial projections can be found in tables 1-4 in Appendix 2 of this Annex. The
proposed tariff adjustments are presented in table 10 below.
Table 10 - Tariff Increases (real)
Water Supply           Sewerage
Domestic &           Domestic &
Year                                                Industrial           Industrial
ANNUAL INCREASES (pa)
1995                                                 20%                     19%
1996                                                 20%                     22%
1997                                                 26%                     24%



ANNEX I
Page 31
60.           When the proposed metering program  is completed and appropriate bills sent out
reflecting actual consumption, revenues would increase. Interest expense as a percentage of revenue
increases from approximately 4 percent in 1996 to 16 percent in the year 2002. Depreciation expense
is assumed to increase significantly as construction in progress is capitalized; clearly this is an interim
measure pending the outcome of the fixed assets registration and revaluation exercise which would
provide a reliable basis for calculating total assets. Despite these charges, the proposed tariff increases
will allow KSWSE to service debt adequately and maintain a debt service ratio equal to or exceeding 2.0
over the 1994 - 2002 period.
61.           The projections indicate that KSWSE's financial position could gradually improve so that
by 1997, KSWSE would be able to contribute funds from internal sources to cover the local costs of
capital expenditures incurred and debt service. Accumulated surplus funds would be allocated to a
reserve for the Phase 11 investment period to be initiated in Year 2000. The current ratio would be
maintained well above adequate levels largely due to balances are expected to accumulate during the latter
project years which would be required to support KSWSE's contribution to the capital cost of possible
new operations. The receivables position which has historically been high, peaking at 3.5 months of
billings in 1992, is projected to remain under one month's billing throughout operations, with
implementation of the MIS. A summary of the projected financial performance is presented in Table 11
below:



ANNEX I
Page 32
Table 11 - KSWSE Projected Finanal Performance 1994 - IM
(1,000 LT Consant)
1994         1995         1996          1997         1998
REVENUE
Water Supply
Sales (million m')                                 28.70        28.80         28.80        28.90        29.20
Average tariff (LT/ml)                               .18           .21          .26          .32           .39
Revenue                                            5.164        6,066         7,437        9,309       11.311
Sewerage
Volume (million m')                                 27.7         27.7          27.8         27.8         28.2
Average tariff (LT/m')                               .26          .35           .43          .54           .65
Revenue                                            7.146        9,805        12,023       14.882       18,294
Total Revenue                                     12,310        15,871       19,460       24.190       29.606
EXPENSES
Operating Expens
Water Supply                                           5,193         5,588        5,785        5,602         6,893
Sewage                                                 4,605         4,956        5,130        4,968         6,113
Total Expenses                                     9,798       10,544        10,915       10,570        13,006
OPERATING INCOME (Loss)
Water Supply                                             (29)        2,823        4,529        7,219         4,418
Sewerage                                               2,541         2,504        4,016        6,401        12,182
Total                                              2,512        ,3272         8,545       13,620        16,600
Less:
Interest                                                 192          192         1,102        2,212         2,872
Depreciation                                           1,932         2,079        2,966        3,603         6,631
NET INCOME (Loss)                                             388        3,056        4,477        11,372        7.097
Working Ratio %                                           79           65            54           42           43
Operating Ratio %                                         95           79            70           58           66
Current Ratio                                            2.8          10.6          7.7          9.6          13.6
Accounts Receivable/Collection Period                     1.6          1.0          0.9          0.8           0.6
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                             13.1          49.0          5.2          5.4           5.0
Source: Consultanu with inernal adjusunents
* Numbers may not add up properly due to roundinS.



ANNEX I
Page 33
62.            TariffAffordability. Current combined tariffs correspond to LT 0.43/m3 for both domestic
and industrial customers, which represents approximately 2 percent of the monthly average household
income. Given the estimated real tariff increase of approximately 135 percent over a period of five years
and a real income growth, the water services tariffs would correspond to less than 3 percent of the
average household income. This is higher than today's level, but within the range of acceptability by Bank
standards .'
63.            It should be noted that households in Lithuania often have a number of non-cash benefits
and undeclared income that are not reflected in the income level used in our affordability calculation
Assumptions underlying the affordability estimates are presented in Annexes 4a and 4b.
64.            Financial Rate of Return. The viability of the project is driven by a selected combined
tariff level representing 3 percent of average household income, which is sufficient to allow KSWSE to
generate a cash flow adequate enough to service debt and to provide proper provisions for planned
maintenance, bad and doubtful debts, replace cost depreciation and provide for future investment needs.
The Project is not consequently driven by a financial rate of return (FRR). Nonetheless, cash flow
generation must be sufficient enough to generate a FRR that exceeds the average weighted cost of capital
to KSWSE.
65.            The FRR was calculated by the incremental costs and benefit streams to the capital
investment. The tangible, financial benefits comprise the higher tariff levels justified by the capital
expenditure program as well as the operations and maintenance cost efficiencies (reductions) established
with the investment program. The proposed investment on the water supply and sewerage systems of
Klaipeda has a combined financial internal rate of return (FRR) of 10.1 percent which indicates that the
project is financially viable.5 The achieved FRR on the investment is largely a result of the selected tariff
scenario (justified by the investment) which is ensuring not only the recovery of operating and
maintenance costs and capital costs but also creates surplus financing for unforeseen costs and/or lower
than expected collection of revenues. The results of sensitivity tests are shown in Table 12 below:
Table 12: Selected Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs       Operations and Maintenance               Tariff with Project
Costs with Project
Factor          IRR             Factor           IRR             Factor           IRR
1.2             8.1             0.8             14.1             1.2             17.3
1.1             9.0             0.9             12.0             1.1             13.5
1.0            10.1             1.0             10.1             1.0             10.1
0.9            11.3              1.1             8.2             0.9              6.8
0.8            12.9              1.2             6.5             0.8              3.4
4      Three percent of average household income or five percent of the average income of the thirtieth percentile of total
income distribution.
5      These rates well exceed 3.3 percent, the weighted average cost of borrowing to the utility, reflecting the 66 percent
grant element in the project investment.



ANNEX I
Page 34
E. Project Risks
66.           Slippage. The proposed Project faces a number of political and technical risks due to the
fact that it is the initial project of this type in Lithuania. With regard to the Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component, there is a risk that the Project implementation could be delayed due to the
limited experience of the MOEP and the KSWSE in these types of activities. There is also a risk that,
given the very limited experience with actual costs for implementation of water and wastewater
improvements in post-Soviet Lithuania, the volatility of local price changes, and previous lack of
construction activities to international standards in this sector, construction costs may be underestimated.
In order to minimize these risks, the Project provides establishment of a strong PIU, the adoption of
conservative approaches to cost estimation combined with the use of appropriate physical and price
contingencies, and for significant supervision by staff from Bank headquarters and the regional office.
67.           On the basis of previous Bank experience in Poland, there is also a risk that the GOL and
cooperating local governments may have problems with the timely provision of local currency support
and that the availability of adequately qualified personnel for Project management positions may be
constrained by government imposed limits on salaries paid to civil servants. It should be noted, however,
that in the Polish case these constraints were overcome by the Borrower and the Bank being closely
engaged in Project supervision and quickly taking actions to address these types of implementation
problems as they occurred.
68.           Institutional and Financial. On the institutional and financial side the main risks concern:
(a) the political commitment of the Klaipeda City Council to support the transformation of KSWSE into
an independently managed water and wastewater utility; (b) political or macro-economic factors which
may interfere with the commitment of the Klaipeda City Council to authorize the KSWSE to raise tariffs
sufficiently for fullest recovery and debt service; and (c) continued problems with the capacity of KSWSE
to effectively collect water bills.
69.           These risks would be reduced by carefully monitoring the requirements for tariff increases
and providing significant institutional development support to the utility to improve its financial
management, billing and collection practices. The acceptability and the ability of maintaining high and
increasing tariff levels should also be considered. The Action Plan, with a plan for tariff increases, should
be formally endorsed by the City Council, to ensure that the necessary tariff increases would be realized.
Progress in compliance with the Action Plan would be evaluated annually.
70.           Technology. The technology of the proposed Project is standard and involves no unusual
risks. The main risk is the utility's financial and institutional capability to carry out the proposed Project,
as it would require substantial strengthening of its ability to carry out an investment program in general.
Experience with other municipal water and wastewater authorities in transitional economies demonstrates
that close Project supervision and adequate technical assistance mitigate these risks.
71.           The principal risks for the Environmental Management Component of the Project concern:
(a) difficulties in coordination of activities between various national, local, nongovernmental and
consultant organizations; (b) resistance from local authorities and residents to proposed land use control
measures to be included in the integrated coastal zone management, tourism development and protected
areas management plans; and (c) unanticipated problems associated with the complex issues of restitution
of lands confiscated by the State during the Soviet period to their pre-1940 owners.



ANNEX I
Page 35
72.          Coordination issues can be effectively addressed by the establishment of implementation
teams for each of the activities with the support of the Project Coordinator and various Activity
Coordinators, complemented by close Bank supervision. Resistance to implementation due to land use
constraints and conflicts with pre-1940 land owners can only be addressed by having the direct
participation of these parties, as proposed in the planning and implementation of these activities. It should
be noted that the demonstration activities by their very nature are intended to test the application of these
approaches in the Lithuanian context and to provide lessons which can be transferred elsewhere within
the country and the Baltic Sea region.
F. Loan Covenants for Implementation
73.          Section VI. of the Staff Appraisal Report shows a complete list of loan covenants to be
monitored during the Project.



IV. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Actions to Monitor Development Objectives
74.           Project monitoring indicators were developed during appraisal in order to enable tracking
of Project inputs on key development objectives throughout the Project cycle. At the mid-term review,
the need to fine-tune or restructure the Project design will be based on the data received from these
indicators.
B. Project Indicators
75.           Given the essential role program monitoring and evaluation play in determining the impact
of a given intervention on development objectives, a number of indicators will be used to monitor and
evaluate progress during the implementation of the Klaipeda Environment Project. However, the progress
of these indicators would be evaluated in relative, not absolute, terms. During supervision, a selected
number of commercial, operational, financial and environmental indicators would be monitored in
accordance with Project objectives. An illustrative list of indicators follows for each component.
Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
(a)    Commercial indicators
Service area is expected to increase with new connections to both water supply
and sewerage. The change in number of water subscribers and connections would
be estimated; and
-     The collection ratio (total collections divided by total billings) is expected to
improve in accordance with the Loan and Project Agreement.
(b)    Operational indicators
*     The non-revenue water percentage (volume of water produced minus volume of
water sold, divided by volume of water produced) is expected to be reduced.
(c)    Financial indicators
*     The average unit price adjustments for water and sewerage supplied for each
consumer category (the tariff schedule) would be monitored in accordance with
the Loan and Project Agreements; and
*     The following standard financial indicators, in addition to the internal rate of
return, would be monitored:
A Working Ratio (ratio of operating costs to operating revenues,
excluding depreciation, interest payments, and debt service payments) not
to exceed 70%;



ANNEX I
Page 37
An Operating Ratio (ratio of operating costs to operating revenues,
including depreciation and interest costs, but excluding debt service
payments) not to exceed 85%;
-      A Debt Service Coverage Ratio (the extent to which internal cash
generation covers total debt services) not to fall below 1.5; and
-      A Current Ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities) not to fall
below 2.0.
(d)    Environmental Indicators
*      The following environmental indicators would be monitored:
-      Reliability of water supply and distribution system;
-      Reliability of wastewater collection and conveyance system;
-      Operational performance and level of load reduction achieved by
upgraded wastewater treatment plant; and
-      Levels of reduction of pollution loads at a selected number of locations.



Appendix 1 of Annex 1
MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION






ANNEX I
Ap-pendix 1
Page 1
.... ........      ..  .  .  .  .  .  -   .  .  .  .     ..                                      .                                                .....
........ . .  
...  -........... I.I
..............                                                                    . .......     ...... .............._ . _   .. .. ............. _     . . . .........   ... . ..            ........._
* ~        ..........
......  ....I                                                                                                                                                                    ..
I-*                                                                                        IH                                                                                                                                   I.
2  s  -  _.  _.  _  ..... _. __ . _ ..............................................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........  ....................  .
sS ~~ I.                                                                                                                                                                                               I
iO.-..............---  ----- --t - ----- 
.    ...............                                                                                                           r 
.._........ ......... ...... ____._ .......  .      . .   .. . ...... ............ ... . ........ . .........        ..............                                                       .............. .........
-  ;$ a   ,.1 1 }               ]   ] 1 3   j   {   !   0   | |   }   3   |   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....  .............



Appendix 1 - Table B.                                                                                           MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Water Supply: Well Field 3 - Analysis of Alternative Treatment and Pilot Tests
YEAR                                                     1994                        1995                                   .              1996  .1997                                                                     j                            1998
QUARTER                                                     3             4             1            2             3            4             1             2            3             4             1            2            3             4             1            2             3            4
PREPARATION
Developmen of TOR
Development of Tendering
Documents
Prourement Notice In
Development Business and                                                    *
Local Newspapers
Submission of Tender Docs;                                                               I
Bidding Period
Evaluation and Negotiations
Contract Signing                                        .
...._  ............        ...........................              ...........................                              ..........     .......................................                ........................................................ ..............................................................................,
IMLMENTATION
Investigatioms
Program  for Pilot Tests
Pilot Tests
Report and Final Proposal                               .
...........I....................  ................................................... ...............................   ................   ............... .................................... ....................  --  -    ----   .......................................................................... .........  ................... ......
MONITORING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     > .D
Monthly Progress Reports



ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 3
;00
X                                                                    '                                                                                .............
.......... .. ..
00
........ .,
X      ...............
- '
. .................   .'t
.  ... ..... .............................................. ........................................  ........................... ................................................ ......    ...    ...........
- !
.            SE ...........}                                                                   ,                                   g             !             X  
.......                                                                .          .... . ........
3                                                                          *1 a~~~('
... . . ..
........................................................ .........................    ......................................  ................
...............~~.~  
.....  ......................................................................................................................                                 ..............
I DI                                                                                                                    0'~~~~~~~
co ~                     ~                              ~                                                                                                
z~~~



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 4
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TI
..........    .
_.._......
rS    |   _ee*_***v                                                                                                                         I
~~~IU   ::                                                                                        1   : z 
............ N.
... ... .. .. ........   .. . ... .. . ....... . ..... ..                              .        _...... .                                         ..... .. ...... ...... .. ...... ...
.. . .. ......... ......... ._ . ............ . . .................................  .....
zi    i] 7



Appendix 1 - Table E.                                                   MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMEENTATION
Water Supply: Rehabilitation and Leakage Program
YEAR                                :1994              1995                              :1996                              :1997                               .1998
QUARTER                                3        4        1       2        3        4        1        2        3       4        1        2        3        4        1       2        3    :4
PREPARATION
Development of Standard
Equipment List
Development of Tenidering
Document
Procurement Notice In
Development Business and                    U
Local Newspapers
Submission of Tender Docs 
Biding Period
Evaluation and Negotiations
Contract Siging 
IMPLEMENTAT'ION
Detaled Design
Supply and Erection
Commisioning
MONIrORING
Monthly Progress Reports
O(D  ZD
rbrD-1



Appendix 1 - Table F.                                                        MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                                  EU -PHARE
Water Supply: Water Conservation
YEAR                                  .1994              :1995                                :1996                                 :1997                                :1998
QUARTER                                  3         4        I        2         3        4         I        2        3        4         I        2        3        4         I        2        3         4
PREPARATION
Development of Standlard
Equipment List and TOR
Development of Tendering
Docments anbd Short List
Procurement Notice tn
Development Busines and 
Local Newspapers
Submission of Tender DocumentsU
Bidding Period
Evaluation and Negotiations
Contract Signing 
IMPLEMENTATION
Detaled Design
Program 1Impementation
Conmmssioning
MONITORING
Monthly Progress Reports



Appendix I - Table H.                                                        MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMEENTATION
Sewerage: Sludge Dewatering Equiment
YEAR                                 :1994                 1951996                                                                 :1997                                19
QUARTER                                 3        4           1        2        3        4                 2        3        4         1        2        3        4         1        2     13          4
PREPARATION
Develop,ment of Standard
Equipment List
Development of Tendering
Documents
Submission of Tender DocsU
Bidding Period
Evaluation and Negotiations
Contract SigningU
IMeLEMIENTATION
Desailed Design
Supply and Erection
Commissioning
MONITORING
Monthly Progress Reports
>1.
Z31



Appendix 1.- Table I.                                                        MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Sewerage: Service Extension
YEAR                                  :1994              :1995                                :1996                                 :1997                                :1998
QUARTER                                  3        4         1        2         3        4         1     ,2          3        4         1        2        3        4         1        2        3         4
PREPARATION
Development of Standard
Equipment List
Development of Tendering
Documents
Procurmnen Notice In
Development Business and 
Local Newspapers
Submission of Tender DocsU
Bidding Period
Evaluation and Negotiations
ContrAct Signing
MIPLEMENTATION
Detaled Design
Supply and Erection
Commissonig
MONrTORING
>
Monthly Progres Reprt                  .                                                                                                                                                                                   0 
CD rm   i
cox



ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 9
_                                                                                                             ,                                   '......
i. 
................                                                                                                     
Z...............
Ii
|=        .'                                                          '                                                                    ......
.................
...............
......................................... .   .............................. ........................................................... ............-...........  ..................   .......... ............
...............
.v.Mi.!! ,.X ,                                                                                                                 I I
~~~~F~-                                                                                                        m
......................                                                                                    .......                                             ...........
0                                                                z~~1I
CY                            I 



Appendix 1 - Table K.                                                      MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Sewerage: Rehabilitation of Terminal Main and Main Pumping Station
YEAR                                  :1994             :1995                                :1996                               :1997                                :1998
QUARTER                                  3        4        I        2        3        4         1        2        3        4        1        2        3        4         1        2        3        4
PREPARATION
Development of Standiard
Equipment List
Development of Tendering
Documents
Procurement Notice In
Development Business and                           U
Local Newspapers
Submission of Tender DocsU
Bidding Period
Evaluation and Negotiations
Conn-aut Signing 
IMPLEMENTATION
Detaled Design
Supply and Erection
Commissioning
MONTrORING
Monthly Progress Reports
OQD ID  Z



ANNEX 1
Appendix I
Page 1 1
0 .2
_                                                                                                       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.g , , ....................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................. .
........ . .'
St 
... .. .       .. .. .. . ...... . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. ..... .. .. .. . .. .. .. . ...... . .. ... ...... . ....... ...... ... .. .. . .. .. .
CU. v.v. 
....                                                                             .                     .                 ' 
_              <   =         Z   H         *   A          g   g   n                  *         r       $        X ... .
-          Cfl...........        .............................................................  ...... .....
u~~~~~~~~
:z
0U                  <,    .               --   E
0-   ~~~~~-~~~'   ~~~~           07
-           -o             o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ZtCU~~~~~~~~l



Appendix 1 - Table M.                                                                      MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Support Training and Technical Assistance
YEAR                                        .1994  .               1995    .1996                                                                            1997                                       1998
QUARTER                                        3          4    I                   2          3          4          I         2          3          4          I         2          3          4          I         2          3          4
PREPARATION
Development of TOR
Developmen  of Tendering
Do=uments and Short
List of Cons.
Submission of Tender Docs;                  .
Biddtng Period
Evaluation and Negotiations
Contrct Signing                             ,
__. _ ...............................--..-----.. - ------------     .  --------- .   .   ...........    .. .._._._  .............    .............................    ..................  .............................................._............... . ...................
IMPLEMENTATION
Twinming Amngement
. .   . .  .  . .  .  . . .  .  .  .  . .  . .  .  .  .    .  .  . .  .  ...                                                                                                                  ......................._
MONITORING
Monthly Progress Reports
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :
(D c     m
2 X
XL
MX 



Appendix 2 of Annex 1
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS






Klalpeda Environment Project
REVENUE FORECAST AT CURRENT PRICES - 1,000 LTL
Budget .. ...  
Year                                1994    1994    1995       1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Water Volume, million m3
Domestic                         19.5    19.4    19.5       19.6    19.6    19.7    19.5    18.9    18.3    17.7    17.3
Industries & Institutions         9.3      9.3      9.3      9.3     9.3      9.5      9.8    10.0    10.3    10.6    10.9
otal                               28.8    28.7    28.8      28.8    28.9    29.2    29.2    29.0    28.6    28.3    28.2
Water Tariffs, LTLUm3 1)
Domestic                         0.15     0.21     0.29     0.37     0.49    0.61     0.72     0.83    0.95     1.10     1.27
Industries & Institutions        0.15     0.21     0.29     0.37     0.49    0.61     0.72     0.83    0.95     1.10     1.27
Water Revenue, 1 000 LTL
Domestic                        2,924    4,124    5,578    7,258    9,545   12,093   13,912   15,646   17,410   19,465   22,064
Industries & Institutions       1,391    1,969    2,653    3,440    4,515    5,845    6,995    8,290    9,854   11,703   13,842
Total Water Revenue                4,314    6,094    8,231    10,698   14,059   17,938   20,907   23,937   27,264   31,168   35,906
Wastewater Volume, million m3
Domestic                         19.1    19.2    19.3       19.4    19.4    19.5    19.3    18.8    18.1    17.5    17.2
Industries & Institutions         8.4      8.4      8.4      8.4     8.4      8.7      8.9     9.1      9.4      9.7      9.9
Total                               27.6    27.7    27.7      27.8    27.8    28.2    28.2    27.9    27.5    27.2    27.0
Wastewater Tariffs, LTLtm3 1)
Domestic                         0.20     0.28     0.48     0.62     0.81    1.03     1.20     1.39     1.60    1.85     2.14
Industries & Institutions        0.25     0.35     0.48     0.62     0.81    1.02     1.19     1.38     1.59    1.84     2.12
Wastewater Revenue, 1,000 LTL
Domestic                        3,825    5,447    9,284   12,081   15,633   20,129   23,153   26,033   28,956   32,363   36,677
Industries & Institutions       2,108    2,985    4,022    5,214    6,843    8,883   10,615   12,561   14,973   17,763   20,980
otal Wastewater Revenue           5,933    8,432   13,305   17,294   22,476   29,012   33,768   38,594   43,929   50,126   57,658
otal Gross Revenue               10,247   14,526   21,537   27,992   36,535   46,950   54,675   62,531   71,193   81,294   93,564
Domestic                        6,749    9,572   14,862   19,339   25,178   32,222   37,065   41,679   46,366   51,828   58,741
Industries & Institutions       3,499    4,954    6,675    8,653   11,357   14,728   17,610   20,852   24,827   29,466   34,822
Xl



Kialpeda Environment Project
PROFIT AND LOSS PROJECTION AT CURRENT PRICES - 1,000 LTL
year                                1994        1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000    2001        2002       2003
TARIFFS APPLIED, LTL/M3
Domestic Water                     0.21       0.29       0.37     0.49      0.61      0.72      0.83     0.95        1.10       127
Domestic Wastewater                0.28       0.48       0.62     0.81       1.03      1.20      1.39     1.60       1.85      2.14
Industrial Water                   0.21       0.29       0.37     0.49      0.61      0.72      0.83     0.95        1.10       1.27
- Industrial Wastewater             0.35        0.48      0.62      0.81      1.02      1.19      1.38     1.59       1.84       2.12
TOTAL GROSS REVENUE               14,526     21,537     27,992    36,535    46,950    54,675    62,531   71,193     81,294     93,564
- Resource and Pollution Taxes       642        639        638       635       638       634       625      612        602        597
TOTAL NET REVENUE                 13,884     20,897     27,355    35,901    46,313    54,041    61,906   70,581     80,692     92,967
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE COSTS
Personnel                        3,508      4,114      4,398     4,649     5,235     5,530     5,896    6,205      6,598      6,916
Chemicals                         171         196       207       217      1,149     1,199     1,240    1,277      1,318      1,372
Maintenance and Materials         643         737       779       814      2,604     2,717     3,326    3,952      4,808      5,385
Elecbrity and Fuel               3,407      4,686      5,449     5,337     6,314     6,509     6,763    6,988      7,013      7,031
Heating                           661        913       1,064     1,117     1,746     1,833     1,925    2,021      2,122      2,228
Service Payments                 1,302      1,492      1,577     1,649       79        83        86       88         91         95
Sludge Transport                    0           0         0         0       365       383       402      422        443        466
Miscellaneous                     385        442        469       492      1,183     1,242     1,304    1,370      1,438      1,510
Bad Debt Provision                726        861        840       731       939      1,093     1,251    1,424      1,626      1,871
Total Operabng Costs              10,804     13,442     14,782    15,006    19,614    20,589    22,193   23,746     25,457     26,873
GROSS PROFIT                       3,080      7,456     12,572    20,895    26,699    33,452    39,714   46,834     55,235     66,094
Depreciabon                      1,833      1,833      1,833     1,833     2,807     2,807     3,305    5,864      8,048     10,189
Interest Cost                       0        473       1,280     1,943     2,594     2,800     2,800    2,660      2,380      2,100
Foreign Exchange Loss               0         147       455       750      1,088     1,268     1,363    2,848      2,886      2,909
Income Tax                        436       1,751      3,151     5,729     7,073     9,302    11,286   12,412     14,672     17,813
NET PROFIT                           810      3,252      5,852    10,640    13,136    17,275    20,959   23,051     27,248     33,082
kG  (



Kialpeda Environment Project
FUNDS FLOW PROJECTION AT CURRENT PRICES, 1,000 LTL
Year                           1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003
OURCE OF FUNDS
ross Profit                  3,080     7,456    12,572    20,895    26,699    33,452    39,714    46,834    55,235    66,094
rant Financing                        13,560    13,760     3,080        0         0          0        0          0         0
Disbursements
- Development Loan I           0      5,560     8,760     8,520     5,160        0         0         0         0         0
- Development Loan II          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Municipal Equtty                  0     3,480    17,560     6,400       460        20         0         0         0         0
TOTAL SOURCES                 3,080    30,056    52,652    38,895    32,319    33,472    39,714    46,834    55,235    66,094
APPUCATION OF FUNDS
Proposed Investments                   22,055    42,383    18,942     4,418    18,413    41,285    47,341    41,129    35,553
Debt Service
- Principal                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0      2,800     2,800     2,800
- Interest+Charges             0       473      1,280     1,943     2,594     2,800     2,800     2,660     2,380     2,100
Total Debt Service                0       473     1,280     1,943     2,594     2,800     2,800     5,460     5,180     4,900
Foreign Exchange Loss             0       147       455       750     1,088     1,268     1,363     2,848     2,886     2,909
Income Tax                      436     1,751     3,151     5,729     7,073     9,302    11,286    12,412    14,672    17,813
hange in NWC                  111        134      (53)      (243)     517       (252)      889     1,294     1,137       898
OTALAPPLICATIONS               548     2,977     6,115    10,122    13,866    15,918    19,138    27,474    29,056    31,420
Surplus/(Deficit) *           2,532    27,079    46,538    28,772    18,453    17,554    20,576    19,360    26,179    34,674
Debt Service Ratio              0.0       9.0       5.2       5.4       5.0       5.6       6.5       3.8       4.7       5.8
Pz> 
ro  X
x'
reserved prnmarily for the phase 11 investment in yr 2000



Klalpeda Environment Project
BALANCE SHEET PROJECTION AT CURRENT PRICES, 1,000 LTL
As at 31.12.                  1993       1994      1995      1996       1997      1998      1999      2000
ASSETS
Total Current Assets         2,681     5,667    25,766    20,179    25,857    43,019    44,846    28,039
- Cash & Deposits           471       600        747       821       834      1,090     1,144     1,233
- Accounts Receivable      1,650     1,801     2,054     2,053      1,876     2,179     2,002     1,849
- ST-investments            205      2,712    22,289    16,564    22,398    38,587    40,509    22,599
- Inventories               355       553        677       740       750      1,163     1,192     2,358
Net Fixed Assets            73,774    75,446    95,667   136,216   153,325   154,936   170,541   208,521
TOTAL ASSETS                76,455    81,112   121,433   156,395   179,182   197,955   215,387   236,560
DEBT & OWN CAPITAL
Accounts Payable               706       900      1,120     1,232     1,250      1,634     1,716     1,849
Other Short Term Debt          958      1,130     1,300     1,378     1,447      1,519     1,595     1,675
LT Debt Repayment                          0         0          0         0         0         0      2,800
Total Current Uabilities     1,664     2,031      2,420     2,610     2,697      3,154     3,311     6,324
Total Long Term Debt             0         0      5,560    14,320    22,840    28,000    28,000    25,200
Reserve                        369       369    13,929    27,689    30,769    30,769    30,769    30,769
Capital                     74,422    77,902    95,462   101,862   102,322   102,342   102,342   102,342
+ Balance Carried Forward        0         0       810      4,062     9,914    20,554    33,690    50,965
Profit/Loss of the Year        0       810      3,252     5,852    10,640    13,136    17,275    20,959
|otal Own Capital          74,791    79,081   113,453   139,465   153,645   166,801   184,076   205,036
DEBT & OWN CAPITAL          76,455    81,112   121,433   156,395   179,182   197,955   215,387   236,560
C-
t- 



Annex 2
ACTION PLAN






ANNEX 2
Page I
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
ACTION PLAN
Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise
A.    Introduction
1.    The management of Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise (KSWSE) has decided to
initiate the preparation and implementation of an Action Plan to improve KSWSE's
operational, commercial, and financial performance, to the enterprise to:
a) improve the quality of its services;
b) internally generate funds to finance its operations, maintenance and infrastructure
improvements; and
c) service the repayment of the loan from the World Bank
2.    A number of actions are needed to enable KSWSE to achieve its objectives are
specified in this Action Plan. Issues and needs of specific importance that require
special attention have been identified, and these include: (a) the working framework
between Klaipeda City Council and KSWSE; (b) a long-term enterprise strategy; (c)
tariff level and structure; (d) need of operational management assistance; (e) service
quality; (f) revenue collection; (g) recording and budgetary processes; (h) accounting
systems and principles; (i) KSWSE's functional structure; and (j) revision of position
descriptions, including that of the director.
B.    Actions to be Taken
3.    The KSWSE would undertake the following activities under the Action Plan:
(a) Establishment of an Autonomous Utility. Development of an efficient,
consistent and reliable framework for cooperation between the Klaipeda City
Council and KSWSE. The framework be developed consistent with applicable
legislation and regulatory framework. This proposed framework would be
prepared by July 1, 1995. It is anticipated that the implementation of the
framework would be completed on or before December 31, 1997.
(b) Enterprise Strategy. A long term enterprise strategy would be prepared,
including projected future capital investment programs and policies for



ANNEX 2
Page 2
elimination of defects, quality improvement, tariffs, revenue collection and
organizational improvements. This would include the preparation of a
management program that would identify tasks, allocate resources and staff
responsibilities and set quantified performance targets. A draft strategy would be
completed by July 1. 1997.
(c) Contracting of Management Assistance. This Action Plan would be
implemented with the help of a twinning arrangement
with .Terms of reference for the twinning
arrangement have been developed in coordination with the World Bank. The
contract would be formalized by February 1, 1995.
(d) Performance Standards. Developing a set of quality standards for each service.
It is understood that it is neither financially .ior technically feasible to immediately
adopt corresponding European Union environmental standards but it is expected
that a program of target dates for phased implementation of these standards should
form part of KSWSE's strategy. This set of phased quality standards goals
would be developed by January 1. 1998. For this particular project, the Project
Monitoring Guidelines (Attachment 1) would be utilized in accordance with the
World Bank Project Agreement.
(e) Bill Collection. Improving revenue collection by taking control of collection
systems, pressuring defaulters, obtaining additional authority for debt recovery
through the court system and providing incentives to customers who pay
promptly. A plan would be developed by December 1. 1997.
(f) Budgetary and Account Systems. Improve all recording and budgetary
processes and systems of accounting. This would include staff and work plans
and budget centers and monthly reviews. New computerized systems would be
introduced in conjunction with extensive training to relevant staff. The new
systems should be in place on or before January 1. 1998. In addition, a new set
of accounting principles should be drawn up to define capital and revenue terms,
to codify transactions by their type and to provide clear procedures. These
principles would be formulated while setting up the new accounting systems and
would be expected to be finalized on or before January 1, 1998.
(g) New Tariff Schedule. Preparation of a new tariff schedule, based on a detailed
tariff study by an international consultant, and implementation of the
recommendations of the study. The tariff schedule would be expected to be
constructed to: (i) recover KSWSE's capital and operational and maintenance
costs; (ii) encourage customers to conserve water; and (iii) be affordable. The
tariff structure should be optimized in terms of user



ANNEX 2
Page 3
categories, tariff incrementality and standing charges. The study would determine
the minimum tariff adjustments required to repay the World Bank loan in real
terms as shown in attached table Klaipeda: Proposed Tariff Rates (Attachment 2).
The tariff study would be completed on or before January 1, 1996. In the
meantime, the attached tariff adjustment schedule would be utilized as a guideline
for regional adjustments.
(h) KSWSE Organization and Staff Structure. The functional structure of KSWSE
would be revised to take account of new and/or modified functions and to improve
the pattern of managerial control. A manpower plan would be prepared to clarify
responsibilities, define skill requirements and initiate staff development and
recruitment systems. This would be completed by July 1, 1997.
(i) Position Descriptions. The position descriptions for KSWSE, including that of
the Director, should be revised to more accurately reflect current and planned
functions and duties of the posts. The revision would be completed by January 1,
1997.
C.    Environmental Monitoring
4.     Environmental Monitoring. KSWSE would establish, in coordination with the
Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Regional Environment Protection Department,
an environmental monitoring program to evaluate the performance of the collection system,
treatment processes and status of receiving waters. This would be completed by January 1.
1997.






Annex 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE
- A: TWINNING ARRANGEMENTS
- B: WATER AND SEWERAGE TARIFF STUDY
- C: PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE
- D: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT






ANNEX 3A
Page I
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Water and Wastewater Component
Tenrs of Reference for "Twinning Arrangement"
Background
1.    The coast of Lithuania is dominated to the south by the Kursiu lagoon which receives the
waters of the Nemunas River before discharging them into the Baltic Sea. Near the center of the coast
at the mouth of the lagoon is the city of Klaipeda, and to the north - the direction of the prevailing
winds and currents - are long sandy beaches extending to the border. As Lithuania's only port,
Klaipeda plays an important role in the economy of the country while the Kursiu lagoon serves as
critical habitat for wildlife and fisheries; the beaches north of Klaipeda provide a major national and
regional recreational and tourist attraction.
2.    At present, the sustainable use of the existing water resources is threatened by adverse effects
resulting from the discharge of under-treated municipal and industrial wastewater. The City of
Klaipeda is now discussing with the World Bank, and the Governments of Finland and Sweden,
potential funding of investments for technical, financial and institutional improvements of its water
and wastewater services. These discussions are based on detailed technical, financial and institutional
studies assessing the situation of Klaipeda Water and Wastewater Enterprise (KSWSE) and providing
the company with recommendations of potential improvements. These studies have been prepared by
Rust and Soil & Water consultants (Finland and Sweden), financed jointly by the Ministries of
Environment in Finland and Sweden.
3.    When planning for the implementation of possible improvements in water and wastewater
services in Klaipeda, it is important to bear in mind, that water and sewerage services in the country
have only recently been decentralized from state responsibility to the responsibility of the appropriate
municipalities. Therefore, water and sewerage facilities are not yet autonomous in accordance with
market-oriented management practices but are still centrally managed and function as direct extensions
of municipal governments. One of the principal obstacles in promoting the creation of autonomous
enterprises which could provide cost-effective, affordable municipal services, is the municipalities'
lack of experience in market-oriented operational and financial management practices. Consequently,
in order to facilitate the development of the utility into an autonomous, service-oriented and efficiently
run enterprise with modern management practices, external support is required. As a part of the
proposed Klaipeda Environment Project, it is recommended that an organized Twinning Arrangement
between KSWSE and a reputable foreign water supply and sewerage company be formed in order to
achieve the overall project objectives. This document sets out the terms of reference for such an
arrangement.



ANNEX 3A
Page 2
Objectives
4.    The main objective of this Twinning Arrangement would be to improve KSWSE's overall
performance through changes in it's operational and financial management practices. These changes
would be in accordance with an Action Plan/Business Plan, which would be developed by KSWSE
and agreed by the Bank. The overall objective of the Action Plan/Business Plan would be to define
and formulate a strategic vision of the short- and long-term future of the company in terms of its
operations, legal identity, organizational setup and financial condition. A particularly important
objective for this task would be to provide KSWSE with a commercial attitude and a sense of service
directed at providing the best water supply possible to its customers at an affordable cost without
further municipal or government subsidies in the future.
Scope of Work
5.    The twinning partner, in close coordination with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
would support and assist KSWSE to implement the Action Plan, specifically with regard to
institutional strengthening and human resources development. This coordination would take place
during the first three years of the proposed project implementation period. Following this term, the
"new" KSWSE would be expected to operate in accordance with modern utility management practices
and be fully equipped with computerized management information systems. The twinning partner
would bring to KSWSE, state-of-the-art know-how in utility management, administration and
operation.
Worldnu Arraneements
6.    All activities and tasks under this arrangement are intended to be carried out in close
coordination of both parties. Counterpart systems would be applied whenever appropriate and the
participation of a maximum number of KSWSE staff would be emphasized. The twinning partner
would: provide advisors recruited from its own staff and/or outside the utility; provide minor
equipment; and subcontract consultants as and when necessary. In subcontracting and procuring of
equipment and software, the twinning partner would follow the guidelines of the World Bank for the
use of Consulting Services. The selection of consultants would be done jointly with KSWSE.
Cooperation under this Twinning Arrangement would be regarded as a binding agreement between the
two parties. A contract specifying duties, responsibilities, and fees and expenses, would be
established and agreed between the KSWSE and the twinning partner. Both parties would nominate a
twinning coordinator to be jointly responsible for the execution of the agreement. This contract and
its execution would be supervised by the PIU and World Bank supervision missions. Cooperation
would be initiated by drafting and agreeing upon a specified work plan which would include a
detailed time schedule and budget. The work plan, time schedule and budget would be cleared by the
PIU and submitted to the Project Steering Committee and the Bank.
Reporting
7.    The Twinning Arrangement would follow the same reporting requirements as the PIU. The
twinning coordinators would be jointly responsible for preparing annual financial reports and annual



ANNEX 3A
Page 3
progress reports for each activity included under the twinning agreement. These reports would be
cleared by the PIU and submitted to the Project Steering Committee and the Bank.
Main Tasks
8.     The main task of the twinning partner is to further refine and improve KSWSE's Action
Plan/Business Plan in order to create a lon-term strategic vision of the future of the company. The
operational experience and knowledge of the twinning partner, including administrative,
organizational and financial competencies would be transferred to KSWSE through support in the
following three main areas: (a) Formulation and implementation of all Management and
Administration Procedures and Systems; (b) Formulation and implementation of a program for
System Rehabilitation and Operational Improvements; and (c) Formulation and implementation of a
Training Program.
(a) Management and Administrative Procedures and Systems
(i)   Obiective: The main objective of this component would be to improve existing, and
implement new management and information/administrative procedures and systems
within KSWSE to assist with the transformation of the company into an efficiently
run entity. An important objective would be to provide KSWSE with a commercial
attitude and a sense of service aimed toward providing the best water supply
possible to its customers. The tasks within this component would provide the means
to achieve those objectives.
(ii) Scope: Support would be provided for the:
- preparation of an organization and human resources development plan, including
definition of tasks and job descriptions, assessment of work performance and
conformity with the tasks;
- identification of an appropriate computerization strategy, considering budgetary
constraints, computer systems expertise available in Latvia and training needs.
The strategy would include hardware and software specifications, modular growth
and compatibility, software development standards, programming and interface
languages, network requirements, remote access, database integrity, etc.;
- development and improvement all of KSWSE's managerial, administrative,
information and operating functions. This would include reporting formats for
internal and external parties and design or adaptation of existing modern and
appropriate computerized applications for the following functions:
- financial management (accounting, budgeting, financial planning, etc.);
- custom-oriented commercial management (meter reading, customer master file,
billing, collection, customer services, consumer census, consumer education
programs, etc.);



ANNEX 3A
Page 4
- supply management (requirements planning, purchasing, inventory control etc.);
- administration (budget controls, payroll, performance, etc.)
- personnel management (recruiting, promotion, remuneration etc.);
- operations and maintenance management (production control, work-orders
generation and control, collection of water and wastewater data, etc.);
- development of a Management Information System (MIS), which will allow timely
access to all information required for effective control and management of the
company. The computerization of the managerial, administrative and operating
functions would be developed in an integrated manner. Any databases would
require the storage of information in a common format for future retrieval and
analysis. It is proposed that the implementation of a Geographic Information
System (GIS) is considered; and
- development of a reporting system for the follow-up of capital investment with the
objective of providing the company's management with appropriate tools for:
making effective and efficient use of existing assets; monitoring and controlling its
investment programs; and accounting for the impact of future renewals.
(iii) Training: It is expected that drafting new managerial and administrative functions
would be done jointly with the twinning partner and KSWSE. Most of the
knowledge transfer from the twinning partner to KSWSE would take place through
visits to the twinning company and on-the-job training during the process of
carrying out the different tasks under the component. However, specialized training
through external consultants or attendance in external training courses for utilizing
computers and associated software would be required as an initial step of
implementation.
(b) System Rehabilitation Programn, and Operational Improvements
(i)   Objective: The main objective of this component would be to technically improve
operations and maintenance practices in the water and wastewater system including
the plant and distribution systems;
(ii)  Scope: Operation and maintenance water loss reduction, equipment maintenance,
etc. and the design or adaptation of existing modern and appropriate computerized
applications:
- system repair and improvements;
- formulation of a network optimization program;
- supporting the implementation of a leak detection and repair program to be
initiated with support from the Regional EU PHARE Program. This includes the



ANNEX 3A
Page 5
establishment of a reliable record of system leaks, their causes and appropriate
repair methods;
- system mapping; and
- demand management (development of a water loss reduction program).
(iii) Training: Most of the knowledge transfer from the twinning partner would take
place through on-the-job training during the process ot carrying out the different
tasks under the component. Specialized training through external consultants or
attendance in external training courses and visits to the twinning company would be
applied as appropriate. Training should be provided to KSWSE staff on the use of
leakage detection equipment as well as on establishing leakage detection routines.
(c) Training
(i)   Objective: The objective of the training component is to provide KSWSE staff with
the skills and knowledge required to enable the company to improve its operational,
commercial, and financial performance.
(ii)  Scope of the Training component: A rapid assessment of training needs within
KSWSE would be made. The training component would be based on the Action
Plan and draw upon the twinning partner's knowledge and experience. An adequate
composition of study tours, external course attendance, classroom and on-the-job
training would be designed. Training of trainers within KSWSE would be
emphasized and the provision of this required training would be initiated
immediately.  The results of this component would be evaluated every year by the
twinning coordinators and the PIU, and the lessons learned would be incorporated in
the formulation of the subsequent annual training plan.
The training program would reach all levels of the organization covering technical,
administrative and management training. Three types of training modes would be
utilized:
- On-the-iob traininz. Training needs at all levels would be addressed by on-the-job
training. This training would consist of planned activities conducted at the work
site using job tasks as training for the staff. The twinning partner would assist
by providing the necessary technical content to the activities, and in providing
training to potential future trainers at KSWSE. In addition to training in their
own utility, the trainers could be trained at the twinning company.
- Training by external consultants. Training in areas such as information systems;
including accounting, budgeting and general computer knowledge, could be
provided by selected specialized external consultants working under contract to the
company.
- Educational visits overseas to modern, efficiently-run water companies, primarily
the twinning partner. Introducing new managerial and operational approaches



ANNEX 3A
Page 6
would require that the company's staff visit appropriate water companies outside
of Lithuania. Selected staff could study at the twinning agency, following
preparation of a detailed training plan with clear objectives. This activity would
be essential because the staff upon their return would be responsible for working
by themselves to initiate and implement up-to-date managerial and operational
practices. The individual training plans would be prepared in consultation with
and approved by the Project Implementation Unit.



ANNEX 3B
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
Objective
1.     The objective of the tariff study is to design a tariff system for Klaipeda State Water Supply
Enterprise (KSWSE) which meets the following criteria: (a) allows the entity to generate sufficient
cash flow for meeting its financial requirements; (b) provides incentives for conserving water and for
undertaking pollution control and abatement activities; (c) reflects as closely as possible the costs to
the economy of meeting increasing demands for water and sewerage services; and (d) ensures that
services will be affordable to the whole population.
Scope
2.     The scope of the tariff study will include:
(a)    estimating the incremental costs for the water supp!y system, resulting from building
new capacity, rehabilitating and updating infrastructure, reducing unaccounted-for
water, and operating and maintaining the infrastructure;
(b)    estimating the incremental costs for the sewerage system, resulting from building new
capacity and operating and maintaining the infrastructure. The capacity cost includes
investments for sewerage connections, collectors and pumping stations, interceptors,
and final disposition and treatment;
(c)    estimating the incremental cost of servicing different types of customers with water
supply;
(d)    estimating the incremental cost of servicing different types of customers with sewerage
services, taking into account both the quantity and quality of the effluent, so that the
costs of the sewage system and treatment can be equitably and efficiently distributed
between domestic and industrial dischargers and between the various industrial firms;
(e)    estimating the financial requirements for KSWSE meeting preestablished targets such
as a viable cash position, contribution to maintenance and investments from internal
generation of funds, provision for bad debts, and debt service;
(f)    estimating the customer's ability to pay for the services in the context of anticipated
increase of other utilities (e.g. heating and electricity); and



ANNEX 3B
Page 2
(g)   training of relevant KSWSE staff in the development and use of cost estimation
models.
Output
3.    The study, based on the estimates enumerated in para. 2 should recommend:
(a)    alternative tariff policies which meet the requirements outlined in para. 1;
(b)    a plan of action and strategy to implement the recommended tariff policies, to the
extent that Klaipeda and KSWSE's authorities have the legal capability to do it; and
(c)    ways in which the public can be made more aware of the need of implementing the
proposed tariff policy.



ANNEX 3C
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Water and Wastewater Component
Terms of Reference for Project Steering Committee
1.    Objective. To facilitate implementation of the Project, the Ministry of Environmental
Protection (MOEP) would establish a Project Steering Committee (PSC) which would meet
periodically to provide policy guidance, support coordination with multilateral and bilateral
financiers, and facilitate financial and technical support for the project from Lithuanian
sources. While the PSC would provide general guidance, it should be recognized that
responsibility for implementation of the Project would rest as follows:
(a)    Component 1. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component -- Klaipeda State
Water Supply Enterprise (KSWSE) with support of the Project Implementation Unit;
and
(b)    Component 2. Environmental Management Component - MOEP.
2.    Membership of the PSC. The membership of the PSC would include, but not be limited to,
the following:
(a)    MOEP (chair);
(b)    Ministry of Finance;
(c)    Environmental Advisor to the Government;
(d)    Environmental Advisor to the Nature Protection Committee of the Parliament;
(e)    Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction;
(f)    State Tourism Department;
(g)    Municipality of Klaipeda;
(h)    KSWSE; and
(i)    Representatives of local government authorities where environmental management
activities would be undertaken.



ANNEX 3C
Page 2
In addition, a representative from The World Bank office in Vilnius would serve as an ex-officio
nmeber for purposes of coordination.
3.    KY Tasks of the PSC. The PSC would have the following tasks:
(a)    provide overall guidance for the Project;
(b)   facilitate national and local coordination on project related issues;
(c)   facilitate coordination with EU PHARE, Finland, Sweden, World Bank and other
foreign funding organizations providing funding for the Project;
(d)   facilitate the availability of financial resources required from Lithuanian sources are
made available to the implementing agencies in a timely manner;
(e)    periodically review Project expenditures and costs to assure they are consistent with
the objectives of the project; and
(f)    periodically review compliance with procurement guidelines of main Project financers.



ANNEX 3D
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Water and Wastewater Component
Terms of Reference for Project Implementation Unit
The duties of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would include:
(a)    On behalf of KSWSE, coordinate relations with the World Bank, the bi-lateral
donors, consultants and the contractors during the project implementation phase;
(b)    Advise KSWSE and Municipality regarding the use of the World Bank loan and the
bi-lateral grants;
(c)    On behalf of KSWSE, prepare short lists of consultants to be invited to submit
proposals, draft terms of reference, issue invitations, respond to questions raised,
prepare addenda as needed, evaluate consultant and contractor prequalifications as
well as proposals, and help support the management of KSWSE with the negotiation
and signing of the resulting contracts;
(d)    Follow-up the implementation of the recommendations of supervision reports of the
World Bank;
(e)    Not later than 60 days after each calendar quarter ending on March 31, June 30,
September 30 and December 31, prepare for the Bank a consolidated report on project
implementation activities for the preceding quarter covering the physical progress
measured against construction and procurement schedules, institutional development
activities, and monitoring indicators acceptable to the Bank;
(f)    Monitor project implementation and expenditures, and prepare and submit
disbursement requests and progress reports on implementation. Copies of
disbursement requests should be submitted to the Ministry of Finance;
(g)    Prepare terms-of-reference and tender documents for consultancy contracts, (e.g
contract coordination/technical support and institutional strengthening consultancies)
and monitor the training to be provided under these contracts;
(h)    Follow all aspects of the implementation of the Water and Wastewater Improvement
Component of the Project and when needed prepare written warnings about possible
problems and delays as well as proposing technical, financial and institutional
measures needed to improve project implementation;
(i)    Coordinate the services among suppliers and contractors for timely deliveries; and



ANNEX 3D
Page 2
(j)    Prepare the special reports and update periodically the action plans, required as a
consequence of the World Bank Loan and Project Agreements, the bi-lateral grant
agreements and the subsidiary loan agreements. All relevant reports should also be
sent to the Project Steering Committee.



Annex 4
WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS






ANNEX 4
Page I
WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A.    Overview
1.    Introduction. Preparation of the proposed project has included preparation of an environmental
review consistent with the requirements of the Lithuanian "Rules for the Elaboration of 'Environmental
Protection' Section of a Study (RSN 153-93)" and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive
4.01, "Environmental Assessment" for a project in environmental screening category "B."  The
environmental review was prepared by specialists from a joint venture of the firms Rust VA Project
(Sweden), Soil and Water (Finland) and Baltic Consulting Group (Lithuania) with financial support from
the Ministries of Environment of Sweden and Finland.
2.    Consultation Process. The environmental review for the proposed project was prepared in
coordination with the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MOEP) and the local environment office in
Klaipeda. In addition, consultations have been conducted by both the Bank and the consultants with
representatives of the Municipality of Klaipeda (MOK), Klaipeda State Water and Wastewater Enterprise
(KSWWE) and local health authorities.
3.    Procedures for the Environmental Management Component. It should be noted that the activities
to be supported under the complementary Environmental Management Component of the proposed project
have been placed in environmental screening category "B" and would have environmental reviews
prepared as an element of the planning process for the proposed activities. These environmental
documents would be subject to review by the MOEP, local environmental authorities and full-time
environmental personnel assigned to the World Bank Regional Office in Vilnius.
B.    Lithuanian Strategy
4.    Priorities. The Government of Lithuania (GOL) has identified investments in environmental
infrastructure as a priority area for public investment. This position was confirmed by the Public
Expenditure Review recently prepared by the GOL and the World Bank and by the Prime Minister at the
"Public Investment Conference" held in Paris in May 1994. The GOL has adopted frameworks provided
in the Environmental Action Program for Central and Eastern Europe and the Baltic Sea Environmental
Program for the development of their environmental strategy and identification of priorities. In this
context, the MOEP has identified three priority areas: (a) collection and treatment of municipal
wastewater from Kaunas, Klaipeda, Palanga, Siauliai and Vilnius; (b) management of hazardous waste
in a phased manner; and (c) rehabilitation of contaminated sites following preparation of risk analyses
to determine priorities.
5.    Water and Wastewater Sector. Within the water and wastewater area the GOL is taking action
to: decentralize responsibility for the provision of water and wastewater services to municipal
governments; strengthen the management capacity of utilities; and complete partially finished investments
and undertake new priority investments. It is recognized by the GOL that complementary measures are



ANNEX 4
Page 2
needed to reduce water consumption, stem losses from leaks, contain infiltration, control industrial
wastewater discharges, and effectively manage sludge if these interventions are to be cost effective and
have good performance standards.
6.    ,Support for Major Cities. With regard to the three major cities of Vilnius, Kaunas and Klaipeda,
the GOL strategy is to support, on a priority basis, complementary actions to address current wastewater
discharge problems which collectively are the major sources of point source pollution of the Nemunas
River, the Kursiu Lagoon, the northern Lithuanian and southern Latvian coasts, and which also contribute
to the pollution of the southeastern Baltic Sea. In addition to the Klaipeda project proposed for World
Bank financing, the GOL is also actively seeking international support for improvements in Kaunas and
Vilnius. Currently, the Government of Lithuania (GOL) is engaged in discussions with the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO), and
Stockholm Water concerning a potential project for the first phase of water and wastewater improvement
in Kaunas; this would complement the proposed project in Klaipeda. The GOL and Municipality of
Vilnius have also been in discussions with a number of organizations concerning development of a project
to support completion of the wastewater treatment plant for Vilnius and complementary improvements
in the water supply system. These actions would be complemented by on-going GOL funded activities
to support improvement of wastewater management in Palanga on the north central coast of Lithuania.
C.    Proposed Project
7.    Alajor Elements of the Component. The proposed project would support a series of investment
actions for rehabilitation and expansion of water and wastewater services provided by the KSWWE. These
include: (a) rehabilitation of existing facilities for water supply, water treatment, water distribution,
wastewater collection, wastewater conveyance and sludge management; and (b) the completion of facilities
for the treatment of wastewater, currently under construction at an existing site to the southeast of
Klaipeda. In addition, the project includes support for the strengthening of KSWWE through a twinning
arrangement with an international utility. A detailed summnary of these components and their anticipated
costs is provided in the description of the Water and Wastewater Improvement Component in the Project
Implementation Plan.
8.     Potential Environmental Impacts. Implementation of the proposed project would: (a) reduce
discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater to the Baltic Sea; (b) restore and enhance water
quality in Klaipeda and adjacent recreational beaches; (c) improve water supply and sanitation services
in Klaipeda; and (d) improve the operational efficiency and management systems of KSWWE. The
complementary Environment Management Component would promote environmentally sustainable
management and development of the Kursiu Lagoon and adjacent coastal areas. Implementation of the
proposed project is anticipated to have a positive environmental impact through improvements in the
reliability of water supply, better water quality, reduced water losses and infiltration, expansion of
wastewater collection, upgrading and expansion of wastewater treatment, and provisions for proper sludge
management.
9.     The proposed Project would reduce the total BOD emission from Klaipeda by about 65 percent,
or 2,850 tons/year. When the new wastewater treatment plant, currently under construction, has been



ANNEX 4
Page 3
completed, wastewater discharges not currently included under the Project will be able to be treated
without increasing the size of the plant. In the future, when additional aeration equipment is included,
the reduction will rise to 3,500 tons/year. Project supported wastewater collection interventions would
result in the collection and treatment of approximately 4,000 m3/day of wastewater originating in Klaipeda
city and an additional 2,000 m3/day from the town of Gargzdai, which is currently discharged without
any treatment into the marine environment. Implementation of the proposed project is also anticipated to
result in a significant decline in the levels of coliform bacteria found in the bathing waters immediately
to the north of Klaipeda.
10.   Environmental Issues and Proposed Mitigation Actions. The following environmental issues and
mitigation actions have been reviewed by the GOL, Bank and consultants in the course of project
preparation:
(a)    Color of Water Supply from Well Field No. 3. The raw water which is supplied to Well
Field No. 3 from the Kaiser Wilhelm Canal is highly humic and even after treatment by
sand filtering through an "artificial groundwater" process, the water remains discolored
and perceived by many residents to present a health risk. Under the mitigation plan for
the proposed project, an activity would be supported to review cost-effective alternatives
for addressing this problem based on the experience of adjacent countries which have
similar problems with raw water supplies affected by high natural humus levels. The
proposed project would also include funds for testing alternative types of treatments on
a demonstration basis. A review would also be conducted to assess the potential
environmental impacts from proposed diversion of runoff from marshes and wetlands
upstream of the raw water supply directly into the Kursiu Lagoon to reduce the humic
content of the raw water source which has been proposed by some Lithuanian experts.
(b)    Control of Industrial Wastewater Discharges. The Klaipeda wastewater system has
traditionally received a large amount of industrial wastewaters, especially from the
cardboard plant which is currently closed. This problem has been recognized by KSWWE
and measures have been taken to equip the cardboard plant with its own collector; this
collector would be directed to the old wastewater treatment plant which would serve as
a dedicated treatment facility. Under the mitigation plan for the proposed project, an
agreement would be reached between KSWWE and the World Bank concerning the
development and implementation of procedures to restrict the discharge of industrial
wastewaters to the collecting system, promote wastewater minimization and facilitate
effective pre-treatment on-site at industrial facilities.
(c)    Site of the Wastewater Treatment Plant. The old wastewater treatment plant and the
partially completed new plant are co-located at an isolated site to the southeast of
Klaipeda. The site was selected and developed over 20 years ago and KSWWE has large
land reserves which are adequate for the expansion of additional facilities. The anticipated
land use in the area adjacent to the treatment plants is either for field crops or forestry.
There are no permanent settlements or houses near the treatment plant site. Given the
large fixed investment in the partially completed new treatment plant and the fact that the
municipal collector network to the plant site and the conveyance facilities from the plant



ANNEX 4
Page 4
site have been recently completed, it is not deemed cost effective to consider development
of an alternative site.
(d)    Sludge Management. The proposed project includes a sludge management plan; however,
additional investigations should be undertaken as part of the environmental mitigation
plan to establish a long-term strategy for sludge disposal. The current sludge disposal
site, provided that sludge dewatering technology is used, has sufficient space to allow for
disposal for a decade. Given the anticipated changes in land prices and land use in the
Klaipeda region, decisions should be made in the near term if additional land is to be
acquired at a reasonable price. In addition, given the lack of experience of KSWWE
personnel with the operation of modern types of sludge management equipment,
specialized training and periodic supervision would be required under the proposed
project.
(e)    Treated Wastewater Discharge. The treated wastewaters from the plant to be completed
under the proposed project would be discharged from a recently finished gravity outfall
pipeline 80 meters off the shoreline in the southern commercial harbor into the Klaipeda
Strait. The consultants reviewed alternative sites for the outfall discharge point. These
included: (i) extension of the outfall to the main stream of the Klaipeda Strait to the
western shore of the island located in the middle of the Klaipeda strait (Kiaules Nugara);
(ii) extension of the outfall across the Klaipeda Strait and the Kursiu Spit to the shoreline
of the Baltic Sea; and (iii) extension through the city area to the mouth of Klaipeda Strait
to a discharge point on the shoreline of the Baltic Sea. Review of these alternatives
indicated that (ii) and (iii) were not technically viable due to the potential adverse impacts
associated with crossing the Kursiu Spit which is a protected area, the cost associated
with the extension of the system though the town, and in both cases the conflict between
the proposed discharge points and the recreational use of the beaches. As an element of
the mitigation plan, measures would be taken to further review the technical and financial
feasibility of KSWWE implementing alternative (i) at some point in the future when
adequate funds are available to support this extension, preliminarily estimated to cost
US$4.0-5.0 million.
(f)    Protection of the Raw Water Supply for Well Field No. 3. The Kaiser Wilhelm Canal,
which is the raw water supply for Well Field No. 3, discharges into the southern part of
Klaipeda harbor, creating a hydraulic connection between the wastewater discharge point
and the raw water intake. Under normal conditions prevailing currents move northward
and the risk of saline waters, including treated wastewater, entering the canal are
minimal. Under certain conditions which exist an estimated seven days a year, the winds
and currents drive the saline water southward and two flood gates need to be closed to
prevent intrusion of saline water into the canal. The mitigation plan would include further
review of two cost effective options, individually or in combination, which could be
implemented in the short-term with support from the proposed project: (a) closing the
flood gate system more tightly during the entire period of saline water intrusion events;
and (b) installation of a weir or bottom dam at the end of the water intake channel in
order to create a barrier and enough height difference between the channel and the sea



ANNEX 4
Page 5
level to control the risk of saline water intrusions. Either of these options would be
accompanied by a routine observation program to determine when action would be
needed to protect the raw water intake from the risk of contamination by saline water,
including treated wastewater.
11.   Proposed Monitoring Plan. The environmuental monitoring plan for the proposed project would
include: (a) a routine program for water and wastewater monitoring to be conducted by KSWWE to
support management and quality control of its operations; (b) complementary monitoring to be conducted
by the MOEP and local environment office to assess the quality of receiving waters and adjacent areas
of the Klaipeda Channel and Baltic Sea; and (c) a seasonal monitoring program to be conducted by
Klaipeda Hygiene Center concerning raw water quality and fecal coliform levels in coastal waters used
for bathing.
12.   Institutional Strengthening and Human Resources Development. The proposed project includes
use of a "twinning arrangement" to support institutional strengthening and human resources development
activities for KSWWE. These activities would include training for KSWWE personnel in the collection,
analysis and application of water and wastewater quality monitoring to the operation of the utility.
Support would also be provided for training of personnel from the Klaipeda environment office and
KSWWE in the use of water quality data for the evaluation of trends in environmental quality and
assessment of the impact of the wastewater discharges on the marine environment.






Annex 5
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET






ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country:                              LITHUANIA                    Project ID No:                        7LTHPA020
Project Name:                        Klaipeda Environ.             Total Project Cost:                  $23.10 M
Appraisal Date:                      June 27, 1994
Board Date:                          December 2, 1994              Task Manager:                        S. Lintner
Managing Division:                   EC4NR                         Sector:                               Envirornment
Lending Instruments:                 SIL                           Status:                              Lending
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank:  N/A
EA Category (A/B/C):                 B                             Date Assigned:                       July 21, 1993
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated          October 21, 1994
(Please do not leave any items blank: use "N/A" or "To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Components: (presents description of project components)
Regional environmental management project including: (a) rehabilitation and expansion of Klaipeda water and wastewater system; (b)
institutional strengthening and training to support establishment of autonomous water and wastewater utility; (c) support for
implementation of management plan for Kursiu Lagoon and adjacent coastal areas; and (d) actions for planned development of
recreational and nature-based tourism in Kursiu Lagoon and adjacent coastal areas.
Major Environmental Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
(i) Evaluation of environmental impacts resulting from improvements to be made in Klaipeda water supply, treatment and distribution
system; (ii) evaluation of impacts of actions needed for pre-treatment of industrial wastewaters prior to discharge to municipal sewer
system; (iii) review of recently revised water and wastewater tariffs and establishment of appropriate tariffs to assure adequate funding
for proper operation and maintenance of facilities; (iv) review of mgmt. measures for the Kursiu Lagoon and coastal areas supported
under the project; and (v) evaluation of potential investments to support ecologically sound tourism.
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
N/A
Proposed Actions:  (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
An environmental review has been prepared for the proposed project consistent with the environmental review procedures of
Lithuania and those of the Bank. Preparation of the study was coordinated with the Ministry of Environment Protection (MOEP) of
Lithuania and the local environmental protection offices. A seminar on the Bank's environment assessment procedures was given by
Bank staff in Vilnius in April 1993 and the findings of the environmental review discussed with national and local authorities in May-
June 1994. Environmental reviews would be prepared as elements of environmental management activities to be supported by the
proposed project and implemented under supervision of the MOEP.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (reasons for environmental category selected & explanation of any changes from initial classification)
The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening category "B" as the potential impacts are restricted in scope and
largely beneficial. It should be noted that support for improved municipal water and wastewater infrastructure, including pre-
treatment of industrial wastewater discharged to these systems, would focus on the completion of rehabilitation of existing facilities.
These facilities have been designed and sited with the agreement of the MOEP and the local environmental protection office. In the
case of activities for improved management of coastal zone and protected areas, these would largely occur in areas which are
presently designed as recreational or natural areas and would not involve resettlement of any current residents.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA stan-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given pernission to release EA, etc)
The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has participated in the preparation of the proposed project and would implement selected
management activities. Discussions concerning environmental aspects were held in 6/93 with representatives of the European Union
for Coastal Conservation based at the Univ. of Klaipeda and field visits made with local environmental authorities on various
occasions. The link project would be coordinated with planning of studies in the Eastern portion of the Kursiu Lagoon, to be jointly
conducted by th eithu an    .oyf Agriculture and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Signed by:                                                         Signed by:   5
Ge ffrey Fox, C  ef, EC4NR                                         Anand Seth (EMTEN)
October 21, 1994






Annex 6
REVIEW OF AFFORDABILITY






Annex 4a. Review of Affordability
Affordability Projection at Fixed (1 994) Prices__________ __________________
Number of persons per household:                     3
Average household income:                          500
___~~~~~---- ___        _                                            _____.
Current       1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      2000
Real Income Growth:                    L_=                          6.00%    5.50%     5.00%     5.00%     5.00%    5.00%
Average household income                LT/month             500       530      559       587      616       647       680
Water Consumption                                                   3.90%     3.90%     3.90%    3.90%     3.90%    3.90%
Water Consumption Reduction
- per person                            Liter/day           275       264      254       244       235      225       217
- per household                         m3/month           25.09    24.12    23.17      22.27    21.40     20.57     19.77
Combined Tariffs                        LT/month            0.43      0.66     0.72      0.78      0.85     0.92      1.01
Total Monthly Charges                   LT/month            10.79    15.92     16.69    17.37     18.19     18.92    19.96
Annual Real Tarfff Increase                                           53%       9%        8%        9%       8%       10%
Monthly Charges as % of income                             2.16%    3.00%     2.98%    2.96%     2.95%     2.92%    2.94%
Monthly Charges as average % of income                    2.96%
Total Real Tarff Increase                                  135%                     l
OQ Z
C -
x



Annex 4b. Review of Affordability
Affordability Projection at Fixed (1994) Prices                                  _
Number of persons per household:                    3
Low thirtieth percentile household income:        350 .
Current      1995      1996     1997     1998     1999     2000
Real Income Growth:                       __                      6.00%    5.50%    5.00%    5.00%    5.00%    5.00%
Average household income               LT/month            350      371      391       411      432      453      476
Water Consumption                                                 3.90%    3.90%    3.90%    3.90%    3.90%    3.90%
Water Consumption Reduction
- per person                          Liter/day           275       264      254      244      235       225      217
- per household                       m3/month           25.09    24.12    23.17    22.27    21.40    20.57    19.77
Combined Tariffs                       LT/month           0.43      0.66     0.72     0.78     0.85      0.92     1.01
Total Monthly Charges                  LT/month           10.79    15.92    16.69    17.37    18.19    18.92    19.96
Annual Real Tariff Increase                                         53%       9%       8%       9%        8%      10%
Monthly Charges as % of income                           3.08%    4.29%    4.26%    4.23%    4.22%    4.18%    4.20%
Monthly Charges as average % of income                   4.23%1
Total Real Tariff Increase                                135%  _        ___
crQ
P) 2:



21.                          7~~~~~~~~~22                          2S-
LITHUANIA
KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT .
PROJECT
o    Selected Towns                                                                                           Gulf of
.   District Heodquorters                                                                                     Rigo
O    Cities of Notional Importance Ventspils
Urbon Areas
Protected Areas
Elevotions in Meters.
51- 150                                                                     Tals 
r4- tQ   151 - 250
Main Roads
Railroads
District Boundories
Intemnational Boundories                  Kuldiga                                                  Tukums
Project items ore
shown in red.
Th. b. Iw
5'. -    9! Gk0. - - X r  S 
Liep,/
i tMad; Ak~~~~~~mene  t
z,2 \~~~ XSkodos                                                    )                       >i0X\t^ ZJJoniskW
Sea
hlunS~ ~         ~            ~~~~ unge                                              _
Klai'p~
Kla; tvL              t            >. j,,\,o,tiTHU-ANIA                   '         i sl
Di                 ~~~~~Ni%.               i l, ute L(\                            X        <                 Raseiniai  
Ne,hunas Delta o                                    Tourag          '
,l egionali Prk
_ .' re, ) - = t ~~~~~~~~~~~~Jurbarkas , 
H          7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
f!       '                         t                 s 1 <           X              B~~~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~akiai   j
RUSSIAN
1                   fos i,   FEDERATION                      .5                                                  
Kaliningrad
KILOOTrs 0    10    20    30      0 =     _
3MLES O       in        20         30             -   ViIkavjNki
_1'                                       or 22'  !                        .o KSnwn2sd _   -  Or     .]3 (*1  (  r   ,|2M'



