                                   Documentof
                                 The World Bank




                                                   ReportNo.: 26113




              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT


                                  LITHUANIA


          KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT (LOAN 3816-LT)
                                     AND
           SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT (LOAN 3963-LT)


                                  June 23,2003




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Gvoup

Operations Evaluation Department

CURRENCY    EQUIVALENTS (ANNUAL AVERAGES)
Currency Unit =Lithuanian Litas (LT)
1994                   US$l.oo               LT 4.0
2001                   US$l.oo               LT 4.0
2003                   US$1.oo               L T 3.2


ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
BOD             Biochemical oxygen demand
C E M           Country Economic Memorandum
ECA             Europe and Central Asia Region
E M C           Environmental Management Component
EULSIF          European Union Large Scale Infrastructure Facility
EU-PHARE        European UnionAssistance Programto Eastern and Central Europe
FRR             Financial rate o f return
HELCOM          He1sinki Commission
ICR             Implementation CompletionReport
KW              Klaipeda Water Enterprise
JCP             Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Programme
LTL             Lithuanian Litas
MTR             Mid-termReview
O&M             Operations and maintenance
OED             Operations Evaluation Department o f the World Bank
PCD             Project Concept Document
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PPAR            Project Performance Assessment Report
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
S A R           Staff Appraisal Report (a predecessor o f the PAD)
TA              Technical assistance
WTP             Willingnessto pay
UFW             Unaccounted for water
WWF             World Wide Fundfor Nature
WWTP            Wastewater Treatment Plant


FISCALYEAR
Government:            January 1-December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation              : Mr.Gregory Ingram
Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment (Acting)   : Mr.NilsFostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation              : Mr.Alain Barbu
                                                     : Mr.George T. K.Pitman

                                                              1




 ~~



   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independenceinevaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
 purposes: first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank`s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank`s work is
 producing the expected results, and second, to helpdevelop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. Inselecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which
 Executive Directors or Bank management have requestedassessments; and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank`s work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project`s objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability:The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictabilityof institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance:The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly unsatisfactory.


                                                                    ...
                                                                    111



Contents
PrincipalRatings        ................................................................................................................  v

Key Staff Responsible            ........................................................................................................  v

Preface..............................................................................................................................      ..
                                                                                                                                         vi1

Summary   ...........................................................................................................................     ix

Background     ........................................................................................................................    1

The Projects   ........................................................................................................................    2

Implementation        ..................................................................................................................   3

Results.................................................................................................................................   7
      Environmental Quality Was Substantially Improved.............................................                                        7
      Water Supply and Wastewater Services Have Been Set on the Path Toward
           Financial Sustainability ...................................................................................                   10
      Environmental Management WasImproved..........................................................                                      12
Ratings..............................................................................................................................     14

      Outcome ................................................................................................................. 14
                 Relevance................................................................................................... 14
                 Efficacy......................................................................................................           16
                 Efficiency...................................................................................................            16
      Institutional Development Impact.........................................................................                          -18
      Sustainability..........................................................................................................            18
      Bank Performance .................................................................................................                  19
      Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                     20
FindingsandLessons             .......................................................................................................    20

      Findings ................................................................................................................ -20
      Lessons...................................................................................................................          21
Annex A BasicDataSheet
        .                                ..............................................................................................   23

Annex B Cofinanciers'Comments
       .                                                ................................................................................  27

                                           iv


Tables
Table 1:Project ObjectivesandCost at Appraisal .............................................................
Table 2: FinancingArrangements (US$ millions),.............................................................      2
                                                                                                                 2
Table 3: Water Quality andEnvironmentalIndicators.......................................................         8
Table 4: Water Utility PerfonnanceIndicators.................................................................    10
Table 5: Ratings for Achievement o fMajor Objectives...................................................
Table 6: FRR for Various Assumptions............................................................................ 15
                                                                                                                 17

                                                   V



PrincipalRatings

KLAIPEDA      ENVIRONMENTAL       PROJECT

                               ICR*                      ES*                        PPAR
Outcome                        Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Sustainability                 Likely                    Likely                     Likely
Institutional Development     Substantial                Substantial                Substantial
Impact
Bank Performance              Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory

SIAULIAI    ENVIRONMENTAL       PROJECT

                              ICR*                       ES*                        PPAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory               Moderately                 Moderately
                                                         Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Sustainability                Likely                     Non-evaluable              Likely
Institutional Development     Substantial                Substantial                Substantial
Impact
Bank Performance              Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.



Key StaffResponsible

KLAIPEDA      ENVIRONMENTAL      PROJECT

Project                      Task Manager                 Division Chief/             Country
                                                          Sector Director             Director
Appraisal                    Stephen Lintner              Geoffrey Fox                Basil Kavalsky
Completion                   lnesis Kiskis               Jane E. Holt                 Roger W. Grawe

SIAULIAI    ENVIRONMENTAL       PROJECT

Project                      Task Manager                Division Chief/              Country
                                                         Sector Director              Director
Appraisal                    Sari Soderstrom             Geoffrey Fox                 Basil Kavalsky
Completion                   lnesis Kiskis               Jane E. Holt                 Michael F. Carter


                                             vii


Preface

        This is the Performance Assessment Report (PAR) for the LithuaniaKlaipeda
Environmental Project (Loan 3816-LT) and Siauliai EnvironmentalProject (Loan 3963-
LT). The Klaipeda EnvironmentalProject, costingUS$23.1 million, was approved in
December 1994 for a loan o fUS$7.0 million and cofinanced with US$15.8 millionby the
EU, Finland, and Sweden. Theproject was closed inDecember 2002, three years behind
schedule. The Siauliai Environment Project, costing US$22.9 million, was approvedin
December 1995 for a loan o fUS$6.2 million and cofinancedwith US$10.6 millionby
Sweden, Finland andNorway. It closed a year behindschedule inJune 2001bywhich
timetotal costs hadincreased to US$24.4 million.

        This report is based on the ImplementationCompletion Reports (ICRs) prepared
bythe Europe and CentralAsia Region, the Memoranda and Recommendations ofthe
President, Staff Appraisal Reports, loan documents, project files, and discussions with
Bank staff. An Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED) mission visited Lithuania,
Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Latvia, and Estonia inJuly 2002 to discuss the effectiveness
o f the Bank's assistance with the government, development andfinancing partners,
project implementing agencies, private sector agencies, and other stakeholders. The
cooperation and assistance o f government officials, management, and staff o f the
Klaipeda and Siauliai water utilities, national and regional stakeholders, and other
interested parties are gratefully acknowledged.

        This PAR assesses the outcome o f an attemptbythe Bank to provide assistance,
inpartnershipwith several confinanciers, to meet Lithuania's commitment to reduce
pollution to the Baltic Sea. The assessment was undertaken to support OED's Country
Assistance Evaluation andbecause Lithuaniawas a new borrower that hadgiven a high
profile to sound environmental management.

        Following standard OED procedures, this draft PAR was sent to the borrower and
cofinanciers for comments before it was finalized. All comments have be taken into
account inthe final version and included in an attachment to the PAR. Inaccordance with
the Bank's disclosure policy, the final report will be available to the public following
submissionto the World Bank's Boardo fExecutive Directors.


                                                ix


Summary

         The KlaipedaEnvironmental Project, costing US$23.1 million, was approved in
December 1994 for a loan of US$7.0 million and cofinanced with US$15.8 million by the
EU, Finland, and Sweden.The project was closed inDecember 2002, three years behind
schedule. Although total project cost had risento US$35.9 million, and the cofinancing share
had increased to US$17.5 million, US$0.45 million ofthe loan was cancelled. The Siauliai
Environment Project, costing US$22.9 million, was approved in December 1995 for a loan o f
US$6.2 million and cofinanced with US$10.55 million by Sweden, Finland and Norway. It
closed a year behind schedule in June 2001 by which time total costs had increased to
US$24.4 million. Even so, US$0.19 million ofthe loan was cancelled.

         Bothprojects were formulated following agreement under the 1992 Baltic Sea Joint
ComprehensiveEnvironmental Action Programme, which identified a series o fpriority actions
for the control o fpoint- and non-point source pollutiondraining to the Baltic Sea and measures
to improve water quality management o f surface water, groundwater, coastal lagoons, and
wetlands. Klaipeda and Siauliai, the third and fourth largest cities in Lithuania with a combined
population o f about 350,000, were identified as regional pollution "hot spots."

         The main objective was to reduce water pollution discharge to the Baltic Seathrough
improvement inthe quality, reliability, and cost efficiency o f water supply and wastewater
services inboth cities and make them financially sustainable. Secondary objectives included
institutional strengtheningand monitoring to improve river basin management to reduce
trans-boundary pollution downstream o f Siauliai, restore and enhance surface and
groundwater quality in Klaipeda, and promote environmentally sustainable management o f
the Kursiu(Curonian) lagoon, Nemunas river delta, and adjacent coastal areas. Significant
technical assistance and twinningarrangements via cofinancing partners supported the
modernization o f the utilities' management to increase operational efficiency.

         The outcome o f the Klaipedaproject i s rated as satisfactory. The outcome o f Siauliai
i s rated as moderately satisfactory. Relevance o f bothprojects was high given the need to
clean up the Baltic Sea, Lithuania's drive for EUaccession and harmonization with EU
environmental standards, and dwindling public resources to subsidize inefficient utilities.
OED rates institutional development impact as substantial for bothprojects although both
still have problems with establishing realistic water tariffs because o f hidden social subsidies.
The projects successfully introduced modernizedmanagement which improved operation,
maintenance and financial management, and thus providedessential support to government's
devolution o f water and wastewater service provisionto autonomous and commercially
viable joint-stock companies owned by the municipalities.

          While the quality of treated wastewater effluent achieved appraisal targets at
Klaipeda, this was not the case at Siauliai except for biochemical oxygen demand. The failure
to reach acceptable levels o f concentration at Siauliai for phosphorus and nitrogen will be
remedied when the new wastewater treatment plant is commissioned in May 2003. Declining
economic activity and substantially increasedwater and sewerage tariffs reduced water
demand and the facilities installed are significantly oversized. Even so, the volume o f
pollution discharging into the Baltic Sea was cut by over 85 percent thus achieving overall
volumetric reduction targets.

                                                   X



        Most o f the environmental management activities supportedby several donors
achieved satisfactory outcomes, some being adopted and scaled-up - for example the work
on the Lielupe River Basin Commission formed the basis for support under the EUWater
Framework Directive. An integrated coastal zone management framework andplan was
developed, but problems remaininterms o f inclusion o f non-official stakeholders, few
incentives for marginal farmers and fisherfolk to participate, and dependence on external
funding. InKlaipeda, the public nuisance created by the unresolved sludge disposal problem
undermines the public's perception o f the efficacy o f the project and their willingness to pay
for further environmental improvements.

        The efficiency o fbothprojects i s ratedmodest. The financial rate o freturn i s borderline
for both projects (under 9 percent for Klaipeda andunder 7 percent for Siauliai). However, the
economic rate o freturn i s likely to be higher ifthe environmental and tourism benefits couldbe
monetized and included. OED rates sustainability as likely for bothprojects becauseo fhigh
stakeholder ownership linkedto EUaccession -butpoliticization o fwater tariffs means that
financial sustainability at Siauliai will be difficult to achieve inthe short term.

        Bank and borrower performance are rated satisfactory.

There are three lessons from this experience:

    0   Participation inregional environmental forums can assist Bank efforts to synergize
        the policy agenda and external assistance. Regionally sponsored environmental
        initiatives inresponse to inter-governmental action plans provide good opportunities
        for the Bank to exercise its comparative advantage inleveraging institutional reform
        through targeted lending. When linked with grant funding from bilateral development
        partners it provides a powerful and influential lobby for reform.

    0   When extendingloans for water supplyand wastewater treatment to new client
        countries or sectors, the Bank could usefullystart with minimal or emergency
        investments linked to an institutional development package that could be the start for
        a phased investment program. The more recently introduced Adaptable Program
        Loan would have been an ideal initial lendinginstrumentinthis case as it would have
        allowed time to develop refinedcriteria and arguments to facilitate Government
        agreement to more appropriate infrastructure designs and investments.

    0   Inwater supplyprojects a combination ofmastermeters andin-housemetersis more
        effective at enabling revenue collection than in-house meters alone.




                                                                    Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                    Director-General
                                                                    Operations Evaluation

                                                        1


Background

1.         Lithuania i s the most southerly o fthe Baltic Countries with a population o f 3.5 million.
Followingrestoration o f Lithuanian independencein 1991, its formerly strong economy -based
on specialized industriesand agriculture fully integrated into the larger Soviet system -
underwent significant downward adjustmentfrom which it started to recover in 1994. At that
time, the Bank's overall strategy inLithuania was to support the country's efforts to accelerate
structural reforms leading to a full transition to a market-based economy and support efficient
investmentinhigh-priority sectors. Lithuania also aspired to membershipofthe EuropeanUnion,
so much o f its reform agenda involvedharmonization o f environmental policies and quality with
EUnorms.

2.         Klaipeda and Siauliai are the third and fourth largest cities inLithuania with a combined
population o f 351,000. Klaipeda, the country's only commercial port, i s situated at the mouth o f
the 1,600 square kilometer Kursiu(Curonian) Lagoon, amajor physical feature ofthe Baltic Sea
that i s shared with the Kaliningrad Oblast o f Russia to the south and contains the delta of the
Nemunas River, a regionally important Ramsar Convention site.' Boththe beaches and lagoon
were severely polluted with municipal and industrialwastewater emanating from Klaipeda-
where the sewage treatment was mechanical only - and the upstream cities o f Kaunas, Sovetsk
andNeman.' The Lithuanian coast and the 100 kilometer Curonian Spit were prime summer
tourist resorts during Soviet times because o ftheir wildlife, scenic landscapes, beaches and
cultural attractions, and contain regionally important wetlands vital to migratory birds.3In
consequence, government placed a highpremiumon conserving these amenities given the high
potential for tourismto generate income and provide much-needed local employment.

3.         Located 140kilometers inland o f Klaipeda, the industrial city o f Siauliai accounted for
halfthe pollution to the Lielupe river basin which drains northwards into the Latvian Baltic near
Jurmala, 20 kilometers west o f Riga. The extensivepollution along the coast forced closure o f
beaches for recreational use and was a source o f friction betweenLatvia and Lithuania. Inland,
agricultural pollution of surface water was a major problem because o f the dominance o f
livestock production. The 1991 Land Reform Act led to consolidation and establishment o f over
6,000 large farms, which exacerbated surface water contamination by fertilizers, manureand
pesticides, and from poor management o f stored ~ i l a g e . ~




                ~~




1.The Conventionon Wetlands, signedinRamsar, Iran, in 1971,is an intergovernmentaltreaty that providesthe
framework for nationalaction and internationalcooperationfor the conservationand wise use o fwetlands and their
resources.There are presently 136ContractingPartiesto the Convention, with 1,267 wetland sites,totaling 107.5
million hectares, designatedfor inclusion inthe RamsarList of Wetlands o fInternationalImportance.
2. Kaunas Water has beenassistedby EBRD, Finland,EU-PHARE,NEFCO, and Sidasince 1995to implementa
US$102 million water supply and wastewatertreatment project.
3. There are five Ramsar sites o f internationalimportanceto migratorybirds, four strict naturereserves, and the
deltaofthe Nemunas River.
4. For example, the four pig farms near Siauliai producing70,000 pigs/yeargenerated a pollutionloadequivalentto
a city o f about 175,000 people.

                                                            2


The Projects
4.         Objectives.The overall objective ofthe two projects was to promote environmental quality
and natural resources management, improve water quality inareas used for tourism, and support
institutional strengthening andhumanresource development. As Lithuaniawas reluctant to borrow
for non-revenue generating nature-protecting investments, a key designchallenge was to develop
projects that wouldbe financially attractive. Thus, Bank loans assistedmodernizationo futilities
responsible for water supply andwastewater treatment, which would reduce central government's
expenditures while at the same time cutting the pollution discharged to the Baltic Sea.

Table 1: Project Objectivesand Cost at Appraisal

                       KLAIPEDA                                                     SlAULlAl
     Reduce discharge of partially treated and                  Reduce pollutant loads to the Upper Lielupe River
     untreated wastewater into the Baltic Sea                   Basin thus decreasing transboundary pollution
     Restore and enhance the surface and groundwater            into the river and the Gulf of Riga
     quality in Klaipeda, Kursiu (Curonian) Lagoon and
     adjacent recreational beaches on the Baltic Sea
     Improve the quality, reliability, and cost-efficiency   e  Improve the quality, reliability, and cost-efficiency
     of water supply and wastewater services                    of water supply and wastewater services
     Improve the operational efficiency and                     Assist in establishing financially sustainable
     management systems of the Klaipeda water and               provision of municipal services
     wastewater utility
     Promote environmentally sustainable                        Improve the regional and local environmental
     management and development of the Kursiu                   quality monitoring and enforcement system in the
     (Curonian) Lagoon and adjacent coastal areas               Upper Lielupe River Basin


5.       Financing arrangements involved eight partners, Table 2.

Table 2: FinancingArrangements (US$ millions)

Financier                          KLAIPEDA                                        SIAULIAI
                    Water and                                     Water and
                    Wastewater        Environmental              Wastewater        Environmental
                  Improvement          Management         Total Improvement         Management           Total
World Bank             7.00                               7.00        6.00               0.20             6.2
Sweden                 5.00                               5.00        4.00               0.44            4.44
Finland                2.00                               2.00        1.50               0.38            1.88
Norway                                                                1.50                               1.50
EU Phare               0.60                               0.60
Program
Government             6.00                               6.00        7.60                               7.60
of Lithuania
Municipality           1.oo                               1.oo       0.40                                0.40
Others                                     1.50           1.50                           0.40
including
NGOs
Total SAR             21.60                1.50          23.10      21.oo                1.85           22.85
Actual                34.53                1.50          36.03      23.33                1.10           24.43

                                                     3



6.      With the exception o fthe Bank, all cofinancing was inthe form o f grants. Each
bilateral partner exercised tied procurement procedures, and excellent coordination
arrangements generally ensuredproblem-free, if delayed, disbursement. Giventhat Lithuania
was a new borrower and unfamiliar with the Bank's procurement requirements,training was
provided by Bank staff to the government staff, the municipalities and utilities. Inboth projects
there were significant costs overruns, as described below.

Implementation
7.      The Ministry of Environmental Protection (MOEP) was the lead agency for both
projects. It provided overall supervision o f the project and coordination o f financing
organizations and local implementingagencies. While MOEP directly managed the
environmental management activities, management o f the water and wastewater management
improvement components was devolved to project implementation units established within the
Klaipeda State Water Enterprise(KW) and Siauliai Water (SW). Both utilities are nearly 100
percent municipally owned, limitedjoint stock companies responsible to the municipalities for
service standard^.^ However, at the start, both enterprises and municipalities were new to
market-oriented operational and financial management practices, and the governance
framework needed revision to allow for autonomous management o f the enterprises and to
ensure their accountability.

8.       Not surprisingly, the transition from the former Soviet centralized command-and-
control system to commercially oriented and decentralized management led to implementation
problems and delays for the water and wastewater component inboth projects. Inpart this was
the due to difficulties at appraisal inforecasting receptivity to newmethods o f doing business
at the individual, municipal, and central levels, and higher than predicted inflation. Major
issues for both projects were: Lithuanian projections o f future demand for water supply and
wastewater treatment that were too high; local governments' unwillingnessto take external
advice and reduce these demand projections; slow transition from Soviet to commercial
accounting and civil engineeringdesign standards; unfamiliarity with donors' procurement and
contracting arrangements; evolving municipal institutions; and an unclear regulatory
environment.

9.      Klaipeda Water and Wastewater Component.The major implementation problems
were governance, procurement, and a significant cost overrun for the wastewater treatment
plant caused by procurement delays and old Soviet design standards imposed on the project.
While the Municipality o f Klaipeda (MoK) converted the water utility to ajoint-stock
company in 1995, it retained financial control over its day-to-day activities and evenplanned
to radically change KW's management until rebuttedby the Bank, Finland and Sweden6M o K

5. In Soviettimes, municipalwater and wastewater services were providedby state-owned enterprises but in 1991
the managementof these enterpriseswas delegated from central to municipalgovernments. InMarch 1995,
government passedownership of all water and wastewater assets to the managing municipalities.
6. InDecember 1995, an agreementdated September 14, 1995, between MoK and Lyonnaisedes Eaux to privatize
the management o f KW without GOL approval came to light. While the concept o f private sector participationwas
welcomed inprincipleby the Bank, Finland, and Sweden, all felt that it was premature giventhe evolving
Lithuanianinstitutions,and the that the processadopted by MoK was neither transparent nor competitive.No only

                                                          4


 approved each and every itemo f major expenditure and second-guessed Klaipeda's managerial
 decisions and the Bank's non-objections to procurement, thus slowing project implementation.
 Central government's financial contribution to the project was initially through local retention
 o f taxation by the municipality which it was supposed to pass on to Klaipeda Water. Despite
 this there was a significant shortfall incounterpart funding until 1998 because o f the
 municipality's poor budget situation, and its unwillingness to finance activities, especially
 foreign consultants that they saw as expensive and wasteful. The municipality even tried to
 bringKW back under full municipal control and attempted to dissolve thejoint-stock company
 inNovember 1996-amove strongly resistedby the Bank.' Klaipeda Water onlybecame
 effectively autonomous following the 1997 election o f a new municipal government, the
 establishment o f a properly constituted Supervisory Board to safeguard the public interests,
 and new management in 1998.

 10.      Likemany Eastern European and former Soviet countries, Lithuania's transition to
competitive bidding for procurement o f public goods and services was problematic and caused
 significant delays inproject implementation. Driven by significant politicalpressure and
resentment o f foreigners getting the lion's share o f externally funded contacts, the MoE and
M o K interferedinthe short-listing process to ensure Lithuanian participation. At appraisal, it
was anticipated that the civil works requiredto complete and extend the wastewater treatment
plant (WWTP) would be let in seven packages. Subsequently, however, the Bank supported the
donors' and consultants' views that a more efficient arrangement would be a single turn-key
contract. Inconsequence, given the higher level o f experience needed, only one Lithuanian
contactor prequalified inMarch 1996. Overturning this outcome, the M o E established a new
committee (puttingKW representationinto a minority) to "ensure fair and honest selection o f
turn-key contractor and pre-qualify Lithuanian companies." As a result the committee's
minutes were written to MoE's direction to prequalify Lithuanian contractors. Mindfulo ftheir
responsibilities under the Loan Agreement, representatives o f KW refuse to sign and drew the
attention o f the Bank to this issue.

 11.       Following the Bank's intervention the M o E defended its position: "there was
uncovered a wish to eliminate Lithuanian companies from further tendering" and "motivation
was mainly based uponthe evaluation o f foreign consultants."* Inresponse, the Bank reminded
M o E that procurement procedures were according to Bank and donors' guidelines, and that
MoE hadno managerial role inactivities that were the responsibility o f KW.' M o E eventually
agreed to the Bank's independent review, particularly as corruption inthe former Soviet states
was attracting international attention." Even then, the estimated cost o f the WWTP exceeded


also directly undermined the rationale o f the twinning arrangements with Malmo Water financed by Sweden and
soured Malmo Water's working relationship with KW. After elevating the Bank's concem to Prime Ministerial
level, Decree 1099 o f December 19, 1995, cancelled the agreement.
7.The Bank's supervision missions found no evidence for MoK's allegations o f fraud and mis-procurement, a
findingendorsed by the independently-appointed international auditors in 1997.
8. Letter from the Minster o f Environment to the Bank. April 9, 1996.
9. Bank's letter to M o E (copied to the Prime Minsters o f Finland and Sweden). M a y 6, 1996.
10.A more general discussion of the issues and challenges i s given in:World Bank. Anticorruption inTransition-
A Contribution to the Policy Debate. September 2000.

                                                        5


available funding by over US$6 million and filling this gap caused further delay, as did MoK's
inability to finance the contractor's advance payment.Eventually,the Finnishturn-key contract
-withLithuaniansubcontractors-becameeffectiveinApril 1997,sometwoyearsbehind
schedule.

12.       The cost o f the WWTP was US$18.5million comparedwith the SAR estimate of
US$12.5million was largely caused by more onerous and expensive design standards,
discussionof which caused delays. These factors, combinedwith higher thenpredicted
inflation, were the maincause of cost increases. The major task was completion of the original
Soviet-era design and extendingit to less expensivewestern designstandards." The major
challenge was achievingthis whenLithuanianexpertise clung tenaciously to the old design
standards, which would have cost US$24million including a number of redundancies."
Unfortunately, the retrofit nature ofthe designmeantthat the over-dimensionedplant was
difficult to downsize. While some cost-cuttingwas achieved, inthe end it was decidedto put
the onus on the short-listedwesterncontractors to proposefeasible less-costlydesigns. In
addition, the original (and also oversized) designfor water supply and distribution was not
feasible and the more elaborate alternative added over US$4 millionto overall costs even
thoughexisting water quality, though discolored,was biologically safe.I3The needto make a
few pragmatic choices was precludedby EULarge Scale Infrastructure Program-they were
seekingto expandtheir portfolio andthey financedthe gap with a grant.

13.      Finally, difficulties with an enlargedservice-extensioncontract delayedproject
completionby two years untilMay 2002. Originally designedas a small componentto replace
water suppliesfrom shallow wells, it was expandedto include about 13 kilometers of water
supply and new sewerage to serve some 400 families inthe Labrenciskes, Kosmonautu, and
Rimkai subdivisions.The delays arose from investigationsby the LithuanianCompetition
Council into collusive bidding practices by two local contractor^.'^

14.      Klaipeda Environmental Management Component. The Nemunas Delta component
was implementedby World Wide Fundfor Nature (WWF) Denmark and a small local team
based inthe MoE Vilnius and administrativestaff o f the NemunasDelta RegionalPark were
appointedin 1997.Developmentof a managementplan for the park went smoothly, but the
slow release of funding from the DanishEnvironmentalProtectionAgency delayedthe
implementationo f nature and rural development activities until late 1998. Coordinationproved
to be more difficult than initially envisaged because o f overlappingresponsibilities with
KlaipedaCounty Government, Ministry o f Agriculture, RegionalDrainageBoard, and parallel

11, Constructed by Polishcontractors; Moscow stopped financingthe unfinishedWWTP contract in 1990.
12. For example, Soviet standards requiredtwo electricity supply lines insteado f one, includedchlorinationo f the
effluent from the plantand a large number o f spares. The SAR estimateo fUS$12.5 million roseto US$18.5 million
because of unexpectedwork (US2.4 million), Lithuanianstandards (US$l.5 million), two years delay (US$1.4
million), inflation (US$ 1.2 million), and Soviet technical standards (US$0.5 million).
13. A consumer survey at the time showedthat consumers gave priority to investmentsto improvethe appearance
even though they knew the water was safe to drink. The design capacity o fthe new water purification plant is
40,000 cubic meters per day comparedwith the current (2002) productiono f 16,000 cubic meters per day.
14. Source: World Bank (Lithuania) and ICR para 7.5, page 19. These two companies were eventuallyprosecuted
and receivedhefty fines for rigging bids.

                                                         6


activities by partner organizations including: the European Union for Coastal protection,
WWF-Germany and local NGOs.

 15.      Siauliai Water and Wastewater Component.Relationships betweenthe municipality
and SW were generally smooth and well-governed, with a Supervisory Boardproviding
transparent oversight o f SW." However, after initially working well, lack o f agreement on
increasedtariffs became particularly acute in 2000 when the new drinkingwater purification
plant came on-line, thus increasing overhead and O&M costs. Allied with a long-term fall in
water sales, this adversely affected SW's ability to meet S A R targets. Problems with
counterpart funding, unfamiliarity with Bank-donor procurement, and Bank-donor's
approval/review procedures delayed procurement, as did government's financial crisis o f 1998-
-99.

16.       For the same reasons as inKlaipeda, over-dimensioned designo f the WWTP led to
costs almost twice, and water supply almost 60 percent, more expensive than S A R budget
estimates. Finalization o f capacity o f water supply and a completely new wastewater treatment
plant became a dispute between the Bank-donor partnership and government and took four
years to resolve - a problem not helpedby attempts to influence the award o f donor-financed
civil engineeringdesigncontracts, which added to delayed completion. There was agreed a
token reduction inplant capacity, elimination o f a small pumping station, and a phased
approach to reaching national wastewater quality emission targets - some o f which differed
from the S A R targets.I6Even so, cost overruns (7 percent o f total costs, or US$1.6 million)
were mostly adjustedwithin the available budget by dropping support for the Lithuanian part
o f the LielupeRiver Basin Commission (which was taken-up by EUPHARE) and reducing the
amount allocated to regional environmental monitoring.l7At closure, a year later than planned,
the WWTP was not complete as the Swedish-funded construction contract was only approved
inApril 2001. Completion is expected about mid-2003.

17.      Siauliai Environmental Management Component.This was well managed by the
Siauliai Environmental Quality Research Laboratory on behalf o f MoE. As noted above,
support to the LielupeRiver Basin Commission was deleted early inproject administration.
The upgrading o f the regional environmental quality laboratory (Bank-financed) and
installation o f industrial pollutionmanagement software (Finland-financed) was delayed by
procurement problems. Unfamiliaritywith the donors' procurement requirementsand internal
Bank clearances were the mainissues. After some delays inbuilding local ownership, activities
to address non-point source pollution financed by Sida got off to a good start with few


15. The Supervisory Board had three municipal members, one politician, and one S W employee. This was
supplementedby a Bank-imposed Steering Committee inJanuary 1998.
16. Compared with the actual wastewater discharge o f 3 1,000 cubic meters per day in 1995, treatment plant capacity
was reduced from 60,000 cubic meters per day desired by Lithuanian engineers to 50,000 cubic meters per day - the
current discharge i s about 25,000 cubic meters per day. The SAR proposed the effluent targets as follows: biological
oxygen demand (BOD) 11mg/l; phosphorus (P) 1.1mg/l, and nitrogen (N) 20 mgil. Lithuanian regulations
proposed B O D o f 15 mg/l; P o f 1.5 mgil; and No f 12 mg/l. The project agreed to Lithuanian standards except for N,
which was set at 15mg/l.
17. EUP U R E (the EU support program for countries ineconomic transition) provided capacity-building support
under the regional application o f the EUWater Framework Directive.

                                                      7


problems.However, construction of manurestorage works extendedbeyondthe end ofthe
project and is being completedby the SwedishAgricultural University utilizing an additional
grant from Sweden.

Results

Environmental Quality Was SubstantiallyImproved.

18.      Both projectssignificantlyreduced pollutionto the Baltic Sea. Muchof the
reductioninpollution was the result of reducedeconomic activity and increasedwater tariffs,
which greatly reducedthe demandfor water and hence the volume of pollutedeffluent
dischargedto the Baltic via the Kursiu (Curonian) Lagoonand the Lielupe River Basin(Table


19.      Klaipeda.The extensionand rehabilitationof sewerage andpumpingstations, and
commissioningofthe rehabilitatedWWTP inlate 1998, enabled reductionofpollutantvolume and
concentration inthe dischargedeffluentto target levels.Totalbiochemicaloxygendemand (BOD)
fell by more than 90 percentfrom 2,722 tons per year in 1994to 181tons per year in2001 Total           .'*
nitrogen(N)releasedwas reducedby about two-thirdsto 242 tons per year, while phosphorus(P)
releasedfell by over 80 percentto 23 tons per year.DespiteKW's difficulty inreducingNandP
because ofmoreconcentratedindustrialeffluent (because ofthe decreasedvolume of less polluted
domestic wastewater), the MoE statedthat it intendsto imposethe revisedandmore stringent
HELCOMNitrogenstandard of 12mg/las soonas po~sible.'~UndisbursedSida funds andKW's
new investmentare now beingredirectedtowardthat objective.

20.      Itwas anticipatedthat non-connectedindustrieswouldbevoluntarily connect to KW's
sewerage system, thus guaranteeingglobaltreatmentof all Klaipeda's wastewater and increasing
KW's income.While KW was generally successful at increasingconnections, there are two
notableexceptions.The KlaipedaPaper Companyrefusedto be connected becausethey thought
the water tariff would provetoo expensive.Eventhoughits ownwastewater treatment plantis
defectiveandundersizedfor the recentlyexpanded factory, and it discharges untreatedwastewater
directly into the Kursiu(Cwonian) Lagoon, a connection cannot be enforcedbythe municipality
under current environmentallaws.2oComparedwith treatmentcosts, pollutionfines are low,
difficult to enforce, and are thus ineffectiveas incentivesfor improvement." The secondproblem


18. The SAR Annex 1 (para 5) states that total BOD emissions would be reducedby 3,000 tonsiyear. After 1994,
BOD emissionsroseto 3,205 tonsiyear in 1998and fell after commissioningof the WWTP to 181tonsiyear in 2001.
Thus the SAR target was achieved.
19. At Kalipedafor example, the quality o f influent BOD declined after 1997:before 1997 it averagedabout 240
mg/l, subsequentlythe average roseto almost 400 mgil.
20. This situationarose from the privatizationofthe paper mill. On privatizationitwas intendedthat the mill's
WWTP would be decommissionedand wastewater divertedto KW's WWTP. However, administrativeoversight
during privatizationallowedto millto retainits WWTP and it thus has an excellent reasonto refbse connection to
SW even though KW agreed to cover the US$50,000 connection cost. The disincentivewas that KW would have
increasedthe mill's water and wastewater tariffby 24 percent.
21. Personalcommunicationfrom the RegionalEnvironmentalBureauand KW. And under Lithuanianregulation, non-
conformingplantshave a 5-10year period inwhich to meet the standards. In 1999 annualpollutiontaxes were Euro

                                                       8


 i s that one o f KW's service areas (Neringa) was split off for political reasons in 1997 even though
it made no technical or economic sense givenKW's over-sized water supply capacity andnew
WWTP. It is also not clear ifthis new entitymeets environmental standards.

Table 3: Water Quality and Environmental Indicators

                                                      KLAIPEDA                I           SIAULIAla`
                  Indicator                  Target   Start of   Evaluation    Target     Start of  Evaluation
                                                      Project    (Feb 2003)               Project   (Feb 2003)
 Water Quality Service Indicators
  Volume of Water Produced (m3/day)          80,000   81,500       36,268      26,000     25,880      12.260
   Quality of Drinking Water
      Turbidity (mg/l)                        0.87      NA           0.51        0.58       2.2        <0.3
      Conductivity (microsiemens/cm)         2,000      NA           880        1,000      1,200       876
      Iron content (total mg/l)               0.2       NA           0.1         0.1       1.09       0.03
Effluent Volume and Quality
  Volume of Wastewater Treated (mYday) 77,200         82,000      48,859   b'  50,000    33,685M     23.020 b'
  Quality of Wastewater (mg/l)
      Biochemical oxygen demand               15.0     78.6         4 5 . 0      18.0      22.0        11.3
      Phosphorous                             1.5       3.1          < I.5        1.5       3.5        2.3
      Nitrogen                                15.0     24.5         < I5.0       15.0      43.0       -29.0




21.        Sludgetreatment was deletedfrom the project duringappraisal because o f funding
constraints eventhough sludge digestors were built inthe late 1980s. Currently, KW's capacity
to store untreated sludge i s at its limit and they still have insufficient funds to bringthe existing
digestors on-line. Unfortunately, the smell o f stored sludge i s provoking strong public reaction,
which i s underminingthe good relations KW has established with improved services and better
water and sewerage treatment.

22.       Siauliai. %le       the reducedvolume o fwastewater pollution and BODconcentrations met
appraisal targets, neither Nor P met the water quality concentration targets (Table 3). Most o fthe
decline inthe volume o fwastewater pollution was due to the fall inwater demandandmassive
closure o f local industries following independence.22The new WWTP is not yet complete and the
improvements inwastewater treatment is due to SW's excellent operation andmaintenance o fthe
"redundant" WWTP that was slated for closure. At appraisal it was estimated that BOD emissions


97itonne for Nand Euro 328/tonne for P. Proceeds are distributed: 70 % to nature protectionfunds inthe
municipalities, 20% to the Lithuanian Environmental Protection Fund, and 10% to the State budget.
22. Siauliai hadmany factories which supplied specialized components the former Soviet military-industrial
complex (e.g., drive chains) and which had no markets for their output after 1990.

                                                    9


from the old treatment plant were 1,000 tons per year. Currently emissions are only 66 tons per
year, well within the target o f 200 tons. Similarly, Nemissions have fallen from about 1,000 tons
per year to 245 tons peryea, again bettering the target o f 360 tons per year. Finally, P emissions
have declined almost 90 percent, from 75 tons per year to about 7 tons per year and are better than
the target of 20 tons per year. Significantbenefitshave also accrued from the upgradingofthe
sewerage and pumpingsystems, which has eliminated most leakage and discharge o f untreated
wastewater to the local rivers during heavy rainfall. As a result o fthe project, the Regional
Environment Protection Department (REPD) is now better equippedto monitor environmental
indicators, andpollution emissions are self-monitored by industries subject to spot checks and fines
for exceeding licensed norms -however, inadequate enforcement and budgetjeopardize effective
implementation (see footnotes 20,2 1).

23.      LikeKlaipeda, sludgemanagement and storage is problematic -althoughthe SW's
remote storage site has stopped it becoming a public nuisance. N o w a y financed a sludge
management plan and SW i s currently deciding which options to implement-there are differing
opinions about its suitability for use inagriculture. SW believes, giventhe heavy industry inthe
area, that it probably contains toxic elements that would preclude use. From a larger perspective,
the REPD stated that SW's sludge problem emphasizes the needfor a regionally integrated plan
for solid waste and landfill management - and this i s particularly important giventhe
dependence o f potable water supplies on groundwater.

24.      Independentsurveys commissionedby the Bank for Siauliai indicate that the public
perceive some environmental benefits from the project. However, o f 512people interviewed,
only 16 percent believedthat the reconstructiono f the WWTP had improved environmental
conditions, although another 48 percent thought that there was probably impr~vement.~~

25.      Klaipeda and Siauliai
reachedtheir targets for drinking                                                             ~~    ~~




water quality. While the quality                     Figure 1: Perception of Water Quality Improvements at
                                                                             Saiuliai
problem inKlaipeda was aesthetic,
relating to color and taste, at Siauliai
                                                                                       ~LI
the project successfully reducedthe             Lamdry
                                                         I                               I            I
mineral content to acceptable levels
(Table 3). The rationale was that
poor groundwater quality was                    Cooking

believedby the medical authorities              Drinking
                                                                             ~




to be responsible for an elevated                       t
incidence inSiauliai (10-1 5 percent                    0         20        40        60         80       100
above national averages) of kidney                      Respondents Who Thought Quality Had Improved (%)
and liver ailment^.'^ Siauliai Water


23. Valatka, Simonas, and RomualdusLenkaitis.2002. EstimatedBenefitsfor Water Qualityand Wastewater
Treatmentand RecreationalImprovementsinthe Baltic States. The World Bank.Lithuania.Respondents' reticence
on a definiteanswer may have been due to a generallack o fknowledgeo fproject activities.
24. The SAR states that elevatedironand calcium were the principalsuspects. Discussionwith the REPD also
indicatedthat contamination ofgroundwaterby industrialpollutants is suspected. Elevated levels of nitrates in
groundwater from intensive livestock breedingmay also be a healthhazard.

                                                        10


consumer surveys (started in 1997)indicate that 98 percent o f customers rated water quality as
good in2002, although local turbidity problems lowered the perceived impact o fthe project
(Figure 1).

Water Supply and Wastewater Services Have Been Set on the Path Toward Financial
Sustainability

26.       The upgrading, rehabilitation, and expansion o fwater and wastewater facilities, allied with
institutionalstrengthening, equipment,and software, hasputbothwater utilities onthe pathtoward
sustainability. Bothwater utilities are autonomous, have modem and efficient management
structures, have a long-term enterprise strategy, and operateon commercial principles. The project
management units withinthe utilities (which were establishedunder the project) are now functioning
as consultants to other utilities. Generally, despite its more difficult start, Klaipeda's financial
performance i s betterpositionedthan Siauliai (Table 4), primarily becausethe fall offindemandwas
smaller and it was able to attract more grant funding for investment,thus reducing its debt servicing.

Table 4: Water Utility Performance Indicators

                                                     KLAIPEDA                                   SlAULlAl
Indicator                                            Start of      February                    Start of     February
                                         Target      Project          2003         Target      Project         2003
Operational Indicators
Population connected to utility water      -          95%             96%                       85%            85%
supply
Population connected to sewerage                      84%             84%                       85%            85%
Number of Staff                                        592            426                        563            397
Number of Staff per 1000                  <5#          9.1            -6.7          <5#          14.4          -
                                                                                                               10.2
Households Connected
Water Sales (million m3/year)            29.2         29.9            -
                                                                      11.7          9.5           9.4           -
                                                                                                                3.4
Water Sales (liters/capita/day)           210          275             -
                                                                       81           170          206            -
                                                                                                                71
Non-Revenue Water (Production-                         11%            -
                                                                      22%                        18%           -
                                                                                                               26%
Billings)/Production)
    Financial Indicators (at current prices)
Water Tariff $/m3                        $0.24        $0.11           $0.77        $0.29        $0.22          $1.01
Waste Water tariff $/m3                  $0.40        $0.05           $0.77        $0.26        $0.19          $1.01
Working Ratio   a'                       <70%         79%             -
                                                                      62%          <60%         66%            -
                                                                                                               94%
Operating Ratio   b'                     <85%         95%            -104%         <85%         80%            -
                                                                                                               120%
Collection Ratio                         100%         89%             99%          100%         83%            95%
(CollectionslBillings)
Billings Arrears, cash millions                       $0.32           $3.28                     $0.38          $2.35
Billings Arrears                          1.o          3.0             3.7          1.o           1.5           5.2
(months of utilities income including
current month)
Source: SARs and ICRs, consultant`s reports on file, interviews with the utilities management and updates from them
in February 2003.
# This ratio was not an appraisal target but the value shown (5) is typical best practice in developed countries
a/ Working Ratio = (total O&M + non-core costs)/Total revenues
b/ Operating Ratio = (total O&M + depreciation + interest costs)/Total revenues

                                                          11



 27.      Yet problems remain for bothutilities. Their financial performance i s adversely affected
bythe increase inthe proportion o fnon-revenue water and the municipalities' unwillingness to
 approve needed tariff increases. Inboth cases, the volume o f non-revenue has remained fairly
 constant since the early 1990s.Whenwater sales were high, the proportion of non-revenue water
to sales was at internationally accepted levels (10 percent) but now (nearing 30 percent) it
represents a significant loss o f income and a dilemma for the utilities, particularly Siauliai where
half is due to administrative losses because o f the way it is metered. The benefits o fimproved
and computerized billings have been partly offset by Government 1998Decision 1507, which
mandated in-house meteringat the expense o f the water companies and ledto significant losses
of revenue due to cheating, and this i s the main reason that billing arrears have increased.25
Staffing i s double internationally accepted norms for the number o f households. While twinning,
physical improvements and rehabilitation increased operational efficiency and lowered costs -
especially for electricity -this has beenoffset by reduced demand for water services and
increased operational costs and debt servicing due to installation o f oversizedwater and
wastewater treatment facilities.

28.       The water utilities are able to cover operational costs, but have difficulty servicing loans
and are having to defer replacement o f some depreciated assets. Thus, both utilities have a strong
case for increasingcurrent tariffs, which would make them commercially viable - a case,
however, that i s weakened by the potential adverse impact on demand and affordability, the latter
beinga major concern o f the municipalities.26Inconsequence, there has beenno increase in
Siauliai's tariffs since 1999 as this would push SW's service cost above politically acceptable
levels (4 percent o f income).27It would also increase municipal subsidies to the large number o f
unemployed andpensioners.28Conversely, Klaipeda's lower tariff, allied with a better-off low-
income group, makes an increase more palatable and KW i s expecting the municipality to
approve a change to a two-tier tariff at the beginningo f 2003. Underlyingthese issues i s the lack
o f an independentregulatory regimeto oversee service-providers -the current systemprovided
bythe State Energyand Price Commission needsto be able function without municipal
gatekeepers whose vestedinterests conflict with establishment o f financially viable service
providers.

29.       Neitherutilityhlly achieved all appraisal targets. Despitethis, the accomplishments since
the mid-1990s are outstanding, particularly giventhe substantial adjustment and learningrequired
as part ofthe transition process. As Sida's evaluation team noted: "one o fthe reasons for the


25. There are large differences inthe volumes registered on in-house meters and block meters. The water utilities'
block meters always indicate higher water use than the sum o f in-house meters. InSiauliai, commercial and physical
losses in2001 were each about 13 percent o f water production.
26. Overall demand fell precipitously since the early 1990sbecause o f economic slowdown and increasedwater
tariffs. There is good evidence that the elasticity o f demand to price i s not as highas initially feared (the Siauliai
estimated-0.5 for domestic and -0.25 for institutional and commercial consumers) and that per capita demand has
reached its lowest level. Much o f the earlier highdemand was due to leaking household plumbing inpublic housing,
which has now been repaired.
27. The government has adopted a 4 percent o f income affordability test. The needed increase for Siauliai would
exceed 5 percent o f income inthe lowest income group.
28. Unemployment inSiauliai i s officially about 17percent, actual rates are higher.

                                                          12


difficulties duringproject implementation may simply be that the environmental project aimed to
do too many things intoo short atime." Indeed, the Sida twinning consultants' stated "they [the
water utilities] have to do infive years where we took 30."*'

Environmental Management Was Improved

30.       Klaipeda. Three activities were planned, but only two were tackled by the project. The
first priority - to develop an Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan and Priority Actions -
was carried out independentlyby Klaipeda County assisted by EUPHARE. An outline plan was
initiated by Klaipeda University (1996-98) and a draft Master Plan was completed by an
independentexpert in2001. The draft planis comprehensive and includes all aspects ofthe
regional economy, including environmental and eco-system management. Sevenregional
priorities (and what needs to be done locally) were identifiedo f which tourism i s fourth and
environmental protection seventh. The draft Master Plan has the potential to provide the overall
framework for the two remaining activities: eco-tourism priority action program and a
management plan and program for the Nemwnas Delta Regional Park. The main weaknesses o f
the Master Planfrom the environmentalperspective is that it is primarily a regulatory tool that
was developed from a central physical planning perspective with little account o f local
stakeholders' views, including farmers and fishermen. Thus, moving from the plan to action may
prove difficult, especially giventhe few economic incentives for landholders to take
environmental conservation seriously.

31.       The eco-tourism component was effectively rolled into the development of the
management plan for the Nemunas Delta and the adjacent area around Silute municipality and i s
still ongoing. The management plan for the delta, like the regional plan, i s thorough and based on
sound scientific principles. The main planning team from Vilnius University worked closely with
M o E and a few local environmental specialists. There appears to have beena divergence on
appropriate ways to implementthe plan: WWF (Denmark) argued for co-management with local
stakeholders, while M o E felt a strict protectionregime was required- as advised by scientists
who believedthey knew more about the environmental management than locals. Insharing
MoENilnius University findings with locals the overall impressionwas a focus "principally on
nature where people came                     As a result, local ownership among stakeholders is low and
many o f the proposals are probably unworkable without external pressure and financial f up port.^'
It is likely, however, that membershipinthe EUwill help address some o fthese issues.




29. Sida. 2000. Three Water and Environment Projects in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Sida Evaluation00141.
30. Petersen,Jan-Erik. 1999. The WWFNemunas Delta Project in Lithuania. An independentevaluationby the
Institute for EuropeanEnvironmentalPolicy, London.August 1999.
3 1. Local ownership suffered from the substantialchanges inpopulationand collective farming. About halfthe pre-
WWII Germanpopulationleft the area followingRussianoccupationandthere was an influx of people from other
parts ofLithuania. Collective farming paidno attentionto environmentalconservationor preservationof local
cultural and architecturalheritage.Thus, there is little to cement the communitytogether particularlyas they are not
usedto managingtheir own locality.Farms are marginaland small (less than 3 hectares)and most farm families
needoff-farmemploymentand state supportto survive. Educational levels and environmentalawarenessare low.

                                                          13


32.     Despite these difficulties, the
project inputs gave practical and                             Figure 2: Lithuanian Pollution Is Much Reduced
technical support to the Regional
Park's Director and enabled an                               80% ,
effective office to be established
quickly.32But financial support to
maintain natural environmental
protection activities appears to be a
growingproblem. For example, the
Rusne IslandNature Center had
sufficient income for conservation
activities from selling fishing licenses;                       1992  1993  1994 1995    1996   1997    1998     1999 2000
but now the sales pointand income has
been shiftedto the municipality. An
active small-scale reedcutting-andwillow-fencing enterprise was established and exports
ecological products to Denmark. A number o f farms have set up as bed-and-breakfast
establishments and those visited are prosperous -the maintourists are returning Germans and
ornithologists. It i s too early andthere are too few data to detect any impact on tourism.

33.     Siauliai. Overall levels o fpollution have declined drastically across Lithuania due to
factory closure, reducedfarming andbetter wastewater treatment (Figure 2). As noted earlier, a
good system of environmental monitoring i s inplace. However, the effectiveness o f the REPD i s
limitedby inadequate funding for operation andmaintenance (one fifth of needs), difficulties of
enforcement andthe low level o f fines for pollution.

34.     The control ofpoint source pollution at piggeries was successful but attracted fewer
farms than anticipated. The study phase to look at altemative low-cost ways o f reducing
pollution from manure and developing farm management plans was successful and i s regarded as
best practice by the REPD. Selected
demonstration sites were less                             Figure 3: Total Nitrogen Discharge in the Lielupe
receptive because of the downturn                                      River to the Gulf of Riga
intheporkmarket, which limited                              25
project scope, and the pilot project                  -                n
                                                      v)
                                                      C                              Nitrogen Entering Latvia from
                                                      0                              Lithuania
at Burani almost closed.                                                          ONitrogen Discharge to the Sea
                                                      0     20
                                                      0
Fortunately, businesspicked up                        --
                                                      0     15
from 2001 and the pilot will be
completed with follow-on bilateral                    A
                                                      .--2  10
                                                      0
and maybe GEF funding under the                       c)     5
Baltic Sea Regional Program.                          n
                                                      0

Overall, there has beena marked                              0

reduction i s riverinetransboundary                                  1998           1999                2000

pollution from Lithuania to Latvia,             Source: Latvian EnvironmentalAgency, 2002
Figure3.


32 Support included: salaries for the Lithuanian project team, cars, a motorboat, office equipment, a bird watching
   ,
tower on Rusne Island, and signposts for tourist trails.

                                                       14


Ratings
35.       The OED rating system i s explained at the front ofthis report.

Outcome

36.       The outcomeof Klaipeda is rated as satisfactory as the project achievedmost of its
relevant objectiveswith minor shortcomings.The outcome of the Siauliai project is rated as
moderately satisfactoryas it achievedmost of its relevant objectives but with significant
shortcomings.The overall ratings are based on the relative importance o fthe objectives, and the
basic principle beingthat until pollution i s preventedina sustainable manner-through
financially viable wastewater utilities - none o f the more global objectives are achievable. These
ratings o f objectives are elaborated inthe following sections on the relevance, efficacy, and
efficiency o f the projects.

Relevance

37.       Both projectswere and are highly relevant at the national and regional level. The
leaders o fthe countries surrounding the Baltic Sea initiated the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive
Environmental Action Program (JCP) at Ronneby, Sweden, in 1990. The program was devisedto
restore the Baltic Sea to a sound ecological balance, support the Helsinki Convention, and provide
a framework to guide implementationby each state.33Its strategic approach was approved at the
1992 Helsinki Diplomatic Convention. Arrangements for implementation inthe countries o fthe
Baltic Sea drainage basin were supported by national and local governments, EU, six bilateral
agencies, five international financial institutions (IFIs) andthe WWF as agreed at Gdansk, Poland,
in1993.34

38.       The actions proposed by the JCP included large-scale investmentto upgrade municipal
and industrialwater treatment, new industrialtechnologies, improved management o f
agriculture, and integrated coastal zone management. Subsequently, 132 pollution "hot spots"
were identifiedand a three-phase program over the period 1993-20 12to remediate them costing
36 billion ECU was agreed.35Inthe first phase (1993-97), several o f the priority municipal "hot
spots" were among the highest national environmental priorities inLatvia, Lithuania, and
             The Gdansk Conference also agreed that inview o f the slow build-upo f local

33. The countries were: Belarus, CzechRepublic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland,
The RussianFederation, Slovak Republic, Sweden and Ukraine.
34. The bilateraldonorswere: Denmark, Finland,Norway, Sweden, Netherlands,the United States and the
EuropeanUnion. The IFIs were: EuropeanBank for Reconstructionand Development (EBRD), European
InvestmentBank (EIB), Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), Nordic EnvironmentFinance Corporation(NEFCO), and
the World Bank (WB). The NGO was the World Wide Fundfor Nature(WWF).
35. Point-sourcepollution "hot spots" included42 municipalitiesand 39 industrialcomplexes, while 8 non-point
pollution agriculturalilivestockareas were identified.The program also included5 priority coastal lagoon and
wetland management areas. Some "hot spot" areas includedmorethan one point-sourceo fpollution thus bringing
the total to 132.
36. InLatvia: Liepajaand Daugaspils; in Lithuania:Vilnius, Kaunus, Klaipeda, and Siauliai; and in Estonia:Tallinn
and Parnu.

                                                           15


 resources, there would be a critical short-term need for continued and better-coordinated support
 from bilateral donor organizations and IFIsto implementthe JCP, especially to support policy,
 institutional development and investmentpreparation activities.


 Table 5: Ratings for Achievement of Major Objectives

                    Objectives                         Relative  Relevance   Efficacy    Efficiency  OUTCOME
                                                      Importance

KLAIPEDA

management systems o f the Klaipedawater and
Improve the operational efficiency and                    1        High      Substantial  Modest     Satisfactoy
wastewater utility

of water supply and wastewater services
Improve the quality, reliability and cost-efficiency      2        High      Substantial Substantial Satisfactoy

Reducedischarge of partially treated and                  3        High      Substantial Substantial Satisfactoy
untreatedwastewater into the Baltic Sea.
Restore and enhance the surface and groundwater
quality inKlaipeda, Kursiu(Curonian) Lagoon               4      Substantial  Modest     Not Rated    Moderately
and adjacent recreational beacheson the Baltic                                                       Satisfactoy
Sea.
Promoteenvironmentally sustainable management
and development of the Kursiu(Curonian) Lagoon            5      Substantial  Modest     Not rated    Moderately
and adjacent coastal areas.                                                                          Satisfactoy

                       Overall Ratingfor Klaipeda                  High      Substantial  Modest     Satisfactoy

SIAULIAI
Improve the quality, reliability and cost-efficiency
of water supply and wastewater services                   1        High       Modest      Modest      Moderately
                                                                                                     Satisfactoy
Assist inestablishing financially sustainable             2        High       Modest      Modest
provisionof municipal services                                                                        Moderately
                                                                                                     Satisfactoy
Reduce pollutant loads to the Upper Lielupe River
Basin thus decreasing transboundarypollution into         3        High      Substantial  Modest      Moderately
the river andthe Gulfof Riga                                                                         Satisfactoy

Improve the regional and local environmental
quality monitoring and enforcement system in the          4      Substantial  Modest     Not Rated    Satisfactoy
Upper Lielupe River Basin.
          ~~


                        Overall Ratingfor Siauliai                 High       Modest      Modest      Moderately
                                                                                                      Satisfactoy



 39.        The projectswere and are relevant to the Bank's policiesand country programs. A
 comprehensive reviewo f Lithuania's economic situation, policies, and economic prospects in
 1992, later elaborated inthe 1994 Government-Bank Public ExpenditureReview, identified
 investmentinenvironmental improvementand urbanwater as the third highestpriority (after
 energy and transportation) accounting for 20 percent o fe~penditure.~' issues were municipal
                                                                                  Key


 37. World Bank. Lithuania Country Economic Report.July 6, 1992 and Lithuania Public ExpenditureReview.
 ReportNo. 12792-LT.July 12, 1994.

                                                 16


sewage treatment, hazardous waste management, and air pollutionprotection. Because o f its
complex ecology and hightourist value, the coastal areawas identifiedas deservingspecial
environmentalattention and management policies. The Bank's 1994 base-caseCountry Assistance
Strategy (CAS) endorsed these priorities. A major emphasis o fthe CAS was aid coordinationto
mobilize cofinancing and technical assistance for project preparation and implementation.


Efficacy

40.     The efficacy of both projects is rated as substantial.While there were early difficulties
over governance, and moving from Soviet-period to western-standard procurement and
contracting procedures, inthe end both projects made satisfactory progress toward key objectives
as shown by indicators for water quality and utility performance. Evenwhere the quality
indicators for effluent have not been met- as for nitrogen removal at Siauliai - full marks need
to be given for efficiently operating the old WWTP and lowering pollution concentrationto
almost half pre-project levels (Table 3). With the commissioning o f the new WWTP appraisal
standards will be achieved - drivenby the importance government places on harmonizationwith
EUandHELCOM environmental standards and the highlevel of attention by bilateralpartners.

41.     Bothprojects were successful inmovingthe utilities toward financial sustainability,
which demonstrates substantial institutional development and strengthening.Both utilities now
follow modern accounting and managerial standards.

42.     The more global objectives to restore and enhance surface and groundwater quality and
bring about integrated coastal zone management improve the environment, while substantially
relevant are o f lesser importance because they were too ambitious and unrealistic inthe project's
time frame. Giventhe relatively small level o finvestment,physical and institutional focus ofthe
projects on the utilities, and the fact that 80 percent o f pollution derives from non-point sources,
these are objectives that are likely to take decades to achieve because o f the large number o f
stakeholders involved and the evolving economy.


Efficiency

43.     The efficiency at Klaipeda and Siauliai is rated as modest.These ratings take into
account apparently contradictory financial rates of return(FRR) which inthe ICRs were
estimated to be 9.2 percent for Klaipeda and 3.8 percent for Siauliai. According to these FRR,
Siauliai should be rated as negligible and Klaipeda as modest. The economic efficiency would be
probably be modest for both projects ifnon-monetized environmental benefits (such as improved
beaches, reduced Baltic Sea pollution, and improved public health) could be included.

44.     The largest failing of bothprojects was larger-than-needed capital investmentbrought
about by an unwillingnesso f the utilities and government (MOE) to make realistic demand
projections and accept lower (western) design standards. As a result, Klaipeda installed WWTP,
which i s about three times too large for present needs, and Siauliai a plant that i s almost five
times too large. Water supply upgrades were similarly oversized and thus capacity utilization is
low. As a result, income and returns to the investmentwill only increase if costs can be further
lowered and/or tariffs increased.

                                                           17


45.       Looking at alternatives, the ICRs indicatedthat Klaipeda would have yieldedan FRR o f
12 percent if capital cost hadbeen20 percent lower, and 11.3 percent at Siauliai if only
rehabilitation hadbeendone (Table 6). As noted earlier, however, Klaipeda's design was a
retrofitted to a large sunk investment and thus cost savings were difficult to achieve. At Siauliai,
the best decision (inhindsight)would have beento delay investmentas most o fthe
environmental benefits from pollution reduction resultedfrom reduced water demand and
                                                               closure o f industry.
Table 6: FRR for Various Assumptions
Elasticity of Demand to Price                                  46.       The ICR's financial analysis for

                      Industrial&       SiaUliai     Klaipeda  Siauliai (but not Klaipeda) made several
                      Institutional                            estimates o f the FRR based on the assumption
       -0.25               -0.25          7.1%                 that demand would further decline iftariffs
        -0.4               -0.25          5.1%                 were increased. Inparticular it stated that an

        -0.5               -0.25          3.8%                 elasticity o f-0.5 for domestic consumers

       Zero                Zero                       9.2%     probably representedreality based on past

 Rehabilitate Old                                              experience. As a result, the FRR was
 Works only at   -         -0.25         11.3%                 estimated to be 3.8 percent.
         0.4
   Capital Costs                                               47.       Siauliai Water's data indicate that
  down 20% and                                                 much o f the fall inconsumption since 1996
   zero elasticity                                     12%     has been due to higher distribution efficiency
within households and apartment blocks. Underthe Soviet system, water bills were leviedto
housing corporations who paid on the basis o f block metering.Belowthe meter, giventhe low
price o f water, no one cared how much was wasted, nor was there adequate funding for adequate
maintenance o f interior plumbing. Thus, most faucets and toilets continually leaked, increasing
domestic consumption. With the increase inwater tariffs and accurate metering - and the later
introduction o f meters to
apartments - householders and
institutions stopped most leaks and                          Figure 4: Water Consumption in Klaipeda and Siauliai

their apparent consumption dropped
and appears to be leveling out at 70
to 80 liters per capita per day                                             ................          ..................

(Figure 4).38

48.       Indeed,consumption at this
level has to represent the bare
minimumfor households
consideringthat the average for
lowest for 14 European countries                              1990     1992    1994        1996   1998    2000       2002

was 113 liters/capita/day for
Hungary followed by 120 l/c/d for Belgium.39               Experience demonstrates that the impact o f
meteringon consumption is substantial. InGermany, for example, total consumption in2001-02


38. This was shown by experience from Bosnia. Water use inone big housing block before plumbing repairs was
25011icid. After repairs it fell to 100 Vcid. Kari Johanssen(World Bank) personal communication. March 26,2002.
39. The lowest domestic and small business consumption in 14 European countries in 1995 was 113 litersicapitaiday
(licld) for Hungary; 120 licid for Belgium and 1312 licid for Germany. Lowest total water use by all sectors was 160

                                                   18


was on the order 110-120 l/c/d. The public opinion survey for Siauliai (para 4.8) indicated that in
a before/after comparison about 55 percent o f participants consumed the same or more water,
while 45 percent consumed less -a fairly neutral outcome - suggestingthat price/demand
elasticity i s very        It seems likely thenthat as the economy grows consumption will increase
also -but maybe not a lot. At -0.25 elasticity, Siauliai's FRR increases to about 7 percent, a
marginally satisfactory result. Conversely, it i s unlikelythat Klaipeda's price-demandelasticity
i s zero and therefore its FRR will be less than the 9.2 percent calculated inthe ICR.

49.      The benefit stream o fbothprojects, however, is greater thanjust that measured by the
cash flows o f the utilities. The improvement to the quality o f effluent from both municipalities i s
significant, but the benefits to the environment and the Baltic Sea cannot be monetized and are
not included.Ifit could be, then the economic returno f bothprojects probably lies inthe range
8-1 0 percent. Giventhat bothprojects failed to meet industrystandards for cost-effectiveness
considering the working and operating ratios (see Table 4), overall efficiency o f both projects i s
rated as modest.

Institutional Development Impact

50.      The overall institutional developmentimpact is rated as substantial for both
projects. This balances a highrating for the successful transition to soundly managed water and
wastewater utilities against variable performance on the enabling environment. Reorganization,
computerization, information systems, skills upgrading, and strategic planning - greatly
enhanced by technical assistance from Nordic utilities under twining arrangements and donors'
support for good governance - explains the utilities' success. The enabling environment
improved somewhat sporadically. Procurement and contract procedures were reformedto
western norms despite the occasional setbacks caused by political interference. Environmental
concerns have been given a higher political profile as part o f the EUharmonizationprocess -
although penalties for pollution, and funding levels for monitoring and enforcement, needto be
realigned to be effective deterrents that support the more stringentpollution standards.

51.      The processes to establish realistic tariffs are a notable achievement -butthey need
furtherrefinementto enable to the utilities to become financially sustainable.

Sustainability

52.      Sustainability of the environmental benefits generated is rated likely for both
projects. Government, municipal, and utility ownership is high, and continued support from EU
and Nordic development partners i s highly likely. The WWTP at Siauliai will be completed this
year and it i s expected that the requiredemission standards will be attained. The technology
carries few risks and the capacity i s large enoughto cover any foreseeable increase indemand
for treatment capacity. The only uncertainty i s the fate o f Siauliai's proposedtariff increase to



l/c/dfor Belgium; 168 l/c/dfor Germanyand 169 l/c/d for Hungary.Source: Statistics and EconomicsCommittee.
International Water Supply Association(IWSA). September 1997.
40. Personalcommunicationex Walter Stottman,World Bank

                                                         19




cover loan repayments and depreciation. Inthe short- to medium-term,debt reschedulingusing
cheaper commercial loans could partly mitigate these risks.


BankPerformance

53.       Bankperformance is rated satisfactory for both projects. Appraisal successfully
focused on facilitating multidonor-supported projects inthe three newly independent Baltic States
to meet plans to clean upthe Baltic Sea underthe auspices o fHELCOM. Considerable attention
was givento helpingLithuanianinstitutions bridgethe gap betweenSoviet practice and western
procedures and standards. Despitethe Bank's efforts, important designissues (particularly
technology, scale, and cost) took a long time to resolve because of the unwillingnesso f Lithuanian
designersto accept western norms. As a result, engineeringdesignwas finalized only after the
projects became effective, which i s contrary to recommended Bank practice.

54.      Project files clearly indicate that Bank environmental staff were anxious to gain a
foothold inthe Baltic states and advance implementation o f the JCP. The Bank's rationale was
that it was uniquelyplaced to link environmental clean up and management with a coherent
country program covering all sectors, and provide essential institution-building knowledge. The
history o fthe project supports this premise.All major stakeholders - government, MOE,
municipalities, utilities, and the Nordic donors independentlytold the assessment team that the
Bank was very effective increating (and sustaining though supervision) a framework that
enabled financially viable environmental clean-up and management - Le., sound wastewater
utility management. And this would not have beenpossible without Nordic partners' grant
fundingofthe twinning arrangements and reciprocal visits withinthe region, all ofwhich
enhanced Lithuanian technical knowledge and capacity but was less effective at accelerating
managerial improvement^.^' Inrecognition, the Siauliai project team received the World Bank's
President's Award for excellence insupervision.

55.      A major criticism by several stakeholders interviewedduringthe assessmentwas poor
quality at entry because the Bank had endorsed the construction o f the over-dimensioned and
uneconomic water and wastewater treatment facilities, which are now underutilized. The
evidence, however, does not support this assertion.

56.      First, at appraisal the Bank and the Nordics were successful inpersuading Lithuania to
adopt constant demandprojections as against increasing demand, which would have requiredeven
larger facilities. This was a notable achievement as none o fthe Lithuanian stakeholders believed
that the drop-off inwater demand first noted inthe early 1990s would continue. All Lithuanians
believedthe economic repercussion o fthe post-Soviet economic transition would be short-lived
and that the old demand norms would be eventually reestablished.


41. Sida's evaluation (op cit.,) rates the twinning experience at Klaipedaas "not beingsatisfactory." The basis for
that judgmentwas that the Swedishmanagementmodelwas pushedtoo hard and that an intermediate position
suitable for Lithuaniawas never found. A major issue was the a failure to change Soviet-stylemanagement, which
allowed "single man, single task" rather than developingmultidisciplinary workers. After morethan 50 years
working inthe Soviet system it is unreasonableto expect cultural normsto change quickly.

                                                     20


57.      Second, neither the Bank nor the Nordics had evidence to support lower demand
projections. Data available at the time showed that average consumption for all uses inEurope
was 255 l/~/d.~'    And this compares well with the 1993 total consumption, which was 272 l/c/d in
Klaipeda and 236 l/c/d in Siauliai. Also, consumptionappeared to be leveling off inthe period
1993-94, as seen inFigure 4. The precipitous decline in consumption after 1994 could not have
beenforeseen although it was well-known that effective meteringwould reduce consumption-
as it did. Eventhen, International Water Supply Association (1997) data showed that
consumption does not appear to fall below 160 l/c/d.

58.      An alternative strategy for the Bank would have beento hold off investmentand focused
initially only on institutional change. Apart from the practical reality that there would have been
few incentives to accept advice and technical assistance only, Bank staff also believedthat the
non-conditional grants and loans potentially available from Europe would undercut the
willingness o f the municipalities and water utilities to undertake systemic reform, thus
threatening the longer-term financial viability o f the clean-up effort. Discussions with
municipality and utility staff indicated that the Bank's conditionality was a key driver o f utility
reform. Thus this evaluation believes that the Bank's packaging o f institutional reform and civil
works was correct given the circumstances at the time.


Borrower Performance

59.      Borrower performance is rated satisfactory for both projects. These ratings balance
the initialpoor performance on governance, procurement, and counterpart funds with improved
performance and proactive management toward the end o f the project. Considering the myriad
difficulties occasioned by transition, the eventual outcome i s excellent. Ownership i s highand
government i s fully committed to sound and sustainable environmental management.

Findings and Lessons

Findings

60.      Lithuania i s well on the way to achieving regionally agreed water quality emission
standards to the Baltic Sea. Inall there are 14 JCP pollution hot spots inLithuania and it i s
expected that Klaipeda will be eliminated from the list in2002-03 and Siauliai in2004 when the
new WWTP is completed. Overall, inthe period 1993-99 Lithuania reducedtotal pollutants
from 46,600 tondyear in 1993 to 14,700 tondyear in 1999. BOD emissions declined by 72
percent, nitrogen by 62 percent, and phosphorus by slightly more than half. While upgraded
wastewater treatment facilities provided by the two projects and cofinanced by the Bank had a
significant impact on reaching these targets, reduced economic and industrial activity, and the
constraining effect o f increased water tariffs on demand, also made a major contribution. In
agriculture, the Siauliai project initiated control o f point-source agricultural pollution and
complemented government's progressive environmental management policies inthis sector.
Regional planning on the principles of integrated coastal zone management was initiated but was
frustrated by inadequate stakeholder education and outreach campaigns at the local level. Top-


42. Op cit., InternationalWater Supply Association. September 1997.

                                                    21


down consultation also excluded landholders who manage and have to eam a living from the
land and water resources.

61.      Despite these achievements, several studies indicate there i s little apparent impact to date
onthe water quality o fthe Baltic Sea.43This is not unexpected giventhat only a decade has elapsed
since rampant pollution was endemic from the former Soviet Union, and that pollution abatement
andmitigation efforts only date from the mid-1990s. Apart from direct pollution from coastal
towns, more thanthree-quarters o fwater-borne pollution derives from difficult-to-control non-
point sources. Accumulated stocks o fmunicipal and industrial wastes, some o fthem hazardous,
are a problem. Additionally, Lithuaniais only one o f five states newly independentthat discharge
pollutants to the Baltic, and a considerable share o fthese pollutants are aerosols from industry and
power stations. Within the Baltic Sea, the minimal rate o f exchange to the Atlantic Ocean favors
trapping and stocking o f nutrients and hazardous chemicals. It i s expected, however, that regional
efforts should reduce the effects of more readily controlled biochemical oxygen demand and thus
the extent oftoxic algal blooms.

62.      There i s a well-developed regulatory structure and use o f economic instrumentsto control
pollution inLithuania and other FSU states. The project experience casts some doubt on the
efficacy o f these instrumentsbecause o f the relatively low level o f environmental taxes,
adequacy o f funding for monitoring and evaluation, and the difficulties o f enforcement - a task
made less palatable by the precarious state o f most industries.

63.      Water tariffs are highlypoliticized and this poses a significant risk to project
sustainability in Siauliai. The current regulatory setup would benefit from review. Sector-wide
performance standards for water and wastewater treatment utilities are absent. Government
should ensure a mechanism for settingpredictable and transparent subsidies to meet social
objectives and disbursethem independentlyo f the utilities' financial ac~ounting.~~

64.       A major unresolvedproblem is affordability. The municipalities argue that higher water
tariffs would exceed the 4 percent income target. Indoing so they take no account o f the fact if
water consumption i s halved (for example), doubling the tariff keeps the cost o f water to the
consumer constant. To compound the problem, municipality-imposed caps on the tariffs means
that the utilities effectively bear the burdeno f subsidizing services to the poor. Such subsidizes
are government's responsibility. The utilities should be enabled to charge realistic tariffs (subject
to efficiency criteria specified by the regulator) and government should meet social objectives
through provision o f transparent subsidizes for the service received by the consumer.


Lessons

    0    Participationinregional environmental forums can assist Bank efforts to synergize the
         policy agenda and external assistance. Regionally sponsored environmental initiatives in
         response to inter-govemmental action plans provide good opportunities for the Bank to

43. HELCOM. 2001. Baltic SeaEnvironment Proceedings Nos. 82A and 84; Baltic EnvironmentalForum2000.2nd
Baltic State of the EnvironmentReport.
44. Lithuaniareceiveda Bank trust fund grantto address this issue, and more importantly,the optimizationo f
management and ownership ofthe water companies.

                                        22


  exercise its comparativeadvantage inleveraginginstitutionalreformthroughtargeted
  lending.When linkedwith grant funding from bilateraldevelopmentpartners it provides
  a powerful and influentiallobby for reform.

0 When extendingloans for water supply andwastewater treatment to new client countries
  or sectors, the Bank could usefullystart with minimalor emergencyinvestmentslinked to
  an institutionaldevelopmentpackagethat could be the start for a phasedinvestment
 program.The morerecently introducedAdaptable ProgramLoanwould havebeenan
  ideal initial lendinginstrumentinthis case as it would have allowedtime to develop
  refinedcriteria and argumentsto facilitate Governmentagreement to more appropriate
  infrastructure designs and investments.

0Inwater supplyprojectsa combinationofmastermetersandin-housemetersis more
  effective at enablingrevenue collectionthan in-housemetersalone

                                                      23                                           Annex A


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3 8 1 6 - ~ ~ )

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                                      Appraisal          Actual or             Actual as % of
                                                      estimate        current estimate        appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                    23.10                36.03                    156
Loan amount                                             7.0                  7.0                     100
Cofinancing                                             9.10                 18                      198
Cancellation                                            0.45                0.24                     53
Institutional performance


CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements
                          FY95     FY96        FY97    FY98      FY99       WOO       F Y O l    FY02       FY03
Appraisal estimate         0.5      2.5        4.8     6.4        7.0        7.0       7.0        7.0        7.0
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)              0.1      0.7         1.3    1.7        2.9        3.7      4.2         6.4        6.5
Actual as % of             20       28          27      27        41         53         60        91         93
appraisal
Date of final disbursement:   November 12, 2002


ProiectDates
                                                             Original                          Actual
PCD                                                                                           07/09/1993
Appraisal                                                                                     06/27/1994
Board approval                                                                                12/08/1994
Effectiveness                                               04/01/1995                        032611995
Mid-Term Review                                             09/30/1997                        09/30/1997
Closing date                                                06/30/1999                        06/30/2002


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                    Actual Staff Weeks          Actual USb('OO0)
Identification/preparation                   44                       166
AppraisaVnegotiation                         39                       105
Supervision                                  95                       358
ICR                                          5                         5
Total                                       183                       634

                                                           24                                              Annex A


Mission Data
                       Date          No. of      Staff       Specializations   Implementation       Dev,       Types of
                   (monthlyear)    persons     days in         represented        Progress       Objective     problems
                                                 field
Identification/     09/29/1993         10                5 ENVSP, SENG, NRS,
Preparation                                              2 DR
Appraisal           07/05/1994         15                4 ENVSP, NRS,
                                                         ENECO, PS, FA, OAN,
                                                         LAW, 4 DR, INGOR,
                    10/11/1994          7                3 ENVSP, ENECO,
                                                         LAW, DSP, PSP
Supervision         06/16/1995          3                ENVEN, ECO, PAN              S              S
                    02/16/1996          7                ENVEN, PSP, TM,              S              S
                                                         MSP, FSP, LST, MI
                    06/26/1996         4                 ENENG, ML, FSP, RES          S              S
                    01/24/1997         6                 OAN, ENENG, PAN,             S              S
                                                         UMS, FSP, RES
                    09/30/1997         4                 FAN, ENENG, ENVSP,           S              S
                                                         MCO
                    04/27/1998         7                 ML, ENENG, ENVSP,            U              U
                                                         FSP, MSP, OAS
                    11/09/1998         7                 ML, ENENG, OAN,              S              S
                                                         MSP, FAN, RAS
                   05/13/1999          6                 ML, ENENG, MSP,              S              S
                                                         FSP, OAS. ENECO
                    11/09/1999         5                 TL, ENECO, MSP,              S              S
                                                         ENENG, FSP
                   05/09/2000          4                 TL, OSP, FSP, SA             S              S
                    10/24/2000         5                 TL, ENECO, ENENG,            S              S
                                                         FSP, MSP
Completion         04/26/2002          2                 TTL, ENECO                   S              S
ENVSP=EnvironmentalSpecialist; SENG=Sanitary Engineer;NRS=Natural Resources Specialist; DR=Donor Representatives;
ENECO=EnvironmentalEconomist; PSP=ProcurementSpecialist; FAN=FinancialAnalyst; OPA=OperationsAssistant;
LAW=Lawyer; INGOR=lnternational NGO Representative;DSP=DisbursementSpecialist; PSP=ProcurementSpecialist;
ENENG=EnvironmentalEngineer, TM=Task Manager; PAN=ProcurementAnalyst; MSP=ManagementSpecialist; FSP=Financial
Specialist; LST=Local Staff; MI=MonitoringIndicators; ML=MissionLeader; RES=Regional Environmental Specialist;
OAN=OperationalAnalyst; UMS=Utiiity Man. Specialist; MCO=ManagementConsultant; RAS=ResearchAssistant; TL=Team
Leader; OSP=OrganizationSpecialist; SA=Staff Assistant; TTL=Task Team Leader



Other Prqject Data
Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON    OPERATIONS
Operation                                                       Credit no.        Amount                  Board date
                                                                                (US%million)
Not available in ICR.

                                                     25                                         Annex A


SIAULIAIENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT (LAON 3 9 6 3 - ~ ~ )

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                                     Appraisal            Actual or          Actual as % of
                                                      estimate         current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                    22.85                24.43                  107
Loan amount                                             6.45                 6.2                   96
Cofinancing                                              6.1                6.15                   101
Cancellation                                             .43                0.17                   40
Institutional performance


Cumulative EstimatedandActual Disbursements
                          FY96     FY97      FY98     FY99        W O O     F Y O l    FY02    FY03       FY04
Appraisal estimate         0.1      1.1       3.3       6.0        6.2       6.2       6.2      6.2        6.2
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)              0.5      0.8       2.2       5.9        6.0       6.0       6.0      6.0        6.0
Actual as % of            500       73        67        98         97         97        97      97         97
appraisal
Date of final disbursement:   November 1,2001




ProjectDates
                                                              Original                       Actual
PCD                                                                                         03/09/1995
Appraisal                                                                                   06/09/1995
Board approval                                                                              12/05/1995
Effectiveness                                                12/04/1996                     12/04/1996
Closing date                                                 06/30/2000                     06/30/2001


StaffInDuts(staff weeks)
                                             Actual US$ (`000)
Identification/Preparation                       110000
Appraisal/negotiation                             18530
Supervision                                      153333
ICR                                               16000
Total                                            297863

                                                       26                                          Annex A


Mission Data
                        Date     No. of  Staff davs     SDecializations  ImDlementation    Dev.         TvDes Of
                   (monthlyear) persons    in tiel4      represented      `Progress      Objective     pioblems
Identification/      312811995     8                 3 ENVSP,2
Preparation                                          ENECO, FA, OAN,
                                                     EPA
Appraisal            611211995     a                 3 ENVSP, 2
                                                     ENECO, FA, EPA,
                                                     PSP
                     1011611995    8                 3 ENVSP, ENECO,
                                                     DSP, LC, PSP, LAN
Supervision          211311996     7                 2 ENVSP,2                S             S
                                                     ENECO, FSP, OMS,
                                                     PSP
                     612411996     3                 2 ENVSP, FSP             S             S
                     1/22/1997     4                 2 ENVSP, FSP,            S             S
                                                     OMS
                     9/30/1997     6                 OS, PS, 2 ENVSP,         S             S
                                                     FSP, OMS
                     412311998    7                  ENECO, 3 ENVSP,          U             S
                                                     FSP, OMS, OAS
                     11/9/1998    7                  3 ENVSP, FSP,            S             S
                                                     OMS, OAN, RA
                     51911999     6                 2OMS,
                                                       ENVSP, FSP,            S             S
                                                           OAN, ENECO
                     11/4/1999    5                 2 ENVSP, FSP,             S             S
                                                    OMS, ENECO
                     5/3/2000     5                 2 ENVSP, FSP,             S             S
                                                    OMS, SA
                    10/23/2000    5                 2 ENVSP, ENECO,           S             S
                                                    FSP, OMS
Completion           611612001    3                 2 ENVSP, ENECO            S             S
ENVSP=EnvironmentalSpecialist; ENECO=EnvironmentalEconomist, FA=FinancialAnalyst: EPA=Environmental Policy Analyst;
PSP=ProcurementSpecialist; DSP=DisbursementSpecialist: LC=LegalCounsel, LAN=LoanAnalyst; FSP=Financial Specialist:
OMS=Organizationand Management Specialist; OAN=OperationsAnalyst; OAS=OperationsAssistant: RA=ResearchAssistant;
SA=Staff Assistant

Other Project Data
Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                                  Credit no.         Amount              Board date
                                                                           (US$ million)
Not available in ICR.

                                                 27                                    Annex B


Annex B. Cofinanciers' Comments


COMMENTS FROMSIDA



                 KLAIPEDAAND SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS


The Swedish Government decided to support investments inwastewater treatment inthe two
Lithuanian cities o f Klaipeda and Siauliai, 1994 and 1996 respectively. The Baltic Sea Joint
Comprehensive Environmental Action Programme, by Helsinki Commission (HELCOM),
formed the basis for this decision. Investment support was to be targetedto places where
polluting discharges were particularly severe, i.e. "hot-spots" as defined inthe HELCOM action
programme. The Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency, Sida, was assigned to
manage the Swedish grants.

Klaipeda and Siauliai Environmental Project consists o f several components including
investments inwater supply and distribution, wastewater treatment, environmental management,
institutional support and other assistance. The projects are financed with Swedish and Finnish
grants, local funding and by way o f loans from the World Bank.The Swedish contribution to
Klaipeda Environmental Project i s 39 MSEK and to Siauliai Environmental Project originally
31.5 MSEK.

.
The long-term goals o f the Swedish support to the Klaipeda and Siauliai Environment Projects
wasdecrease the
     to:
                    amounts o f pollutants and adherent negative environmental effects inthe Baltic
    Sea
    support an environmentally sustainable transition inthe water and wastewater sector inthe
    region

SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENTALPROJECT:
The Swedish contribution to the investment project consists o f design and supervisiono f
constructions, financing o f investments to finalize constructions o f the new wastewater treatment
plant, and institutional strengthening support. A grant was also allocatedtowards the
Environmental Management Component regarding non-point pollution, managed by the Swedish
Agricultural University.Institutional development i s supported through a programme o f
twinningcooperation between Siauliu Vandenys and the Kristianstad Water andWastewater
Utility. A majority o fthe services financedby Sida are supplied by Swedish companies.

Dueto differences o fopinionbetweenthe financiers andthe governmentregarding costs,
financing and dimensioning o f the plant, construction o f the new WWTP inSiauliai has been
delayed four years. The plant i s over-dimensioned andthe original cost estimates are by far
exceeded. Dueto a financing gap, the Swedish Grant has been increased by 32% or 10.1 MSEK,
to a total o f 41.6 MSEK.

                                              28                                    Annex B


Inauguration o f the Siauliai WWTP i s planned duringthe fall o f 2003. When the constructions
are finalized, the environmental goals are expected to be fulfilled.

KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT:
The Swedish contribution to the investmentproject mainly concerned the completion o f the
WWTP with provision o f electro-mechanical equipment, o f design and supervision and o fthe
financing o f twinning betweenKlaipeda Water and Malmo Water, as well as some training
courses provided by the SwedishAssociation o fLocal Authorities. All services financed by Sida
are suppliedby Swedish Companies. When Klaipeda WWTP was inaugurated inDecember
1998, the environmental goals were fulfilled.

Also the Klaipeda project hadbeensuffering from delays. The water consumption decreased far
more and much faster than foreseen and costs o f individual components was higher that
anticipated. Cost increases were mainly paid from the Lithuanian budget. One reason for
difficulties inproject implementationmay have beenthe fact that the environmental project
aimed to do too many things intoo short a time.

Inadevelopment perspective, however, the results ofthe Klaipeda and Siauliai Environment
Projects are considered to bepositive from a Swedishpoint o f view. The cooperationwith the
WB levered Sida's support andmadethe bilateral fundingmore efficient than it would havebeen
ifacting alone. TheleadingroleofWB andrequirements for creditworthinesscreated an
incentive to upgrade skills and generate financially viable water services. The Swedish grant
support, without the cooperation with WB, would not have involved such a strong mechanism
for ensuringthe institutional changes. Through the environment projects co-financed with the
WB, an important learning process was established inthe Baltic region.

                                                29                                   Annex B




Commentsfrom WWF

Introduction
The national and international efforts to reduce the negative environmental impacts o f human
activities inthe Baltic Sea Area have been quite successful during the last 12 years.
Large ,needed investments have been made in "technical hardware" like WWTPs, clean
technology etc.
Despite this needed environmental investments the environmental situation has not improved,
despite for some local ,mainly coastal, areas.
The new challenge is to address more "human, soft'' issues related to life styles and thereby also
politics. Examples given are agriculture ,transports and energy systems .
These tasks needs other means and approaches(inc1uding funds) that HELCOM ,EU as well as
other major actors so far have failed to address.


LIMITINGTHE NEGATIVE IMPACTSOFEUTROPHICATION

Efforts have been made on a regional scale to limit the production o f algae and reverse the
development o f an eutrophied Baltic Sea. The countries surrounding the Baltic agreed in 1987 on
reducing the nutrient flow by 50% by 1995. Inmost countries the 50% reduction target has been
achieved for phosphorus coming from point sources such as municipalities and industries.
However, the target was not reached for phosphorus coming from diffuse sources like
agriculture. Here, reductions reached around 20%. For nitrogen, too, the measures fell short o f
their aims. Intotal, nitrogenwas only cut downbyapprox. 35%.

Even though there has been a reduction o f the nutrient load to the Baltic by 30%, no change in
the levels o f nutrient in the sea has been recorded. We still experience summers with massive
algae growth and turbid water. One explanation i s that the system reacts slowly due to the large
internal stores of nutrients. The Baltic i s feeding itself with phosphorus coming from the
sediments and nitrogen from the cyanobacteria. Also, the residence time for nitrogen and
phosphorus i s 13 and 6 years respectively, and it will be many years until a change will be
noticeable.



SOCIO-ECONOMIC FACTORS

Five reasons can be identified as the primary ones:

0   runofffrom agriculture(main importance)
0   untreated wastewater from point sources (e.g. industry and towns) as well dispersed
    settlements(have been addressed except for dispersed settlements which i s an emerging
    problem))
0   runofffrom forests(especial1y inthe northernparts)
    air-borne pollutants (transport, heating, industry)(main importance)

                                               30                                      Annex B


0   loss o f ecological functions(main importance)

Agriculture lets out nutrients directly by runoff and drainage from fields, indirectly to the air by
emissions o f ammonia from fertilisers, manure and farm animals and nitrogen oxides from farm
machinery. Agriculture i s by far the largest source o f nitrogen, but also a significant source of
phosphorus. Root causes for the excessive use of nutrients are subsidies and the pricing system
for agricultural products which do calculate with the environmental impacts o f agricultural
practices. In addition, there i s a lack o f knowledge among farmers about the complexities o f
environmental impacts and how modem agricultural practices directly influence the
environment. The motivation for farmers to keep track o f nutrients, as well as to minimise the
use i s not strong enough and the application o f best agricultural practices i s too frequently left
unconsidered.

Agriculture i s closely linked to rural development and needs to be addressed on highest political
level ,as indicatedby the needs to reform EUCAP.

Municipal sewage i s a considerable source o f nitrogen but the single largest source o f
phosphorus. Large cities like e.g. Kaliningrad, Saint Petersburg and Warsaw still have
insufficientwastewater treatment due to lack o fprioritisation and investments.

Air bome pollutants from transportation and industry is the second largest source o f nitrogen in
the form o f oxides. Emissions from transportation i s a severe and difficult environmental
problem, and i s not sufficiently addressed in environmental policies. This sector also suffers
from a lack o f insight o f the environmental impacts o f their activities. The distance between
source and impact contributes to the complexity o f the problem.
These emissions needs to be dealt with a highest political level ,using economic instruments.

The loss o f ecological functions - the nutrientretention capacity o fwetlands, floodplains, coastal
lagoons and free-flowing rivers - has added substantially to the euthrophication problem. Up to
90% o f wetlands inthe southern part o f the Baltic Sea Region have been drained during the past
century. State support for drainage and polderisation, regulation o f rivers and construction o f e.g.
dams have been the key reasons for loss o f these natural features, driven by demands for
additional land for farming, protection from flooding and a growing demand for electricity. The
lack o f market or regulatory mechanisms for assigning value to wetland functions i s a major root
cause for the loss o f ecological functions.
Legal instruments(prohibition o f new wetland drainage) as well as subsidiedgrants for
restoration are needed.


Agriculture and sustainable rural development
To achieve sustainable rural development, including minimisation o f negative environmental
impact from key economic activities - agriculture being the most notable            -  a number o f
interlinkedaspects needto be considered:

                                             31                                  Annex B


a. an appropriateland-useperspective,which takes into account ecological functions of a.0.
   wetlands, space for ecological corridors and free-flowing rivers with their annual flooding
   patterns
b. an ecosystem perspective, which takes into account specific problems related to specific
   catchment with each their characteristics and sensivity
C. an agricultural production perspective, which allows prosperous farming to take place
   within a framework o f taxation and economic incentives which are coherent with
   environmental protection needs as well as free and open market conditions not interfered by
   perverse subsidies
d. a socio-economic and rural development perspective, where adequate economic support
   allows for prosperous rural development to take place in areas, where abundance o f natural
   concems demands intemational biodiversity interests to be taken into account
e. a participation perspective, which focuses on mobilising local responsibility of,
   involvement inand acceptance o fnature protection concerns.

As all countries around the Baltic Sea except Russia will be members o f the EU ,starting from
mid2004;this mainlyneeds to be addressed as part ofthe CAP reform.


MAP SECTION


