Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3816 LT
                              Loan Agreement
                      (Klaipeda Environment Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated January 27, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3816 LT
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF
LITHUANIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Klaipeda State Water Supply Enterprise (KSWSE) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to KSWSE the proceeds of the Loan
as provided in this Agreement;
      (C)   the Government of Sweden, through the Swedish Board
for International Technical Support, has agreed to make a grant
(the BITS Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project;
      (D)   the Government of Finland, through the Ministry of
Page  2
Environment of Finland (MEF), has agreed to make a grant (the
MEF Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to assist in financing the Project;
and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
KSWSE;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and KSWSE of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and KSWSE pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
to be made pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit
established and maintained under the supervision of KSWSE and
responsible for the overall implementation of Part A of the
Project;
      (d)   "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee
established and maintained within the Ministry of Environmental
Protection of the Borrower and responsible for overseeing and
coordinating overall project implementation;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 25, 1994 and
November 21, 1994 between the Borrower and the Bank; and
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
Page  3
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of seven million dollars
($7,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after
                  July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
Page  4
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause KSWSE to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
KSWSE therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable KSWSE
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
KSWSE under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and KSWSE, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall
include provisions pursuant to which:
            (i)   KSWSE shall repay to the Borrower the proceeds
                  of the Subsidiary Loan over a term of 20 years,
                  including a grace period of five years;
           (ii)   KSWSE shall pay to the Borrower the equivalent
                  in the currency or currencies in which the
                  Subsidiary Loan is denominated (determined as
                  of the respective dates of payment by the
                  Borrower) of the commitment charge and interest
                  paid by the Borrower pursuant to Sections 2.04
                  and 2.05 of this Agreement; and
Page  5
          (iii)   KSWSE shall repay to the Borrower the principal
                  amount of the Subsidiary Loan the equivalent in
                  the currency or currencies in which the
                  Subsidiary Loan is denominated (determined as
                  of the respective dates of repayment by the
                  Borrower) of the equivalent in dollars
                  (determined as of the respective dates of
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value
                  of the currency or currencies so withdrawn from
                  the Loan Account.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof; and
      (d)   the Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project
through its Ministry of Environmental Protection with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and environmental practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such Parts of the
Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with an implementation schedule
and performance indicators agreed with the Bank.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall through its Ministry of
Environmental Protection ensure that the Project is carried out
in accordance with sound environmental policies and procedures,
including, inter alia, the implementation of an environmental
mitigation and monitoring plan for the Project satisfactory to
the Bank.
      Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried out by KSWSE.
      Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on the said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out the said plan with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Financial and Other Covenants
Page  6
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received
                  the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                  made; and
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than four months after
                  the end of each such year the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested, including a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                  and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
      (a)   KSWSE shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that KSWSE will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The KSWSE Charter or the KSWSE Permit for Use of
Natural Resources shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of KSWSE to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of KSWSE or for the suspension of its
Page  7
operations.
      (e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                        to the terms thereof, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.
            (ii)  Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply
                  if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
                  of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                  cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under such
                  agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from
                  other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) through (e) of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section
5.01 (e) (ii) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
arrangements for the BITS Grant have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
arrangements for the MEF Grant have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
      (c)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and KSWSE;
      (d)   KSWSE shall have employed staff and consultants, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, for the
PIU; and
      (e)   KSWSE shall have entered into a contract,
satisfactory to the Bank, with a water and wastewater utility
for the twinning arrangement.
      Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Republic of Lithuania
            Ministry of Finance
            Sermuksniu 6
            2696 Vilnius
            Republic of Lithuania
                                          Telex:
                                            2161252 FIMA SU
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                              REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                              By /s/ E. Vilkelis
                                                Authorized Representative
                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              By /s/ B. Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated             % of
                               (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods and works                6,120,000
Page  9
    for Part A of
    the Project:
    (a) Goods                                        100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
                                                     expenditures
                                                     (ex-factory
                                                     cost) and 80%
                                                     of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     other items
                                                     procured locally
    (b) Works                                        100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures and
                                                     60% of local
                                                     expenditures
(2) Consultants'                   640,000           100%
    services and
    training for
    Part A of the
    Project
                                Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated             % of
                               (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3) Refunding of                   240,000            Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                  suant to Section
    tion Advance                                      2.02 (c) of this
                                                      Agreement
                                 _________
      TOTAL                      7,000,000
                                 =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods, works and services not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
promote environmentally sustainable management and development
of the Lithuanian coastal zone, to improve the environmental
management in the Klaipeda region by reducing the discharge of
partially treated and untreated wastewater in the Baltic Sea,
and to improve the quality, reliability and cost efficiency of
water supply in the same region.
Page  10
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
1.  Rehabilitation, improvement and expansion of the Klaipeda
water and wastewater system, including measures for control of
industrial discharges.
2.  Institutional improvements of KSWSE, including the
establishment of the PIU and the provision of consultants and
equipment for KSWSE, and assistance for the establishment of an
independent water management utility company in Klaipeda.
Part B:   Environmental Management
    Development and implementation of a management plan for
adjacent coastal and protected areas, including provision of
equipment and small scale works and technical assistance.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
July 15, 2000                                  135,000
January 15, 2001                               140,000
July 15, 2001                                  145,000
January 15, 2002                               150,000
July 15, 2002                                  155,000
January 15, 2003                               160,000
July 15, 2003                                  165,000
January 15, 2004                               170,000
July 15, 2004                                  180,000
January 15, 2005                               185,000
July 15, 2005                                  190,000
January 15, 2006                               195,000
July 15, 2006                                  205,000
January 15, 2007                               210,000
July 15, 2007                                  220,000
January 15, 2008                               225,000
July 15, 2008                                  235,000
January 15, 2009                               245,000
July 15, 2009                                  250,000
January 15, 2010                               260,000
July 15, 2010                                  270,000
January 15, 2011                               280,000
July 15, 2011                                  290,000
January 15, 2012                               300,000
July 15, 2012                                  310,000
January 15, 2013                               320,000
July 15, 2013                                  335,000
January 15, 2014                               345,000
July 15, 2014                                  355,000
January 15, 2015                               375,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
Page  11
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                           Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                       0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                        1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the
Page  12
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
determined by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible
expenditures during the four months following the date of each
such request which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
Page  13
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
