                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00002413



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-41320)



                                         ON A

                                     CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                     TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                         FOR A

           FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                                December 28, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Development
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)


                          Currency Unit = Meticais
                          US$ 1.00 = 27.95 Meticais
                           US$ 1.00 = 1.52 SDR


                               FISCAL YEAR


                           January 1 – December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB      African Development Bank
ADP       ?rea da Dívida Pública (Public Debt Department of MoF)
AML       Anti-money laundering
BCP       Basel Core Principles
BoM       Banco de Moçambique (Bank of Mozambique)
BVM       Bolsa de Valores (Mozambican Stock Exchange)
BTs       Treasury securities (also referred to as Treasury bills)
CSD       Central Securities Depository
DFID      UK Development Fund for International Development
DGI       Direcção Geral dos Impostos (General Directorate of Taxation)
DNT       Direcção Nacional de Tesouro (National Directorate of Treasury)
EMPSO     Economic Management and Private Sector Operation
FSAP      Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSCBP     Financial Sector Capacity Building Project
FSTAP     Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
GTZ/GIZ   German Technical Assistance Cooperation
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
IFB       Instituto de Formação Bancária (Bankers’ Training Institute)
IFRS      International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF       International Monetary Fund
INE       Instituto Nacional de Estatística (National Statistics Institute)
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
IT        Information technology
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Fund for Reconstruction)
MoF       Ministério das Finanças (Ministry of Finance)
OTs       Treasury bonds
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PROCYS    World Bank Africa Procurement Cycle Tracking System
QALP      Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
RTGS      Real Time Gross Settlement
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
SISTAFE   Government’s public financial management system
ToR       Terms of Reference




                         Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                       Country Director: Laurence Clarke
                        Sector Manager: Irina Astrakhan
                   Project Team Leader: Mazen Bouri
                      ICR Team Leader: Susan Hume
                                        REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

       Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FSTAP) (P086169)


                                                         CONTENTS

A. Basic Information............................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ........................................................................ v
H. Restructuring ................................................................................................................. vi
I. Disbursement Profile ..................................................................................................... vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 26
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 27
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................... 30
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower .................................................................... 30

Annex 1 Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................... 32
Annex 2 Outputs by Component ...................................................................................... 33
Annex 3 Economic and Financial Analysis ...................................................................... 46
Annex 4 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................. 47
Annex 5 Borrower’s ICR .................................................................................................. 49
Annex 6 List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................... 53

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                       MZ-Financial Sector
                                                                       TA Project Financial
Country:                Mozambique              Project Name:
                                                                       Sector Technical
                                                                       Assistance
Project ID:             P086169                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-41320
ICR Date:               12/01/2012              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       MOZAMBIQUE
Original Total
                        XDR 7.30M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 6.28M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 7.30M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance, Bank of Mozambique
Co-Financiers and Other External Partners: Complementary projects/parallel financiers:
African Development Bank, German Fund for Reconstruction (KfW), and German Technical
Cooperation (GTZ). Other partners: United Kingdom Department for International Development
(DFID), Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), and International Monetary Fund
(IMF).

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/07/2003     Effectiveness:          03/14/2006           03/14/2006
Appraisal:            09/28/2005     Restructuring(s):                            06/22/2011
Approval:             12/01/2005     Mid-term Review:        04/30/2008           03/30/2008
                                     Closing:                06/30/2011           06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                      Negligible
Bank Performance:                                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                     Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

                                                i
C.3. Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
      Performance                                (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                                    No                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                                    No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
                                                   Quality Assessment
DO rating before                Moderately                              Likelihood of Achieving
                                                   of Lending Portfolio
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory                                 DO: 2 (likely)
                                                   (QALP-1) 9/18/2008

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                                36                   72
Central government administration                                      48                   22
Non-compulsory pensions and insurance                                  12                       0
Tertiary education                                                      4                       6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 14                     14
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                               29                     29
International financial standards and systems                           29                     29
Other financial and private sector development                          14                     14
Regulation and competition policy                                       14                     14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                             Gobind Nankani
Country Director:            Laurence Clarke                          Michael Baxter
Sector Manager:              Irina Astrakhan                          Antony Thompson
Project Team Leader:         Mazen Bouri                              Sherri Archondo
ICR Team Leader:             Susan Hume
ICR Primary Author:          Susan Hume

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

Within the overall framework of the multi-donor program, the project development objective
(PDO) of IDA’s contribution to the program was to improve the soundness of the Mozambican
Banking Sector and to improve public debt management.

                                                 ii
The PDO was to be supported by: (i) strengthening the banking sector, including improving the
institutional capacity of the Bank of Mozambique; (ii) improving financial accountability and
transparency; (iii) strengthening public debt management; and (iv) improving money and
government bond market efficiency and depth.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

One of the two key PDO indicators noted in the PAD was changed in 2007: “Debt burden
indicators do not signal a reasonable risk of debt servicing difficulties?, was dropped and replaced
with a new indicator: “Percentage of outstanding treasury securities traded on the secondary
market?. No formal revision of the indicators was undertaken.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target Formally
                                                                Actual Value Achieved at
                                        Values (from   Revised
       Indicator        Baseline Value                           Completion or Target
                                          approval      Target
                                                                         Years
                                        documents)      Values
Percentage of banks
                     Not available
in compliance with
                    until regulations             100%                                    95%
improved prudential
                          issued
regulations
Date                  Nov 3, 2005                                                   April 30, 2012
                                                           Target met
Comments               1 of 18 banks was not compliant (this bank represents less than 0.5 percent of total
                       assets in banking sector)
Percentage of                                                                             1.5%
outstanding treasury            0          Market was under-                    Some development since
                          No secondary     developed and no                       2009 start (including
securities (BTs)                            specific target
                        trading at project                                      reaching 17% in August
traded on the              conception         identified                        2011) but recent trading
secondary market                                                                        minimal
Date                      Nov 3, 2005                                                June 30, 2012
                                                          Target not met
Comments               This reflects poor selection as PDO indicator; underlying objective to improve
                       public debt management was actually met.




                                                    iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target Formally
                                                                        Actual Value Achieved
                                 Baseline    Values (from    Revised
        Indicator                                                     at Completion or Target
                                  Value        approval      Target
                                                                                 Years
                                              documents)     Values
                             BoM compliant BoM compliant
Number of BCP BoM is                                                    BoM compliant with 21
                              with 13 of 23  with 16 of 23
compliant with                                                            of 25 relevant BCP
                              relevant BCP   relevant BCP
Date                         March 14, 2006                                  June 30, 2012
                                                  Target met (exceeded)
Comments                    Two BCPs were added during implementation for a total of 25, of which
                            compliance was achieved for 21
Reduction of time needed                                                               Real time for banks
                                                   Real time for
to transfer funds between   24 hours                                                 representing 80% of the
                                                      banks
banks                                                                                         system
Date                      March 14, 2006                                                  June 30, 2012
Comments                                                   Target largely met
Percentage of banks
whose financial reporting                                                                       94%
                               0%                        100%
is in accordance with
IFRS
Date                      March 14, 2006                                                   June 30, 2012
                                                           Target largely met
Comments                    1 of 18 banks was not compliant (this bank represents less than 0.5 percent of
                            total assets in banking sector)
Percentage of large
enterprises whose
                                    0%                   75%                                    97%
financial reporting is in
accordance with IFRS
Date                         March 14, 2006                                                June 30, 2012
                                                          Target met (exceeded)
                            Over-achievement may be explained by the fact that most large corporations
Comments
                            either are: (i) already required by their parent corporation to use IFRS; or (ii)
                            wholly or partly owned by the Government of Mozambique.
Percentage of medium
enterprises whose
                                    0%                   20%                                   100%
financial reporting is in
accordance with IFRS
Date                         March 14, 2006                                                June 30, 2012
                                                          Target met (exceeded)
Comments                    Full IFRS compliance by medium-sized corporations can be attributed to
                            FSTAP’s instigation




                                                    iv
 Annual publication of
 public debt reports                                 Annual                      Annual reports published
                              NA
 including comprehensive                           publication                       for 2007-2011
 debt inventory
Date                     March 14, 2006                                               June 30, 2012
Comments                                                     Target met
Regular debt forecasts                             Quarterly                     Quarterly Debt Bulletin
                                   NA
published                                         publication                      Forecast published
Date                         March 14, 2006                                            April 2012
Comments                                                     Target Met
Treasury securities (BTs)
auctions held on a              Sporadic       At least monthly                         Biweekly
monthly basis
Date                         March 14, 2006                                         June 30, 2012
Comments                                                                             Target met
Treasury bond (OTs)                                                            Ad hoc issuance at the end
                                 Irregular         Quarterly
auctions held regularly                                                               of the year
Date                         March 14, 2006                                         June 30, 2012
                                                          Target not met
Comments                    But FSTAP policy dialogue laid strong basis for forthcoming internal borrowing
                            plan to introduce regular OT auctions



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                          Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                            IP                  Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                      (USD millions)
   1    06/28/2006           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.80
   2    10/05/2006           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    1.01
   3    12/29/2006           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    1.34
   4    06/25/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    1.50
   5    12/14/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    1.87
   6    06/12/2008           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    2.94
   7    12/23/2008           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    3.64
   8    04/13/2009           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    4.19
   9    11/24/2009           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    5.24
  10    06/22/2010           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    6.57
  11    03/27/2011       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             7.72
  12    01/03/2012       Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    8.41
  13    07/07/2012           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    9.21




                                                   v
H. Restructuring

                 Board                                       Amount
Restructuring   Approved          ISR Ratings at           Disbursed at    Reason for Restructuring
Date              PDO             Restructuring            Restructuring              &
                 Change                                      in US$m         Key Changes Made
                                 DO             IP
                                                                           A level 2 restructuring of
                Not          Moderately     Moderately         7.78        the project allowed for a
June 22, 2011   applicable   Satisfactory   Satisfactory                   twelve month extension of
                                                                           the closing date and a
                                                                           reallocation of financing
                                                                           proceeds.




I. Disbursement Profile (as of November 20, 2012)




                                                vi
1.         Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1        Context at Appraisal

Country and Macroeconomic Context

1.     At the time that the FSTAP project was prepared during 2003-2005, Mozambique was
experiencing strong overall macroeconomic performance. During the preceding decade the
Government had taken key steps to create a stable economy, consistent and comprehensive fiscal
and monetary policies, enhanced financial sector management and supervision, a gradual
reduction of government bureaucracy, strengthening of institutional capacities, and improved
governance. The Government’s Five Year Plan (2001-2005) emphasized economic growth,
public investment in human capital and productive infrastructure, and institutional reform to
improve the environment for private investment.

Sector Background

2.      The Government of Mozambique recognized that the scope and efficiency of the
financial sector played an important role in facilitating economic and private sector growth and
reforms in the financial sector needed to be pursued. The 2003 Financial Sector Assessment
Program (FSAP) highlighted a series of issues to be addressed in the project. The banking
system, comprised of 12 commercial banks, became fragile following the privatization of two
large, state-owned commercial banks in 1996-1997 and liquidity crises in 2000. This
necessitated Government contributions to the recapitalization of the two banks in 2001 and 2002,
amounting to about 6 percent of GDP. Further strengthening of banking supervision, as well as
implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by the commercial banks
and divestiture of the Government of its remaining holdings in the banking (11 percent) and
insurance sectors, were considered a priority.

3.       In addition, the domestic capital market was underdeveloped and domestic debt in
Meticais was small. In particular, money and bond markets (the mechanism that could be used
for monetary management) were considered too narrow to be effective. Similarly, the debt
management framework was weak with respect to the Government’s authority to borrow,
institutional responsibilities, and overall governance structure. A comprehensive public debt
management framework and related capacity building were needed to manage external and
domestic debt. As noted in the PAD, a key objective was to develop the market for Government
securities, thereby providing a market-driven benchmark yield-curve for the issuance of private
securities. 1




1
    The PAD also discussed weaknesses related to access to financial services by Mozambican households, notably in rural areas,
    and by private enterprises, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. But this agenda was part of a broader
    financial sector reform program that was to be supported by other donor agencies.


                                                                1
4.      In terms of addressing the sector’s weaknesses, the Government’s Five Year Plan sought
to, inter alia: modernize the expansion of the financial system; reinforce regulation and
supervision and reduce vulnerability that might affect the financial system; encourage and
promote entry of new financial institutions, therefore increasing competition and diversifying
products of the financial market; continue with actions that contribute to the growth of national
savings; increase the degree of monetization of the national economy; and, adopt international
accounting standards.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

5.      FSTAP aimed to fully support the Government’s financial sector reform program.
Moreover, the project was consistent with the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy
(approved October 2003) which focused on: improving the investment climate; expanding
service delivery; and building public sector capacity and accountability structures.

6.       The Bank had been involved in the Mozambican financial sector since 1993, when the
country, recovering from its long civil war, put priority on developing and strengthening
institutions related to policy and institutional reforms in the financial sector. The Financial
Sector Capacity Building Project (FSCBP, FY94, US$9 million), supported the Government’s
initial efforts to transform the financial system from a mono-banking system to a market-based
financial system.       The FSTAP also built on the efforts of the IDA-financed Economic
Management and Private Sector Adjustment Operation (EMPSO, FY03, US$120 million) which
supported the Government’s program to consolidate macroeconomic stability and to lay the
foundation for sustained private sector-led growth.

7.      In response to a request from the Government and in line with the newly-signed Paris
Declaration, the World Bank led the effort to coordinate and harmonize donor efforts to prepare
a financial sector reform program. This was in line with the Bank’s role as co-leader of the
Financial Sector Working Group in Mozambique. Hence, the IDA-financed FSTAP project was
part of a broad-based and comprehensive reform program. [This Implementation Completion and
Results Report (ICR) only assesses the IDA-financed FSTAP project.] While all participating
donor agencies coordinated their efforts, their respective financing supported clearly-defined
reform activities. For example, the African Development Bank (AfDB) (US$10.2 million)
focused on insurance, the social security system, lending environment, and anti-money
laundering. The German Technical Assistance Cooperation (GTZ, later renamed GIZ) (US$2.4
million) and the German Fund for Reconstruction (KfW) (US$1.2 million) concentrated on
micro and rural finance. The IDA, AfDB, GTZ, and KfW projects all carried the “FSTAP?
designation to emphasize their coordinated nature.         In addition, DFID supported the
implementation of international accounting standards in the banking system during the 2004-
2008 period. This informed the design and implementation of the IDA-financed FSTAP project.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.      As stated in the PAD, “Within the overall framework of the multi-donor program, the
project development objective (PDO) of IDA’s contribution to the program is to improve the
soundness of the Mozambican banking sector and to improve public debt management?.

                                               2
9.     The PDO was to be supported by: (i) strengthening the banking sector, including
improving the institutional capacity of the Bank of Mozambique; (ii) improving financial
accountability and transparency; (iii) strengthening public debt management; and (iv) improving
money and Government bond market efficiency and depth.

10.    The key PDO indicators at the outcome level were:[Note that there was some ambiguity
with the second and third indicators; see discussion on Revised PDO and Key Indicators in
Section 1.3]
    • The percentage of banks compliant with improved prudential regulations
    • Debt burden indicators do not signal a reasonable risk of debt servicing difficulties
    • Percentage of outstanding treasury securities traded on the secondary market

11.     The above PDO indicators were complemented by the following nine intermediate results
indicators related to specific components (see Data Sheet for specific targets):

Strengthening of banking sector
    • Number of Basel Core Principles (BCP) that BoM is compliant with
    • Reduction of time needed to transfer funds between banks

Improving financial accountability and transparency
   • Percentage of banks whose financial reporting is in accordance with IFRS
   • Percentage of large enterprises with financial reporting in accordance with IFRS
   • Percentage of medium enterprises with financial reporting in accordance with a
      simplified IFRS

Strengthening public debt management
    • Annual publication of public debt reports, including a comprehensive debt inventory
    • Publication of regular debt forecasts

Improving money and debt markets 2
   • Treasury security auctions held on a monthly basis
   • Treasury bond auctions held regularly

1.3        Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

12.     In the PAD three key PDO indicators were discussed. The prudential regulations
indicator was noted in both the main text of the PAD and Annex 3 (Results Framework and
Monitoring). This indicator had a clear target and was consistently tracked throughout
supervision. While PAD Annex 3 included this first indicator as one of two key PDO indicators,


2
    The PAD (main text and Annex 3) only noted “Regular Treasury securities auctions held on a monthly basis?. The additional
    intermediate indicator “Treasury bond auctions held regularly? was added in the first ISR and was monitored throughout
    project implementation.


                                                               3
it referred to the second and third indicators interchangeably and targets were not defined for
either. Hence, it was not clear whether one or both of the two indicators were to be considered a
key PDO indicator. In any case, the Credit Agreement did not mention any of the key PDO
indicators but did note the nine intermediate outcome indicators.

13.     When project implementation started, the debt burden indicator was used as the second
key PDO indicator, with the end target: “The Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance have
100% capacity to determine vulnerability, and debt burden indicators do not signal a reasonable
risk of debt servicing difficulties?. At the time of the fifth supervision mission, however, this
key PDO indicator was removed. The team indicated that it found that it was not possible to
effectively measure debt servicing sustainability. The other key performance indicator –
“percentage of outstanding treasury securities traded on the secondary market? – was used
instead since it was considered more meaningful for the activities that the project would be able
to achieve. But no end-target was noted for this indicator, presumably because the market was
under-developed. This key PDO indicator along with the prudential regulations indicator, were
the two included in the ICR Data Sheet.

1.4        Main Beneficiaries

14.      The primary target groups for this project, as identified in the PAD, were the following
institutions: Bank of Mozambique (BoM); Ministry of Finance (MoF); Instituto de Formação
Bancária (Bankers’ Training Institute) (IFB). The stock exchange (Bolsa de Valores, BVM) was
later added as a beneficiary of component 4.

15.    Within the overall multi-donor program, the IDA-financed FSTAP was implemented in
close coordination with other donor-funded projects that covered activities related to micro and
rural finance, insurance, pensions, improving the lending environment, and anti-money
laundering, with numerous Government beneficiaries.

1.5        Original Components (as approved)

16.        The project funded four technical 3 and one administrative component.

17.       Component 1: Strengthening the Banking Sector, including improving the Institutional
Capacity of BoM (US$4.8 million) This component was to support activities to strengthen the
banking sector by: (i) building institutional capacity of the BoM, to include supporting the
process of implementing international practices in off-site and on-site supervision and
improvements of financial market infrastructure and information technology (IT); (ii) financing
an advisor for the Government to assist with its strategy to divest from the banking sector; and
(iii) strengthening the training capacity at the IFB.




3
    While the IDA-financed FSTAP did not directly support the development of any law, it did finance analytical work for the
    development of regulations for banking supervision, financial accountability and transparency, and debt management.


                                                                4
18.      Component 2: Improving Financial Accountability and Transparency (US$1.5 million)
This component was to support: (i) the transition of the banking sector to IFRS (phase 1); and (ii)
the transition of the Mozambican corporate sector to IFRS (phase 2). Additional support (not
financed by FSTAP) was provided to the accounting profession through raising awareness to
existing public and private teaching institutions so that they modify the accounting curriculum to
reflect the new requirement on compliance with IFRS.

19.     Component 3: Strengthening Public Debt Management (US$1.05 million) This
component supported efforts to introduce a comprehensive public debt management framework,
which includes policies and strategies to provide, inter alia, better coordination of the issuance of
debt between the BoM and the MoF. This project followed on SIDA’s support to the
Government of the development and implementation of a comprehensive public debt
management framework to ensure transparency and accountability in public debt management.
In particular, IDA supported: (i) restructuring of the Public Debt Department of the MoF and
strengthening procedures and controls; (ii) consolidating and reconciling the debt database for all
public debt; (iii) capacity building for staff of the Public Debt Department; (iv) strengthening
information analysis and reporting, including debt forecasting, risk and cost analysis and
monitoring, debt sustainability analysis, analysis of loan agreements, and preparation of an
annual report on debt management; and (v) improving the Government’s cash management
policies and procedures in order to reduce the cost of borrowing and simplify monetary
operations. This component included the provision of technical assistance to review procedures
for management of cash balances in commercial banks and exposure limits, improve liquidity
forecasting capabilities, and extend cash-flow forecasts toward a rolling 12-month horizon. In
addition, assistance was to be provided in formulating procedures using treasury bonds and bills.

20.     Component 4: Improving Money and Government Bond Market Efficiency and Depth
(US$1.65 million) This component was to support the development of more liquid money and
debt markets, and strengthen the capacity of the BoM to implement monetary policy by: (i)
improving the efficiency of the primary Government debt market through regular auctions; (ii)
increasing the depth of the secondary market by providing a range of instruments; (iii)
developing the repurchase (repo) and reverse repurchase (resale) markets; (iv) improving the
financial market infrastructure with the introduction of a Central Securities Depository; and (v)
enhancing registration procedures and tracking of private external-corporate debt.

21.     Component 5: Project Implementation (US$1 million) The Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) was the focal point and coordinating unit between the Bank, other development partners,
and the beneficiary institutions. This component provided financial support to a professional
PIU established to assist in project implementation by financing PIU salaries, office facilities,
operating expenses, and transportation. As needed, short-term national or international
specialists, including a high-level financial sector advisor to assist the PIU, were to be recruited.
The auditing function, to be carried out annually by independent, external auditors, was also
financed under this component.




                                                 5
1.6    Revised Components

22.     The components as envisioned in the design remained generally intact throughout project
implementation. Some planned activities, were dropped, however, such as regulation of e-
banking due to insufficient time, consultancy for IT governance due to disagreement on training
methodology, and the model for stress testing since this was picked up by the IMF. Support for
the development of a Central Securities Depository was shifted from component 1 (under the
auspices of BoM) to component 4 (under the auspices of BVM). Similarly, additional activities
were added when there was a strong need or good rationale to exploit synergies and there was
available financing. The primary example of this was collaboration with the IMF on a debt
management strategy. When the project was restructured (primarily to extend the closing date),
there was a reallocation among expenditure categories: an increase for the consultant category
and a decrease for the goods category. There was also a reallocation among components, mostly
through a shift from component 1 to component 2. This reflected the fact that the technical
assistance and capacity building requirements were greater than originally anticipated. In other
instances, equipment financing was no longer necessary when the adequate set-up was deemed to
be satisfactory.

1.7    Other Significant Changes

23.     The project closing date was extended from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012 (through a
Level 2 restructuring). This extension was designed to allow time to complete some of the larger
consulting contracts that were affected by delays in procurement processes and the enactment of
legislative measures. In particular, more time was required for the tax authority to put in place
tweaks to the existing IT systems to process returns based on IFRS, pursuant to the passage of
new legislation which had been delayed.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1    Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

       Note: A Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-1) review on this project was prepared, dated
       Sept. 16, 2008. The Likelihood of Achieving DOs was rated as 2 (likely). The final QALP report reflected
       the comments by the project team.

24.     The IDA-financed FSTAP project was prepared in the context of a broader financial
sector reform program, which also included a wide range of reforms that were supported by other
donors. The Bank was considered a critical development partner in the financial sector,
especially since it took a comprehensive approach to the sector. The Bank’s working
relationship with other development partners enabled maximum leverage and fostered
coordination of disparate interests and activities in the financial sector, as well as in other vital
sectors (e.g., legal reform). At the time of project preparation and during most of project
implementation, the Bank co-chaired the Financial Sector Working Group and accordingly was
also responsible for the semi-annual review of the Government’s Performance Assessment
Framework in the sector. Hence, as intended, the FSTAP provided the opportunity for the Bank
to use it as a vehicle to continue close and highly effective coordination of donor activities in the


                                                      6
financial sector. In this respect, the design was in full accordance to the Paris Declaration on
Harmonization.

25.      The broader program approach was outlined in the PAD and was also reflected in project
implementation and supervision. However, this created some confusion and ambiguity. As
noted by the QALP review, the “program? approach was misrepresented as a comprehensive and
holistic program. Moreover, some ambiguity was created by the PAD language which aligned
the PDO to the multi-donor program (“Within the overall framework of the multi-donor
program…?). This was exacerbated by including in the PAD the risk of “delivery of the
complementary support committed by the other development partners? as critical. The PAD also
created some confusion when it listed “non-compulsory pensions and insurance? as a sector
focus (see Data Sheet) when this was not a focus of the IDA-financed FSTAP, but rather a focus
of the AfDB’s complementary project. Similarly, confusion was fostered by ISR sector
management comments (ISR#3) that noted the need to strengthen linkages and “enhance the
FSTAP’s role as a quasi sector-wide approach?. Although multi-donor coordination was a key
aspect to project design and implementation, it would have been helpful if the PAD emphasized
that project activities were complementary and independent, rather than mutually dependent
within a broader program. This was clarified in supervision documentation following the QALP
review that raised the issue, although the aide memoires continued to assess non-IDA financed
activities under the broader program (consistent with the coordinated approach including joint
missions).

26.    The PAD, however, was very clear and persuasive on the strategic relevance of this
technical assistance project. Following a major liquidity crisis in the early 2000s, strengthening
bank supervision, implementation of IFRS by commercial banks, and divestiture of the
Government of its remaining holdings in the banking sector became priorities. In response, the
Government had prepared a comprehensive program of financial sector reforms, in collaboration
with the Bank and other development partners. The reform program, as well as the IDA-
financed FSTAP, was underpinned by the analysis of the Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP) prepared jointly by the Bank in 2003. FSTAP’s four components appropriately reflected
the Government and development partner consensus on priority reforms.

27.    Strong Government ownership of the reform effort conveyed to the FSTAP project. As
lead implementing agency, the MoF was actively involved in the design of the project. The early
involvement of key personnel was critical, according to the PIU. Because the other beneficiary
agencies were not as involved in the design, ownership within those agencies took time to
develop. This was especially true for BoM.

28.     In addition to a strong analytical foundation provided by the 2003 FSAP, the project
benefitted from lessons of previous projects (e.g., EMPSO; FSCBP). Most importantly--and
reflecting the essence of the project--it was recognized that changes in laws and regulations
would unlikely have the desired effect without parallel technical assistance and capacity
building. The expectation was that this would lay the foundation for longer-term impact. To a
great extent, this was realized (see discussion of Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome in
Section 4). In this regard, a technical assistance project proved to be the right choice in lending
instrument.

                                                7
29.      The project also sought to take into account the institutional constraints by prioritizing
and sequencing activities according to the capacity of the institutions to implement the various
components. The self-contained nature of each component proved to be very important since
each experienced interruptions but which did not affect overall project implementation. The
design also took into account that reforms had multiple steps and took significant time.
Accordingly, project implementation was planned for five years instead of the conventional four.
In fact, six years were needed for implementation.

30.     Project design was selective in its focus regarding BoM and MoF activities, reflecting a
coordinated donor approach and also owing to good practice. As noted, rural finance, insurance,
and pension were supported in parallel operations from AfDB, KfW, and GTZ. And, it was
decided that a component for judiciary reform would be included in a stand-alone project.
Although flagged as a risk, the delivery of complementary support by other partners was never
an issue. Notwithstanding the intention to narrow the focus, the FSTAP project still had over 20
sub-components and involved several beneficiary organizations. Fortunately, project complexity
proved to be effectively mitigated during implementation.

31.     The capacity constraints of the implementing institutions were flagged as a moderate risk,
which did actually emerge due to procurement-related difficulties, especially in BoM. The risks
related to the implementation of IFRS in the corporate sector were certainly noted in the PAD
and during project implementation. Since this activity actually ended up over-achieving its
target, however, perhaps the fact that most of the large corporations were already mandated to
use IFRS by their international parent companies was not sufficiently appreciated in the design.

32.     In contrast, it is noteworthy that potential problems related to the implementation of
component 4, Improving Money and Debt Markets and Financial Infrastructure, were not
identified as a critical risk. In retrospect, this component was probably not only overly ambitious
but it was also severely hindered by the fragmented nature of the Government’s monetary and
fiscal policies. Clearly, the project design did not adequately assess this risk.

33.     One identified risk that actually emerged during project implementation was the
weakness of the accounting profession. Project funds were not initially allocated to this,
counting on other initiatives to take up the slack. But the problem became acute during the roll-
out of IFRS to the corporate sector. Fortunately, there was enough flexibility in the project to re-
direct funds to address this apparent weakness in project design.

2.2    Implementation

34.    The project was implemented over a period of six years, from effectiveness in March
2006 (within four months following Board approval) until closing on June 30, 2012 (following a
one-year extension). The project was supervised by four different Task Team Leaders over the
implementation period, three of which were based in Mozambique and the other based in a
neighboring country which facilitated interaction with the borrower. There were two PIU Project
Coordinators (the first coordinator was present for four of the six years and the second
coordinator had been involved in the Project Preparation Facility at the beginning).

                                                 8
35.     The implementation arrangements involved several beneficiaries. This would have posed
a risk of complexity if all the beneficiaries had to coordinate with one another but the project
design ensured that the activities ran in parallel but under one PIU, within the MoF.
Implementation was further simplified by the fact that most of the receiving beneficiaries were
either under BoM or MoF.

36.     Nevertheless, during project start-up there were some coordination issues between the
PIU (attached to MoF) and BoM which impeded a strong launch. This concerned delays within
BoM which reflected initial lack of ownership and clarity of roles and responsibilities, competing
internal priorities, and insufficient procurement knowledge.              By the second year of
implementation, however, the relevance of the various project activities to its core functions
became clearer to BoM. As a result, progress related to BoM components improved. Better
coordination between the PIU and BoM was also thanks to a high level dialogue between the
Minister of Finance and the Governor of BoM, who discussed the issues and ensured their timely
resolution. During the ICR mission, the first PIU Coordinator emphasized the importance of
reporting directly to the Minister: reporting to a high level authority allowed for bottlenecks to be
addressed quickly and prompt and clear decisions.

37.     The mid-term review was carried out March 2008, one month prior to the scheduled time
at approval, at which time all project performance indicators were rated satisfactory (or above)
and disbursement was on target. The mid-term review identified the key challenges at that time,
including unutilized funds for certain components, substantial delays in completing previously-
agreed tasks, and delays in the enactment of legislation and regulations. During the review a
technical workshop was held with all beneficiary institutions. This proved to be helpful in
rectifying several problems, including the delay in the BoM training plan.

38.     In late-2010 a new PIU Coordinator took over after the position that had been vacant for
several months. This delayed transition resulted in the first moderately satisfactory rating for
implementation progress (IP). Because this caused corresponding delays in the completion of
several activities (especially related to components 2 and 3), there was a concomitant downgrade
of progress towards the development objective (DO) to moderately satisfactory. Implementation
progress regained momentum within a year and was subsequently restored to satisfactory.
However, the residual affect meant that progress towards the development objective did not fully
regain its satisfactory rating until the final sixth month period. 4

39.    As noted, the IDA-financed FSTAP was implemented in conjunction with the other
concurrent projects supported by AfDB, KfW and GTZ, but coordinated by one PIU (AfDB co-
financed the PIU with the Bank). Although this resulted in longer missions and lengthy aid
memoires, joint coordination between donors and the Government did create a significant


4
    The DO rating prior to close is noted in the ICR Datasheet as “MS?, which reflected the ISR rating for the DO in the ISR #12.
    The final ISR (#13), however, actually rated the DO as “S?. This inconsistency is due to fact that the final ISR was not
    archived until after the June 30, 2012 project closing date and the Datasheet uses the DO rating that is archived in the system
    when the project closes.


                                                                 9
advantage. In particular, since supervision missions were conducted fully with the other
participating donors this reduced the burden on the Government. Coordination with the IMF
proved to be of particularly high value.

40.   Because project implementation involved several entities, progress was uneven with each
component experiencing its own challenges and successes which are elaborated below.

Component 1: Strengthening the Banking Sector

41.    The first of three subcomponents, Building the Institutional Capacity of the BoM, was
primarily implemented by six departments within BoM coordinated by a focal point. As noted, it
took about a year before the BoM became fully engaged in project implementation. Sluggish
implementation was initially reflected in delays in the finalization of a training plan. Much of
this was due to the need to have the plan approved by the BoM Board and the perception that it
was not subject to change. Once the Bank team clarified that the plan was only indicative and
should be flexible, delays in its annual preparation were no longer an issue.

42.      The consultant selection process proved to be challenging for many BoM departments.
According to the PIU which coordinated all procurement processes, this seemed to be attributed
to inadequate attention to technical BoM evaluation of the proposals, required BoM board
approval for most contracts, and lack of understanding of processes. For training-related
activities the issue was frequently insufficient documentation to substantiate expenditures. (A
procurement workshop was held in 2007 for project beneficiaries but lack of familiarity with
procurement fundamentals persisted.) This resulted in many training activities ending up being
financed by BoM, and not the FSTAP project.

43.     The second much smaller subcomponent was support to Mozambique Bankers’ Training
Institute which was implemented successfully. The third subcomponent was to develop a model
for stress testing. However, given its ongoing support in this area, this activity was picked up by
the IMF.

Component 2: Improving Financial Accountability and Transparency

44.     This component, executed by the tax authority DGI (within MoF) experienced a two year
delay, due to initial tensions between DGI and the consultants and then to an inordinate amount
of time taken for internal DGI review and approval of proposals. This, in turn, delayed the
consideration and approval of relevant legislation (not directly supported by the IDA-financed
FSTAP). A successful and sustainable implementation of IFRS to the corporate sector required
adequate training for implementers, users, and other stakeholders. But this was difficult due to
start-up delays and the tight schedule created by the late passage of the relevant legislation.

45.    This pressure was compounded by the very weak state of the accounting and audit
profession. Although this was acknowledged in project design, there was no associated funding.
Because the problem risked derailing the project development objective a broad approach was
required. In response, FSTAP financed a survey and curricula review for the accounting
profession, as well as activities to train and raise awareness on IFRS. And, through another

                                                10
IDA-financed project, Competitiveness and Private Sector Development Project (FY09, US$25
million), the Bank supported a twinning arrangement. Hence, despite serious implementation
challenges to this component there was enough flexibility to re-direct funds (and draw support
from another project) to address a serious issue that had not originally received resources.

Component 3: Strengthening Public Debt Management

46.      The six activities under this component were implemented by MoF. Although there were
initial challenges since MoF had no experience in implementing this type of project, the internal
reorganization of the MoF’s Public Debt Department generally went smoothly. Similarly,
capacity building for the Department’s staff was well planned and executed.

47.     The subcomponent to support the consolidation of external debt, domestic debt, and on-
lending into a common database was generally implemented except for the incorporation of
domestic debt. The less than full achievement of this subcomponent is mostly attributed to IT-
related problems. Despite significant attention to these problems, there was also some perceived
slowness by MoF to move on this. Another subcomponent, the publication of annual reports and
quarterly bulletins, took much more time than envisaged but was eventually completed. MoF
stated that this was because there was a learning curve to ensure accurate data. In addition, staff
were overwhelmed with other data-related tasks.

48.     The debt management strategy subcomponent was introduced after the start of the
FSTAP. The resulting key outputs – the formulization of the Debt Management Committee, a
draft debt management strategy, and the forthcoming preparation of an internal annual borrowing
plan – were intensively supported by a series of coordinated Bank/IMF missions. This led to a
higher level technical advice than would have been otherwise possible within just IDA-supported
FSTAP activities.

49.     The borrower’s interest in the improvement of cash management practices, the sixth
subcomponent, vacillated. Early on this subcomponent was dropped since the intention was to
finance through the Government’s SISTAFE program. Despite an eventual interest in pursuing,
it was too late to implement. The lack of consistent commitment to this activity may be due to
the fact that the MoF unit responsible for this area had not been very involved in project design
and/or implementation.

Component 4: Improving Money and Debt Markets and Financial Infrastructure

50.     This component included five subcomponents involving BoM, MoF, and the stock
exchange (BVM). Implementation generally went well for financial market infrastructure and
registration procedures for private external debt in BoM. However, implementation was more
problematic for the other three subcomponents: primary debt market, secondary market, and
inter-bank market. In addition, support for the Central Securities Depository in BVM (originally
envisaged under component 1) was significantly reduced since there were different views
between the Bank and BVM on the approach and scale of FSTAP support.




                                                11
51.    The quality of implementation for this subcomponent was fundamentally affected by the
fragmentation of monetary and fiscal policy execution. This was manifested in lack of
coordination between BoM and MoF/BVM in the issuance of government securities and bonds.
The weak communication between the Government institutions improved somewhat during the
FSTAP period. One of the contributing factors to this progress was the technical assistance from
the IMF to improve monetary policy implementation, as well as the Bank/IMF joint missions.

2.3        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

52.     As stated in the PAD, “Within the overall framework of the multi-donor program, the
project development objective (PDO) of IDA’s contribution to the program is to improve the
soundness of the Mozambican Banking Sector and to improve public debt management?. Not
uncommon for projects designed at that time, the PDO lacked specificity and would have
benefitted from a more direct causal link with the supported activities. As noted by the QALP
review, the PDO was phrased in such a general manner (e.g., “improve?) as to practically
guarantee the likelihood of its achievement.

53.     The vagueness of the PDO was compounded by the ambiguity of the key PDO indicators.
As discussed in Section 1.3 on Revised PDO and Key Indicators, the original project design did
not clarify the second key PDO indicator. The indicator that was eventually used as the second
key PDO indicator (treasury securities traded on the secondary market) could be measured but
had serious attribution problems. 5 For instance, how much credit/blame can the FSTAP project
take if “increased secondary market trading? or a similar outcome like “reduced borrowing
costs? are impacted by factors outside the control of the project. Indeed, the failure of the second
PDO indicator is largely due to weak fiscal and monetary policy coordination which the project
design did not assess. In hindsight, it would have been better to select an indicator that had a
more direct causal link to improved debt management; to this end, Section 3.2 on Achievement
of PDO discusses some proxy indicators to judge achievement.

54.      In contrast, the nine intermediate result indicators were appropriate in number and were
specific, measurable, achievable, and relevant. They also had specific end-project targets for all
four components and were generally monitored consistently throughout implementation.
Achievements related to the indicators are likely to be continually monitored post project
completion since monitoring capacity has been improved and the indicators reflect core
activities/objectives of the implementing agencies (e.g., percentage of banks and corporations
compliant with IFRS, number of compliant BCPs).




5
    There was also an issue with the data that was reported for this indicator. In the final ISR (June 2012) old data was
    inadvertently used from April 2011. If the updated (April 2012) or end-project (July 2012) data had been noted instead, this
    would have reflected a more disappointing outcome (1.5 percent instead of 4.4 percent of outstanding treasury securities traded
    on the secondary market).




                                                                12
55.      One observation of the QALP review was that at least one indicator of actual economic
or financial outcome should have been included. The QALP review also recommended that
some information on banking and financial developments (e.g., bank productivity, efficiency of
financial intermediation, etc.) be included in future supervision documents. Although it was
noted that the project could not have been expected to have a major and rapid influence on such
indicators, some discussion of these development would help place the project-related
institutional improvements in a broader context. The task team factored these recommendations
into account. However, because the topics required more time than a standard supervision
mission and the associated aide memoire, they were actively pursued through other initiatives
such as the 2009 FinScope report and the 2012 Financial Sector Development Strategy.

56.     Given the nature of the project – technical assistance and multiple implementing agencies
– a formal monitoring system (beyond the project indicators) was not really required. At the
same time, the nature of the project did require a mechanism for coordination among the various
beneficiaries. To this end, the PIU conducted monthly meetings with all beneficiaries and
donors of the broader program (referred to as the technical working group). The technical
working group discussed not only the implementation of the IDA-financed FSTAP project but
also the activities of the other projects. This approach was universally regarded as productive and
efficient, demonstrating the benefits of donor collaboration. It also provided an important
mechanism to utilize and evaluate emerging issues, and respond accordingly. As emphasized in
the Borrower’s own completion report (see Annex 5), this forum was critical for sustaining
strong project performance.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management

57.     The project performed well with regards to financial management, with no significant
internal controls issues identified. It remained adequately staffed throughout the life of the
project with experienced and qualified financial management personnel and always in a timely
and satisfactorily manner submitted all the required quarterly un-audited reports, as well as
audited reports. All audit reports under the operation had unqualified (clean) opinions. Overall,
the project had a satisfactory financial management performance. This strong performance is
noteworthy given the PIU’s additional responsibilities to oversee financial arrangements for the
other donor-financed projects.

Procurement

58.    Procurement was overseen in the PIU by experienced staff with relevant capacity, and the
PIU remained adequately staffed throughout the life of the project. The PIU took the lead on
procurement in terms of ensuring all processes and timetables were followed. However, the
beneficiaries (e.g., BoM, MoF) were closely involved and responsible for all technical aspects of
procurement-related processes.

59.   Throughout project implementation, the Bank team did express concerns related to
BoM’s lack of ownership and time commitment to technical aspects of the procurement process

                                                13
(TORs, specifications, evaluations). This led to delays and/or poor technical quality of the
documents prepared and submitted to the Bank. As explained in the Borrower’s own completion
report (see Annex 5), this necessitated more extensive involvement of the PIU in procurement
processes. The PIU also explained that procurement delays were caused by requirements for
BoM board approval for most contracts, lack of understanding of the processes, and insufficient
documentation provided to substantiate the expenditures. BoM beneficiaries did express concern
that the processes took too long and there were delays in receiving responses to procurement-
related questions. Upon review of the Bank PROCYS system, the Bank turn-around times for
no-objection and other queries appeared timely.

60.      Although there may have been issues regarding their procurement performance, BoM did
have significant appreciation of value-for-money. In two instances, the relevant BoM department
was not satisfied with the quality or recommended approach of the consultant’s work and thus
sought cancellation of the contract (following a Bank no-objection). There were instances for
which contracts were cancelled for other reasons (e.g., administrative problems related to a
change in government policy on the payment of taxes). As part of the ICR review, the reasons
for all cancellations were examined and found to be justified.

61.     Another procurement issue that was probed was the language requirement that may have
limited the competition, including cases of withdrawal of proposals or declining to submit. This
was due primarily to the initial requirement that the consultants’ outputs had to be in Portuguese.
To address this, the requirement was changed so that the final outputs could be in English and
then translated into Portuguese. This modification allowed a doubling in the number of
proposals by the short-listed firms, in most cases.

62.     These issues underscore the need to tailor the procurement requirements to the market
and to client circumstances. And, given the large number of activities and beneficiaries involved
in procurement in this project, the ability to effectively coordinate all internal and external
participants in the procurement process is critical.

Safeguards

63.    The project was classified as a Category C and no safeguard policies were triggered.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

64.    Following the completion of the IDA-financed FSTAP, the project benefitted from the
one year extension of the PIU through continued financing from AfDB (whose activities are still
under implementation). The organizational structure, including the monthly technical working
group meetings, will hopefully help ensure that some loose ends of the IDA-financed project are
implemented and momentum is gained on other relevant reforms, including:

Strengthening of the banking sector
    • The regulation of e-banking is an ongoing task and there is potential need for further
       technical assistance to BoM. GIZ (formally known as GTZ) is providing follow-up
       technical assistance in this area.

                                                14
   •   The BoM continues to have a need for specialized technical assistance in the
       implementation phase of Basel II in 2014 when Basel II and Basel I will be running
       parallel. This could be funded via alternative funding mechanisms such as the FIRST
       trust fund initiative.
   •   A task force responsible for communication with the commercial banks is to be created to
       continue carrying out the work in the area of IFRS.

Improving financial accountability and transparency
   • The development of the accountancy profession, including increasing knowledge of IFRS
      among medium-sized companies, continues to be of paramount importance. Currently
      there are different training initiatives operating in isolation of each other. The Installing
      Committee, which is implementing the new Order for Professional Accountants and
      Auditors of Mozambique, will need to coordinate closely with the tax authority (MoF’s
      DGI) and BoM. This will be supported by the IDA-financed FY09 Competitiveness and
      Private Sector Development Project which is financing a twinning arrangement.

Strengthening public debt management
    • Support from the Commonwealth Secretariat to MoF is expected to help improve the
       accuracy of the debt database, including incorporation of domestic debt (not achieved
       under FSTAP).

Improving money and debt markets and financial infrastructure
   • An important outcome of the medium-term debt strategy will be the preparation of the
      internal annual borrowing plan including the domestic debt (BTs and OTs) issuances
      based on the selected strategy. This is expected to improve the function of the primary
      market with positive spillovers on secondary market activity, as well as pushing down
      long-term interest rates.

65.     Although no phase-II FSTAP per se is envisaged, the Bank and other development
partners are in the process of formulating their follow-up support for the development of the
financial sector. Under discussion is the creation of a multi-donor trust fund that would focus on
financial deepening and access. In addition, the Bank is considering a stand-alone Development
Policy Operation for the financial sector; this would be distinct from the broader PRSC for
budget support in order to ensure a sustained and strong focus. Any support from the Bank and
other development partners will be closely guided by Mozambique’s new Financial Sector
Development Strategy.

66.     The nature of the FSTAP technical assistance project, as well as any policy operation
being contemplated, may not lend themselves to the achievement of specific sector-wide
indicators. Even so, it is important that these interventions be evaluated in the broader context of
financial sector trends, such as those discussed in Section 3.2 on Achievement of PDO.




                                                15
3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

Rating: Substantial

Relevance of Objectives: High

67.     Following a major liquidity crisis in the early 2000s, strengthening bank supervision,
implementation of IFRS by commercial banks, and divestiture of the Government of its
remaining holdings in the banking sector became priorities. The FSTAP project reflected
consensus on how to address several of these priorities. Hence, the PDO to improve the
soundness of the Mozambican banking sector and to improve public debt management was
highly relevant at the time the project was approved. In addition to being in line with the Bank’s
country assistance strategy when the project was prepared, FSTAP objectives continue to be
relevant with the Bank’s current FY12-15 partnership strategy, specifically the objective to
improve economic governance and policy making.

                                             68.     The continued relevance of the FSTAP
                                             approach is validated by the recent Financial Sector
                                             Development Strategy, 2012–2021 which has been
                                             finalized and is awaiting adoption by Government
                                             by end-2012. As illustrated by the Strategy’s cover
                                             design shown on the left, the goals are to: (i)
                                             maintain financial sector stability through effective
                                             monetary policy, regulation, and supervision of
                                             banks, and by developing the non-bank financial
                                             sector, including the insurance sector, pensions, and
                                             effective safety net and crisis management
                                             arrangements; (ii) undertake reforms to promote
                                             universal financial access by strengthening the
                                             financial sector’s infrastructure, developing the
                                             microfinance and micro-payments sectors, increase
                                             financial sector outreach to rural areas, and
                                             developing the housing finance market; and (iii)
                                             increase the supply of private capital for
                                             development       by      enabling     public-private
                                             partnerships and developing the capital markets.

69.     The support provided through FSTAP is especially critical to achieving this third
objective -- attracting private capital for development -- for two important reasons. First, the
ability to effectively manage debt is becoming an imperative given that the Government is
seeking private finance to rehabilitate and upgrade the country’s infrastructure. With the



                                               16
leveling off of aid flows for budget support and project financing, 6 the Government will need to
ensure that its finances are in order to allow it to borrow. Sufficient attention will need to be
given to the composition of the debt portfolio in terms of costs and risks. With the previous
reliance on soft money, this was easier; now the financial environment is more demanding.
Second, greater access to private capital will require better financial infrastructure including
capital and secondary markets. Greater financial accountability and transparency will also be
critical to this effort. FSTAP activities supported both of these goals.

Relevance of Design: Substantial

70.     The project design was underpinned by the 2003 FSAP analysis and the four components
reflected the priority reform areas and were generally well designed to achieve the PDO.
Specifically, component 1 (strengthen the banking sector) and component 2 (support the
transition to IFRS) supported the objective to improve the soundness of the banking sector.
Component 3 (strengthen public debt management) and component 4 (improve money and debt
markets and financial infrastructure) were focused on the second part of the PDO, to improve
public debt management. The fact that the PDO indicator for this was not measurable does
impact, somewhat negatively, on the relevance of design. In addition, there are two other minor
caveats regarding design relevance. The first concerns the fact that while the capacity of the
accounting/auditing profession was acknowledged to be important, the project did not initially
support it. The second caveat is the extent to which component 4 actually enabled the
development of a more liquid money and debt market since the design did not sufficiently take
into account the impact of uncoordinated monetary and fiscal policies.

71.     The continued relevance of FSTAP’s design is borne out by several previous and more
recent Bank reports on the financial sector in Africa. In particular, the reports Making Finance
Work for Africa (2007) and Financing Africa (2011) set standards for how to develop the
financial sector. The financial sector strategy for Africa stresses stability, long-term finance, and
access. FSTAP’s design was entirely consistent with these goals. Stability was reflected in
component 1 (strengthen the banking sector), component 2 (support the transition to IFRS), and
component 3 (strengthen public debt management). Increasing long-term finance was an implicit
goal in component 4 (improve money and debt markets and financial infrastructure). While the
project design intentionally did not focus on access, since this was being supported by other
development partners, component 4 did include activities to promote payment systems to reach
underserved areas.

72.     The relevance of design was also substantial given that its emphasis on donor
coordination proved to be very effective. Although the activities financed by the other donors
may not have been closely entwined with IDA-funded components, there were benefits to the
client. The most noteworthy was the fact that there was one PIU that coordinated all activities


6
    According to the IMF, net aid flows have already declined significantly from the global crisis-related peak of 14.5 percent of
    GDP in 2009 to 12 percent of GDP in 2011, and are projected to level off to below 10 percent of GDP from 2012 onward.




                                                                 17
under the broader program. This also involved single missions, joint aide memoires, and a
unified results framework. As a result of these factors, the transaction cost for the client was
substantially reduced. Indeed, this is a good example of the benefits from the Paris Declaration.

Relevance of Implementation: Substantial

73.    The implementation of FSTAP benefitted from the 2009 FinScope study for
Mozambique, a nationally representative study of consumers’ perceptions on financial services
and issues. The findings provided insights to consumers’ behavior regarding their financial lives
and identified gaps in the development of the financial sector. For this reason, it further
informed FSTAP’s implementation challenges and opportunities.

74.    The Bank’s implementation support was responsive to changing needs. For instance, the
Bank team fully exploited the synergies created from the IMF support to the Government, by
coordinating FSTAP/IMF missions and advice to the client. The unplanned formulization of the
Debt Management Committee and the draft debt management strategy were the result of this
adaptable collaboration. The other major example of responsiveness during implementation to
ensure continued relevance was the recognition that project support was needed to strengthen the
accounting and audit profession, which had not received resources in the project design. The
Bank and implementing agencies proactively addressed this through a FSTAP financed
survey/curricula review and training/dissemination activities. Additional support for this area
was arranged through a separate IDA-financed project.

75.    Similarly, the client and project teams demonstrated flexibility by dropping activities that
were no longer relevant. For example, not supporting the Government’s divestiture from the
banking sector that had been largely completed early on in project implementation. In addition,
the subcomponent to develop a model for stress testing was removed since this activity was
being supported by the IMF.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Substantial

76.     A solid case can be made that the project substantially achieved its development
objective to improve the soundness of the Mozambican banking sector and to improve public
debt management.

Improved Soundness of Banking Sector

PDO indicator:
     17 out of 18 banks were in compliance with improved prudential regulations
Intermediate results indicators:
     The BoM exceeded the target by compliance with 21 of 25 Basel Core Principles
     All but one bank was compliant with IFRS
     97% of large enterprises reporting in IFRS, exceeding the 75% target
     100% of medium enterprises reporting in IFRS, exceeding the 20% target

                                                18
    The Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) allowed for real time transfer of funds

77.     It is clear that the first part of the PDO – improved soundness of banking sector – was
attained and is reflected in the achievement of the respective PDO indicator and intermediate
outcome indicators. The relevant sub-components focused on building the institutional capacity
of BoM, spanning several functions. One critical function, supported by FSTAP-financed
training, was BoM’s implementation of Basel Core Principles, a key process to ensure soundness.
Training of BoM staff was also cited as critical for the transition to IFRS submissions of
commercial banks. Learning and exchange visits with other countries’ regulators were
considered of high value in supporting BoM’s development of an anti-money laundering manual
and regulations concerning payment instruments, channels, and custody accounts.

78.     By financing equipment, software, and specialized training, FSTAP also helped upgrade
BoM’s capacity to monitor and analyze financial and monetary statistics, including economic
forecasting. This has greatly informed the monthly discussions of the monetary policy
committee which now has greater confidence in the forecasting. The training also provided BoM
staff with a sufficient basis to effectively evaluate the work of project consultants; in a few cases
contracts were cancelled because of poor performance. Even for those consultancies that were
not completed, the activity itself raised awareness on the topic.

79.      The increased capacity of BoM was validated through ICR mission interviews with the
IMF and commercial banks. According to the IMF, BoM’s supervisory framework and capacity
have been significantly enhanced since the 2003 FSAP was conducted. The IMF and commercial
banks also indicated that over the past few years BoM staff have demonstrated: greater capacity
to review their IFRS bank submissions, increased knowledge of technical topics, and ability to
engage in a higher level of dialogue. Moreover, with improved analytical and monitoring
abilities, BoM is better equipped to respond to global financial crises. The commercial banks
also noted the positive impact for them in being able to review IFRS of corporations, given the
new requirement.

80.     Despite serious doubts during implementation about IFRS introduction in the corporate
sector, the final outcome actually exceeded the targets. For the large corporations, however, this
may reflect the fact that most of them were mandated to use IFRS because of their international
parent requirements or were wholly or partly owned by the Government. But the impressive
100% IFRS compliance of medium-sized firms can be fully attributed to FSTAP’s instigation.
Notwithstanding this impressive result, there was a significant delay in the IFRS roll-out and the
absence in the design of support to the accounting/audit profession. Although the project
showed enough flexibility to later include this support, an even greater impact would probably
have been realized if sufficient activities to develop the accounting/audit profession had been
included in the original design.

81.    Finally, the Real Time Gross Settlement system (RTGS, subcomponent of component 4)
was introduced and by project-end was operating with four banks that constitute about 80 percent
of the banking sector in terms of clients as well as asset size. The project also supported
improvements to financial market infrastructure by financing goods and equipment for the new
national switch project.

                                                 19
Improved Public Debt Management

PDO Indicator:
    ≠ Trading in treasury securities on the secondary market did experience some momentum
       but by project end it was minimal, hence this indicator was not met
Intermediate results indicators:
     Annual publication of public debt reports were issued for all years during the 2007-2011
       period
     Quarterly publication of debt forecasts was published twice, beginning in April 2012
     Regular issuance of treasury securities (BTs) carried out
    ≠ Auction of treasury bonds (OTs) auctions were not held regularly

82.     For the second part of the PDO – improved public debt management – the respective
PDO indicator was not met. However, this was a reflection of a poor selection of indicator rather
than a failure to achieve this project objective.

83.     In terms of the PDO indicator, improvements in the secondary market for treasury
securities did show some development since it started in 2009, including reaching 17% of
outstanding treasury securities in August 2011. However, the level of trading dropped
significantly during 2012. This decline is attributed to the reduced roll-over of BTs reflecting
BoM’s decision to leave excess liquidity in the market. In addition, the trading activity can be
considered weak due to a shallow primary market, taxation differentials, and separate financial
architecture for BTs and OTs. Hence, the PDO indicator to increase secondary market trading
was a poor choice since it was significantly impacted by factors outside the control of the project.

84.    The regular issuance of BTs (an intermediate indicator), however, did occur. And,
although funds were not fully allocated to the Central Securities Depository, progress was also
made to harmonize the segmented securities clearing and settlement regarding the custody of
BTs and OTs in different IT platforms.

85.     The fragmented nature of monetary and fiscal policy impeded increasing the efficiency in
the primary Government debt market (related to the intermediate indicator of auction of OTs).
Just like the BoM issues BTs for monetary policy purposes, MoF issues OTs for budget/fiscal
financing. OTs are issued on an ad hoc basis, usually in the second half of the year when the
Government has spent the other financing sources. Despite emphasis by FSTAP and IMF
missions for a more stable issuance of OTs, this did not happen. The development of money and
debt markets is complex in any country and requires intensive consultation among the monetary
and fiscal authorities. Given the importance of a coordinated approach to achieve this project
objective, project design should have considered this risk more carefully. In any case, it was
overly ambitious. It is noteworthy, nonetheless, that FSTAP (with IMF support) did initiate a
policy dialogue on this topic and there is a good chance that the forthcoming internal borrowing
plan will improve policy coordination including the introduction of regular auctions for OTs.

86.    Although the PDO indicator was poorly chosen for the specific objective of improved
public debt management, the final project achievements were entirely consistent with a good

                                                20
quality public debt management in terms of governance, capacity and management of internal
operations, and debt management strategy and risk management. 7 These proxy indicators
demonstrate the achievement of the PDO and are discussed below.

87.     Governance: The expectation is that a government’s debt management office fulfills its
mandate in a sustainable manner with strengthened governance. The MoF demonstrated this,
with support of FSTAP, by the reorganization of the debt management department and the
development of related statutes and procedures. As a result, MoF was able to prepare better
reports, debt forecasting, and debt sustainability analysis (which previously had to be done by the
IMF). During an ICR mission interview, the IMF affirmed that there had been significant
strengthening of the debt management department.

88.     Capacity and management of internal operations:              The expectation is that a
government’s debt management office has the trained staff to efficiently manage public debt and
other risks and contain operational risk. Through FSTAP, MoF increased its capacity by training
staff on highly relevant topics and thus raised awareness of factors that affect debt management.
Likewise, FSTAP support increased MoF capacity to publish annual reports and quarterly
bulletins, so that MoF is now able to provide timely and regular debt information to stakeholders.
However, a better effort to disseminate this information is needed since the commercial banks
interviewed were not aware of these publications. Several targeted staff demonstrated such
increased competencies that they were later selected for high-level positions within the
Government, including president of the stock exchange. Sustainability is unlikely to be affected
by staff departures since there were dozens of staff trained and a critical mass remain, and new
systems have become entrenched into operations.

89.     Debt management strategy and risk management: The expectation is that a government
is able to achieve the desired level of risk at an acceptable cost by preparing a public debt
management strategy annually, based on a sound analysis of cost and risk, and makes this public.
Although not originally envisaged in the design, the project supported the establishment of a
Debt Management Committee which is mandated to develop an internal annual borrowing plan
that will lead to better coordination of fiscal and monetary policies and overall debt management.
This is further supported by the installation of a new debt management system to consolidate
debt data into a common database that increases efficiency and reduces operational risk. But the
common database does not yet incorporate domestic debt nor does the external debt part of the
system generate correct cash flows. This deficiency, however, is expected to be resolved with
forthcoming (non-FSTAP) technical IT support. Moreover, the weakness in the IT system is
compensated by improved internal organization. The Government’s cash management policy
was dropped from this component since the MoF had decided to finance related activities
through other resources under the broader SISTAFE program.

90.   In sum, strengthened public debt management – as reflected by governance, capacity and
management of internal operations, and debt management strategy and risk management -- has
been demonstrated. This is critical since Mozambique will increasingly turn to external


7
    This reflects outcome indicators now used for World Bank-financed government debt and risk management programs.


                                                             21
borrowing to close the infrastructure gap and the selection and preparation of projects will
require greater rigor and analysis. A key element of this will be the ability to conduct a debt
management strategy analysis based on cost and risk trade-offs of future borrowing choices (e.g.,
assessing loans in different currencies and at different interest and maturity terms and loans on
commercial and non-concessional terms). Through coordinated FSTAP and IMF technical
assistance, officials of BoM, MoF, and Ministry of Planning have been intensively trained to
conduct a debt management strategy analysis based on cost and risk trade-offs of future
borrowing choices. Mozambican debt structure was summarized in a number of instruments
representing different cost and risk implications for the portfolio. Furthermore, a good test of the
Government’s debt management capabilities was the preparation and publishing of the Quarterly
Debt Bulletin with a set of core tables including cost and risk indicators. This supports senior
management decision making and monitoring of the debt management strategy. As part of the
strategy, the expected annual internal borrowing plan for domestic debt will improve internal
planning and help communication with the market, thereby reducing potential issuance cost in
the long term. This will define the gross domestic financing and OT issuance needs and support
an actual OT issuance plan.

91.    The expectation is that the Government’s increased capacity to manage public debt – a
key FSTAP objective -- will reduce potential debt vulnerabilities. A joint World Bank/IMF debt
sustainability analysis 8 confirms that “Mozambique continues to face a low risk of debt distress?.
This is attributed to a continued pursuit of prudent macroeconomic policies and “structural
reforms to boost their debt management capacity?, thus reinforcing the case that the project has
achieved one of its key objectives. Figures 1 and 2 illustrate that key debt indicators remain
below their respective thresholds.

    Figure 1: Present Value of Debt-to-GDP Ratio                  Figure 2: Debt Service-to-Revenue Ratio




Source: International Monetary Fund and World Bank; Debt Sustainability Analysis Update; May 24, 2011




8
    International Monetary Fund and World Bank; Debt Sustainability Analysis Update; May 24, 2011.

                                                             22
Broader Sectoral Impact

92.     To better understand the potential impact of FSTAP, it is worthwhile reviewing some key
sectoral trends. While it may be difficult to conclude a direct causal relationship between a sounder
banking sector and better management of public debt, it is encouraging that several financial sector
indicators have improved during the FSTAP period. For instance, thanks to macroeconomic stability
and as a result of reforms undertaken since 2003 — many supported by FSTAP — the banking
sector’s soundness (and particularly its asset quality) has improved significantly. Between end-2003
and end-2011, non-performing loans for the system as a whole declined dramatically from about 13.8
to 2.6 percent.9 Capital adequacy ratios have been stable or have recently increased (see Figure 3),
well above the 8 percent minimum ratio. 10 The improved condition of the banks has reduced the need
for capital cushions against further asset quality deterioration. Hence, the sector remains highly
liquid, with liquid assets to total assets at
28 percent (as of end 2011). 11

93.      Over the 2001-2011 period interest
rates declined. (See Figure 4) Similarly,
interest rate spreads also declined over the
same period. (See Figure 5) High interest
rates act as a major constraint on credit
provision. And, high spreads (from
overhead         costs,      nontransparent
commissions and fees) reduce incentives to
intermediate deposits into loans while also
contributing to higher borrowing costs. There is further evidence that reforms have taken root as
reflected by increased competition in the sector: the number of commercial banks increased by 50%
over the 2003-2011 period (12 in 2003, 14 in 2008, 18 end-2011). 12 Over the past four years, there
was also the successful rollout of mobile banking.

        Figure 4: Selected Bank Interest Rates                                                     Figure 5: Like Maturity Lending Minus
                             (Percent at Period End)                                                   Deposit Interest Rate Spreads
                                                                                                                          (Percent at Period End)

       40.00                                                                                       20.00
       35.00                                                                                       18.00
       30.00                                                                                       16.00
       25.00                                                                                       14.00
                                                                                                   12.00
       20.00                                                                                       10.00
       15.00                                                                                        8.00
       10.00                                                                                        6.00
        5.00                                                                                        4.00
                                                                                                    2.00
        0.00                                                                                        0.00
                                                                                     8/2011
               2001
                      2002
                             2003
                                    2004
                                           2005
                                                  2006
                                                         2007
                                                                2008
                                                                       2009
                                                                              2010




                                                                                                                                                                                 8/2011
                                                                                                           2001
                                                                                                                  2002
                                                                                                                         2003
                                                                                                                                2004
                                                                                                                                       2005
                                                                                                                                              2006
                                                                                                                                                     2007
                                                                                                                                                            2008
                                                                                                                                                                   2009
                                                                                                                                                                          2010




                 30 Days                     1 year                    Prime Rate                                           30 Days                         1 year

     Source: Bank of Mozambique                                                                Source: Bank of Mozambique



9
     IMF, Fourth Review Under the Policy Support Instrument; May 11, 2012, Table 6.
10
      World Bank and IMF, FSAP 2009 update.
11
     Ibid.
12
     Data on commercial banks taken from FSAP (2003 and 2009 Update); Financial Sector Development Strategy 2012–2021.

                                                                                              23
3.3    Efficiency

Rating: Substantial

94.     The project was a technical assistance project and the Project Appraisal Document did
not include an economic analysis. Therefore, alternative considerations are used to substantiate
the different aspects of project efficiency.

95.     First, as seen from Annex 1 the final costs at project closure were US$9.66 million,
which compare favorably with estimated costs at appraisal of US$10.50 million while achieving
what it set out to do. As anticipated by the project design, there is a strong basis to conclude that
project benefits exceed project costs and that there has been a substantial return on investment.
The credit proceeds tapped important expertise from over 25 consultancies, trained
approximately 350 public servants and numerous people outside government, and purchased
equipment worth US$1.83 million. As a result, the banking sector was strengthened substantially
reducing the risks of very costly financial crises caused by weak banks. The introduction of the
IFRS in large and medium-sized enterprises has better positioned the private sector to attract
domestic and local investment, which will support economic development. The increased
capacity to manage public debt means that the Government can achieve the desired level of risk
at an acceptable cost. And, an enhanced financial infrastructure such as the introduction of the
Real Time Gross Settlement system and the national switch project have led to lower financial
intermediation costs.

96.     Second, the project effectively leveraged Bank and development partner resources. The
best illustration of this was the close collaboration with the IMF. Examples include the IMF
picking up the stress testing model (component 1) freeing FSTAP resources, and coordinated
FSTAP/IMF technical missions to advise on the debt management strategy. Also, the AfDB
continued financing the MoF resident advisor when the FSTAP project ended, reinforcing
sustainability. Correspondingly, the Bank’s expert on anti-money laundering provided support
to AfDB on their own component for this. In addition, the project team tapped resources from
trust funds and partner initiatives (e.g., FIRST trust fund, Debt Relief International, Institute of
Eastern and Southern Africa).

97.      Third, flexibility during implementation maximized resources. The project and client
teams’ willingness to respond to emerging needs or changing circumstances meant that some
activities were dropped because they were perceived not to be needed (Central Securities
Depository), financed by others (e.g., stress testing), or would not be completed in time (e.g.,
cash management). Alternatively, other activities were added because of emerging needs, such
as support to build the accounting and audit profession and support to the national statistics
institute. At the same time, value-for-money was maintained when BoM staff sought to cancel
consultant contracts when they were unhappy with performance.

98.     The final disbursement figure is 92 percent of estimated project costs: US$9.66 million of
US$10.50, resulting in a difference of about US$0.84 million. [Because of the appreciation of the
SDR the final total available loan amount was US$11.24 million.] The lower amount utilized
was due to less expenditures than envisaged for component 4. There were substantially lower
IT-related expenditures in this component because BoM used its internal resources to develop
the RTGS. Also, IT-related costs were not incurred for the Central Securities Depository since
equipment financing was not consistent with the evolving implementation approach. And, the
                                                 24
training budget was not fully drawn upon because some BoM training expenses could not be
reimbursed since they were not appropriately documented.

99.     The final costs related to project management were over double appraisal estimates
(US$2.38 million compared to US$1 million). According to the PIU, this is explained by
several factors. There was a significant rise in operating expenses and salaries since the
estimates were prepared in 2003. This increase was observed in several other PIUs financed by
IDA during the period. 13 Although the PIU was to be co-financed with AfDB, only two out of
eight PIU staff were financed by AfDB while IDA financed six, including those with the highest
salaries. The PIU also noted a tendency to draw upon IDA financing for the PIU-related costs
instead of AfDB financing, given the perception that IDA funds were administratively easier to
access. In addition, the one year project extension added to total project management costs.

100. Total Bank administrative costs for project supervision (not including ICR preparation)
over the six-and-a-half year implementation period were $831,000, or an annual average of
$128,000 which was above the Africa regional annual average of $110,000. The higher cost may
be explained by the intensive level of Bank effort to coordinate supervision missions involving
multiple donors and stakeholders, reflecting the administrative complexity of the project. [It is
noteworthy that supervision costs were actually kept lower due to the field-based presence of the
task team leaders.] This observation is consistent with other instances in Mozambique: while
donor coordination may yield lower transaction costs overall, it tends to be more resource
demanding for the lead donor (the World Bank in the case of FSTAP).

3.4        Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

101. The overall rating of the outcome of this project is moderately satisfactory. This rating
takes into account the substantial relevance of the project at the time of design as well as at
completion, and the substantial achievement of project development objectives, and the
substantial efficiency in use of resources.

102. The project receives a moderately satisfactory rating instead of a satisfactory rating
because of the weak outcome to improve money and Government bond market efficiency and
depth. This constitutes “moderate? shortcomings in the FSTAP’s achievement and hence
justifies the moderately satisfactory rating, according to IEG evaluation criteria for ICRs.




13
     For comparison, project management costs were reviewed for Enterprise Development Project (FY00-06), Mineral Resources
     Management Capacity Building (FY01-07), Communications Sector Reform (FY02-09), and Decentralized Planning and
     Financing Project (FY04-09).

                                                             25
3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

103. FSTAP sought to build institutional capacity to support a sound banking sector and
effectively manage public debt. This has promoted financial stability and has created the basis
for the new Financial Sector Development Strategy, which seeks to promote access. While no
particular interest group was targeted by FSTAP, arguably it has laid the foundation for greater
financial inclusion.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

104. FSTAP focused on institutional strengthening, raising awareness, and building capacity
specifically in BoM and MoF, discussed throughout this report.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

105. In addition to the establishment of the Debt Management Committee and subsequent debt
management strategy, there were some other unintended outcomes. The first was the partnership
created by BoM’s research department with the national statistics institute (INE). At BoM’s
request, FSTAP provided ad hoc financing to INE to increase its capacity to develop a relevant
business survey. This data has not only been instrumental in BoM’s ability to conduct economic
forecasts, but it has created a new product line for INE. Second, FSTAP’s support to develop e-
learning program for the Bankers’ Training Institute strengthened its capacity to receive the
Financial and Capital Markets Operators Certification.

106. There were important benefits and efficiencies derived from donor coordination and there
is some evidence of synergies created between the IDA-financed project and the other partner
activities under the broader program. Specifically, with the relevant IMF activities (although the
IMF was not formally part of the technical working group to monitor the broader program). GIZ
is also supporting the draft regulations on e-banking which complements the FSTAP-financed
training and peer exchanges. More synergies did not occur given the fact that the respective
activities were mutually distinct and thus complementary but not necessarily synergistic.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible

107. The risk that development outcomes will not be maintained is negligible. Robust systems
are in place to monitor and ensure stability of the banking system, better institutional set-up and
procedures continue to strengthen public debt management, and the corporate sector is now fully
on board with IFRS. For these reasons, and because the FSTAP-financed activities were targeted
to build capacity of the core functions of MoF and BoM, it is highly likely that the impact will be
sustained in the long term. For those beneficiaries that were more peripheral to the project (the
stock exchange (BVM), Bankers’ Training Institute (IFB), and the new accounting and auditing
professional body), FSTAP’s impact is also likely to be sustained, albeit more modest.

                                                26
5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1       Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

108. It is commendable that the project design reflected a substantial level of strategic
relevance at the time of preparation, and that this relevance endures at the end of the project and
likely beyond. In addition, the design included a broad range of activities bringing together
many beneficiaries and development partners. This approach proved to be appropriate to
achieving the PDO. Nonetheless, quality at entry can only be rated as moderately satisfactory
given the following moderate shortcomings:
      •   The broader multi-donor program approach created some confusion and ambiguity,
          including the PAD noting that the project was dependent on delivery of the
          complementary support. (Noted in the QALP review)
      •   There was a poor choice for the second key PDO indicator since there was no appropriate
          way to measure debt servicing sustainability. Even with a swap to another PDO indicator
          (trading on the secondary market) this was not an appropriate indicator due to attribution
          issues. The poor selection of indicators was also compounded by confusion in the PAD
          write-up.
      •   The project did not target resources for strengthening the accounting/audit profession,
          although its importance was appreciated.
      •   The design was overly ambitious regarding the development of the Government debt
          market. (Noted in the QALP Review) No measures were put in place to address the
          related fiscal and monetary policy constraints.
      •   The risk assessment was not sufficiently robust. (Noted in the QALP Review) For
          instance, it probably over-rated the risk associated with IFRS implementation since it did
          not recognize the fact that most of the large corporations were already mandated to use
          IFRS by their parent companies, or were wholly or partly owned by the Government. In
          contrast, the fragmented nature of monetary and fiscal policy which impeded
          development of the Government debt market was not flagged as a risk.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

109. The Bank team is to be commended for its thorough and effective implementation
support of an organizationally complex project, meriting a satisfactory for the following reasons:
   • The field-based presence of each of the four Task Team Leaders provided the client real-
       time support and allowed for greater proactivity for resolving potential problems.
       Similarly, the local presence and quality of support of the fiduciary staff was highly
                                                  27
          appreciated by the PIU. The Bank’s disbursement team (based in Johannesburg) was
          singled out by the PIU for exceptional service.
      •   The task team led complex joint missions, requiring significant time and effort to prepare.
          No doubt this also reflected the high performance of the administrative support (ACS)
          team.
      •   The Bank effectively leveraged its leadership role in the sector and thereby supported the
          overall financial sector dialogue with various Government agencies. (Noted in the QALP
          review)
      •   Technical experts on the team played an integral role in ensuring that international good
          practice were adopted, especially critical for technical assistance projects. On a related
          point, the team actively pursued close collaboration with the IMF which led to important
          synergies. (Noted in the QALP review)
      •   All missions included a technical discussion/workshop, which ensured that the
          beneficiaries maintained context and didn’t get bogged down in administrative aspects.
      •   All missions, including the mid-term review were on schedule and aide memoires were
          thorough and generally candid. ISRs were generally filed regularly. (In a few instances
          the semi-annual supervision missions were reflected in one ISR, instead of two.)

110. The minor blemish to this strong performance was some inconsistencies in monitoring
and reporting. The problem associated with monitoring the PDO indicator has been discussed.
The inadvertent use of outdated data for one of the key PDO indicators in the final ISR (#13) was
also unfortunate. In addition, the initial ISRs were confusing in parts since the distinction
between the IDA-financed FSTAP project and broader multi-donor FSTAP program was not
sufficiently made clear. (Noted in the QALP review).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

111. Based on a moderately satisfactory rating for quality at entry and a satisfactory rating for
supervision, the overall rating for Bank performance is satisfactory. In determining the overall
Bank performance rating, additional weight is given to the strong supervision performance given
the complexity of implementation.

5.2       Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

112. Government performance is rated satisfactory due to strong ownership of the project and
commitment to its objectives that was demonstrated by the two main Government beneficiaries.
(Noted in the QALP review) Although there were some coordination tensions between BoM and
MoF early in the project, they were resolved thanks to the good working relationship at the
ministerial level. Strong commitment at the ministerial level also ensured that project activities

                                                  28
were leveraged with broader Government financial sector reforms. Unfortunately, however, this
did not fully lead to consistent and strong coordination between monetary and fiscal policies,
which limited the pace of development of a government debt market

113. There were a few other minor weaknesses in the Government’s performance. It took
BoM, which had the most project activities, at least one year to become fully engaged. There
were several procurement-related delays, often attributed to BoM’s lack of involvement in
technical evaluations. These delays may also be due to the project set-up which split the
procurement functions between the beneficiary agency and the PIU. This also led to frequent
delays in the preparation of the annual procurement plan (also implicating MoF). While the
number of project activities executed by MoF was less, it also experienced delays; the
publication of the annual debt reports and quarterly bulletins took an inordinate time. And, there
is an apparent lack of proactivity to better disseminate these materials to target groups.

114. The involvement of the two other beneficiaries – Bankers’ Training Institute and the
stock exchange (BVM) -- were limited, although their performance was satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency (PIU)

Rating: Satisfactory

115. It took significant capacity to coordinate such a relatively complex project -- in terms of
number of activities, beneficiaries, and partner projects. In this respect, the specialized training
the PIU coordinator and all PIU staff received on project management and M&E at the start,
proved to be a good investment. Nevertheless, some delays were experienced during the
transition period to a new PIU coordinator. This gap led to a temporary project downgrade (to
moderately satisfactory over the 2011-2012 period).

116.   Overall, a satisfactory performance of the PIU is borne out by:
   •   Leading regular and inclusive monthly meetings of the technical working group which
       provided a forum to coordinate and resolve problems.
   •   Strong PIU Coordinator who was well connected within the Government bureaucracy. In
       addition, an important advantage for the project was the PIU Coordinator’s direct
       (weekly) reporting relationship to the MoF Minister. At the same time, the PIU’s
       physical location outside of MoF ensured the team didn’t get side-tracked with non-
       FSTAP issues.
   •   Experienced and competent fiduciary staff, maintained throughout the project. Their task
       was probably more challenging than other IDA-financed projects, given the vast number
       of stakeholders and related processes involved, including the organization of joint
       missions.
   •   The fact that the actual and projected disbursement curves were almost congruent. This
       strong disbursement pattern is especially noteworthy during the early stage of the project.




                                                29
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

117. Based on satisfactory ratings for the government performance and for the implementing
agency performance, the overall rating for Borrower performance is satisfactory.

6.       Lessons Learned
118.     Key lessons for the Bank are:
     •   Flexibility during implementation is critical to successful outcomes. When a project is
         designed, it’s not possible to envision all potential scenarios. Being able to drop and add
         activities and redirect resources in response to changing circumstances is essential.
         Notwithstanding the flexibility exercised regarding activities, the Bank missed an
         opportunity during the mid-term review to formally change the PDO related to
         outstanding treasury securities traded on the secondary market.
     •   Bank coordination with other development partners can work well when, as demonstrated
         in this project: their respective activities are done in parallel and not dependent upon each
         other; the Government wants it and finds value for a broader base of funding; the PIU has
         strong capacity and is sufficiently empowered; it is supportive of the Bank’s sector
         strategy; and the Bank team is ready to devote considerable time and energy to lead the
         effort including with a field-based Task Team Leader. This lesson will resonate as the
         Bank considers the nature of its future support to the sector.
119.     Key lessons that were emphasized by the PIU and implementing agencies are:
     •   Establishing a government-wide policy and coherent pay scale for personnel funded by
         donor agencies, would promote efficiency and equity. The FSTAP PIU, like many other
         donor-funded units, experienced the “poaching? of a technical staff by another donor-
         funded initiative that was willing to pay a substantial premium (e.g., double the salary)
         for essentially the same work.
     •   Beneficiary agencies would benefit by making their preferences clearer on how funds are
         to be allocated when the project is designed. Based on the FSTAP experience BoM
         expressed a preference for peer-to-peer learning (e.g., exchanges with developing
         countries that have implemented similar reforms). Although consultancies are valued,
         they can achieve greater impact if they first train staff on the overall context, then
         undertake some type of peer learning. This would then be followed by the second half of
         the consultancy that would offer high-level expertise to help agencies fine-tune and apply
         what they have learned.

7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower
120. The Borrower prepared its own completion report on the project, which is attached as
Annex 5. In addition, the Borrower provided the following comments on the draft ICR, referring
to paragraphs in the text. The Bank’s response is noted in italics.


                                                  30
•   Para 34: Only the last two Task Team Leaders were field-based. The first Task Team
    Leader was based in the Bank Mozambique country office for the majority of the time she
    worked on the project. The second Task Team Leader was based in a Bank country office
    in a neighboring country, which facilitated interaction with the Borrower. This has been
    clarified in the text.
•   Para 42: There is no relation between that lack of procurement knowledge and the
    financing process for training. In fact, for several reasons, the project financed the
    training of BoM through reimbursements opposite to other beneficiaries where the
    project paid the training expenses upfront. Since the project could only reimburse against
    valid supporting documents, sometimes this was not provided and the project could not
    reimburse. The point is noted for training and the text has been revised. The lack of
    procurement knowledge, however, did impact the processing of consultant selection,
    which is the main subject of this paragraph.
•   Para 49: The main reason for not implementing this activity was related to the intention
    of financing via SISTAFE program and when returned to FSTAP there was not enough
    time. This has been elaborated in the revised text to make this point clearer.
•   Annex 1, Project Costs: The project management cost included the total Project
    Preparation Facility (PPF) used amount. Annex 1 Table (a) focuses on the final
    breakdown of expenditures by component, how the credit proceeds were spent. The table
    is not meant to specify when the funds were disbursed, such as through the PPF advance.




                                           31
                                               Annex 1
                                      Project Costs and Financing
                                        Mozambique FSTAP (P086169)

(a) Project Cost by Component
                                      Appraisal       Estimate DCA         Actual/Latest                        Percentage
                                      Estimate         Amendment             Estimate          Percentage           of
                                        (USD          May 26, 2011            (USD                 of           Amendment
        Components                     million)       (USD million)          million)          Appraisal         Estimate
Strengthening of banking
sector                                    4.80               4.1                 3.54              74%               86%
Improving financial
accountability and                        1.50               2.4                 2.12             141%               88%
transparency
Strengthening public debt
management                                1.05               1.07                1.28             122%              120%
Improving money and debt
markets                                   1.65               1.69                .33               20%               20%

Project Management                        1.00               1.23                2.38             238%              194%

Unallocated                               .50                  0                  0

           Total Project Costs      10.50         10.50            9.66       92%           92%
Note: The appraisal estimates are taken from Table 2, Annex 4 of the PAD (PAD Annex 5, Project Costs,
      included aggregated donor financing)

(b) Financing
                                                                            Appraisal          Actual/Latest       Percentage
                                                          Type of           Estimate            Estimate*              of
                Source of Funds                         Cofinancing       (USD million)        (USD million)       Appraisal*
Borrower                                               In-kind                1.40                 1.40              100%
International Development Association (IDA)
                                                       Credit                  10.50                9.66               92%
African Development Bank                               Parallel                10.20                0.00
UK: British Department for International
Development (DFID)                                     Parallel                 2.00                0.00
GERMANY: German Technical Assistance
Corporation (GTZ)                                      Parallel                 2.40                0.00
GERMANY: German Fund for
Reconstruction (KFW)                                   Parallel                 1.20                0.00
SWEDEN: Swedish International
Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA)                  Parallel                 1.00                0.00
Notes: the AfDB financing included US$1 million to the PIU to support project management.
    * Data on the parallel financing is either still disbursing or not accessible; hence, actual estimates are unavailable




                                                          32
                                                    Annex 2
                                              Outputs by Component
                                            Mozambique FSTAP (P086169)

1.     The project development objective of FSTAP was to improve the soundness of the
Mozambican banking sector and improve public debt management. To this end, the project
financed four main components which are discussed in this Annex. 1

Component 1: Strengthening the Banking Sector

2.      The objective of this component, as outlined in the Project Appraisal Document, was to
strengthen the banking sector by: (i) building the institutional capacity of the Bank of
Mozambique (BoM), including supporting the process of implementing international practices in
off-site and on-site supervision and improvements of the financial market infrastructure and
information technology; (ii) helping the Government divest from the banking sector; and (iii)
developing the training capacity of the Mozambique Bankers’ Training Institute (IFB). It is
noted, however, that early in project implementation sub-component (ii) was dropped since the
government’s divestiture from the banking sector had been largely completed by that time.
(There had been no related result indicator related to this sub-component.) On the other hand,
early in project implementation a sub-component on implementation of stress testing was added.
However, this sub-component also did not receive FSTAP funding since the decision was made
to draw on IMF support instead.

(i)         Building the Institutional Capacity of the BoM

a.      Implementation of Basel Core Principles (BCP)

3.      Improvement of the Contingency Planning and Problem Bank Resolution Framework:
An important activity that supported FSTAP’s objective to implement Basel Core Principles was
technical assistance provided in 2010 that aimed to: (i) review and make recommendations to
strengthen BoM’s contingency plans for dealing with problem banks and potential systemic
distress and crisis; (ii) provide advice on alternative means of problem bank/institution resolution
and their implementation; and (iii) provide advice on the format and contents of a crisis
preparedness handbook. The technical assistance concluded with providing the BoM with a road
map for the implementation of a crisis management plan and problem bank procedure in order to
strengthen contingency arrangements in the BoM and the MoF for handling a bank failure or any
other potentially systemic shock to the financial system in Mozambique. The Contingency
Planning Report and the Problem Bank Resolution Guidelines were approved by the BoM’s
Board and published in April 2011. Stress testing was undertaken during the 2009 FSAP, at



1
     The IDA-financed FSTAP was implemented in close coordination with a broader multi-donor supported financial sector
     reform program which covered additional activities related to public debt management, micro and rural finance, insurance,
     pensions, improving the lending environment, and anti-money laundering. These additional activities were supported and/or
     financed by the IMF, African Development Bank, Swedish International Development Agency, and the Commonwealth
     Secretariat among others. This Annex mentions several of these activities since they strongly supported the FSTAP project
     development objective.


                                                               33
which time 17 of 18 banks were complying with improved regulations. This result continued to
be consistent with the technical assessment of the implementation of the BCPs. In addition to the
above improvements, other activities (discussed below) related to improved prudential
regulations included: regulations issued on the anti-money legislation; risk-based supervision
framework; banking sector corporate governance; preparation of banking systems for Basel II;
and introduction of IFRS. [RESULT INDICATOR (LARGELY) MET: Percentage of banks in
compliance with improved prudential regulations: 100% by project end]

4.      Anti-Money Laundering (AML): A FSTAP-financed consultant was hired to prepare this
manual but BoM’s Banking Supervision Department management cancelled the contract since it
believed that the work did not sufficiently respond to the ToRs. Alternatively, FSTAP provided
funding for staff exchange with the Malawi central bank. An AML Manual was prepared and at
project close was awaiting BoM board approval. Implementation of the manual is dependent
upon the revision and subsequent approval of the AML law which was submitted to parliament
in December 2011 for consideration.

5.     Risk Based Supervision: FSTAP financed a policy paper on risk based supervision which
was approved by the BoM’s board of directors in 2011. Guidelines for financial institutions on
risk management were also developed. At project end, the Risk Based Supervision Framework
was anticipated to be finalized in 2012 and pilot inspections were to be conducted using the new
framework.

6.     Banking Sector Corporate Governance: The training took place in 2009 and guidelines
were disseminated. At project close, the guidelines were being reviewed by BoM’s legal
department and will then be submitted to the BoM Board for approval.

7.     Based on the final supervision mission (which relied on a more thorough review done
during the October 2011 supervision mission), these initiatives led to improved compliance
(compliant or largely compliant) in 21 of the 25 Basel Core Principles, as presented in Table 1.
[RESULT INDICATOR MET (EXCEEDED): BoM compliant with 16 of 23 relevant BCPs by project
end]

b.   Financial Institutions, Risks, and Instruments

8.      After cancellation of a consultancy contract for the regulation of e-banking due to the
non-responsiveness of the consultant, it was decided to split the activities intended to be done
under this consultancy into two different consultancies, given complexity of the task to be
performed. One consultancy focused on training, which included participation of BoM’s task
force on e-banking members at relevant international conferences, workshops and trainings as
well as exchanges with other central banks. In April 2012, training on Falsification and
Counterfeiting of Payment Means and Fraud on Electronic Payment Mechanisms was given in
Maputo by the Portuguese Bankers’ Training Institute. Selected Task Force Team Members also
participated at the Payments in Banking Summit in Spain that month. Further to this, two staff
members of the BoM visited the Central Bank of Spain for a traineeship and another two the
Central Bank of Brazil in April and May 2012, respectively. [Shortly after project close, BoM
financed additional traineeships at the central banks of the Philippines and Malaysia.]


                                               34
    9.      It was also planned to have a second consultancy, which would focus more specifically
    on the elaboration of the regulation on e-banking. However, a suitable consultant to do the work
    was not identified in sufficient time prior to project close. The e-banking task force, however,
    advanced the work on the regulation and developed a plan that identifies the needs for regulation
    and adequate regulatory instruments. As regards the regulation under BoM’s responsibility,
    three areas have been identified in which the e-banking task force will work to elaborate the
    respective regulations, namely payment instruments, channels and custody accounts. In this
    regard, the learning and exchange visits with other countries’ regulators were very useful. These
    are being followed up by technical assistance by GIZ on the applicable regulations for e-banking.

                                 Table 1: Compliance with Basel Core Principles

                                                                                    Grading
                                       Core Principle                          2009          2011
                                                                              (FSAP)        (BoM*)
     1     Objectives, independence, powers, transparency and cooperation        C             C
     2     Permissible activities                                                C             C
     3     Licensing criteria                                                    C             C
     4     Transfer of significant ownership                                     C             C
     5     Major acquisitions                                                    C             C
     6     Capital adequacy                                                     LC             C
     7     Risk Management Process                                              NC            NC
     8     Credit Risk                                                          LC             C
     9     Problem assets, provisions, and reserves                             LC             C
    10     Large exposure limits                                                 C             C
    11     Exposure to related parties                                           C             C
    12     Country and transfer risks                                           NC            NC
    13     Markets risks                                                       MNC            N/A
    14     Liquidity risk                                                      MNC            LC
    15     Operational risk                                                    MNC            LC
    16     Interest rate risk in the banking book                              MNC             C
    17     Internal control audit                                               LC            LC
    18     Abuse of financial services                                         MNC             C
    19     Supervisory approach                                                 LC            NC
    20     Supervisory techniques                                                C             C
    21     Supervisory reporting                                                 C             C
    22     Accounting and disclosure                                             C             C
    23     Corrective and remedial powers of supervisors                       MNC            LC
    24     Consolidated supervision                                              C             C
    25     Home-host relationships                                               C             C
    C:    Compliant; LC: Largely Complaint; MNC: Materially Noncompliant; NC: Noncompliant; N/A: Not
    Applicable
∗        Subsequent to the 2009 FSAP review of compliance, a Bank supervision mission in October 2011 reviewed additional work
         and validated the self-assessed progress.




                                                                35
c.   Implementation Support for the Introduction of Basel II

10.     The consultancy for supporting the BoM Banking Supervision Department in the
introduction of Basel II was concluded. A roadmap for the implementation of Basel II, an
Implementation Strategy, and a Training Plan were finalized by December 2010. Training took
place in 2011. Three task forces were formed with one being responsible for the implementation
of each pillar.

d.   Transition of the BoM and Banking Accounting to International Financial Reporting
     Standards (IFRS)

11.     IFRS was successfully introduced in the banking sector in 2007. FSTAP provided
assistance to the BoM Banking Supervision Department, as well as training to other relevant
BoM departments. The training focused on: (i) improvement of the skills of the task force and
the on-site and off-site examiners in its role of assisting the banks and reviewing the reports
submitted in accordance with IFRS; (ii) training the Banking Supervision Department in the
updated and newly adopted IFRS; and (iii) expand training in IFRS to all BoM departments
where IFRS may be of relevance.

12.   A revised IFRS implementation manual to BoM was submitted. The training for the
Banking Supervision Department and other relevant BoM staff – about 100 trainees, of which 50
were from the Banking Supervision Department – was undertaken over the period from
November 2011 to January 2012.

13.     In terms of the number of banks whose financial reporting is in accordance with IFRS, at
project end there was only 1 of 18 banks that was not compliant. This bank experienced a range
of difficulties and BoM’s Banking Supervision Department exhausted tools provided in the
banking law (Law 15/99). The case of this bank was referred to the board of directors of the
BoM. In terms of assets, this bank is not systemically important, representing less than 0.5
percent of total assets in the banking sector. [RESULT INDICATOR (LARGELY) MET: Percentage of
banks whose financial reporting is in accordance with IFRS; 100% by project end]

e.   Improvements in the BoM’s Information Technology

14.      A consultancy for IT governance began in May 2009 to conduct an assessment, provide
training, identify priority actions, support implementation, and create an action plan. The IT
department assessed that the BoM meets Level III Maturity Compliance and is aiming for Level
IV compliance, which was supported by the FSTAP. The majority of this assistance envisioned
in this sub-component was delivered. But due to disagreements on the training methodology the
consultancy was not fully concluded. In addition to this consultancy, FSTAP funded IT server
equipment.

15.    Initially the project envisaged that component 1 would finance the Central Securities
Depository (CSD) through BoM. However, early on the Government decided that the CSD
should be the responsibility of the stock exchange (BVM) and, therefore, under component 4.



                                              36
f.      Strengthen Research and Reporting

16.     The objective of this sub-component was to support the BoM’s Economic Research
Department to upgrade its capacity to monitor and analyze financial and monetary statistics,
including economic forecasting and corporate financial information. The project financed
training, equipment and software. Specifically, the acquisition of the software Matlab and the
respective licenses, as well as laptops. Specialized training in Matlab took place in May and
June 2011. In addition, at the request of the BoM’s Economic Research Department FSTAP
financed the national statistics institute (INE) to develop confidence indicators. Finally, FSTAP
financed a consultancy for the development of a new monetary policy and inflation forecasting
model for the BoM took place in June 2012. But because of the imminent project closing date,
the consultancy was only able to deliver one of the two planned training sessions.

g.      Implementation of Human Resources (HR) Integrated System

17.    The project supported the BoM in the development of an overall strategy for human
resource development, namely the Integrated Human Resources Management System. A
consultancy provided the human resources department with skills in the area of Human
Technology Performance, including training that took place in January 2012.

(ii)      Support to Mozambique Bankers’ Training Institute (IFBM)

18.     The Mozambican Bankers’ Training Institute (IFB), received support from FSTAP to
develop a web-based distance learning program. System administrators and tutors to support the
e-banking platform and training were also trained. By the end of 2010 the e-learning platform
was operational. By project end, eight professional banking courses were offered and an
additional four courses were under preparation. The e-learning platform is an important tool to
make the courses of the IFBM available to students outside of Maputo. A training during the
2012 training cycle was attended by about 60 students of which about one-third participated from
outside the Maputo area. FSTAP-supported courses helped the IFB gain its certification as a
training institute.

(iii)     Implementation of Stress Testing

19.     As part of the FSAP (Financial Sector Assessment Program) recommendations, the
Banking Supervision Department needed to develop and implement a model for stress testing
that is applicable to the Mozambican market. The BoM requested support from FSTAP to
develop the Mozambican Stress Testing Model through training and implementation support.
However, it was then decided to pursue this activity with the support of the IMF. The IMF-
funded training started in May 2012.

Component 2: Improving Financial Accountability and Transparency

20.     The objective of this component was to support the transition to International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) for: (i) the banking sector (phase 1); (ii) the corporate sector (phase
2); and (iii) to provide support to the development of the accounting profession in Mozambique.

                                               37
(i)     Implementation of IFRS in Banks (Phase 1)

21.    As discussed above regarding component 1, the introduction of IFRS in the banking
sector was completed and implementation has been ongoing since 2007: 17 out of 18 banks are
applying IFRS. After this successful introduction of IFRS in the banking sector there was a need
to provide assistance to the BoM’s Banking Supervision Department and provide training to the
BoM staff of other departments that are responsible for the BoM’s financial reports. FSTAP
provided this additional support to the BoM as outlined under component 1. [RESULT
INDICATOR (LARGELY) MET: Percentage of banks whose financial reporting is in accordance
with IFRS; 100% by project closing]

(ii)    Transition of the Corporate Sector to IFRS (Phase 2)

22.     The corporate sector transitioned to IFRS in two parts: part 1 was for large enterprises
with an implementation date of January 2010, and part 2 for medium enterprises and small
enterprises both with an implementation date of January 2011. The one year extension of project
closing was considered instrumental in completing training for enterprises, particularly since
IFRS only became mandatory for the 2011 tax and financial statements of medium enterprises.

23.     First corporate submissions of large enterprises were due May 31 (tax returns) and June
30 (financial reports) 2011, for the 2010 tax year. In this initial year, about half of large
enterprises were IFRS compliant. For the next year – 2011 statements submitted by June 2012 --
73 of 75 (97%) submissions from large enterprises were IFRS compliant. [RESULT INDICATOR
MET (EXCEEDED): Percentage of large enterprises whose financial reporting is in accordance
with IFRS: 75% by project closing] Also impressively, the submissions of all 50 medium
enterprises were also IFRS compliant in 2012, the first year that this was required for these firms.
[RESULT INDICATOR MET (EXCEEDED): Percentage of medium enterprises whose financial
reporting is in accordance with IFRS: 20% by project closing]

(iii)   Development of the Accounting Profession

24.     To develop the accounting and audit profession in the country, consistent with the rollout
of a new law (of November 2011) that established the Order of Professional Accountants and
Auditors of Mozambique, an “Installation Committee? was formed. The Installation Committee:
(i) completed seminars across the country to interpret the new law and disseminate information
on the program to create professional bodies at national and provincial levels; and (ii) received
registration from about 2,500 accountants and auditors who will soon undergo elections for the
various boards of commissioners. The Installation Committee was also on tract to install boards
of commissions by end-2012, both at national and provincial levels.

25.    Establishment of the Order of Professional Accountants and Auditors received funding
support under the IDA-financed Competitiveness and Private Sector Development Project
(FY09) through a twinning arrangement with an internationally recognized accounting body
from Ireland.

26.    Also, through a FSTAP-financed consultancy, a survey was conducted of the training
needs and a review was undertaken of school curricula for the accounting profession. The key
                                                38
conclusion from the survey was that there is a large deficit of knowledge in IFRS in the country,
and that in most educational institutions school curricula do not have content on the new
accounting standards for the business sector. It is anticipated that this agenda will be rolled by
the professional commissions when they become operational. In addition, this consultancy
included dissemination and training on IFRS at professional learning institutions.

Component 3: Strengthen Public Debt Management

27.     The objective of this component was to support the efforts to introduce a comprehensive
public debt management framework to improve transparency and accountability and reduce the
Government’s vulnerability to financial shocks through strengthened debt management capacity
and institutions. This covered: (i) improved internal organization of the MoF’s Public Debt
Department (DNT-ADP); (ii) increased capacity of DNT-ADP staff; (iii) more reliable public
debt management information systems to reduce operational risk; (iv) strengthened debt
management analysis and reporting; (v) articulation of a debt management strategy to better
coordinate primary issuances between BoM and MoF; and (vi) improved cash management
practices.

(i)    Restructuring of the Public Debt Department

28.     The purpose of this subcomponent was to bring the Public Debt Department (ADP)
located within the National Directorate of Treasury (DNT) in line with international best
practices. At the onset of the FSTAP, the DNT-ADP was understaffed and structured according
to lenders with the officials responsible for all aspects of their portfolio and there was no clear
separation of responsibilities for the core front, middle and back office functions. There was
significant improvement in this area.

29.     An internal regulation addressing the reorganization of the DNT including the ADP was
enacted in February 2012 through a ministerial decree. This legislation formalized the new
structure of the DNT-ADP which operated effectively in the form of front office, middle office
and back office with a recent additional unit dealing with the management of grants and on-
lending. Operations manuals for front, middle and back offices were prepared in 2009, by the
FSTAP resident adviser. The resident adviser also provided additional leverage and assisted the
unit on a series of debt management activities, many within the scope of FSTAP. The DNT-
ADP rehired the resident adviser through AfDB funds for the period June 2012 - June 2013.

(ii)   Capacity Building for Staff of the Public Debt Department

30.     This subcomponent aimed to build capacity at the DNT-ADP in order to gain a critical
mass of sufficiently trained staff with skills needed for each office. This would support the
smooth functioning of public debt management, reduce operational risk, and increase the
effectiveness of DNT-ADP.

31.    During the first years of the FSTAP, a strategic and operational training plan was
developed and implemented. Courses on international law, basic macroeconomics, international




                                                39
and domestic financial markets, banking and financial system, basic statistics, foreign language, 2
and loan negotiations were provided. A number of staff benefited from the payment of their fees
for graduate studies. In addition, technical training on basic financial notions in addition to the
computation and evaluation of the costs and risk exposure of public debt portfolio was provided
during the two Bank/IMF medium-term debt management strategy missions to a large audience
comprising the whole DNT-ADP staff as well as other related departments within the MoF and
BoM. Further notable capacity building activities included the participation in World Bank
training events and workshops funded by the AfDB. These trainings/courses were important to
strengthen staff capacity, build awareness of exogenous and endogenous factors that affect debt
management, and for the exchange of views during the lessons.

(iii)     Consolidating and Reconciling the Debt Database for all Public Debt

32.    This subcomponent supported the consolidation of external debt, domestic debt, and on-
lending into a common database in order to have a single source of information, for reduced
operational risk and increased efficiency.

33.     At the DNT-ADP, the debt management information system was installed (CS-DRMS
2000+). This system which only included multilateral debt at the beginning of the project,
incorporated bilateral and commercial debt transferred from BoM in 2008 with the support of
Commonwealth Secretariat consultants. The incorporation of domestic debt into this database
did not take place, however. Nor does the external debt part of the system generate correct cash
flows. The consolidation initiative was hindered for some time by the expired Oracle license and
antiquated servers and equipment. An IT specialist hired in 2009 with FSTAP funds worked on
bringing the current IT equipment in line with the technical requirements to update the CS-
DRMS. The problem was finally solved with the transfer in 2012 of the CS-DRMS server to the
Center for Development of Finance Information Systems. Nonetheless, achievement of this
subcomponent is considered limited.

(iv)      Strengthening Information Analysis and Reporting

34.    The purpose of this subcomponent was to develop good reporting practices including
debt forecasting, risk and cost analysis and monitoring, debt sustainability analysis, analysis of
loan agreements, and preparation of an annual report on public debt management.

35.     DNT-ADP published annual reports during the lifetime of the FSTAP, for 2007, 2008,
2009, 2010, 2011. [RESULT INDICATOR MET: Annual publication of public debt reports
including comprehensive debt inventory] However, the process of the preparation of the annual
reports was significantly delayed due to efforts to reconcile and validate the external debt data
with the lenders. Preparation of the most recent annual report was considerably faster since the
data reconciliation and validation in CS-DRMS had been addressed. The content of the annual
reports is comprehensive as they include consolidated stock and flow information on the total
public debt (external and domestic together) as well as some statements related to the debt


2
    In particular, English and French language training was provided to MoF staff who were involved in the processing of
    multilateral debt whose documentation and/or negotiation was in those languages.


                                                              40
management strategy. In this respect, they are an important breakthrough since they treat public
debt in a consolidated way and introduce the concept of debt management objectives and
strategy. This progress was initially supported by a consultant financed by the FSTAP who
presented in November 2007 an overview of international practices in public debt management
reporting, highlighting the usual design and content of monthly, quarterly, and annual reports.
The consultant also assessed data availability and gaps to build (monthly, quarterly and annual)
debt reports in line with international best practices.

36.     In addition to the annual debt reports, with the goal of providing timely and regular debt
information (debt stock and flow information, basic cost and risk indicators) to the stakeholders,
FSTAP envisaged the publication of a quarterly bulletin providing regular debt forecasts.
Although some drafts were prepared by the FSTAP-financed resident adviser, there was
significant delay in their publication attributed to IT system problems and the focus on
completing the annual reports. Eventually the first bulletin was published in April 2012.
[RESULT INDICATOR MET: Regular debt forecasts published: quarterly publication by closing
date] In addition to improved transparency and accountability, this will help monitor the public
debt and sharpen the skills of the DNT-ADP staff in the use of the debt database.

(v)    Debt Management Strategy

37.     This subcomponent was introduced after the start of the FSTAP and became an important
pillar of the FSTAP in view of its importance to guide borrowing decisions and reduce the
Government’s risk exposure. With support of Debt Relief International (financed by the SIDA)
a FSTAP-financed consultant produced a draft debt management strategy in 2009. The strategy
work gained momentum starting June 2010 with the support of a series of joint Bank/IMF and
Macroeconomic and Financial Management Institute of Eastern and Southern Africa missions
that provided technical assistance to a team composed of DNT-ADP, BoM and Ministry of
Planning and Development in the preparation of a cost and risk based medium-term debt
management strategy. FSTAP continued to support the debt management strategy work
throughout 2011-2012 from Washington DC. At project close, a debt management strategy for
the period 2011-2015 was finalized and eventually approved by the Council of Ministers (in
September 2012).

38.     An important outcome of the medium-term debt management strategy is the preparation
of the internal annual borrowing plan including the domestic debt (BTs and OTs) issuances
based on the selected strategy. (The first plan is on track to be issued in January 2013, in line
with an IMF agreement.) This document seeks to signal to the market the fiscal policy linked
issuances and promote increased transparency and accountability. Longer term benefits would
be the improvement of the primary market functioning and better price discovery with positive
spillovers on the secondary market activity.

39.     An additional accomplishment, although not originally envisioned in the project design,
was the establishment of a Debt Management Committee in 2011. This was recommended by
the IMF and the Bank during the technical assistance missions noted above. The Debt
Management Committee which is composed of high level officials of the MoF, BoM and
Ministry of Planning and Development aims to improve and manage the coordination among the
entities related to debt management. The Committee meets at least on a quarterly basis and leads

                                               41
the policy level discussions on the debt management strategy, revision of new financing options,
and monitoring of debt operations.

(vi)   Improving the Government’s Cash Management Policies

40.    The objective of this subcomponent was to reduce the cost of borrowing and simplify
monetary operations. At the initial stages of the FSTAP, the Government had prepared terms of
reference for specific assistance for the improvement of cash management policies in several
areas including: capacity building for the preparation of accurate treasury payments plans;
consolidation in the MoF of information received from several sectors; development of regular
reports on government financial activities; and capacity building to improve the use of
information available through SISTAFE (the Government’s financial management system).

41.      In late 2010, the MoF had decided to finance these activities through other resources
under the broader SISTAFE program. However, upon later review there was renewed interest
from the MoF for FSTAP to support this work. The terms of reference for the consultancy were
revised and the consultancy was tendered. But because of a limited number of bids received by
consultants and the limited time before project end, FSTAP financing was not used for these
activities.

Component 4: Improving Money and Debt Markets and Financial Infrastructure

42.    The objective of this component was to sustain the development of the money and bond
markets in Mozambique. The activities supported: (i) increased efficiency in the primary
Government debt market; (ii) increased depth of the secondary market, including introduction of
a Central Security Depository (CSD) in BVM; (iii) reduced segmentation in the inter-bank
market; (iv) improved financial market infrastructure; and (v) enhancement of the registration
procedures in the BoM for private external debt.

43.     As in other countries, the complexity of the topic required an intensive communication
and consultation with all parties involved, such as the BoM, the MoF, the BVM but also market
participants such as banks and institutional investors. The weak communication between the
Government institutions improved somewhat during the FSTAP period. One of the contributing
factors to this progress was the technical assistance from the IMF to improve monetary policy
implementation, the Bank/IMF joint missions and the support provided by FSTAP.

(i)    Improvements in the Primary Government Debt Market

44.     This subcomponent covered the standardization of instruments and the establishment of
regular auctions, with a goal of moving towards a balanced issuance program and consistent
issuance in 12-month BTs (treasury securities issued by BoM). With support from FSTAP the
BoM, which was conducting weekly multi-price auctions for all BT maturities simultaneously
prior to 2008, adopted a regular issuance calendar with only the 3 month BTs issued every week
while alternating the 6 and 12 month issuances every other week. [RESULT INDICATOR MET:
Treasury securities (BTs) auctions held on a monthly basis] This provided to the financial
markets a transparent and consistent source of lending.


                                              42
45.    The primary government debt market in Mozambique, however, is fragmented among the
BoM which issues BTs for monetary policy purposes and the stock exchange which is the MoF’s
agent for the issuance of OTs (treasury bonds) aimed for budget financing. OTs are issued on an
ad hoc basis, usually in the second half of the year when the Government has spent the other
financing sources. It is well known by market participants that OTs are issued for fiscal policy
purposes. Bank and IMF missions reiterated on several occasions that a more stable issuance of
OTs in an array of maturities is needed in order to support the development of the domestic
government securities market. [RESULT INDICATOR NOT MET: Treasury bond (OTs) auctions
held regularly]

(ii)   Improvements in the Secondary Market for Government Debt

46.     Secondary market activity is limited to transactions in the money market concentrated on
overnight interbank loans and repos with BTs as collateral. The trading showed some
development since it started in 2009 at 1.1%, increasing to 6.5% in 2010, and even to 17% at one
monthly point in 2011. However, the number came consistently down with minimal trading in
2012 (1.5% as of July 2012/project end). [RESULT INDICATOR NOT MET: Percentage of
outstanding treasury securities (BTs) traded on the secondary market: no specific target noted]
This decline is attributed to the reduced roll-over of BTs reflecting BoM’s decision to leave
excess liquidity in the market. This reflects the fact that BTs are used solely for monetary policy
purposes and that the main mandate of BoM is to reduce inflation; development of domestic
market and secondary market activity is of secondary importance. In addition, the trading
activity can be considered weak due to a shallow primary market, taxation differential between
BTs and OTs, separate financial architecture for BTs and OTs, and the BT issuance calendar.

47.     Support to BVM for the development of a Central Securities Depository (CSD) to foster
the secondary market had been introduced in 2008, at a time when there were uncommitted
resources that allowed for new activities. BVM requested consultancy services for the
implementation of the CSD. (This was originally included in component 1, but BoM decided it
was BVM’s responsibility) This included IT hosting as well as for the revision of the CSD legal
framework and training of CSD staff. In total, this would have amounted to US$1.5 million
which would have exceeded the component 4 resource envelope. Instead, the Bank team
proposed that a consultancy focus on preparation of a CSD strategy including a review of the
existing regulatory environment and the identification of system requirements. But BVM
decided not avail itself of FSTAP funds for this purpose. FSTAP did support, however, the
purchase of some office furniture and equipment related to CSD operations.

48.     Although funds were not allocated to the CSD, progress was nonetheless made to
harmonize the segmented securities clearing and settlement regarding the custody of BTs and
OTs in different IT platforms. A team comprised of officials from BoM, MoF, and BVM meet
regularly to discuss the procedures and structure for linking the platforms. A note delineating the
responsibilities and containing the list of activities was submitted to the BoM board for approval.

49.    Finally, the MoF intends to have a more regular issuance calendar for OTs. This will be
guided by the debt management strategy and the internal annual borrowing plan (to be issued in
January 2013). If the problems such as the infrastructure upgrades currently hindering the
trading of these securities are solved by the time the Government is ready to issue OTs in a

                                                43
structured way, this might help increase the secondary market activity, thus bring higher liquidity
to the market.

(iii)   Improvement of the Monetary Framework and Development of the Repurchase (Repo)
        and Resale (Reverse Repo) Market

50.     The BoM repo activities were launched in July 2007 and reached a reasonable level of
consolidation, with daily transactions at varying maturities (1 to 62 days). By June 2012, the
main action in the repo and reverse repo market remained concentrated on the money market
mainly between the banks and BoM, where BTs are used as collateral in some of the activities.
However, the interbank activity remains very limited and mostly on a non-collateralized basis
due to the required tax on BTs. Although some IT improvements for the registry and processing
of repo transactions between banks were conducted in 2008 for enhanced activity (the volume of
repo transactions between commercial banks is still concentrated among few banks). According
to the BoM, some commercial banks were consulted about the need for a Master Repo
Agreement and concluded that the banks are comfortable with the existing regulation developed
during the establishment of the repo market.

(iv)    Improvement of the Financial Market Infrastructure

51.     The objective of this subcomponent was to improve the financial market infrastructure
through the introduction of a delivery versus payment system in conjunction with the Real Time
Gross Settlement (RTGS) system to improve custody and settlement arrangements. Because
BoM determined it had in-house IT capacity to develop the RTGS system, FSTAP funds were
not tapped for this activity.

52.     The RTGS was introduced and as of project end, the system was operating with four
banks that constitute about 80 percent of the Mozambican banking sector in terms of clients as
well as asset size, according to the BoM. [RESULT INDICATOR (LARGELY) MET: Reduction of
time needed to transfer funds between banks: real time by project end] Although FSTAP
funding was allocated for a dissemination campaign, there wasn’t sufficient time prior to project
close to initiate it. Currently, RTGS is optional but the BoM plans to make adherence to the
system compulsory.

53.     FSTAP supported the national switch for the payment system to allow the integration of
ATMs and POS in the country. A milestone for this national switch project has been the creation
of the Sociedade Interbancária de Moçambique (SIMO) in 2011. FSTAP financed furniture,
safes, and IT equipment for SIMO. By project end, four banks were in the national switch called
SIMOREDE, including two of the largest banks measured my asset size. With the planned
connection of SIMOREDE with the INTERBANCOS-Switch (Ponto24), another nine banks will
join the national switch.

(v) Establishment of Effective Procedures for the Registration of Private Debt in BoM

54.     This subcomponent supported the review of the laws and regulations with respect to
external private debt to define the role of the BoM and to adjust the IT infrastructure of BoM in
line with the 2009 foreign exchange law. Significant developments were achieved. In 2008, a
FSTAP-financed consultant supported the establishment of effective procedures for the
                                                 44
registration of private debt in BoM. This included a framework for recording non-guaranteed
private debt through instructions and questionnaires and proposed specifications for an IT system
to be developed by BoM IT department.

55.      The development of the proposed IT system was delayed because of a change of
priorities and staff allocation in BoM due to the additional work load necessary to adjust current
practices in line with the foreign exchange law enacted in 2009. [Whether it was to be developed
in-house or outsourced, IT development is time-consuming involving several stages and many
internal and external stakeholders.]        However, over the final two years of FSTAP
implementation, the IT project was accelerated and the software was being tested and training
planned by project end.




                                               45
                                       Annex 3
                            Economic and Financial Analysis
                                Mozambique FSTAP (P086169)



The project was a technical assistance project and the Project Appraisal Document did not
include an economic analysis. Therefore, alternative considerations are used to substantiate the
different aspects of project efficiency. This is discussed in Section 3.3 (Efficiency) of the ICR.




                                               46
                                Annex 4
       Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
                              Mozambique FSTAP (P086169)

(a) Task Team Members

                                                                                 Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                     Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
  Alberto Ninio             Chief Counsel                              LEGEN
  Andrea Vasquez-Sanchez    Sr. Program Assistant                      AFTFS
  Ann Christine Rennie      Lead Financial Sector Specialist           SASFP
  Anthony Thompson          Sector Manager                             AFTFS
  Antonio Borges            Sr Program Assistant                       HDNHE
  Bridie Champion           Consultant                                 CTRDM
  Brighton Musungwa         Sr. Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
  Eduardo Brito             Sr. Legal Counsel                          LEGAF
  Fatiha Amar               Program Assistant                          MNSSD
  Irene Chacon              Operations Analyst                         AFTFS
  Joao Tinga                Financial Management Analyst               AFTFM
  Marius Koen               Lead Financial Management Specialist       ECSO3
  Michael J. Fuchs          Adviser                                    AFTFE
  Mohamed Khatouri          Sr. Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist   AFTKL
  Monica Sawyer             Consultant Counsel                         LEGAF
  Ravi Ruparel              Sr. Financial Sector Specialist            AFTFS
  Sherri Ellen Archondo     Senior Operations Officer                  AFTFE Task Team Leader #1
  Slaheddine Ben-Halima     Sr. Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC
  Suzanne Morris            Sr. Finance Officer                        LOAG2
  Thomas Muller             Young Professional                         AFTFS
  Thordur Jonasson          Sr. Debt Specialist                         OPD
  Tulio Correira            Financial Management Specialist            AFTFM
Supervision / ICR
 Adelina Mucavele           Program Assistant                           AFCS2
 Amos Martinho Malate       Procurement Analyst                        AFTPC
 Anderson Caputo Silva      Lead Securities Market Specialist          FCMSM
 Andrea Vasquez-Sanchez     Sr Program Assistant                       AFTFW
 Anna Luisa Paffhausen      Financial Sector Development Analyst       AFTFE
 Antonio L. Chamuco         Senior Procurement Specialist              AFTPC
 Bina Kakusa                Resource Management Officer                CFRPA Component 2
 Cigdem Aslan               Sr Financial Officer                       FABDM Components 3, 4
 Elvis Langa                Financial Management Analyst               AFTME
 George Ferreira Da Silva   Finance Assistant                          CTRLA
 Irene F. Chacon            Operations Analyst                         AFTFW
 Jeannette Kah Le Guil      Sr. Program Assistant                      AFTFE
 Joao Tinga                 Financial Management Analyst               AFTFM
 Jonathan Nyamukapa         Financial Management Specialist            AFTFM
 Luc Cardinal               Sr Financial Management Specialist         ECCAT
 M. Zubaidur Rahman         Program Manager                            OPCFM
 Maria Isabel Nhassengo     Procurement Assistant                       AFCS2
                                               47
 Marilyne Pereira Goncalves     Financial Sector Specialist                      FFSFI
 Mazen Bouri                    Sr PSD Specialist                               AFTFE        Task Team Leader #4
 Ravi Ruparel                   Sr Financial Sector Specialist                  AFTFE        Task Team Leader #2
 Samuel Munzele Maimbo          Lead Financial Sector Specialist                AFTFE        Task Team Leader #3
 Serap Gonulal                  Sr Financial Sector Specialist                  FCMNB
 Serap Oguz Gonulal             Financial Sector Specialist                     FDPSN
 Slaheddine Ben-Halima          Sr. Procurement Specialist                      AFTPC
 Stuart Yikona                  Sr Financial Sector Specialist                   FFSFI
 Susan Hume                     Sr Operations Officer                           AFTFE        ICR Author
 Tania Saranga                  Consultant                                      AFTFE
 Teresa De Jesus S. McCue       Finance Analyst                                 CTRLA
 Yeshareg Dagne                 Program Assistant                               AFTFE
 Zulfa Mulla                    Program Assistant                               AFCS2



(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks              (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                      10.93                                60.33
  FY05                                      24.45                               101.01
  FY06                                      19.16                                85.96
                       Total:                                                   256.30
Supervision/ICR
 FY06                                        6.55                                 41.60
 FY07                                       22.92                               131.32
 FY08                                       25.64                               163.65
 FY09                                       46.06                                155.91
 FY10                                       58.65                               146.24
 FY11                                       42.75                               104.16
 FY12                                       16.62                                 88.23
 FY13 (ICR-related only)                     7.42                                 46.83
                     Total:                                                     877.94




                                                    48
       Annex 5
    Borrower’s ICR
Mozambique FSTAP (P086169)




           49
50
51
52
                                        Annex 6
                             List of Supporting Documents
                               Mozambique FSTAP (P086169)

Project File

Project Concept Note; July 7, 2003
Project Appraisal Document; November 3, 2005
Development Credit Agreement; December 16, 2005
Aide Memoires and Implementation Status Reports; June 2006 – June 2012
Restructuring Paper; May 26, 2011


Other
International Monetary Fund; Country Report No. 12/148; June 2012
International Monetary Fund and World Bank; Debt Sustainability Analysis Update; May 24,
2011
International Monetary Fund and World Bank; Medium-Term Debt Management Strategy and
Project Selection; March 2012
Mozambique Council of Ministers; Financial Sector Development Strategy 2012–2021 (draft)
World Bank and International Monetary Fund; Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP);
2003 and 2009 (Update)
World Bank; Country Assistance Strategy; October 2003
World Bank; Making Finance Work for Africa; 2007
World Bank; FinScope Mozambique Survey Report; 2009
World Bank; Financing Africa Through the Crisis and Beyond; 2011 Thorsten Beck,




                                            53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33451R1
            30° E                                                                                     35° E                                                                                             40° E
10° S                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10° S


                                                                                                  Lake
                                                                                                  La ke                             TA N Z A N I A                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mtwara

                                                                                                  Malawi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mocimboa
          MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                                                                                             Mueda           da Praia




                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                          end
                                                                                                                                                    Lug
                                                                                                      Metangula                                                                   CABO
                                                                                                                                                                        ssa
                                                                                                                                                                           lo    DELGADO                              Pemba
                                                                                                                             NIASSA                                   Me
                                                                                                                 Lichinga
                                                                                                                 Lichinga
                                                                                                                                                                      ue
                                                                                                                                                                                      Montepuez
                                                                  MA LAWI
                                                                   ALAWI                                                                       Marrupa
                                                                                                                                                 q
                                                                                                                       Catur                  bi u                                              io
                                                      To                                                                                   m   a                                          Lúr
                                                    Chipata                    To                                                         a e
             ZAMBIA                                                        Lilongwe
                                                                                                                                       oz   t
                                                           Mualadzi
                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                      M Pla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nacala
                      To
                    Petauke
                                                                                                         Mangoche
                                                                                                                                       Cuamba                              NAMPULA
                                                              Furancungo                                                                                          Ribáu
                                                                                                                                                                  Ribáuè
15° S                                                                                               To                                                                                                                       15° S
            To                                                                                    Zomba
          Lusaka                    Fíngo
                                    Fíngoè                                                                                                          Montes Namule           Nampula                                   Moçambique
                                  Lago de        TETE          Zam
                                                                                                                                                    (2,419 m)
                                Cahora Bassa                      be                                                                   Gurué
                                                                                                                                       Guru
                        Zumbo                       Songo           ze                                   To                                                   Alto Molócue
                                                                                                      Blantyre




                                                                                                                                                                                  Ligo
                                                                                  Moatize
                                                                                                                           Milange




                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                                                      ha
                                                                             Tete                                                                                                                         Angoche
                                                                                                                                      un
                                                                                                                                          ZAMBÉZIA



                                                                                                                                    Lic
                                                                                                                                         go
                                                                         Changara
                                                                                                                                      Mocuba
                                                     To
                                                    Mutoko
                                                                                                                                    Namacurra                          Pebane
                                                                                                  Sena

                                                                                                                       Za
                                                                                                                          mb                   Quelimane
        ZIMBABWE                                                      Catandica                                              ez
                                                                                                                                e

                                                                          Gorogosa                         Inhaminga
                                                    To
                                                   Harare                                SOFALA
                                                                         Chimoio                                                                                      INDIA N O CE AN
                                                                                                 in




                                                To
                                              Masvingo
                                                               MANICA
                                                                                                 a
                                                                                              Pl




                                                  Monte Binga
                                                   (2,436
                                                   (2,438 m)                                             Beira                                                                                                                  20° S
20° S
                                                                                         u e




                                                                             i
                                                   To                    Bu z
                                                 Masvingo
                                                                                     i q




                                                               Espungabera
                                                                                 m b




                                                                                                            Nova Mambone
                                                                         e
                                                                             z a




                                                                      Sav
                                                                                                              Inhassôro
                                      To
                                    Rutenga
                                                                         M o




                                                                                                                  Vilanculos
                                          Chicualacuala                                                                                                           0    50       100    150           200 Kilometers
                                                                  Machaíla
                            To
                          Messina                                          INHAMBANE
                                                                                                                                                                  0         50             100            150 Miles
                                                                            Chigubo
                                        Mapai
                                                           GAZA
                                                                                  Ch a
                                                 Lim
                                                    po




                                                                                                                                                                  M O Z A M B I QUE
                                                                                      ngane




        SOUTH
                                                      po




                                                Massingir                                                          Inhambane
        AFRICA                                                                                Panda

                                                                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                       Guija                                               Inharrime
                                                                             Chibito                                                                                             PROVINCE CAPITALS

25° S                                     MAPUTO                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                25S
                                      To                                         Xai-Xai
                                    Nelspruit                                                                      This map was produced by                                      RIVERS
                                                                Manhica                                            the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                   World Bank. The boundaries,                                   MAIN ROADS
                                        Moamba                                                                     colors, denominations and
                                              Matela          MAPUTO
                                                                                                                   any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS
                                                                                                                   on this map do not imply, on
                                      To                                                                           the part of The World Bank
                                    Mbabane                                                                        Group, any judgment on the                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                   legal status of any territory,
                       SWAZILAND                               Zitundo
                                                                                                                   or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                   acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                   boundaries.
            30° E                                                                                     35° E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JANUARY 2007
