Report No. PID10716
Project Name                     Uganda-Second Poverty Reduction (@)
Support Credit (PRSC2)
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Other Economic Pol.
Project ID                       UGPE73671
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Finance, Planning
and Economic Development
Mrs. Mary Muduuli, Deputy
Secretary
Treasury Building, P.O. Box 8147,
Kampala, Uganda
Tel: 256-41-234433
Fax: 256-41-231163
Date of PID                      February 11, 2002
Project Appraisal Date           January 28-February 7, 2002
Board Date                       June 4, 2002
Country Background: Uganda's economic performance in the past
decade has been impressive. The average real rate of GDP growth
has been 6.4 percent per annum since 1991/92, resulting in an
annual 3.3 percent increase in real GDP per capita. The living
standards of Uganda's poor have also substantially increased:
since 1992 the incidence of poverty (based on headcount index)
has declined by 38 percent.
Despite impressive macroeconomic performance and a dramatic fall
in poverty in the 1990s, 35 percent of the population remain in
abject poverty in Uganda. Moreover, despite the substantial
increase in government resources allocated for social services,
commensurate progress in social and human development has not
been forthcoming. Although key education and health indicators
have improved in the past decade, most social indicators are
still worse than the average in the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa.
Public services are often still inadequate and/or of poor
quality.
The Government has responded to these challenges by preparing a
comprehensive medium-term development strategy, the Poverty
Eradication Action Plan (PEAP). The summary of the PEAP served
as the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that was
presented to the Boards of the Bank and the Fund in May 2000.
Project Objectives and Description: The overall objective of
the proposed PRSC2 will be to support the implementation of
Uganda's PEAP/PRSP. The credit will not provide support to all
the policy measures in the PEAP/PRSP, but will selectively focus
on policy and institutional reforms with the highest poverty
impact.
The PRSC2 will continue supporting and further developing the
reform program developed under the PRSC1, with the aim to



improve service delivery in Uganda. The reform program will
attempt to improve service delivery through:
Efficient and equitable use of public resources, which is
essential for improving public resource allocation and
raising the productivity and cost-efficiency of public
investment and other expenditures.
Improved governance through cross-cutting public sector
reforms, such as the reform of public service and pay,
public procurement, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation and measures to increase transparency and
participation, and fight corruption. The revision of the
current public pay structure and human resource management
will help the Government recruit and retain high-quality
staff. Improvements in public procurement and financial
management will promote accountability for public
resources, and enhanced transparency, participation, and
anti-corruption efforts will help citizens hold their
leaders and public officials more accountable for the
quantity and quality of services.
Promotion of enabling environment for rural development,
including transformation of agriculture, promotion of rural
finance, rural roads, and sustainable natural resource
management.
Improved access to and quality of education, health care,
and water and sanitation services. Delivery of basic
services will not improve unless binding sector-specific
constraints are addressed, in addition to issues that cut
across sectors.
Project Financing: Expected IDA funding is USD150 million.
Poverty Category: Poverty focused operation.
Environmental Aspects: Given that the proposed PRSC2 includes a
significant focus on sectoral policies and institutions, it has
been classified as category B, with the requirement that
environmental analysis be incorporated into the credit
documentation. The PRSC2 environmental annex was disclosed to
the public on January 11, 2002.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Satu Kristiina J. Kahkonen
Tel: 473-2170
-2-



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 22, 2002.
- 3 -



