Report No. 23498
Report No: I073671 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/19/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: UGANDA Project ID: P073671
Project: Poverty Reduction Support Credit II     Task Team Leader: Satu
Kristiina Kahkonen
Appraisal Date: January 28, 2002         IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 23, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 150.00
Managing Unit: AFTM2     Sector: KY - Other Economic Policy
Lending Instrument: Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRC)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Like PRSC1, PRSC2 will support the implementation of Uganda's poverty
reduction strategy as summarized in the PRSP. The specific objective of
PRSC2 is to improve public service delivery, given that poor public
service performance is one of the key constraints to economic development
and poverty reduction. In particular, PRSC2 will continue supporting the
reform program adopted under PRSC1, and further refine and expand it to
cover selected aspects of rural development.
The reform program will support efforts to improve efficiency of public
expenditures and public sector management with the aim to improve access
to and quality of education, health, and water and sanitation services. In
addition to these services that raise the quality of life of the poor,
PRSC2 will expand the reform program to support the implementation of
Government's Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (PMA). The program
will be expanded to support efforts to promote an enabling environment for
rural development, including steps to improve the effectiveness of
agricultural research and advisory services, and the promotion of rural
finance, district and community roads, and sustainable resource
management, with the aim to raise the income of the poor.
I.A.3. Project Description:
PRSC2 will support activities in the following areas:
1. Public expenditure and budgetary management: (i) align expenditures
with PRSP priorities; (ii) include donor-financed projects and wage bill
in the medium-term expenditure framework; (iii) reduce deviations from the
budget; (iv) streamline inter-governmental fiscal transfers; (v) enhance
results-orientation of sector expenditure programs; (vi) streamline and
strengthen monitoring and evaluation arrangements.
2. Cross-cutting public sector reforms: (i) public service management
(public sector pay reform, improve payroll management, control expansion
of public administration, launch a public service reform); (ii) public
procurement (update the legal and regulatory framework, reform procurement
arrangements, strengthen enforcement of procurement rules and regulations,
improve efficiency of National Medical Stores); (iii) financial management
(update the legal and regulatory framework, improve accounting and
reporting, strengthen audit structures and practices, implement regular
expenditure tracking surveys); (iv) transparency (improve access to public
information); (v) civil society participation (develop NGO policy and code



of conduct); (vi) detection, investigation and prosecution of corruption;
(vii) legal and judicial reform (implement commercial justice reforms to
enhance enforcement of commercial contracts).
3. Promoting enabling environment for rural development: (i) research
and technology (improve responsiveness and impact of publicly funded
agricultural research); (ii) agricultural advisory services (increase
access and effectiveness of agricultural advisory services); (iii) rural
finance (develop legal and regulatory framework for microfinance); (iv)
land (implement the 1998 Land Act in a prioritized manner, promote access
to land by women and children/orphans); (v) environment (integrate
environmental sustainability concerns in government programs).
4 Improve quality of education: (i) primary education (reduce
pupil-teacher ratio, pupil-textbook ratio, pupil-classroom ratio); (ii)
post-primary education (develop and implement a strategy for the expansion
of post-primary education).
5. Improving health care: (i) health care financing (rationalize health
care financing); (ii) drug procurement and management (strengthen
procurement and management of drugs and medical supplies); (iii) human
resources (increase human resources for health); (iv) health
infrastructure (improve health infrastructure).
6. Increase access to and reliability, affordability, and sustainability
of water supply and sanitation (WSS) services: (i) rural WSS (strengthen
decentralized planning, preparation, implementation, and management;
improve central government's capacity to provide technical assistance to
districts; utilize the local private sector for WSS delivery; develop a
strategy for national hygiene promotion, sanitation, and communication);
(ii) small towns WSS (introduce a new management framework); (iii) urban
WSS (introduce commercial operations, improve financial sustainability).
In each of the sectors included in the PRSP, sector plans are prepared by
sector working groups which include government officials, donors, NGOs,
and private sector representatives.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
PRSC2 will be coordinated by the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economic Development (MOFPED), and implemented by central and line
ministries, districts, small towns, and communities across the country.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Environmental Classification Approved by Environmental
Assessment Team
Based on its coverage and the nature of planned activities described
above, PRSC2 is a sectoral adjustment credit. Consequently, the
operational policy on environmental assessment (OP4.01) applies. While
not known at this time, the actual magnitude of the potentially adverse
environmental effects (associated with expanding access to education and
- 2 -



health services, district road maintenance, agricultural development, WSS
delivery) is expected to be modest. On this basis, the environmental
category assigned to PRSC2 is B. A separate environmental assessment is
not required, but the analysis will be contained in an Annex to the
President's Report, as agreed at the concept review stage. In view of the
updated Bank disclosure policy, the Annex will be disclosed. Pest
management and resettlement issues are discussed in the Environmental
Annex but no specific Pest Management Plan or Resettlement Action Plan is
required, because these issues are national in scope and no specific
investment requires such a plan.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       Yes
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The potential adverse environmental and social effects associated with
PRSC2 are mainly related to (i) medical waste handling and disposal, (ii)
district road maintenance, (iii) borehole drilling (depending on
location), (iv) design and construction of WSS facilities, and (v)
handling and use of agricultural inputs, in particular, pesticides.
Overall, the biophysical and social impacts of these impacts are expected
to be modest.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Treatment of alternatives is carried out through the sectoral strategy
building, supported by ongoing IDA-funded investment projects in various
-3 -



sectors (such as roads, agricultural research and technology, agricultural
extension). Priority setting has been increasingly devolved to district
and sub-county governments, and the central government is providing
technical assistance to districts for this effort. Bringing environmental
and social safeguards into policy making is included in capacity-building
initiatives supported by IDA and other donors. Also, the PRSC2 reform
program is supporting efforts to integrate sustainability concerns in
government programs.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
PRSC2 is a follow-up to PRSC1 under which the borrower has adopted
measures to control and mitigate any adverse environmental effects that
could result from the implementation of the activities described above. An
environmental monitoring plan has been put in place, and environmental and
social safeguard indicators have been included in the PRSC monitoring
plan. In PRSC2, further monitoring indicators have been developed for the
new sectors to be covered under the operation. For example, the goal of
improved productivity of resources used in agriculture is likely to
include contributions from fertilizers and agricultural chemicals. A set
of measures has been recommended to mitigate possible negative impacts of
excessive use of agrochemicals. At the same time, capacity will be
assessed generally and the work of building sectoral guidelines for good
practices in environment and social safeguard management will begin in
earnest.
Uganda has adopted environmental impact assessment (EIA) regulations in
1998, and the National Environmental Management Agency (NEMA) has
developed environmental impact assessment guidelines that cover the actual
identification of biophysical and social effects, public hearing, code of
conduct of EIA practitioners, environmental inspectors, and environmental
easement. It has also started to establish EIA units in line ministries.
Under PRSC2, the Government intends to start developing environmental
guidelines across the range of public programs, in order to mainstream
environmental considerations at the levels of both Ministries and various
tiers of sub-national government, while the Prime Minister's Permanent
Secretary's Office will continue the development of national standards for
involuntary resettlement.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Stakeholder consultation will be critical in two areas. The first one is
community WSS services. DWD currently uses community workers and staff
trained in social work to undertake community outreach programs. This work
will continue under PRSC2. The decentralization process has devolved
priority setting to political processes at local levels which have
remained very open and participatory, and are deliberately designed for
accountability, transparency, and increased public control. In addition,
special consultative efforts will be undertaken in secondary education
planning, natural resource management, and the formalization of land
rights. These consultations will be an important tool aimed at building
ownership for the programs and reducing inter-and intra-community resource
conflicts.
-4-



E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     1/4/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 1/8/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop  1/11/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Satu Kristiina Kahkonen 1/7/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:       Dan R. Aronson/Person/World Bank        1/7/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:       Rusdian Lubis/Person/World Bank 1/7/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:        Charlotte S. Bingham    1/7/2002
Sector Manager/Director:        Frederick Kilby 1/7/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
-5-



M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 18, 2002\I073671.txt
January 15, 2002 2:10 PM
- 6 -



