UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
ANNEX 4                                        E516
January 2002
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
(PRSC2)
ANALYSIS OF ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT ISSUES
This document presents an analysis of environmental and resettlement issues in the second
annual Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC2) for Uganda. The Annex is divided into four
sections. Section I summarizes the analysis.  Section II presents the key environmental,
resettlement, pesticide and other policy issues along with relevant mitigative measures and
monitoring needs. Section III discusses institution capacity building for issues of environment
and involuntary resettlement in Uganda. Finally, Section IV proposes indicative plans for
monitoring and supervision.
I.     SUMMARY
1. PRSC2 Project Goals, Objectives and Structures. PRSC2 will support the implementation of
Uganda's poverty reduction strategy as spelled out in the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP)
and summarized in the Uganda's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The overarching
goal of PEAP policies and resource allocations is to reduce the incidence of poverty in Uganda
(based on the headcount index) from 44 percent in 1997 to 10 percent or less by the year 2017.
The PEAP also sets forth the specific goals of achieving universal access to primary education,
primary health care, safe drinking water, rural development, guaranteeing political freedom and
human rights, and establishing an effective disaster relief system targeted at the poor.
Government's strategy for poverty eradication is based on four pillars:
1.    A framework for economic growth and transformation;
II.    Ensuring good governance and security;
III.   Directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes; and
IV.   Directly increasing the quality of life of the poor.
PRSC2 will support a set of reforms under each pillar.
2. PRSC2 Objective and Activities. The specific objective of PRSC2 is to improve public
service delivery, given that poor public service performance is one of the key constraints to
economic development and poverty reduction. In particular, PRSC2 will continue supporting the
reform program adopted under PRSC I. The reform program put together under PRSC I supports
activities that raise the quality of life of the poor; specifically, improve access to and quality of
education, health, and water and sanitation services. Since improving the delivery of these
services requires a more broad-based action than only addressing sector-specific constraints to
their delivery, the reform program focuses heavily on cross-cutting governance issues (such as
public procurement, financial management, anti-corruption, and monitoring and evaluation) and
public expenditure management. Because of its significant focus on sectoral policies and
institutions, PRSC 1 was classified for environmental purposes as a B, with the requirement that
environmental analysis (but no separate environmental assessment report) be incorporated in
credit documentation. PRSCI was approved by the Bank's Board in May 2001 and the
President's Report with all the annexes was disclosed to the public shortly thereafter.
FIllE COPY



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
3. Expanded focus of PRSC2. In addition to continuing to support the reform program
developed under PRSC I, PRSC2 will expand the reform program to support the implementation
of Government's Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (PMA). The program will be
expanded to support efforts to promote an enabling environment for rural development, including
steps to improve the effectiveness of agricultural research and advisory services, promote rural
finance, district roads, and sustainable resource management, all with the aim of raising the
incomes of the poor. The Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED)
will coordinate the implementation of the reform program in Uganda.
4. Environmental Classification and Safeguard Policy. Based on the above project objectives
and structures, PRSC2 was classified as a sectoral adjustment credit (SECAC) at a meeting
convened by the Bankwide PRSC Working Group on August 30, 2001, in accordance with the
Interim Guidelines for PRSCs of May, 2001. According to Bank policy, the Operational
Directive (OD) 8.60, Adjustment Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, apply. Because the Project Concept Document (PCD) for this credit was reviewed
prior to January 2002, OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement, also applies, as adjustment lending is
not excluded by that OD. Given the nature of the credit, which includes support to Uganda's Plan
for the Modernization of Agriculture, OP 4.09, Pest Management, is also applicable. Operational
Policy Note (OPN) 11.03, on the Management of Cultural Property in Bank-financed Projects,
OP 4.04, Natural Habitats, OP 4.36, Forestry, and OD 4.20, Indigenous People, may also be
applicable to specific interventions undertaken by the Government using PRSC2 funding. In
accordance with OP 4.01, the credit was categorized as a B without a separate Environmental
Assessment, and is so documented in the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet. In accordance with
the Bank's revised disclosure policy, this environment and resettlement Annex is being disclosed
through the World Bank InfoShop, and in Uganda.
5. Potential Environmental and Resettlement Impacts of PRSC2.  Overall, the activities
supported by the PRSC2 are not expected to result in major adverse, or irreversible,
environmental impacts. Biophysical environmental impacts, although thought to be modest given
the nature of the activities, can be foreseen at this time only in a generic manner. The potential
for land acquisition, resettlement, and effects on cultural resources also cannot be ruled out, but
such effects are likely to be limited in extent given the de-emphasis on large-scale construction in
the PEAP approach and the nature of IDA support to it. The environmental impacts of activities
in agriculture, education, health and water and sanitation are expected to be sufficiently addressed
by appropriate Ugandan institutions and implementing agencies. Potential conflict over land use,
land tenure, and common property may arise in some of these sectors. IDA currently has a strong
presence in the above sectors and will continue to work with counterparts to ensure that
appropriate mitigative measures are promoted and incorporated into credit activities. Annex 4
Table 1 shows the investment projects that complement PRSC2 in the areas of environment,
roads, agriculture, health, and water and sanitation and their development objectives in Uganda.
2



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
Annex 4 Table 1 Investment Projects Complementing PRSC2
Name offPrject                       Project's Development Objectives
Environment:
Second Environmental Management Capacity     Promote sustainable environmental and natural
Building Project                             resources management at the national, district and
community levels.
Institutional Capacity Building--Protected Areas  Establish effective institutional capacity within
Management and Sustainable Use Project       wildlife and tourism sectors for strategic planning,
program development and implementation, and
promote long-term sustainability.
Lake Victoria Environment Credit             Rehabilitate the lake ecosystem.
Roads:
Roads Development Program                    Improve access to rural and economically
productive areas, and build up road sector planning
and management capability.
Second Phase of the Road Development Program  Improve access to rural and economically
productive areas, and build up road sector planning
and management capability.
Road Sector/Institutional Support Technical   Strengthen the Government's road sector
Assistance Project                           management.
El Nino Emergency Road                       Assist the Government to restore and rehabilitate
key roads and bridges severely damaged by heavy
rains associated with the El Nino weather pattem.
Agriculture:
Agriculture Research and Training            To support technology development and
dissemination, consistent with Uganda's Plan for
Modernization of Agriculture (PMA).
National Agriculture Advisory Services Project  Establish an effective and sustainable demand-
driven agricultural advisory service.
Health:
HIV/AIDS Control Project                      Support the implementation of the National
Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS to reduce the
spread of HIV; mitigate the health and socio-
economic impact of HIV/AIDS; and to strengthen
the national capacity to respond to the epidemic.
District Health Support Project              Pilot test public financing of an essential health
services package to districts.
Water and sanitation:
Small Towns Water                            Upgrade or rehabilitate water supply and sanitation
systems in towns already served and constructing
systems in towns not yet covered.



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
Sectoral Impact Analysis
6. Rural Development. Potential adverse impacts of the activities under the Plan for the
Modemization of Agriculture (PMA) include environmental and natural resource degradation due
to intensification of small-holder agriculture; expansion of large-scale agriculture (cash crops);
increased use of agro-chemicals, and development of rural roads to support agricultural
marketing. Such impacts need to be anticipated and managed appropriately. Several agencies are
responsible for environmental management in Uganda. Ministry of Water, Lands, and
Environment (MOWLE) and Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF)
are responsible for management of sustainable natural resources development. National Bureau of
Standard (NBS), National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), and National
Agricultural Advisory Services (NAADS) are responsible for mitigating impacts from agro-
chemicals (including pesticides) through improvement of agricultural technology, research, and
training. The Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) is developing capacity to screen activities
and prepare environmental assessments and management plans for its own projects, including
district roads. The National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) coordinates
intersectoral review of environmental impact assessments for projects that will significantly affect
the environment, and reviews the work of the sectoral environmental units that it is helping to
launch.
7. Education Sector. Construction of school building and sanitary facilities is not expected to
cause significant adverse impacts. Most impacts are local and can be easily mitigated. The
Government of Uganda mandates that measures of the Public Health Act be applied to
construction of school buildings and other public works. The Bank needs to ensure that the
Government's standard requirement for school construction meet the Bank's requirements and
policies.
8. Health Sector. Concerns include construction activities as well as overall health care waste
(HCW) management. Environmental risks are associated with hazardous medical waste materials,
including possible infection from HIV/AIDS through used needles and blood waste; building
health clinics and hospitals; construction of water supply and sanitation facilities.' The Ministry
of Health (MOH) has identified the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP) to address the handling,
storage and disposal of HCW at all levels of the national health care delivery system. This
includes development of a management strategy, guidance, and human resources development.2
Such measures address various sanitation and waste issues, including the handling, storing and
disposing hazardous medical wastes.
9. Water and Sanitation Sector. In the water and sanitation sector, the focus of the PRSC
operation is to promote systematic reforms in the sector in order to ensure sustained access to safe
drinking water and sanitation services and in particular, expand services to those who currently
do not have or cannot afford such services. Under PRSC I, strategies were implemented to initiate
nation-wide decentralized planning and management system that enhances community
participation in choosing water and sanitation services as well as increases commitment to
operation and maintenance of the service. Through the MOWLE, environmental checklists for
' For purposes of this discussion, health care waste includes pharmaceutical, anatomic, radioactive,
infectious, genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, pressurized containers, sharps, and associated contaminated
materials following WHO, Safe Management of Wastes from Health-Care Activities, 1999.
2 Ministry of Health, Health Sector Strategic Plan, 2000/01-2004/05, August 2000.
4



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
both design and operation of systems have been developed and incorporated into the Planning
and Operational Guidelines for District WSS Conditional Grants. This includes a section
covering environmental screening criteria for subproject appraisal and environmental
requirements for contractors. It is also standard practice in Uganda for EIAs to be conducted for
all investments and development projects (including but not limited to donor-supported projects)
using guidelines developed at the sectoral level by the lead agency involved (MOWLE in this
case) and NEMA (in this and other sectors). These guidelines and the environmental screening
checklists were developed in Uganda to be directly compatible with World Bank environmental
standards. Measures for protection of water sources will also be refined. The reorganized
Directorate of Water Development (DWD) in MOWLE will engage trained staff and experienced
consultants to implement these measures under PRSC2 as well as carry out annual environmental
audits to ensure compliance by local govemments. Expanded stakeholder consultation will also
be provided through further training of staff.
Mitigation Measures
10. Environmental Issues and Mitigation Measures. NEMA has the mandate to coordinate,
monitor and supervise all environmental activities. The framework for environmental assessment
and regulation is based on the National Environment Statute of 1995. The more recent
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Regulations of 1998 define in detail the EIA process,
which requires, as appropriate, environmental impact assessments, environmental impact
statements, and/or environmental audits for all private and public development projects.
Basically, a system of EIA and monitoring that identifies adverse environmental impacts is in
place. On physical cultural property, the Ugandan EIA system includes a stipulation to prevent
destruction of cultural heritages, historic sites, and archaeological resources.3 NEMA undertakes
the EIA oversight function, but leaves implementation to the relevant line ministries and
departments. In addition, NEMA also develops EIA capacity in sectoral ministries, line-
departments and at the district level through an ongoing investment project financed by IDA.
11. Involuntary Resettlement. The anticipated number of people potentially affected is expected
to be small in any individual activity. Land tenure and resettlement issues will be specifically
taken into consideration for acquiring land for new schools or health units and in siting and sizing
of water supply, and other infrastructure for modemizing the agriculture sector. Water delivery
issues for small towns, including disposal of wastewater produced at the water treatment
facilities, and routing of new distribution pipes will be addressed during or prior to design of
each activity. In specific investment projects supported by IDA in parallel with the PRSC, any
significant taking of land or other physical assets that would invoke the Bank's principles
concerning involuntary resettlement will be identified, and individual resettlement plans will be
prepared by the proponent organization or agency, reviewed and monitored during
implementation by IDA. Over time it is expected that Ugandan procedures for resettlement will
guide such activities, and that the Bank will be able to rely on Uganda's own processes as
indicative for Bank review.
12. National Land Acquisition and Resettlement Procedures. Resettlement and land acquisition
procedures similar to Bank procedures currently are not in place in Uganda. Instead, involuntary
resettlement has been typically been handled as a special topic in each Bank-supported
investment where land acquisition has entailed the displacement of some set of people. In order
to gain the efficiencies and coverage of having a national policy in place on this subject, in 1995
3 NEMA Statute Supplement, section 50, May 19, 1995.
5



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
the Bank supported an activity in Uganda to define policy, procedures, and administrative
arrangements for issues of involuntary resettlement at the country-wide level. The adoption of
this program was set aside by other priorities in the country at the time. In the intervening period,
administrative ambiguities have been resolved. The Permanent Secretary's Office in the Prime
Ministry has become responsible for actions regarding refugees and natural disasters, issues
which, like involuntary resettlement, involve displacement, transitional support to people, and
long-term rehabilitation. Policy papers have been written and passed on refugee affairs and
disaster relief. The Office has approached the Bank to re-convene the process of getting a
regulatory regime in place for involuntary resettlement, which it sees as the last part of a "three-
part process" of dealing with these related issues. Like the Bank, the Government is committed
to ensuring that processes of involuntary land acquisition leave those affected no worse off than
they would otherwise have been. The Bank will explore options to support the intended updating
of the background and policy work carried out in 1995, for presentation of a National Policy on
Involuntary Resettlement sometime during Uganda's next fiscal year, which begins in July 2002.
Public Disclosure
13. Consultation and Disclosure. In accordance with the requirements of the revised disclosure
policy, this annex will be disclosed publicly in-country and at the World Bank Infoshop.
Investments made with support of the PRSC will be subject to Government policy, which
likewise requires public consultation and for environmental impact statement (EIS) documents of
projects with potential adverse impacts on the environment.
Institutional Capacity Building, Monitoring and Su
14. Impact Assessment Institutional Capacity Building. The Government's implementing
agencies have embarked on efforts to improve environmental management for sectors associated
with PRSC2. The Bank will work with its counterparts in the Government to create a viable
framework in identifying and tracking key issues. Through the IDA-supported Environmental
Management Capacity Building Projects (EMCBP) I and II, IDA has been assisting NEMA to
enhance environment management in lead agencies, districts and communities, in addressing
environmental degradation problems and sustainable resource management. IDA has also funded
NARO and NAADS to mitigate adverse impacts from the agricultural sector, for example by
conducting research and training in Integrated Pest Management. The policy exercise referred to
in paragraph 12 above will include the capacity-building needed for work on involuntary
resettlement. In addition, the second Protected Areas Management project now under preparation
contains an activity in support of the National Museums Board, which has responsibility for
cultural heritage issues.
15. Monitoring and Supervision. A monitoring plan to review the Government's EIA procedures
and other relevant regulatory procedures for sectoral activities in the PRSC2 will be developed.
IDA will undertake regular supervision to assure that the Bank's requirements on environment
assessment and resettlement are being complied with, including appropriate involvement of
specialists.
II. KEY ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT ISSUES AND MITIGATION PLANS
16. Key Environment and Resettlement Issues of PRSC2. There are direct and indirect
environmental and potential resettlement issues primarily linked to reforms under the
6



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
PEAP/PRSP Pillar III and IV of PRSC2, respectively on Increasing the Ability of the Poor to
Raise their Incomes (Pillar 111) and Directly Increasing the Quality of Life (Pillar IV). While the
types of activities in each sector are known, the specific locations and conditions of activities will
only be known as the implementing agencies execute their budget plans.
Degradation of Environment and Natural Resources
17. Environmental Degradation. PRSC2 addresses issues of environmental degradation by
integrating environmental concerns in all government programs, particularly in modernization of
agriculture (Pillar III). In Uganda, degradation of the environment and natural resources (ENR)
sectors is estimated to range from 4 percent to 12 percent of GDP.4 The agricultural sector alone
is estimated to be responsible for 86 to 91 percent of ENR degradation in monetary terms. This
takes the form of deforestation, loss of natural habitats, loss of top soil, uncontrolled growth of
water hyacinths, pollution of water bodies, illegal logging, and bush land burning.
18. Environmental Regulations. The National Environmental Statute of 1995 (NEMA Statute)
and regulations passed under this statute are the principal safeguards to curb ENR degradation in
Uganda.' The Statute also mandated the National Environmental Management Authority
(NEMA) to coordinate, monitor, and supervise policies/programs on environmental management.
This is done primarily through the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process. A large-
scale agricultural project, such as development of cash crops (coffee, tea, oil palm, and sugar
cane), which will affect the environment, is required to undertake an EIA. The Statute also
promotes conservation in ecologically sensitive areas, such as lakes, wetlands, forests, and
hillside areas. However, for high altitude crops, such as tea and horticultural crops, farming the
hill sides may be unavoidable. For the ecologically sensitive areas, the following measures are
recommended: use of appropriate farming methods, curbing of soil erosion, and protection of
water catchments. The NEMA Statute prohibits activities that will reclaim and drain the
wetlands; and limits other human activities in the wetlands. In the same manner, it also prohibits
activities that will lead to the destruction of forest and hillsides areas.6
19. Soil and Water Conservation.  On farms, soil and water conservation is a priority.
Agricultural development in Uganda is constrained by weathered soils whose fertility varies
across districts. There are thirteen districts scattered through the Eastern, Central and Western
regions. The districts with high population density -- over 300 persons per sq. km. -- coincide
with good agricultural potential and high rainfall. Consequently, those are at risk of soil erosion
(e.g., in the Jinja district and around Lake Victoria). Currently, the traditional farming systems to
restore soil fertility and land productivity do not keep up with the rate of soil degradation and
population pressure on land.7
20. Mitigation and Management of ENR impacts. Mitigation and management of adverse
impacts on natural resources are mainly the responsibility of NEMA, MOWLE, and MAAIF. The
4 Yakobo Moyini and Eugene T Muramira "The Cost of Environmental Degradation and Loss to Uganda'
Economy with Particular Reference to Poverty Eradication "-Final Draft, IUCN Uganda, July 2001.
5 The Water Statute 1995, The Wetland Policy 1995, National Environment Waste Management
Regulations, 1999, Draft Forestry Act, 2001.
6NEMA Statute sections 37,38; and 39-47.
7 Plan for Modernization ofAgriculture, Eradicating Poverty in Uganda. MAAIF Report, 2000.
7



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
research and extension advisory services agencies, NARO and NAADS, support those agencies in
managing adverse environmental impacts of agricultural sector through research and training.
IDA, however, needs to ensure that any PRSC2 activities that will involve large scale agricultural
development comply with the Bank's policies on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Natural
Habitats (OP 4.04), and Forestry (OP 4.36). IDA has funded several capacity building initiatives
in Uganda, including current investment support to NARO and NAADS. The agencies are
expected to play important roles with regard to compliance with environmental, resettlement and
other relevant policies in Uganda.
Use ofAgro-chemicals
21. Low Use of Agricultural Chemicals. At present the use of agro-chemicals (pesticides,
herbicides, and fertilizers) in Uganda is low, but modernization of agriculture will facilitate
intensification of small-holder agriculture and extend large-scale cash crop production for export.
This process predictably will result in increasing use of agro-chemicals. Cotton, horticultural
crops, and sugarcane are the major crops that use a significant amount of agro-chemicals, mainly
pesticides. Recent Government initiative to boost coffee export will also have an effect on agro-
chemicals use in Uganda. Other than in cash crops, pesticides are also used in animal husbandry
to eradicate ticks and flies on cattle.
22. Agro-Chemical Control. Through IDA on-going supports to MAAIF (primarily to NARO
and NAADS), the following measures are recommended to enhance Government capacity in
implementing national policy to mitigate the negative impacts of excessive use of agro-chemicals:
(i) raise awareness of pesticide risks and hazards through training of vendors, stockists, and
farmer/users; (ii) enforce and strengthen Control of Agricultural Agro-chemical Statute of 1980
and Agricultural Chemical Registration and Control Regulation of 1993; (iii) extend registration
scheme to non-agricultural activities, mainly public health and animal husbandry; (iv) mandate
registration and licensing for agro-chemical traders; and (v) enhance capacity to monitor pesticide
use and storage facilities.
23. Pest Management. MAAIF is the line ministry responsible for administering the Statute and
Regulation on pest management and related program in Uganda. Together with the PMA Steering
Committee, MAAIF shall ensure that pest and pesticide management issues are addressed at the
sub-project level. This includes designing a PMP (Pest Management Program) when there are
significant pest management issues, or when procurement of substantial quantities of agro-
chemicals is envisaged. MAAIF should also be aware of the Bank's requirements in OP 4.01 and
OP 4.09. The role of NAADS and NARO, both supported by IDA funding are important in these
activities. The NAADS, for example, has developed general guidelines for pest management. At
the farm level, the institution has trained farmers and cattle herders about the potential risks and
hazards of pesticides on health and the environment, including how to store, handle, and apply
agro-chemicals.
District Road Work
24. District and Rural Roads. Agricultural marketing in Uganda is constrained by the poor
quality of the road network. More than 90 percent of Uganda's road network consists of earth and
gravel roads and 25 percent of the rural roads in the districts are impassable during the rainy
season.8 During PRSC2, a program of district and community roads will be begun. This program
8 Plan for Modernization of Agriculture, Eradicating Poverty in Uganda. MAAIF Report, 2000.
8



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
will run parallel to and be guided by the principles of outsourcing and the environmental
regulatory frameworks in the long-term Roads Program (APLs 1-4) currently under
implementation in Uganda. In parallel with this national program, the Ministry of Works,
Housing and Communication (MOWHC) has initiated a sectoral Environmental Liaison Unit in
charge of promoting, developing, and disseminating guidance in environmental issues, and the
training of transport staff in particular. This work is consistent with the national mandate that
lead agencies should build up their own environmental regulatory capabilities, to carry out the
work in environment that they need to do in liaison with NEMA. In any case, the vast majority of
the work to be carried out in the PRSC will involve stabilizing and reconstruction of existing
minor roads at the community and district level, with no changes of alignments, widening, or hard
surfacing. Thus, no environmental or land acquisition issues will arise, except for minor drainage
and maintenance works. Appropriate environmental measures are already built in to the district
roads crews standard operating procedures.
School Building Construction
25. School Building Construction. No significant environmental impact is expected from school
construction. Minor impacts are associated with physical activities such as construction of class
room, dormitories, latrine and other facilities. The activities are regulated by the Government in
the Public Health Act (sections 72 and 73). Standard requirements for classroom construction
include approved lists of materials, location of latrines with washing facilities and safe drinking
water. The Bank needs to ensure that the Govemment's standard requirement for school
construction meets the Bank's requirement and policies.
Disposal of Health Care Waste in Health Units, Health Centers and Hospitals
26. Health Care Waste. Uganda is committed in its policies to ensure that no harm comes to
people from the management of health care wastes (HCW) or from gaps in sanitary facilities at
health care institutions. To date, it is difficult to assess the general status of sanitation and
medical waste at health facilities in Uganda because of limited data. Generally,there is a need for
significant improvement in both areas. The following are the Ugandan problems in health care
wastes:
. Pharmaceutical waste includes drugs and chemicals that are outdated, contaminated,
spilled or no longer required.
* Radioactive waste includes solids, liquids and gaseous radio nuclides generated from in
vitro analysis of body tissues and fluids, in vivo body imaging and tumor localization
and therapeutic procedures.
* Anatomic or pathological waste consists of human and animal tissues, organs, body parts,
fetuses, blood and body fluids.
* Sharps comprise needles, syringes, scalpels, blades, broken glass and other puncture
inducing items.
* Infectious waste that can transmit infectious disease with pathogen concentrations and
quantities of that are of concern for exposure originate in laboratories, infectious
patient wastes, surgery and autopsies.
* Other waste of concern include genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, and pressurized
containers.
* Communal/domestic type material such as packaging, paper and plastic products and
other organic material.
9



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
27. Health Care Waste Strategy. Strategy for health care waste management was drafted through
dialogue with the appropriate decision-making and national authorities.9 The national HCW
planning process led by a task force that includes representatives from all the relevant ministries.
The proposed national HCW policy and strategy includes:
*   Strategy for proper HCW management and disposal.
*  Prevention and reduction of waste generation.;
*  Means of monitoring of infection control and environmental protection.
*  Use of appropriate technology for packaging, transportation, treatment, and disposal.
*  Central or decentralized treatment and disposal.
*  Distribution of responsibility in the sector between national and local governments.
*  Recommendations on private sector involvement.
*  Investment plan for implementation of improved HCW management.
*  Mechanisms for financing health care waste management.
*  HCW management training programs at facility and municipal/district level.
28. Health Care  Waste Management by Type of Facility.   Specific HCW   management
considerations related to the key health care facilities in Uganda are outlined in Annex 4 Table 2.
Annex 4 Table 2
Considerations for Health Care Waste Management at Small and Large Health Care Facilities
Small facilities                               Large facilities
Raise awareness at the management level.       Raise awareness.
Develop an integrated HCW management plan.     Ensure special HCW is segregated from other waste.
Ensure segregation of special HCW from other   Determine appropriate treatment technology.
waste.                                         Consider facility-based vs. centralized waste
Determine appropriate treatment and disposal  treatment and disposal options.
site for facility.                             Ensure proper packaging and storage of special health
Train health care workers in proper HCW        care waste.
procedures.                       ~~~~~~~~~Ensure safe transport of special HCW.
procedures.                                    Develop a HCW management plan for facility.
Train health care workers in HCW management
procedures.
Address scavenging issues.
Water Supply and Sanitation.
29. Water Sector Standards and Guidelines. Currently, all water supply and wastewater projects
will have to meet existing national environmental standards and water sector guidelines.10 In
addition, all larger village and urban potable water supply and distribution systems and
9 Draft Policy and Strategy on Sanitation and Healthcare Waste Disposal at Health Facilities, September
2001.
10 Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, Water Supply Design Manual, 2000; RUWASA,
Environmental Guidelines and Code of Conduct; RUWASA, Guidelines for Assessing the Risk to
Groundwater from On-site Sanitation; RUWASA, Shallow Wells Information Booklet, 1999; Eastern
Centers Water and Sanitation Project, Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Pit Latrine
Systems, 2000; Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation Project Sanitation Systems: Technologies and
Designs for Human Excreta Disposal, 2000; RUWASA, Socio Technical Manualfor Siting, 2000; Eastern
Centers Water and Sanitation Project, Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation Transformation, 2000.
10



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
wastewater proposals (covering population clusters of above 5,000 people) submitted to the
DWD will undergo a prescribed EIA process that includes the following information:
*   description of the project and identification of all phases;.
*   description of the proposed site and reasons for rejecting alternative sites;
*   environmental effects of the project, including direct, indirect, cumulative short-term  and
long-term effects and possible alternatives;
*   measures proposed for eliminating, minimizing or mitigating adverse impacts; and
*   a monitoring and evaluation program.
30. Water Supply Regulations. Regulations concerning water supply fall under the Water
Resources Regulations of 1998. They specify particular requirements for (i) any water extraction
by motorized water pump that temporarily or permanently pumps water from a borehole or
waterway and (ii) weir, dam, tank, or other work capable of diverting or impounding an inflow of
more than 400 cubic meters in any 24-hour period. Furthermore, both drilling and construction
permit requirements include submission of standard application forms. Since DWD is the
delegated NEMA agency, all EIA and technical requirements are managed by DWD, specifically
in the Water Resources Division. Based on these standards, guidelines and current practices, the
EIA process in the sector is characterized by the features highlighted in Annex 4 Table 3.
Annex 4 Table 3
Key Elements of the EIA Process for Water and Sanitation Projects-Design and Construction
Objective                                       Responsible Party
*   Ensure that environmental issues are        District WSS Units
considered as part of design.               DWD Water Resources Division and Technical
*   Ensure that environmental impacts are       Support Units
reduced or minimized at site.               Commissioned Consultants and Contractors
*   Solicit feedback from affected stakeholders
Actions
*   Review the current environmental condition at  Verification
the site.                                   Subproject appraisal by District WSS Units
*   Assess the potential environmental impact   Environmental Impact Statement for large projects
associated with the proposed scheme.        Independent Environmental audit within a period
*   Identify mitigation measures in construction  of 12 months after completion of project
and operation.                              DWD inspections
31. Protection of Water Sources, Drinking Water Standards and Sanitary Conditions. There are
several types of small-scale rural water supply schemes in the country: shallow wells, boreholes,
protected natural spring water points and borehole pump and distribution systems. Most of the
environmental considerations for water supply schemes involve avoiding water contamination.
Measures should be taken to ensure initially good water quality. During operation of the system,
measures need to be taken to prevent contamination from agricultural activities, grazing animals,
and human contamination. Borehole construction in alluvial areas with intense sugar cane
production is of potential concern because of concentrated pesticide treatments. Testing of the
water supply should be performed regularly to detect any contamination to the system, and this
should be done in conjunction with periodic chlorine treatment under certain circumstances.
Also, proper training of technicians is critical to ensure that adequate maintenance occurs for both
11



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
the single source and network water systems. The MOWLE has developed environmental
screening checklists for both design and operations which has been incorporated into the revised
Planning and Operation Guidelines for District WSS Conditional grants. IDA will review the
guidelines and the checklists for compatibility with OP 4.01 during Appraisal of PRSC2. These
checklists identify any potential environmental, land tenure, and resettlement impacts of proposed
activities. These checklists apply to borehole drilling for water supply, expanding and improving
the existing water supply, latrine, other sanitation facilities, and wastewater treatment.
32. Water Distribution. The PRSC will be used mainly to extend focus on rural water supply for
the poor. DWD and other water delivery programs incorporate standard water quality analysis to
assess potential point water sources.  Post-construction water quality monitoring is also
undertaken. Data collection and reporting procedures are regularly undertaken, yet such data is
not fully utilized. For example, monthly water quality reports for one district showed high levels
of nitrates among numerous spring point sources, yet no one had determined possible causes.
Improved data analysis at the regional and national level as the delivery of potable water is
expanded will become more important to identify potential environmental and human health
concerns. Other issues including access to drinking water and sanitation services as well as
resettlement requirements for the larger construction schemes will be summarized in a standard
report summary.
Public Disclosure
33. Disclosure. PRSC2 has been categorized as a B (without a separate EA) under OP 4.01.
The requirements of the Bank's revised disclosure policy for Category B projects apply for those
appraised after January 1, 2002. The Bank's policy also requires public consultations and
disclosure for activities with potential adverse impacts on the environment in sectors supported
by PRSC that will occur in the future. The requirements include discussions of the project's
potential environmental impact with the project affected groups and local NGOs, and take their
views into account."1 Similarly, the Government mandates public consultation, stakeholders
involvement, and information disclosure of project with potential adverse impacts on the
environment through the EIA process. Public consultation with local NGOs and affected people
has been the normal pattern within Bank assisted-projects in Uganda, and non-Bank projects
under NEMA-led EIA procedures, for several years. Some stakeholders feel that the consultation
could be improved by a better selection of NGOs, and by following through more proactively on
stakeholder feedback during project implementation.12
34. Outreach in Water and Sanitation Programs. Poor communities may have little opportunity
to learn about programs designed to help them. In the case of a water and sanitation project,
DWD uses mobilizers, staff trained in social work, to undertake community out-reach programs
and conduct community consultations.  These staff also engage in sanitation and health
promotional programs. It is common practice now for DWD to assist in organizing water
committees that identify the type of water system they want and are willing to pay for and
procedures for operating and maintaining the water supply facilities. In numerous cases, access
to water is controlled at public standpipes by an approved operator who is entitled to charge for
water and is also responsible for paying monthly-metered water bills. Restricting hours of
operation, reduction in the number of faucets and social conflicts regularly occur. Practical
' OP 4.01, para 15.
12 Conversation with Mr. Kivoumbi of NGO Environmental Alert in Kampala, October 2001.
12



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
mechanisms to quickly identify such problems and engage in conflict resolution are required to
ensure that water is available.
35. Local Level Consultation. The purposes of public consultation include both the spread of
information and the incorporation of local knowledge and perspectives into development projects.
Supported by donor advice and resources, for example, the Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable
Forest Conservation Trust (MBIFCT) was formed to conserve the Mgahinga and Bwindi forests
through a consultative and participatory approaches driven by the local communities. Donors
alone do not drive participatory development.  In Uganda, the degree of openness and
inclusiveness in the local political process helps condition the support for consultations and
participation. Ugandan local level councils have been very vocal for at least a decade, and so
there is an inbuilt mechanism for projects to get and incorporate local feedback. As district
government becomes a better-performing, more powerful process at a level just above the
community, some observers see the potential for weakening the individual community inputs into
governance. District government will have to find a way to continue the sense of participatory
"ownership" by communities as more resource decisions are made at the district level.
III. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING FOR IMPACT ASSESSMENT
36. NEMA's Mandate. In Uganda, NEMA has the mandate to co-ordinate, monitor and
supervise all environmental activities.. NEMA leads an oversight function on EIA but leaves its
implementation to the relevant line ministries and departments. In practice, NEMA is the focal
institution and the EIA has become a primary tool for safeguarding the environment from the
adverse impacts of development activities in Uganda. To further the effort, NEMA has
developed EIA guidelines (including public hearing guidelines), code of conduct for EIA
practitioners, regulations for appointing inspectors, and environmental easements. From January
1996 to September 2001, a total of 286 projects were subjected to EIA; 314 projects received
certificates; 9 environmental audits were conducted; 15 projects were stopped. Supported by
IDA-funding through the EMCBP credits, NEMA also builds EIA capacity in sectoral ministries,
departments, and at the district levels. NEMA also assists districts to establish and strengthen the
statutory management institutions and ensure adequate community inputs into district
environmental planning and management. Since 1996, 41 out of 56 districts have recruited
District Environment Officers (DEOs). In addition, NEMA has helped to recruit 54 environment
inspectors.  To enhance NEMA capacity, the Bank approved the Second Environmental
Management and Capacity Building Project (EMCBP-II) in February 2001.
37. NEMA 's Capacity in Relation to PRSC2. Currently, NEMA is, and has been, largely donor-
funded. This is a risky situation that creates uncertainty about the sustainability of its programs.
At the district level, similarly, resources and funding to recruit personnel and to make the DEOs
operational are inadequate. This lack of capacity undermines full integration of environmental
concerns at local government and community levels. Several ways to improve environmental
management could be mainstreamed within the framework of PRSC2: (i) improving the
effectiveness of the institutional arrangements to address environmental concerns across
government programs; (ii) integrating environmental risks and opportunities into districts and
municipal government development plans, and taking steps to implement the management plans;
(iii) implementing sectoral environmental policies (such as pest management, agricultural
chemicals, medical waste, forest conservation, etc.); and (iv) ensuring that funding for NEMA is
reflected more in the government budget. At the district and community levels, planning and
decision-making require the appropriate measures to conserve water, soil, and forests, to keep the
13



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
human environment healthy; and to ensure that more intensive development in rural and urban
areas does not introduce unmanaged dangers of environmental degradation, displacement, or
tenure conflict. Key to supporting these efforts is continually improving human resources in
environmental management through institutional capacity building and training. NEMA, under
IDA-assisted project, has been building capacity within the sectoral ministries/lead agencies.
IV. MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
38. Environmental and Land Acquisition/Resettlement Monitoring Plan. Monitoring plans are
needed to ensure that adverse environmental impacts are addressed and any land acquisition and
resettlement are adequately implemented and sustained in each of the key sectors which the
PRSC will support. The NEMA statute indicates that "the lead agencies should monitor
compliance and implementation of activities to ensure that the design criteria ,mitigation
measures, and monitoring plans are implemented, the monitoring plan should also identify the
key indicators of environmental impacts." A simple and practical array of potential monitoring
indicators is provided below in Table 4.
39. Relationship of Monitoring Plan to PRSC2 Monitoring.  The monitoring plan for
environment and land acquisition/resettlement will be incorporated into the overall PRSC2
monitoring plan described in the Credit documentation and overseen by the Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED). Consequently, MOFPED will be the ultimate
information focal point. The relevant sector will be responsible for submitting appropriate
information as described below to the PRSC Steering Committee and PRSC Technical
Committee. The PRSC Steering Committee will provide a report to IDA on the issues addressed
in this Annex on an annual basis. This report will be expanded as additional sectors are added to
the subsequent annual Credits.
40. Subsequent PRSCs. In preparing subsequent PRSCs, IDA will include participation of
environmental and resettlement specialists. These specialists will review progress in
implementing the Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP). The specialists will coordinate with
other IDA staff in the relevant sectors to ensure that appropriate environmental assessment,
resettlement, and other relevant policy issues are addressed and any consequent management
plans are being implemented. Where additional capacity building is needed, the PRSC team will
work with the selected sector agencies to develop such initiatives. The missions will review the
performance of sectoral procedures and progress in increasing awareness of and appropriate
measures for environmental and other concerns as detailed in this analysis.
14



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
Annex 4 Table 4. Indicative Monitoring Plan By Sector
Information
Sector and Issues            Monitoring               Responsibility           Collection Process
Indicators                                        and Frequency
Agriculture/Rural
Development Sector:
Natural Resource          EIAs are prepared by       NEMA, NAADS, MAAIF,  Annual records/survey
Degradation in Large-     investors and reviewed (by  NARO, PMA Steering
Scale Agricultural Projects   NEMA); management plan   Committee, and districts.
is integrated into project  Districts are responsible for
implementation            implementing programs and
projects. Activities like traini
Restriction on the use of    for service providers, waste
ecologically sensitive    management, etc., have to tal
areas, forest, wetlands, etc.  place in the districts
Soil conservation in      Improved soil and water
Smallholder Agriculture   conservation; judicious
application of agricultural
inputs
Increasing Quantities of  PMP is designed, ensure    NEMA, NAADS, MAAIF,  Annual records/survey
Agro-Chemicals used by    that pesticides are used in    NARO, PMA Steering
Agricultural Activities   accordance with IPM        Committee, districts (see
principles                above discussion on the
districts), and NBS.
Training for service      Capacity building for
providers, farmers, and   community and farmer
stockmen to understand    level monitoring
potential risks and hazards
of pesticides on health and
environment
Agro-chemicals used by    MRL (Maximum Residue
Small Holder Agriculture    Level) is observed
particularly for commercial
crops
Training for appropriate
storage, handling, and
application of
agrochemicals
Waste and effluent from   Waste management and      In addition to the above
Agro Processing           environmental audit for    authorities: selected private
selected agro processing  sectors
facilities
District Roads:           Policy and implementation   MOWHC and Districts       Annual Review
arrangements, including
related environmental
guidelines, for road
construction and
maintenance works
developed and adopted
Improvement of
institutional capacity for
transportation and
15



UGANDA PRSC2 ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND RESErTLEMENT
Information
Sector and Issues            Monitoring                Responsibility          Collection Process
Indicators                                        and Frequency
environmental
management, including
training for staff and
contractors.
Health Sector: Health    EIA or Environmental        MOH, Environmental
Care Waste                Review for construction of  Health Division, NEMA
new facilities            (for review of EIAs),
district health inspectors
Environmental
guidelines/checklist are
prepared and used in
operation stage
Conduct selective/random
environmental audits for
HCW facilities
Awareness training
incorporated into health
care professional and
technical curriculum
Waste Supply and          EIA or Environmental       DWD Water Resources       Annual Review/Survey
Sanitation Sector         Review for urban large     Division and Technical
(wastewater treatment,  scale construction of new    Support Units at district
sanitation facilities,    facilities                 level, other WSS
and water supply and                  ~~~~Authorities, NEMA (for
and water supply and    Environmental               review of EIAs)
distribution)             guidelines/checklist are
prepared and used in
operation stage
Conduct selective/random
environmental audits for
WSS facilities
Awareness training
incorporated for WSS
professionals
16



