                            Document of
                           The World Bank
                                                  Report No. 31762




           SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                             UGANDA


        SECOND POVERTY REDUCATION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC2)
                             IDA-3696




                           March 10, 2005




Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Region

                       Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                          For Programmatic Adjustment Operations

Operation ID: P073671                                  Operation Name: Poverty Reduction Support
                                                       Credit 2 (PRSC 2)
Team Leader: Satu Kahkonen                             TL Unit: Macroeconomics 2
                                                       Report Date: March 23, 2001

1. Program Data

Name:                     Poverty Reduction Support Credit 2           L/C Number:      36960
Country/Department:       AFCO4                                        Region:          Africa
Sector/subsector:         Law & public admin
Theme:

KEY DATES
                                                                   Original           Revised/Actual
PCD/PR:            09/25/2001              Effective:              03/12/2003
Appraisal:         01/28/2002              MTR:
Approval:          07/23/2002              Closing:                06/30/2003


Borrower/Implementing Agency:
Other Partners:

STAFF                     Current                               At Appraisal
Vice President:           Gobind Nankani                        Callisto Madavo
Country Director:         Judy O'Connor                         Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager:           Dzingai Mutumbuka                     Fredrick Kilby
Team Leader at ICR:       Bruno Boccara                         Satu Kahkonen
ICR Primary Author:       Ivar Strand

2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)


Outcome:                              S
Sustainability:                       L
Institutional Development             M
Impact:
Bank Performance:                     HS
Borrower Performance:                 S

                                      QAG (if available)                ICR
Quality at Entry:                     Satisfactory, and Highly
                                      Satisfactory in Strategic
                                      Relevance and Approach,
                                      Fiduciary Aspects, and in
                                      Bank Inputs and Processes.

3. Program Description
The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) was designed as the second annual operation of an
integrated program, consisting of three PRSCs, which were designed to support the
implementation of Uganda's Poverty Eradication Action Plan. The three PRSC operations
constituting the PRSC Program, were all one-year, single tranche operations of $150 million
each, with disbursements taking place at project effectiveness based on the government's
satisfactory accomplishment of prior actions. It was designed to provide direct budget support to
Uganda to help it implement its reform program.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
PRSC2 incorporated the goals of PRSC1 along with updates and refinements based on the
experience of PRSC1. In addition, PRSC2, focused on the third Pillar of the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan, i.e. directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes. As 85 percent of
Ugandans (and 96 percent of Uganda's poor) live in rural areas, Uganda's core strategy to
directly increase incomes is the Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture which aims to
transform subsistence agriculture to commercial agriculture. In accordance with the Plan for the
Modernization of Agriculture framework, PRSC2 aimed to: (i) improve the responsiveness and
impact of publicly funded agricultural research; (ii) increase access and effectiveness of
agricultural advisory services; (iii) stimulate financially sustainable microfinance institutions with
greater access for the poor to financial services; (iv) provide for the more effective use and
management of land resources, more secure tenure rights, and access to land for women and
orphans; (v) reduce the level and risk of environmental degradation by integrating environmental
priorities in sector-wide government programs; and (vi) increase access to markets in rural areas
through improvement of the network of district roads.

The objectives established under PRSC2 build upon those established by PRSC1, and were also
developed with the anticipation that there would be subsequent annual operations continuing the
support for the program. Goals for PRSC2 were designed to be achieved at the end of the three
year process, but with some markers (such as prior actions) along the way. In addition to
introducing its own specific goals, PRSC2 continued the second phase of accomplishment of
PRSC1 goals. The program had now evolved into a rolling three year program aligned with the
cycle of Uganda's Poverty Eradication Action Plan.              The achievement of the objectives
established under PRSC2 cannot be seen in isolation from the subsequent programs. The
implementation completion report assessing the three PRSCs as an integrated program provides a
full discussion of the achievement of the objectives for the integrated program.

A twenty page matrix describing the reform program and policy actions for the various areas lays
out what has been accomplished during the PRSC2, and describes the reform program for two
consecutive years. These policy actions are all procedural in nature. The full matrix is available in
the program document.
 In the annual public expenditure review, the Government has agreed with donors on medium
term expenditure framework for 2001/02-2003/04, and has executed the 2001/02 budget through
the first two quarters consistent with budget allocations.
 Cabinet approved and published the pay strategy, consistent with medium term expenditure
framework and improved public service delivery.
 Ministry of Public Service, in consultation with other stakeholders, has developed a draft
strategic framework for the new phase of public service reform.
 Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development has tabled Procurement Bill in
Parliament.

 Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development has tabled Public Finance Bill in
Parliament.
 Parliament has passed the Leadership Code and Inspector General of Government Statutes
Bill.
 Most Ministers, Presidential Advisors, Permanent Secretaries, Directors, and Uganda
Revenue Authority officials have submitted to the Inspectorate of Government their statement of
income, assets, and liabilities.
 Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries has completed a draft institutional
review of public funding of agricultural research.
 Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development and Ministry of Water, Lands and
Environment have agreed on financial and institutional arrangements for the implementation of
the Land Sector Strategic Plan.
 Satisfactory implementation of undertakings agreed in education sector review in April 2001
and confirmed by October 2001 review.
 Satisfactory implementation of undertakings agreed in health sector review in April 2001 and
confirmed by October 2001 review.
 Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment has established fully staffed technical support
units.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
There are several factors that have affected the program but are beyond the direct control of the
implementing agency. The most disruptive factor for implementation of the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan and the PRSC support has been the continued insecurity and the socio-economic
challenges posed by the 17-year conflict in the North and the cattle-rustling related insecurity in
the East. Conflict has affected a large segment of Uganda's poor, heightening regional disparities.
The destruction of the livelihoods of the communities living in these areas has resulted in very
high or rising poverty levels and displaced some 1.2 million persons. Also, the drop in
international commodity prices after 1998/99 affected Uganda's exports during this period, a drop
of $222 million in coffee earnings alone, by 2002. Because Uganda has only recently begun to
diversify agricultural exports, this vulnerability to changes in world prices reduced Uganda's
GDP growth and probably contributed to the increase in income poverty that occurred since the
1999 household survey. Furthermore, where economic and social advancement are driven by
nepotism and graft rather than by entrepreneurship, productivity, and a level playing field, the
consequences are clearly negative for investment and growth.

The factors generally under government control that are likely to have had the most detrimental
impact, are the continuing levels of corruption, the impact on development budgets of increasing
defense spending, and the loss of government income due to the continued poor performance of
the revenue authority. Expenditures on Public Administration could also have been controlled
better. Although problematic, all of these lie generally within government control.

Because of the nature of the PRSC which does not have an implementation phase beyond the
satisfaction of prior requirements, there is no single implementation agency for the PRSC
reforms. Responsibility is divided among many ministries, district governments, and specialized
agencies. The role of the recently established Poverty Eradication Action Plan coordinating
function in the Office of the Prime Minister has yet to mature, and in any case, is unlikely to
fulfill what is usually meant by the term "implementing agency". At the time of this operation
however, coordination was the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development. While this ministry coordinated the operation effectively it did not achieve
establishing broad based ownership of the reform program in the manner later demonstrated by
the Office of the Prime Minister. Collectively, the performance of the government has been

uneven, with many bottlenecks in approving bills and strategies. This has undoubtedly had an
impact on the progress made under the PRSC. However, it was clear at the outset of the PRSC
process that the reforms envisaged constituted an enormous task; and if the deadlines envisaged
for results under the PRSC are taken into account, it is also clear that the expectations were
unrealistic given the limited capacity of government and the burdens it already carries,
implementation agency for the PRSC reforms. Responsibility is divided among many ministries,
district governments, and specialized agencies.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance
The ratings are same for all three operations in the series. Please see the full implementation
completion report for PRSC1-3.

Bank: The programmatic approach, of a three-year rolling reform program, based upon the
Poverty Eradication Action Plan facilitated government ownership and helped coordination with
other donors. Also, the expansion of the PRSC2 to include dialogue and support for the third
pillar of the Poverty Eradication Action Plan, helped create a more comprehensive program
which further facilitated government ownership. The PRSC2 continued to play an important role
in holding the strategic focus on the various dimensions of poverty and helped facilitate the
coordination among Government ministries and agencies. As pointed out in the quality at entry
assessment that was carried out by the Quality Assurance Group of the World Bank, the PRSC
helped the Ugandan government escape the institutional fragmentation that has usually
accompanied project financing. It was found that PRSC2 systematically built on reforms initiated
under PRSC1, providing a clear road map for the reform process over the remaining PRSC
program time horizon. The facilitation of donor collaboration continued, and the PRSC started to
play a de-facto coordinating role for the budget support donors who participated actively in the
missions and preparatory work. There continued to be excellent coordination with the IMF. The
monitoring and evaluation was improved and a matrix detailing progress in reaching quantitative
targets was included. However, this framework included only a limited part of the reform
program and for many areas too few outcomes were stated in concrete and measurable terms.

Based on the factors described above, the overall Bank performance is rated as Highly
Satisfactory.

Borrower: The Government's preparation of the Poverty Eradication Action Plan continued to
provide the basis for the PRSC. The design of the plan was based on extensive consultation,
participative poverty assessments, household surveys, census data, and in-depth sectoral analyses.
While the Government has been vigilant in identifying weaknesses and gaps, and revising the
Poverty Eradication Action Plan as needed, this was done on an ad-hoc basis. Later developments
have shown that a more formalized approach with a cycle of implementation reviews could have
helped to more systematically review progress and look forward to refine the operationalization
of the plan. Government implementation performance was uneven. The sector reviews in
education and health proved to be very effective mechanisms for organizing the sector dialogue.
Work was also started to develop such a review mechanism in the water sector. The enactment of
strategies, laws, and oversight measures (including auditing) has moved forward slowly, and in
some cases ponderously, with some cases of significant delay. In the areas of corruption and
defense spending, government performance continued to be disappointing, and has tended to
color perceptions about overall government commitment. There was no specific implementing
agency for the PRSC, as it is a cross-sectoral program involving many agencies of government,
frequently meeting in cross-sectoral groups. Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development as the lead agency, however, should be commended for competent handling of

coordinating a very complex cross-ministerial program, in which its "authority" to push for
performance across the board was ambiguous. This has been changed for the next cycle of
PRSCs, with the Office of the Prime Minister taking over at the overall policy level, but Ministry
of Finance, Planning and Economic Development staff continuing to be relied on for their
expertise.

Based on the factors stated above, the overall borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series
The PRSC2 continued the program initiated under PRSC1, expanded the scope of the program as
necessary, and improved the monitoring and evaluation framework. Therefore it provided a basis
for future PRSCs. This simplified implementation completion report however, is written after the
completion of the series of the three PRSCs. For the future, simplified completion reports should
be written immediately after the completion of the program in question in order to have an impact
on the design of the next operation. As discussed above, an implementation completion report of
the full program has been developed and it discussed findings and implications for the design of
future PRSCs in Uganda as well as for PRSCs in other countries. Also, a stocktaking report of the
first series of PRSCs has been written and discussed extensively in Uganda. Both of these reports
have spurred discussions and have had an impact on the further development of the PRSC
program.

