Document of
The World Bank
FOR OF]FICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 24400-UG
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FORA
P]ROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 120.2 MILLION
(US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
May 31, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic M:anagement 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfolmance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR: July 1- June 30
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Uganda Shiiling (Ush)
US$1 = Ush 1,797 (May 24, 2002)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB         African Development Bank              MolA         Ministry of Intemal Affairs
AG           Auditor General                       MoJCA        Ministry of Justice and Constitution
BFP          Budget Framework Paper                             Affairs
BoU          Bank of Uganda                        MoLG         Ministry of Local Govemment
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy           MoPS         Ministry of Public Service
CCS          Commitment and Control System         MoTTI        Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Indusiry
CDF          Comprehensive Development Framework   MoWHC        Ministry of Works, Housing and
CFAA         Country Financial Accountability                   Communications
Assessment                            MoWLE        Ministry of Water, Lands and
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Report              Environment
CTB          Central Tender Board                  MTBF         Medium Term Budget Framework
DA           Directorate of Accounts               MTCS         Medium Term Competitiveness Strategy
DHS          Demographic and Health Survey         MTEF         Medium Term Expenditure Framewor
DFID         Department for Intemational           NAADS        National Agricultural Advisory Services
Development (UK)                     NEMA          National Environmental Management
DEI          Directorate of Ethics and Integrity                Agency
DRC          Democratic Republic of Congo          NGO          Non-Govemmental Organization
DWD          Directorate of Water Development      NMS          National Medical Stores
DWST         District Water and Sanitation Team    NPV          Net-Present-Value
EFMPII       Second Economic and Financial         NSDS         National Service Delivery Survey
Management Project                    NWSC         National Water and Sewerage Corporation
EHD          Environmental Health Department       O & M        Operation and Maintenance
EPI          Expanded Program for Immunization     OAG          Office of Auditor General
ESW          Economic Sector Work                  OPM          Office of the Prime Minister
GAAP          Generally Accepted Accounting Practice  OOB       Output Oriented Budgeting
GDP          Gross Domestic Product                PAF          Poverty Action Fund
GoU          Government of Uganda                  PEAP         Poverty Eradication Action Plan
HIPC         Heavily Indebted Poor Countries       PER          Public Expenditure Review
HIV          Human Immunodeficiency Virus          PMA          Plan for Modernization of Agriculture
HSSP         Health Sector Strategic Plan          PMO          Prime Minister's Office
ICPAU        Institute of Certified Public Accountants  PNFP    Private Not-For-Profit
of Uganda                             PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
ICRG         Intemational Country Risk Guide       PRSC         Poverty Reduction Support Credit
IDA          Intemational Development Association  PRSL         Poverty Reduction Support Loan
IFAC         Intemational Federation of Accountants  PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IFMS         Integrated Financial Management Systems RCTB       Reformed Central Tender Board
IGG          Inspector General of Govemment        ROM          Results-Oriented Management
IMF          Intemational Monetary Fund            SWAP         Sector-wide Approach
JLO          Justice, Law and Order                TDMS         Teacher Development and Management
LGDP         Local Govemment Development Project                 System
LSSP         Land Sector Strategic Plan            TSU          Technical Support Unit
MAAIF        Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry  TB       Tuberculosis
and Fisheries                         UBOS         Uganda Bureau of Statistics
M & E        Monitoring and Evaluation             UPE          Universal Primary Education
MoD          Ministry of Defense                   UPPAP        Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment
MoES         Ministry of Education and Sports                   Project
MoFPED       Ministry of Finance, Planning and     URA           Uganda Revenue Authority
Economic Development                  VAT          Value Added Tax
MoH          Ministry of Health                    WSS           Water Supply and Sanitation
Mol          Ministry of Information
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Frederick Kilby
Task Teamn Leader:         Satu Kahkonen



THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY .............................................................i
I.   INTRODUCTION .............................................................1
I.   RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS .............................................................2
111. UGANDA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY ............................................................. 7
IV.  WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGY ............................................................8
A.   General Objectives of PRSC ............................................................8
B.   Analytic Underpinnings of PRSC ..................................................................9
V. OVERALL PROGRESS WITH REFORMS SINCE PRSC                          .       .                 12
A. Overall Assessment of Progress .12
B.   Overall Progress and Outcomes in Sectors and Cross-cutting Areas .12
VI.  THE PROPOSED PRSC2 REFORM PROGRAM                           .      .       .............................. 15
A.   Overview and Objectives of PRSC2 ............................. ....................................... 15
B.   PEAP/PRSP Pillar I: Framework for Economic Growth and Transformation .......... ........... 17
C.   PEAP/PRSP Pillar IH: Ensuring Good Governance and Security .......................................... 20
D.   PEAP/PRSP Pillar III: Directly Increasing the Ability of the Poor to Raise their Incomes.. 27
E.   PEAP/PRSP Pillar IV: Directly Increasing the Quality of Life of the Poor .......................... 30
VII. THE PROPOSED CREDIT .37
A.   Reform Measures and Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation .37
B. Implementation and Monitoring .38
C. Credit Administration .39
D.   Benefits and Risks ..............................................,,,,,,,,,,,,.... 41
VIII. COORDINATION WITH OTHER DONORS .42
A. Coordination with IF .42
B. Cooperation with AfDB .42
C.   Partnership with Other Multilateral and Bilateral Donors .43
The Bank task team includes Satu K ahknen (Task Team Leader), Sudharshan Canagarajah (AFTP2); Dan Aronson,
Mary Bitekerezo, Nathalie Johnson (AFTES); Shiyan Chao, Paud Murphy, Harriet Nannyonjo, Peter Okwero
(AFTHI); Denyse Morin (AFT12); Rogati Kayani, Joseph Kizito, Marius Koen (AFTQK); Lucy Fye, Ron Kopicki,
William Steel (AFTPS); Robert Townsend, David Nielson, Jorge Munoz, John Jaramogi Oloya (AFTRI); Yitzhak
Kamhi, Victorio Ocaya, David Rudge (AFTTR); Ato Brown, Fook Chuan Eng, Lance Morrell, Roland White
(AFTUI); Robert Blake (AFMUG); Rusdian Lubis (ESDQC); Aberra Zerabruk (LEGAF); John Bruce (LEGEN);
Robert Hunja (OPCPR); and Charles Byaruhanga, Graeme Donovan, Kenneth Green, Arild Hauge, Charles Kinyeki,
and Kithinji Kiragu (consultants). Advisors incluie Shantayanan Devarajan, Trina Haque (HDNVP); John Mclntire
(AFC14); Peter Hazell (International Food Policy Research Institute); Ritva Reinikka (DECRG); and Allister Moon
(ECSPE).



THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
CONTENTS (cont'd)
SCHEDULES
Schedule 1:   Letter of Development Policy
Schedule 2:   Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies ana rrogress Indicators
Schedule 3:   Quantitative Monitoring Indicators and Outcome Targets
ANNEXES
Annex 1:      Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
Annex 2:      Progress Reaching Quantitative Outcome Targets
Annex 3:      Education Sector Undertakings
Annex 4:      Health Sector Undertakings
Annex 5:     Institutional Reform Program
Annex 6:      Environmental and Social Analysis
Annex 7:      Uganda - At a Glance
Annex 8:      Uganda - Social Indicators
Annex 9:      Uganda - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 10:     Uganda - Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 11:     Uganda - Balance of Payments
Annex 12:     Uganda - Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 13:     Fund Relations Note
FIGURES
Figure 1:     Value of Exports
Figure 2:     Export and Import Volume Index
Figure 3:     Tax and Non-tax Revenue as a Share of GDP
Figure 4:     Quality of Bureaucracy and Law and Order Indexes
Figure 5:     Corruption Index
Figure 6:     The Uganda PRSC Program
TABLES
Table 1:      Uganda Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Table 2:      Original PRSC2 Triggers in PRSCl Board Document and PRSC2 Prior Actions
Table 3:      Uganda's Service Delivery Reform Program Supported by PRSC2
Table 4:      Defense Expenditures
TEXT BOX:
Box 1:        Proposed Second Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)



THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:            The Republic of Uganda
Amount:              SDR 120.2 million (US$150 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a 10-year grace period
Description:         The proposed Credit of SDR    120.2 million (US$ 150 million
equivalent) is the second annual Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC2) that would support the implementation of Uganda's poverty
reduction strategy as summarized in the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP), emphasizing enhanced service delivery and agricultural
production.
Uganda's reform program under the PRSC2 would improve service
delivery and agricultural production through:
* Efficient and equitable use of public resources, which is essential for
improving pulblic resource allocation. This includes reforms aimed at
improving public expenditure management and strengthening
monitoring and evaluation.
* Improved governance through cross-cutting public sector reforms,
such as the reform of public service and pay, public procurement,
financial management, and measures to increase transparency, civil
society participation, and fight against corruption. The revision of the
current public pay structure and human resource management practices
will help the Government recruit and retain high-quality staff.
Improvements in public procurement and financial management will
promote accountability for public resources, and enhanced
transparency, participation, and anti-corruption efforts will help
citizens hold their leaders and public officials more accountable for the
quantity and quality of services.
*  Promotion of enabling environment for rural development, including
steps to improve' the effectiveness of agricultural research and advisory
services, and the promotion of rural finance, rural roads, and
sustainable natural resource management. Stimulating agricultural and
rural growth rates is essential for sustained poverty reduction, since 96
percent of the poor live in rural areas and most of them earn their
livmg from agriculture.



*  Improved access to and quality of education, health care, and water
and sanitation services. Effective delivery of basic services will not
improve unless binding sector-specific constraints are addressed.
However, many problems in basic service sectors are beyond the
mandate of a particular sector and require collaboration across agencies
and departments.
Benefits:             The proposed series of PRSCs will help the Government to imnplement
the PEAP/PRSP and reach the goals set in the strategy. The reforms
supported will strengthen the institutional infrastructure needed to
improve the public sector's capacity to carry out its role more
effectively, as envisioned in the PEAP/PRSP. Improved delivery of
public services is essential if the Government is to reach its goals for
poverty reduction and improve the quality of life in Uganda.
Risks:                Several risks attend the reform program under the PRSC2:
*  There are pervasive institutional and human capacity weaknesses.
They are especially acute at the district level. Given the ongoing
decentralization process, there is a risk that these constraints could
impede the improvements in service delivery. However, in addition to
ongoing investment projects and non-lending services, the reform
program is geared to addressing institutional deficiencies at all levels
of Government and hence will help mitigate these risks.
*  Corruption remains a problem. If not checked, it could inhibit private
sector confidence and investment and hamper improvements in service
delivery. However, the top leadership in Uganda has stressed its
commitment to rebuilding Uganda's ethics and integrity.  Key
challenges facing the Government are the implementation of its anti-
corruption action plan and building an effective incentive system
needed to improve service delivery. The reform program supports both
of these efforts.
*  Fiduciary risks, which are spelled out in detail in the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR), are high. Efforts to mitigate these risks
are at the center of the reform program.
Estimated
Disbursements:        SDR 120.2 million (US$150 million equivalent) will be disbursed
upon Credit effectiveness.
Project ID Number:    PE-P073671



IDA PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR
A PROPOSEI) ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE RlEPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A SECOND POVEIRTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.     This Program Document presents a single-tranche Second Poverty Reduction Support
Credit (PRSC2) to the Republic of Uganda in the amount of SDR 120.2 million (US$150 million
equivalent). The proposed Credit builds on the first PRSC (PRSC1) that was approved by the
Board in May 2001, and continues to support the implementation of Uganda's poverty reduction
strategy, as set out in the Poverty Eradication Action Plan/Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PEAP/PRSP).
2.     The implementation of the reform  program  supported by the PRSC 1 has been
satisfactory, and all PRSC2 triggers specified in the PRSC1 Board documentation have been met.
Satisfactory progress since the approval of the PRSC 1 warrants a move to the PRSC2.
3.     The proposed PRSC2 supports the reform program launched under the PRSC1, further
developing and expanding it to cover selected aspects of rural development. Incorporating rural
development measures into the reform program is critical, since 96 percent of the poor live in
rural areas and the rural-urban income gap has widened. The reform program aims to improve
weaknesses in service delivery which are among the key constraints to equitable economic
growth, development, and poverty reduction in Uganda. Basic services critical to development
are inadequate. In addition, the services delivered, in particular by the public sector, are of poor
quality due to various governance problems and capacity constraints. Also, the enabling
environment for the private sector and civil society involvement is inadequate, thus further
constraining service delivery and growth. The PRSC2 reform program aims to improve service
delivery through: (i) efficient and equitable use of public resources; (ii) improved governance
through cross-cutting public sector reforms; (iii) promotion of an enabling environment for rural
development; and (iv) improved access to and quality of education, health care, and water and
sanitation services.
4.     As spelled out in the World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented
to the Board in November 2000, the proposed Credit, as part of the series of PRSCs, is the Bank's
principal instrument to assist the Government of Uganda in implementing the PEAP/PRSP and
improving public service delivery. The proposed Credit is consistent with the International
Monetary Fund's (IMF) second Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) that is currently
being prepared and expected to be presented to Board of the Fund in fall 2002. The African
Development Bank, European Union, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, and United Kingdom
intend to provide parallel external financing to support the implementation of the proposed
reform program.



H.     RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
5.     GDP growth: Uganda's pace of
economic  growth  moderated to  5.0             Fgure 1: Value at Expor (millons of US$)
percent in 1999/00 due to a sharp decline
in the terms of trade, as a result of sharply
decreased  international coffee prices.
The economy has picked up since then,                p.
with GDP growth registering 5.6 percent
in 2000/01 and 5.7 percent in 2001/02.
While still relatively high, the growth has  --
been lower than Uganda's target growth °        g   Om   gm  0711WO gam   Om  aim
rate of 7 percent. Coffee export receipts
fell by 73 percent between 1998/99 and  -     Total Export Value  - _- -Coffee  Non-Coffee
2001/02  and, despite  a  significant
increase in non-coffee exports, value of
total exports, but not the volume, declined  Figur2:ExportandimportVolumeindex(199O/91l1OO)
(Figures I and 2).  The exports are
estimated to have grown by about 9.4
percent in 2001/02. The annual average
consumer price inflation remained in
control at 4.6 percent in 2000/01 and is
estimated to have declined to -1.8 in  200  _                    _    _- 4
2001/02. The macroeconomic program is
broadly on track and GDP growth is
expected to increase to 6.7 percent in   V9   9f7 97f98 989/0 00101102 02J03 03mD4
2002/03. Key macroeconomic indicators        ---4ExportVo1umetndex _   ImportVolumeIrndx
for 1997/98-2004/05 are presented in
Table 1.
6.     Public expenditure management: The share of total public spending allocated to
poverty-related activities through the Poverty Action Fund (PAF) has steadily increased since
1997/98, reaching 29 percent in 2000/01 and 35 percent in the 2001/02 budget. PAF was set up
in 1997 and initially its purpose was to earmark for basic services savings from debt relief under
the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. Subsequently, it has attracted additional
donor funding and become a mechanism for directing incremental expenditures to poverty
reducing services, including primary. education, primary health care, agricultural extension, roads,
water and sanitation, and law and order. As Table 1 indicates, shares of education, health, water
and sanitation, roads, and agriculture in total public expenditure have been steadily increasing
since 1997/98 and are projected to continue rising in the next few years.
7.     The Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) introduced in 1992/93 and PAF
have performed well in terms of containing aggregate spending within the resource envelope and
delivering the desired composition of spending.  In the past couple of years, Uganda's
expenditure management has further improved through the introduction of the expenditure
commitment and control system (CCS) for non-wage recurrent expenditures, and its extension
thereafter to cover development budgets. The CCS has helped to reduce the incidence of new
government arrears and narrow the differences between budget intentions and outcome.
2



Table 1: Uganada Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Indicator                                                   1997/98    1998/99    1999/00   2000/01      2001/02     2002/03     2003/04
Actual                      Provisional      Projection
Annual Average Inflation                                       5 8       -0 2       6.3       4.6          -1           1.0        3.5
(percent)
National accounts, percent growth rates
Agriculture                                                    1.9        5.8       5.6       4.6          4 8          4.2        5 1
Industry                                                      11.5       109        3.1       6.5          5.7          88         92
Services                                                       6.5       65         6.5       72           6.4          6.9        68
GDP at market prices                                           4.7       7.6        5.0       5.6          5,7          6 7        6 9
Real per capita GDP                                           2.6        2 5        2.2       2.9          3 2         4.1         4.5
Natonal account (percent of GDP)
Gross domestic investment                                     16 6       20.0      19.6       20.0        20 6         20 2       20 4
Public investment                                              4.7       5 5        6.5       6.4          5.9          6 4        6 3
Privateinvestment                                             11.9       14.5      13.1       13.6         14.6        138         14.1
Gross domestic savings                                         4.4       7.9        6 6       5.4          5 0          4.1        5.1
Balance of payments (percent of GDP)
Current Act Balance (excluding grnts)                         -12.5     -13.4      -13 2      -14 4       -15 3        -16 2      -14 4
Current Acct Balance (including grants)                       -6 7       -8.7      -7.9       -7.3         -8.5       -10.0       -8.9
Esternal Indicators
Debt servicelexports of goods and non-factor                  27.2       25 1      30.9       31.1         28 8        27 5        26.0
services (percent before HlPCreschedulinsg)
Debt servicetexports of goods and non-factor                  23.4       15.9      10.4       10.5         12.9         12         11.6
services (percent after HtPC/rescheduling)
Reserves inmonthsofimports                                     61         5.6       5.3        5 3         5 5          5 4        5 5
Government Finance (percent of GDP)
DomesticRevenue                                               107        11.7      11.4       109          11.8        12.1        126
Public Expenditure                                            16.4        18       24.3       20.2         23.3        22.2       21 5
Overall Deficit(excluding grants)                             -5.8       -6.3      -12 9      -93         -11.5        -10         -8 9
Overall Deficit (including grants)                            -0.5       -1.3      -7.1       -0.9          4           -3         -2.4
External borrowing (net)                                      2.6        2 9        3.4       3.3          4 7          3 6        2 8
Domestic borrowing (net)                                      -2 1       -1.6       4.8       -1.2        -0.9         -0.6       -0.5
Sectoral Expenditure (percent of total expenditures)
(excluding donor financing)
Roads and Works                                                4.9       6.2        8.1        8.5         8.9          7 6        7 4
Agriculture                                                    1.1        1.0       1.5        1.5         2 6          2 3        2 3
Education                                                      26        26.9      26 3       24.9         24.1         25         25 2
Health                                                         6.5       65         6.5        7.4         89           9.8        10.4
Security                                                      14.8       19.9      15.4       13.9         12          13 1        129
Water                                                          0.5.       1.2       1.5        2.4         2.8          25         25
Law and Order                                                  8.9       7.2        7.3        6.5         6.8          67         6.5
Accountability                                                0.5        0.6        0.8        1.1         1.2          1.2        1.2
Economic Functions and Social Services                        4.1        2.7        4.6        5           7.4          7.8         8
PublicAdministration                                           25        20.7      20.3       20.2         17.1        162          16
Interest Payment                                              7.6        7.1        7.7        8.5         8.2          7.8        7.6
Source: Bank staff calculations.
8.          Since 1998/99, the Govennment has restricted defense expenditures to no more than two
percent of the forecast GDP. Consistent with this, defense expenditures in 2000/01 were
budgeted at Ush 191 billion and actual defense expenditures were slightly below this level at
about Ush 189 billion. In 2001/02 defense expenditures were budgeted at Ush 207.9 billion but
the outturn is projected to be about Ush 10 billion higher due to certain one-off expenditures. The
IMF and IDA closely monitor all public expenditures, including military expenditures, through
the PRGF and annual public expenditure reviews.
9.          Expenditure tracking studies confirm that majority of public funds are used for intended
purposes at least in education and health sectors. The historically small share of budgeted non-
wage funding that actually reached schools has risen dramatically in recent years, from 20 percent
in 1995 to about 90 percent in 2000. Recent tracking studies in health and education indicate that
these gains have been sustained: about 90 percent of public funds in these sectors reached the
primary schools and health units in the past year.
3



10.    Domestic revenues: Revenue collection has continued to be disappointing. Domestic
revenue remained at 10.9 percent of GDP in 2000/01.1 This is low by the standards of many
other Sub-Saharan African countries. The low level of revenue effort reflects deficiencies in tax
administration, narrow tax base, and culture of non-compliance.
11.    Over 90 percent of
domestic    revenues    are              Figum 3: Tax and NontaxRevenue as a sham of GDP
generated by taxes, as shown    tao
in Figure 3. Excise taxes and
taxes on goods and services are  120            .    .   . -
the main sources of revenues.          -
Non-tax revenues account for
less than one percent of GDP.   4.0
12.    To  improve revenue      00                   A                       a 0  2  0**04
performance, the Government        WM   9V95       QW7 97198 sn NM  01102 023 OM %M5
has been   strengthening tax       l-     - -Totl Revenue  Tax Revenue  Nontax Revenue
administration  and  raised
excise duty rates on alcohol and cigarettes. Reforms in tax administration include measures to
strengthen the management and capacity of the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) and measures
to enhance collection of non-tax revenues. The management team of URA was replaced in
2001/02, anid efforts are underway to computerize tax administration, improve staff skills, and
weed out corrupt URA staff. IMEF and Department for International Development (DfID) are
assisting the Government in these endeavors. In 2001/02, the Government also launched an
eleven-point reform program to raise non-tax revenues. This program calls for, among other
things, abolition of appropriations-in-aid, publication of non-tax revenue estimates, penalties for
failure to collect revenues as planned, and increased frequency of audits. Owing largely to all
these measures, the revenue is estimated to have increased from 10.9 percent of GDP in 2000/01
to 11.8 percent of GDP in 2001/02. In addition to these efforts, the Government is also assessing
ways to improve local government revenue collection.
13.   Diversifcation of production and exports: Decreased international coffee prices have
exposed the vulnerability of the Ugandan economy to commodity price shocks and the need for
continued diversification of the country's export base. The share of coffee in the country's export
earnings has been steadily decreasing since mid-1990s from 53.4 percent in 1996/97 to 24.8
percent in 2000/01, partly due to decreased international coffee prices, but also owing to steady
increase in non-coffee exports. Coffee is still, however, the single most important export
commodity for Uganda.
14.    Further diversification of production and exports is critical for sustained high economic
growth and represents a major challenge to public policy. The Government recognizes this and,
in addition to its Medium Term Competitiveness Strategy (MTCS) for private sector development
and the Plan for Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) to promote rural development, has recently
developed a strategy for increasing Uganda's production, processing, and marketing of a number
of crops, livestock, and fish. The goal of the strategy is to increase private investment and
exports through diversification and differentiation of export products. Private investment as a
share of GDP is currently 14.6 percent. Based on Uganda's production potential and world
market prospects, the Government has identified seven commodities (coffee, tea, livestock, fish,
cotton, horticulture, and Irish potatoes) for particular attention. The objective of the strategy is to
stimulate investments in the production, processing, and marketing of these seven commodities
'Unless otherwise stated, all data reported at market prices.
4



and remove bottlenecks that currently impede private sector trade.           In the past months,
commodity specific analysis have been carried out to identify the way forward.
15.     Sustainabiity of external debt: As of end-June 2001, Uganda's outstanding stock of
external debt amounted to US$3,1017 million, or US$1,151 million in NPV terms.2 These
numbers assume full delivery of HIPC assistance. Of the total debt, 90 percent in NPV terms was
owed to official multilateral creditors, while the debt to official bilateral and commercial creditors
accounted for 7 percent and 3 percent, respectively. IDA held the largest share of Uganda's debt
obligations constituting 59 percent (US$681 million in NPV terms) of the total, followed by the
IMF and African Development Bank Group (AfDB), which held 14 percent (US$161 million)
and 11 percent (US$122 million) of the total, respectively. Debt owed to Paris Club creditors
amounted to just 4 percent (US$43 million) of the total, reflecting debt relief beyond the HIPC
Initiative that several members had already agreed to by end-June 2001. Spain was the largest
creditor in this group. Debt to commercial creditors and non-Paris Club official creditors
accounts for 6 percent of the total debt, amounting to US$68 million in NPV terms, assuming the
full delivery of HIPC assistance.
16.     The ratio of the NPV of Uganda's external debt to exports, assuming full delivery of
HIPC assistance, stood at 171 percent at end-June 2001, 21 percentage points above the enhanced
FHPC target of 150 percent. In comparison to the debt situation at end-June 1999, the NPV of
debt at end-June 2001      exceeds the    1999 target of US$1,092 million      in NPV    terms by
US$59 million (5 percent). This difference reflects both the disbursements from loans that were
not included in the NPV of debt calculations at the enhanced HIPC decision point, and debt
service paid net of HIPC assistance actually received during 1999/00 and 2000/01, and the
change in the exchange rate and CIRR parameters used in the NPV calculations. Exports of
goods and services since 2000/01, however, have fallen by US$130 million (16 percent) relative
to the three-year average ending 1998/99. In relation to GDP and government revenues, the NPV
of debt stood at 20 percent and 188 percent, respectively, both within the HIPC guidelines for
debt sustainability.
17.     The debt service indicators suggest that on a flow       basis, Uganda's debt burden is
currently manageable. In 2000/01, HIPC assistance (US$98 million) reduced Uganda's debt
service due to US$71 million.3 The ratios of debt service after H[PC assistance to exports of
goods and services and government revenue, were both 11 percent. These are within generally
accepted target ranges.
18.     Actual cash payments of debt service in 2000/01 amounted to US$45 million, which was
paid to Paris Club and multilateral creditors. Payment of the remaining US$26 million of debt
service falling due owed to non-Paris Club bilateral and commercial creditors has been withheld
pending ongoing efforts to secure HIPC debt relief from these creditors.
19.     Uganda has not yet secured fiull HIPC debt relief from all of its creditors.4 A number of
creditors still have not signed agreements on the provision of HIPC assistance, while some other
2 External debt refers to public and publicly guaranteed external debt NPV of debt is the discounted value of future debt obligations,
and is calculated using the average currency-specific' Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) for the six-month period ending
June 30, 2001 and converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates effective June 30, 2001. Calculations include the impact of debt
relief provided under the HIPC Initiative. Without HIPC assistance, the NPV of debt at end-June 2001 would have been US$2,340
million.
' Without HIPC debt relief, debt service due in 2000/01 would have been US$169 million, equivalent to 28 percent of exports and
27 percent of Government revenue.
4 The main debts for which full HIPC assistance has yet to be confirmed include obligations to China, India, Kuwait, Libya, and
Tanzania. In some cases, creditors have sought full repayment of the original contractual obligation through litigation in the Ugandan
courts. In one case that has been decided upon, the court has ordered the Government to pay a Yugoslav creditor US$7 million, the
full amount of the original debt plus penalty interest.
5



creditors have agreed to providing assistance that falls short of the required NPV reduction
prescribed by the HfPC Initiative. Taking into account only the H[PC assistance for which
agreements had been reached with creditors, the external debt stock at end-June 2001 amounted
to US$1,474 million in NPV terms, or 220 percent of exports. In other words, under-delivery of
debt relief adds US$323 million in NPV terms to the outstanding stock of debt as of end-June
2001, equivalent to 48 percent exports.5
20.    Two factors have negatively impacted the debt indicators since 1998/99, which was the
base year for the debt sustainability analysis carried out for the enhanced HIPC decision point.
First, there was an incomplete treatment of new borrowing in the enhanced HMPC decision point
calculations. Specifically, it appears that while undisbursed balance of existing commitments and
lending pipeline were included in the financial programming and reflected in the enhanced HIPC
balance of payments projections, they were not fully included in the NPV of debt loan-by-loan
calculations and projections. Second, there was an unanticipated decline in exports owing to
sharp decrease in international coffee prices after 1998/99. Both factors were beyond the control
of the Government. At the same time, the change in the exchange rate and CIRR discount
parameters have positively affected the results of the debt sustainability analysis. In light of all
this, the Government's efforts to diversify exports and promote private sector development are
crucial and need to be given a high priority.
21.    Governance and corruption: The Government has embarked on a series of institutional
reforms to improve governance and fight corruption. While the institutional reforms and their
impact will materialize only over time, to assess the impact of these reforms so far and changes in
Ugandans' perception of corruption, the Government is currently carrying out a second integrity
survey. The results of the survey will be available in the fall 2002. In the meantime,
International Country Risk Guide (ICRG) indexes are used to gauge changes in perception of
banks, multinational companies, and other institutional investors about the quality of bureaucracy,
law and order, and corruption in Uganda (Figures 4 and 5). Indexes of ICRG suggest that the
performance of entities central to the anti-corruption efforts is perceived to have improved in the
1990s. The rule of law has been ranked to be relatively high since mid-1990s, and the quality of
bureaucracy, though perceived to be still at a low level, has improved in the past few years.
Despite improvements in the quality of bureaucracy and law and order, corruption is perceived to
have remained high.
Figure 4: QualIty of Bureaucracy and Law and Order  Rgur 6: Comrption btdex
tndexes                                (Ra 1-6 6morewrarnupt)
(Rarge: 16. 6= better bureauaacy, law and order)
4.
3.
3
2.                                           2
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9I  la  a  94  95  99  97  9n  99  00  91    94 U   03 9    U   U y 9 o  a4  U 0 9
tnra9r - - .- - fl4cz w     I    .              4-upiCOMMiU x            I
'This also assumes cancellation of all penalty interest accruing between June 2000 and June 2001 on non-Paris Club and commercial
debt. In addition, post-cod debt held by France, and Italy has been fully cancelled because these countries have indicated they will
provide additional relief beyond HIPC. Post-cod debts to Norway contrcted before end-December 1997 have also been fully
cancelled.
6



22.    Financing requirements: Uganda's total external financing requirements are estimated
at US$6.4 billion for 2002/03-2004/05. Of this amount, Uganda is expected to generate about
US$4.2 billion from own resources, leaving a gap of about US$2.2 billion to be financed from
external sources, including debt relief. According to the outcome of the Consultative Group
meeting held in Kampala in May 2001, donors pledged adequate resources to cover Uganda's
external financing gap. The proposed Credit would constitute part of IDA's contribution to filling
this external financing gap.
mI. UGANDA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
23.    The Government s strategy for economic transformation is spelled out in the Poverty
Eradication Action Plan (PEAP). The P'EAP is a home-grown medium-term development plan to
guide government policy and the development of detailed sector and district plans. The initial
PEAP, which was a result of an 18-month long participatory process involving all key
stakeholders, was prepared in 1997. Its first revision was finalized in 20X00, and hereafter the
Government intends to revise the PEAP every three years.6 Because the PEAP's objectives are
fully consistent with those of the PRSP' process, a summary of the revised PEAP was used as a
basis for the Uganda PRSP presented to the Boards of the World Bank and IMF in May 2000.
24.   In the years the PEAP is not revised, the Government will prepare a PRSP progress report
that documents the progress in the implementation of the PEAP. The first PRSP progress report
21903-UG was presented to the Bank's Board jointly with the PRSC1 in May 2001. The second
PRSP progress report 24254-UG  is accompanying the proposed PRSC2.   Stakeholder
participation remains an essential feature of these processes.
25.    The overarching goal of the PEAP policies and resource allocations is to reduce the
incidence of poverty in Uganda (based on the headcount index) from 44 percent in 1997 to 10
percent or less by the year 2017. Between 1992 and 2000, the poverty headcount in Uganda
declined by 38 percent, from 56 percent to 35 percent. According to the PRSP analysis, the
Government can reduce poverty to 10 percent by 2017, if real GDP grows at 7 percent per annum
and growth is equally distributed. Although 7 percent real GDP growth per annum is difficult to
achieve, it is attainable, provided decisive action is taken to implement the MTCS and the PMA,
and to improve basic service delivery. The PEAP also sets forth the specific goals of achieving
universal access to primary education, primary health care, safe drinking water, guaranteeing
political freedom and human rights, and establishing an effective disaster relief system targeted at
the poor.
26.    Government's strategy for economic transformation and poverty eradication are based on
four pillars:
* a framework for economic growth and transformation;
* ensuring good governance and security;
* directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes; and
* directly increasing the quality of life of the poor.
6The PEAP will be next revised in 2002/03.
7



IV. WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGY
27.    The Bank Group's strategy for 2000/01-2002/03 is to support Uganda's economic
transformation and poverty reduction strategy as spelled out in the PEAP/PRSP. A full Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Uganda was presented to the Board, jointly with IFC, on
November 16, 2000 (Report 20886-UG).' To support Uganda's Economic Transformation and
Poverty Reduction Strategy, as stated in the CAS, work to maintain macroeconomic stability
continues, but the focus is increasingly shifting to sector-level and cross-cutting public sector
management issues.  The key challenge is to replicate at the sector level the excellent
macroeconomic policy and implementation record to facilitate economic transformation and'
poverty eradication. PRSC is the Bank's key instrument in delivering this.
28.    Consistent with the strategy,.the Bank is increasingly shifting to programmatic lending
through a series of PRSCs. A shift in lending modalities is considered necessary, since sector
interventions through investment projects have been characterized by variable local ownership,
have not always been well-integrated with other sectoral activities, and sustainability has been
low. Also, development of govermnent systems has received limited support as most donors have
tended to focus on their own aid delivery mechanisms. The shift to programmatic lending was
precipitated by the Government's call for a change in donors' lending modalities. The shift in
Uganda was justified on five grounds: (i) progress on the macroeconomic front has lessened the
need for traditional adjustment lending; (ii) progress in planning and budget management
provides confidence that public resource allocations are consistent with PEAP/PRSP priorities;
and a series of PRSCs can be an effective mechanism to (iii) address comprehensively sector-
level reforms; (iv) address system-wide reforms; and (v) facilitate donor support and coordination
for a country-owned program. The shift to the PRSC is also attractive in that it is consistent with
the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) approach and directly links the PEAP/PRSP
and Bank Group's assistance program in Uganda.
29.    As a result of the shift to programmatic lending, the relative weight of investrnent
projects in the overall portfolio for Uganda is declining. Investment projects will continue in
selected areas, such as capacity building and infrastructure (main roads and power).
A. General Objectives of PRSC
30.    The first single-tranche PRSC (PRSC1) for Uganda was approved by the Board in May
2001. PRSC1 established a rolling medium-term policy framework that set out a three-year
reform program with performance benchmarks, policy measures, and outcome targets to be
supported by annual PRSCs. Subsequent PRSCs refine and expand the program, building on
previous PRSCs and each adding a new year to the three-year rolling program. The rolling nature
of the policy framework enhances predictability of resource flows which support the reform
program and improves the Bank's ability to carry out continuous policy dialogue with the
Government on a key set of issues and to monitor progress towards meeting agreed outcomes.
31.    The objective of PRSCs is to support the implementation of Uganda's PEAP/PRSP. The
reform program selectively focuses on policy and institutional reforms in the PEAP/PRSP with
the highest poverty impact. Also, given the comprehensiveness of the PEAP/PRSP and the high
cost of its implementation, prioritization of reforms is required and PRSCs will assist the
Government in that task.
'The next CAS will be prepared in 2002/03-2003/04.
8



32.    The specific objective of the reform program supported by PRSCs is to improve public
service delivery, given that poor public sector performance is one of the key constraints to
economic development and poverty reduction. The goal of the series of the PRSCs is to foster an
enabling environment for economic growth and structural transformation, improve governance,
and address sectoral constraints to effective service delivery.
33.    The reform program established under the PRSC1 supports activities that improve access
to and quality of education, health, and water and sanitation services, aiming to raise the quality
of life of the poor. Since increasing access to and quality of these services requires a more broad-
based action than only addressing sector-specific constraints to their delivery, the program
focuses heavily on activities enhancing efficient and equitable use of public resources and
promoting good governance. Improving planning and budgeting arrangements is the critical first
step for improving public resource allocation and raising the productivity of public expenditures.
Strengthening governance is in turn essential to ensure that public funds allocated are used as
planned and the needed services provided. This requires improvements in government-wide
systems such as public procurement, financial, and human resource management that will
promote accountability for public resources across all sectors. Hence, the PRSC1 focused on
three of the four PEAP/PRSP pillars-lthe framework for economic growth and transformation,
ensuring good governance and security, and increasing the quality of life of the poor.
34.    PRSC2 and subsequent PRSCs build on the reform program developed under the PRSC 1,
expanding it to cover further areas and issues. The proposed PRSC2 incorporates aspects of rural
development into the program and therelby addresses the remaining PEAP/PRSP pillar (increasing
the ability of the poor to raise their incomes). Unless there is accelerted agricultural and rural
growth, the PEAP/PRSP target of reducing poverty to 10 percent or less by 2017 may not be
achieved, since 96 percent of the poor are living in rurl areas and the rural-urban income gap has
widened. RSC3 will continue to deepen the rural agenda following the PMA, including
addressing some selected issues related to export diversification and financial sector
development.8 Main emphasis will remain on consolidation of the reform program.
B. Analytic Underpinnings of PRSC
35.    The PRSC approach has been underpinned by broad economic and sector work on
Uganda since mid-1990s. This includes analysis of six consecutive household surveys, an
enterprise survey, and surveys to assess public service delivery and corruption. In addition, IDA
carries out jointly with the Government a public expenditure review on an annual basis, and as
part of the PRSC1 preparation, a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and
Country Program Procurement Assessment (CPAR) were conducted. Also, preparation of each
PRSC involves significant analytic work to further refine the reform program. To support the
preparation of the proposed PRSC2, analytic work on rural development was carried out. Work
on export diversification, private sector development, and decentralization is underway to support
the preparation of future proposed PRSCs. While ex post poverty and social impact assessments
of policy reforms have been carried out in Uganda, capabilities for ex ante poverty and social
impact assessment of proposed reforms is currently being developed. DfID is taking the lead on
' The PRSC reform program will focus on improvements in policy and institutional arrangements. Ongoing IDA-funded investment
projects focus on the basic infiucture, such as power and national roads.
9



this work. Figure 6 summarizes the proposed PRSC schedule, the CAS and PRSP timetable, and
provides examples of analytic work underpinning the proposed credits and strategies.
10



Figure 6: The Uganda PRSC Program
Examples ofAnalytic
Underpinnings            *    National Service Delivery Survey              *    Second National Integnity Survy                   *    Second firm survey
*    Demographic and Health Survey                  *    Household surwey                                 *    National Service Delivery Survey
*    Post-primary educaton studies                 *     Second participatory poverty assement            *    Analyds of decentralization
*    Rura deveopment studies                       *     Studies on export promotion snd diversification  *    Analysbis of health care delivey
*    Review of payroll and personnd management     *     Seetoral M&E study                               .    PER
Systems                                       *    Analyis of decentralization
*    Debt sustainability study                     *     Anabsis of education deivery
*    HIPC tracdig assent                           *     PER
*    Public Expenditure Review (PER)
bgaia"Is'            -------------------                    <  '~~~~~~~~~ ----- -------               < -------            --------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3
Rudgef(Cyde                                                                                  I   -                       I
June 2002                                June 2003                 December 2003                                         June 2004
CAS and PRSP              PEAP/PRSP                                      ll                                             C                          PEAP/PRSP
Timetable               Pogres Report                              P                                                                              Progress Report
Proposed IDA PRSC                                PRSC2                                    PRAS                                                                            PRSC4
Support                                        $150 million                             $150 million                                                                    SISO mifllon
New Areas to be                              Ruml Devdopment                         Selected Aspects of                                                               Seected Aspects of
added to the Reform                            (rearch and                             Private Sector                                                                    Decentralization
Program                                    technology, agricultural                     Development
advisory services, lnd                  (agro-proessing nd
tenure, environment,                    marketig, financial
district roads, rural                        sector)
finance)



V. OVERALL PROGRESS WITH REFORMS SINCE PRSC1
A. Overall Assessment of Progress
36.    The Government has made satisfactory progress in implementing the PRSC reform
program and all original PRSC2 triggers listed in PRSC1 Board documentation have been met.
Table 2 lists the original PRSC2 triggers in PRSC1 Board documentation and PRSC2 prior
actions. The Government has completed all the prior actions. Taking into account information
and developments since PRSC 1, prior actions focus on the most critical actions to move forward
the reforms in each area where triggers were set.9 Since the original PRSC2 triggers have been
met and PRSC2 prior actions completed, it is proposed to proceed with the presentation of the
proposed PRSC2 to Board.
B. Overall Progress and Outcomes in Sectors and Cross-cutting Areas
37.    The Government has made significant progress in sectors and cross-cutting areas.
Annexes I and 2 contain matrices that document in each area the progress in implementing the
reforms and reaching the quantitative targets, respectively. The quantitative target matrix has
been expanded to include targets for financial management. The plan is to introduce quantitative
targets for other areas (public procurement, anti-corruption, rural development) in the next fiscal
year. The matrices indicate that the reform program has proceeded as planned in most areas.
38.    Overall Progress in Basic Service Sectors: Implementation of reforms in basic service
sectors-education, health, and water and sanitation-has proceeded broadly as planned. In the
areas of education and health, the PRSC supported reform programs were fully integrated with
the education and health sector review processes. The benchmarks in these areas were integrated
with the sector review undertakings, whose implementation and enforcement is monitored
through the semi-annual joint Government-donor sector reviews.      Civil society is also
participating in these reviews. In the water and sanitation sector, a significant achievement was
the launch of a sector-wide approach, and the first joint Government-donor sector review was
held in September 2001. The aim is to develop the water sector review along the lines of health
and education reviews, and eventually leave the monitoring and reform implementation to sector
reviews. The outcomes of reforms in these sectors are as follows:
39.    Education: Primary school net and gross enrollment rates have been steadily increasing.
The gross enrollment rate currently stands at 130 percent and the net enrollment at 89 percent. In
addition, the results of the 1999/2000 household survey indicates that the Universal Primary
Education (UPE) has eliminated the wealth bias that had characterized the access to primary
education, helped establish gender equality by increasing girls' access to primary education, and
reduced the incidence of cost-related drop-out from primary schools. The recent National Service
Delivery Survey 2000 (NSDS 2000) reveals that UPE is highly appreciated by parents.
' In the area of public service management, the original PRSC2 trigger focused on the implementation of the payroll management
action plan. The PRSC2 prior action was shifted to reflect the Government's renewed emphasis on public service reform in general,
which covers payroll management In the case of water and sanitation, the original PRSC2 trigger focused on the launch of the sector
review process, but since the sector review was successfully launched already in September 2001, the PRSC2 prior action focused on
other reforms central to improved water and sanitation delivery.
12



Table 2: Original PRSC2 Triggers in PRSC1 Board Document and PRSC2 Prior Actions
Original PRSC2 Triggers in PRSC1 Board Documentation                              PRSC2 Prior Actions                                         Comment
1. Agreernent on Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for  1. In the annual public expenditure review, the Government has agreed
2001/02-2003/04, and execution of the 2001/02 budget consistent with  with donors on MTEF for 2001/02-2003/04, and has executed 2001/02
agreed allocations through the first two quarters.            budget through the first two quarters consistent with budget allocation.
2. Cabinet approval of the pay reform strategy, consistent with MTEF  2. Cabinct has approved and published the pay strategy consistent with
and improved service delivery.                                MTEF and improved public service performance.
3. Satisfactoryprogress in implementation of the action plan for  3. MoPS, in consultation with other stakcholders, has developed a draft  The prior action was shifted to focus on the next
payroll management.                                           strategic franiework for the new phase of public service reform.  phase of public service reform, which covers
payroll management, to reflect the
Government's renewed emphasis on the issue.
4. Satisfactory progress in implementation of public procurement  4. MoFPED has tabled Procuremcit Bill in Parliament.         Revision of the legal famework provides the
reforms.                                                                                                                       basis for procurement refonns.
5. Satisfactory progress in implementation of financial management  5. MoPPED has tabled new Public Finance Bill in Parliament  Revision of the legal framework provides the
reforms.                                                                                                                       basis for financial management reforms.
6. Satisfactory progress in implementation of the anti-corruption action  6. Most Ministers, Presidential Advisors, Permianent Secretaries, Directors,  Addressing high-level corruption was
plan,                                                         and Uganda Revenue Authority officials have subnmitted their statement of  considered critical for progress with anti-
income, assets, and liabilities,                                 corruption reformns since it, among other things,
signals Government's commnittnent to reform.
7. Parliament has passed the Leadership Code and IGG Statutes Bill.
7. Satisfactory progress in operationalization of the Plan for  S. MAAIF has completed a draft institutional review of public funding of  Two actions critical for the PMA
Modenization of Agriculture (PMA).                            agriculttual research.                                           operationalization were selected as prior actions.
9. MoFPED and MoWLE have agreed on financial and institutional
afrangerments for the implementation of the Land Sector Strategic Plan.
S. Achievement of targets set in joint Government-donor sector review  10. Satisfactory implementation of undertakings agreed in education sector
in education.                                                 review in April 2001 and confirmed by October 2001 review.
9. Achievement of targets set in joint Government-donor sector review  I1. Satisfactory implementtion of undertakings agreed in health sector
in health.                                                    review in April 2001 and confirmed by October 2001 review.
10. Successful launch of the joint Government-donor sector review  12. MoWLE/DWD has established fully staffed technical support units  Since the water and sanitation sector review
process in water and sanitation.                              (ISUs).                                                          process was successfully launched already in
September 2001, the prior actions foused on
13. NWSC has adopted a formula for periodic tariff adjustment    other refornns central to improved rural and
urban water and sanitation delivery.
13



40.    The Government has also made progress in increasing the availability of two key inputs
to education: teachers and classrooms. Both the pupil-teacher and pupil-classroom ratios in
primary schools have declined in past year; the pupil-teacher ratio as expected to the target 54:1,
and the pupil-classroom ratio even below the target of 104:1 to 98:1. Despite the progress, the
quality of primary education remains a concern.
41.    The pupil-textbook ratio was set back as the Government introduced a new curriculum in
2002 that invalidated all the existing textbooks. The new targets will be set in the October 2002
education sector review. Fortunately, the Government at the same time introduced new textbook
procurement arrangements that have reduced the unit cost of a textbook by over two-thirds and
improved the quality.
42.    Health: The progress in the health sector, in terms of health outcomes, continues to be
mixed. The recent Demographic and Health Survey 2000 (DHS 2000) indicates that the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevalence rates have declined, tuberculosis (TB) cure rates
increased, and the decline in the immunization coverage has been arrested. At the same time,
however, the survey results show continued high level of infant mortality, and persistent high
fertility and child mortality. According to NSDS 2000 only about 56 percent of households are
satisfied with the quality of health services.
43.   In order to promote equal access to health services, the Government abolished the user
fees in health facilities in March 2001. The impact of this policy on service quality is still
unclear.
44.    Water and sanitation: Safe water coverage both in rural and urban areas has steadily
improved according to set targets. Under the PRSC 1, over 3,500 water points were delivered to
rural areas, extending the safe water coverage for additional 700,000 rural people. Since then
2,900 new systems serving 820,000 rural people have been added. In urban areas, 3,100 new
connections were made under the PRSC 1, and since then additional 6,300 connections have been
created. Of these connections, about 30 percent serves poor urban households. While the access
to safe water has increased, the quality of systems and cost-effectiveness of investments have
emerged as concerns.
45.   In urban areas, the targets set for sewerage connections were not met because they were
unrealistically high. Only in core urban areas sewerage connections are the cost-efficient way to
provide sanitation. Outside the core urban centers, where the population density is low, on-site
household specific sanitation systems are the best option to provide sanitation. Future sewerage
targets were adjusted to reflect this.
46.    OveraUl Progress in Cross-Cutting Areas: A significant achievement in the area of
public service reform has been the Cabinet approval of the pay reform strategy that the
Government had pursued for years. In the past year, payroll management also improved, and new
teachers are currently accessing the payroll in about a month; compared to several months it took
a year ago. Further reforms of payroll and personnel management are, however, needed since the
payroll system still requires internal controls to ensure that only bona fide employees are
accessing it. Rapid expansion of public administration emerged as a concern in the past year, and
reform program has been adjusted to address the issue.
47.    The PRSC has proven to be an effective instrument to address difficult govemance and
corruption issues. It has enabled elevating the govemance and corruption issues into the debate
and addressing them through the reform program. The key anti-corruption bills, the new
14



Leadership Code Bill and Inspectorate of Government Bill, that were tabled in Parliament under
the PRSC 1, have been passed by Parliament. Also, as part of the reform program, the key groups
of leaders have declared their income, assets, and liabilities.'0
VI. THE PROPOSED PRSC2 REFORM PROGRAM
A.     Overview and Objectives of PRSC2
48.      The proposed PRSC2 continues supporting and further developing the reform                   program
developed under the PRSC1, with the aim to improve service delivery. As mentioned earlier, it
also begins the process of expanding the program to cover selected aspects of rural development,
including agriculture, rural finance, rural roads, and natural resource management. Because
agriculture and rural development is largely an activity of the private sector, the proposed PRSC2
also focuses on improving the enabling environment for the private sector in rural areas.                 The
reform   program   aims to support the irnplementation of the PMA, the Government's strategy for
rural development.
49.      The specific reforms to be supported by the proposed PRSC2 under each PEAP/PRSP
pillar are detailed in the PRSC2 policy matrix (see Schedule 2) and in the matrix listing
quantitative monitoring indicators and outcome targets (see Schedule 3). Table 3 summarizes the
objectives, reform areas, and priorities; in each area. Progress with reforms in each area will be
discussed in more detail next.
Table 3: Uganda's Service Delivery Reform Program Supported by PRSC2
PEAP/PRSP
Pillar             Objectives         Reform Areas                 Priorities
Framework for      Efficient and      *  Allocations and actual    *  Align public expenditures with PEAP/PRSP
economic growth    equitable use of      expenditure                  priorities.
and transformation  public resources                               *  Include donor-fmanced projects and wage bill in
MTEF.
*  Publish budget performance reports.
Inter-governmental       *   Streamline inter-govenmental fiscal transfers.
transfers
Results-orientation and  *   Enhance results-orientation of sector expenditure
monitoring and evaluation    programs.
(M&E)                    *   Delineate responsibilities for M&E, and streamline
and strengthen M&E arrangements.
Ensuring good     Improving           *  Public service management  *  Agree on, publish, and implement a public sector pay
govemance and     management                                          reform strategy.
security          systems and                                      *  Improve payroll and personnel management.
practices in the                                *   Control the expansion of public administration.
public sector                                   *   Launch a new phase of the public service reform
program.
*   Public procurement       *  Implement public procurement reform program,
including updating the legal and regulatory
framework.
* Strengthen enforcement of procurement rules and
regulations, and planning of procurement.
* Improve efficiency of National Medical Stores.
*  Financial management      *  Update legal and regulatory framework.
*   Improve accounting and reporting at the center and
districts.
* Strengthen audit structures and practices.
* Implement regular expenditure tracking surveys.
'( All Permanent Secretaries, Directors, Uganda Revenue Authority officials, 95 percent of Ministers, and 77 percent of Presidential
Advisors have submitted to the IGG their statements of income, assets, and liabilities.
15



Table 3: Uganda's Service Delivery Reform Program Supported by PRSC2
PEAP/PRSP
Pillar            Objectives         Reform Areas                Priorities
Transparency,      *  Transparency             *  Improve citizen's access to public information,
participation and                                  including adopting a new Leadership Code and open
anti-corruption                                   access to leaders' asset declarations.
*  Detection, investigation  *  Improve detection, investigation, and prosecution of
and prosecution             corruption cases.
*  Civil society participation  *  Agree on NGO policy and code of conduct, and
harnnonize the use of participatory approaches.
*  Legal and judicial reform  *  Inplement conunercial justice reforms to enhance
enforcernent of commercial contracts.
Increasing the    Promoting enabling  *  Research and technology  *  Improve responsiveness and effectiveness of publicly
ability of the poor  environmentfor                                  supported agricultural research.
to raise incomes  rural development
*  Agricultural advisory    *  Increase access and quality of agricultural advisory
services                    services.
*  Rural finance            *  Develop the legal and regulatory framework
governing microfinance, and improve operating
capacity of microfinance institutions.
*  Agro-processing and      *  Reduce constraints to agro-processing and marketing.
marketing
*  Natural resource         *  Implement the 1998 Land Act in a prioritized manner
management land             and promote access to land by women and orphans.
*  Natural resource         *   Integrate environmental sustainability concems in
management: environment     govemment programs.
*  District roads           *   Improve the network of district roads.
Directly increasing  Improving quality  *  Primary education     *   Reduce pupil-teacher ratio.
the quality of life  of education                                *   Reduce pupil-textbook ratio.
of the poor                                                      *   Reduce pupil-classroom ratio.
*  Post-primary education   *   Develop and implement a strategy for the expansion
of post-primary education.
Improving quality  *  Health care financing    *   Rationalize health care financing.
of health care
*  Drug procurement and     *   Strengthen procurement and management of drugs
managernent                 and medical supplies.
*  Human resources          *   Increase human resources for health.
*  Health infrastructure    *   Improve health infrastructure.
Improve access to  *  Rural WSS                *   Strengthen decentralized planning, preparation,
and equity In water                               implementation, and management of rural water and
and sanitation                                     sanitation systems through local govenmments.
(WS71                                          *   Improve capacity of the central govemment to
facilitate and channel technical assistance to local
govermnents.
*  Utilize the local private sector for engineering,
construction, spare parts distribution and
maintenance.
*  Develop a strategy for national hygiene promotion,
sanitation, and communication.
*  Small towns WSS          *   Introduce a new WSS management framework for
small towns.
16



B.    PEAP/PRSP Pillar I: Framework for Economic Growth and Transformation
50.    Continued high economic growth in Uganda requires a framework within which the
private sector can expand and services can be delivered. Under the first PEAP/PRSP pillar, the
Government intends to address three elements of the framework: (i) macroeconomic stability; (ii)
removal of constraints on private sector competitiveness as guided by the Medium-Term
Competitiveness Strategy (MTCS) for the Private Sector (2000-2004); and (iii) equitable and
efficient collection and use of public resources. The PRSC2 continues focusing on strengthening
public expenditure and budgetary management. Other elements of the framework, such as the
collection of domestic revenue will continue to be covered under the proposed second PRGF of
the IMF. As mentioned earlier, with lvIF and DFID assistance, the Government is currently
implementing a tax administration reform that focuses on modernization of URA, improvements
in tax collection, and reduction of smuggling. Actions related to private sector competitiveness
are supported under several infrastructure, deregulation, and financial sector projects funded by
IDA and other donors.
51.    Issues:   Strengthening public expenditure management is the critical first step in
improving the efficiency of public service delivery. In this context, allocations and actual
spending need to remain consistent with priorities of the PEAP/PRSP. While the aggregate
spending control and strategic allocations are strengths of fiscal management in Uganda, the
budget is not yet comprehensive. Specifically, donor-funded projects, staffing plans, and wage
bill are not yet reflected in all expenditure ceilings. Further, to ensure that public funds are used
effectively, sector expenditure progranms need to be made results-oriented and monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) systems strengthened. Sector programs are still predominantly focused on
inputs and implementation processes rather than end-results of policies, programs, and projects.
52.     Overall Progress: The Govemment has continued its efforts to make equitable and
effective use of public resources. The share of PAF, that targets funds within the MTEF for
poverty-related activities, in total public spending has risen rapidly from 18 percent in 1997/98 to
35 percent in the 2001/02 budget. ' This represents a major switch in spending patterns towards
social sector and infrastructure. Also, in 1999/00 and 2000/01, the deviations between sector
budgets and outturns were smaller than in previous years, despite revenue shortfalls.
53.    While the Government has continued to execute the overall budget according to agreed
allocations, two high spending budget areas have recently raised some concerns: public
administration and security. In 1998/99, defense expenditures had a significant over-run. Since
then the level of defense spending has fratured prominently in the Government-donor dialogue on
spending priorities. The Government and donors agree annually on the level of defense spending
in the budget, and monitor actual expenditures against this level. The budgeted level of spending
on defense is normally expected to be no more than two percent of the estimated nominal GDP
figure."2 The result has been a much closer convergence between budgeted levels of defense
spending and actual outlays as shown in Table 4 below. In addition, the introduction of the
commitment and control system in the Ministry of Defense (MoD) in 2000/01 to cover recurrent
expenditures has assured a much closer link between spending commitments and actual outlays.
"Discussions on the future of the PAF are ongoing. The PAF has proved to be a powerful instrument for reallocating expenditures
towards poverty sensitive expenditures. However, as the share of PAF has grown, it has begun restricting budgetary management
since PAF expenditures are protected from cuts in case of revenue shortfalls. The Government has proposed reducing the level of
protection accorded to PAF expenditures. Over the medium-term, the expectation is that the PAF will be phased out
12 The current procedures are considered to account appropriately for defense spending undertaken within the budget, certain
definitional issues aside (for example, spending on Local Defense Units).
17



Table 4: Defense Expenditures (in billions of Ugandan Shillings)
Year          Allocation   Outturn        GDP           Defense as a % of GDP
1998/99       147.9        188.2          7693.4        2.44
1999/00       177          174.7          8656          2.07
2000/01       191.4         188.5         9443          1.99
2001/02       207.9        217.9 (proj)   10472 (est)   2.10
54.    Actual defense expenditures are measured by the monthly releases provided by Treasury
to MoD. They are normally reviewed semi-annually: first half expenditures form part of the IMF
mid-term review of the annual PRGF program, and the projected outturns and proposed future
spending levels are discussed with donors in the annual Public Expenditure Review (PER)
workshop held in May. At that time, the Government sets out its proposed levels of defense
spending for the following three years in the MTEF. The Government is aware of donor
sensitivities and has been willing to engage donors in discussion of levels of defense spending.
This year, for example, the Government indicated to donors that certain one-off defense
expenditures would require increasing defense spending above the previously agreed levels.
After consultations, the Government agreed to restrict the increases to about Ush 10 billion a year
for this year and next, implying that actual defense spending will be marginally above (by 0.1
percentage points of GDP) the two percent of GDP level in 2001/02 and 2002/03.
55.    There is still a need for better linkage between spending levels and actual security
requirements. Accordingly, the Government, with assistance from DFID, is undertaking a
defense review which will assess Uganda's actual security threats, develop cost-effective ways of
responding to these threats, and make recommendations to improve the management of defense
spending within MoD.
56.   In order to address the continued pressures for budget over-run in public administration,
and their related adverse effects on non-PAF non-wage expenditures, the Government has
commissioned studies on public administration to identify the factors which lead to this trend.
For instance, a recent study on institutional rationalization seeks to clarify roles and
responsibilities of institutions and address duplication. The results of this study were discussed in
this year's Public Expenditure Review workshop and, based on discussions, reforms in this area
will be undertaken in the short to medium term.
57.    The Government has also made progress in making the budget more comprehensive. It
has integrated the expenditure ceiling for donor projects in the MTEF for education, health, and
water and sanitation, with plans to extend the practice to other sectors over time. However,
integration of staffing plans and wage bill have been delayed. Since the Government's pay
reform strategy has differential impact on budget items, before proceeding, the Ministry of
Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED) needs to agree with the Ministry of
Public Service (MoPS) and other agencies on an approach to follow.
58.    The Government has taken steps to enhance results-orientation of sector expenditure
programs. To shift the focus, the Government has been gradually introducing output targets into
sector expenditure programs. Also, it has started integrating results-oriented management (ROM)
into the budget process. Integration of output-oriented budgeting (OOB) and ROM initiatives has
turned out, however, to take more time than expected. The M&E system is being strengthened
and streamlined to assess the progress towards the set output targets and results. Among other
things, a national poverty M&E strategy was recently finalized. Translation of national service
delivery survey results into service standards has, however, been delayed since the format and
frequency of future service delivery surveys remain to be firmed up.
18.



59.    Finally, the Government is in the process of streamlining fiscal transfers and has
developed a strategy for the way forward. The strategy will entail gradual fiscal decentralization.
60.    Reform strategy: Key areas for enhancing efficient and equitable use of public resources
include the following:
* Agree with stakeholders, including IDA, annually on strategic expenditure allocations
in the MTEF and execute budgets consistent with agreed allocations. This was done
under the PRSC 1 and since then, the practice has continued. The Government agreed
with donors on MTEF for 2001/02-2003/04 in the annual public expenditure review,
and has executed the 2001/02 budget through the first two quarters consistent with the
agreed allocations.
* Integrate donor-financed projects, staffing plans, and wage bill in sector expenditure
programs in the MTEF. Under the PRSC1, the Government included indicative
expenditure levels for donor-financed projects in the MTEF.  Since then the
Government has integrated donor-fipanced projects in the MTEF for the education,
health, and water and sanitalion sectors. Plan is to expand this gradually to other
sectors in the next few years. Also, as a pilot under the PRSCI, Ministries of
Education (MoES) and Health (MoH) reflected staffing plans and wage bill in their
expenditure programs. Since then MoFPED and MoPS have started consultations on a
general approach for staffng plan/wage bill integration. The implementation of the
approach is expected to start in the next budget round.
. Publish budget performance reports. In order to reduce deviations between budgeted
and actual annual expenditures, the Government launched under the PRSC I an annual
Budget Performance Report that analyzes discrepancies between budgeted and actual
expenditure. Since then, the Government has made the reports semi-annual, and the
plan is to have quarterly reports available by request in the next fiscal year. These
reports are also attempting to relate inputs to outputs and outcomes.
* Streamline inter-governmental transfers. Under the PRSC1, the Government
completed a study on rationalization of fiscal transfer systems, which recommends
merging the current transfers into two systems: development, and recurrent. Since
then the Government has decided to proceed with the recommended merger, and, as
the first step, has developed a strategy for streamlining the transfers, which will be
implemented in 2002/03 on a pilot basis in 15 local governments.
- Enhance results-orientation of sector expenditure program, and streamline and
strengthen M&E arrangements. To ensure that managers focus on real progress
towards PEAP/PRSP targets, the Government is continuing efforts to introduce output
and outcome goals and targets. Under the PRSC 1, roads, education, health, and water
and sanitation sectors introduced output targets in their Budget Framework Papers
(BFP). Since then the justice, law and order sector has introduced output/outcome
measures and targets in its BF7P, and the plan is to extend this to other sectors in the
next few years. Also, integration of ROM in the budget process has begun. In
parallel, the Government has prepared a national poverty M&E strategy, which lays
out the framework for poverty monitoring and evaluation. To identify ways to
strengthen and streamline sectoral M&E, the Government has in turn carried out a
review of M&E in education, health and water and sanitation. The next step will be to
19



implement the results of the study and translate the results of the national service
delivery survey into service standards.
61.   Expected results: Over the course of the PRSC program period Uganda expects to
achieve the following:
* an increase in the directly poverty reducing expenditures as a share of total allocations
and actual expenditures from 24 percent in 1999/2000 to about 36 percent in 2003/04.
* a more comprehensive MTEF, incorporating donor projects and wage bill.
* budget execution closer to the approved appropriations.
* streamlined inter-governmental fiscal transfers, and a reduction in administrative
costs.
* sector plans and expenditure programs are output/outcome-oriented.
* M&E arrangements streamlined and linked to goals and performance.
C.   PEAP/PRSP Pilar II: Ensuring Good Governance and Security
62.    Good governance is essential for effective public service delivery.  The second
PEAP/PRSP pillar addresses this concern. The Government actions detailed under the pillar
focus on improving public service delivery in the context of decentralization; reducing
corruption; ensuring law and order and security; and providing disaster management. The
proposed PRSC2 will provide support to these actions in a selective manner.
63.    To improve service delivery on the ground, the Government has decentralized the
delivery of health, education, and water services to local governments. The key challenge facing
this effort is improving the capacities of local governments for effective planning, management,
and implementation of related policies and programs. The Government plans to address these
concerns by public service, procurement, and financial management reforms, and by
strengthening bottom-up accountability and anti-corruption measures.
Public Service Management
64.   Issues: Because a prerequisite for effective public service delivery is that managers are
skilled, committed, and motivated professionals, it is important for the Government to put in
place a pay regime which is sufficient to recruit, retain, and motivate civil servants. The current
pay structure is inconsistent with efforts to promote capacity building and performance. Payroll
and personnel management systems and practices also need strengthening. At the same time, the
growth in public service is threatening to derail the reform efforts and make the pay reform
unfeasible.
65.    Overall Progress: The Cabinet has recently approved a pay reform strategy that is
consistent with the MTEF and improved public service performance. The pay reform is targeted
at those areas where better service delivery is being severely constrained by lack of adequately
qualified people as a result, among other things, of poor pay. Middle and senior management
staff, and technical and professional staff are among them. This is a significant milestone, given
that the Government had pursued public service pay reform for a number of years.
20



66.   , Aspects of government payroll and personnel management have improved. A pressing
concern under the PRSC 1 was the substantial delay in getting new staff onto govermnent payroll,
in particular teachers and health care workers (the average delay was 6 to 16 months for teachers
and 3 to 7 months for health workers). The problem of teachers' access to payroll has now been
largely addressed, and new teachers are currently put on the payroll in about a month. However,
further analysis of the payroll system showed that the current payroll system is lacking basic
internal controls that serve to ensure that only bona fide employees are on the payroll and that
they are paid what is properly due. The reform strategy has been adjusted to address this issue.
67.    The reform program has also been expanded to include measures to control the growth of
public service. Mandates and structures of the Government have grown considerably in the past
years. For example, in the last year, the number of districts was increased from 45 to 56, which
expanded the size of public administration by increasing the number of local officials and
enlarging the Parliament. Also, the number of Commissions has grown. As a result and owing to
the increased number of teachers and health workers, total numbers on public service payroll
have increased from about 160,000 in 1997 to about 198,000 in 2001, and expected to rise further
to about 250,000 in the next few years. This bulge is exerting pressure on the wage bill,
threatening the implementation of the public service pay reform, and jeopardizing the gains made
from the restructuring and downsizing of public administration in the mid-1990s. Therefore, it is
critical to support Government's efforts to control further growth in this area.
68.    Reform strategy: Under the PRSC, key areas for improving public service management
include the following:
* Agree on, publish, and implement a government pay reform strategy that is consistent
with the MTEF and improved service delivery, and adjust salaries accordingly.
Under the PRSC1, the Government agreed on objectives and principles for a pay
reform strategy that is consistent with MTEF and aims to improve public service
delivery. Since then the pay reform strategy has been prepared and approved by
Cabinet. The next step will be to implement the strategy and adjust salaries according
to it.
* Improve payroll and personnel management. Under the PRSC 1, the Government
prepared an action plan to expedite access to government payroll. Since then, the
Government has been implemienting the plan, which has to large extent eliminated the
delays- to get the newly recruited teachers onto payroll. In addition, to ensure only
bona fide employees are on payrolls, the Government has prepared another plan for
establishing and strengthening the internal payroll controls, and integrating and
improving the personnel and payroll management. Its implementation will commence
next.
* Control the expansion of public service. To identify appropriate measures to control
public service, the Government has commenced analysis on the implications of
expanded public administration on the wage bill, and cost effectiveness of increased
employment in social sectors.
* Launch a new phase of the public service reform program. The Government has
developed a draft strategic framework, reflecting lessons learned, for the new phase of
public service reform. The next step will be the finalization of the strategy and its
implementation.
21



69.    Expected results: Over the course of the PRSC program period Uganda expects to
achieve the following:
* agreed and published public sector pay strategy and salary adjustments consistent with
it for the Government to better recruit, motivate and retain skilled staff.
* the growth of public administration contained.
* new staff entered in 30 days on the Government payroll, which contains only bona
fide employees.
* the next phase of the public service reform program reflects the objective of improved
service delivery.
Public Procurement
70.   Issues: The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), that was carried out
under PRSC1, indicated that the public procurement system presents a major risk to effective
public sector management in general and a major constraint to effective service delivery in
particular. The legal and regulatory framework governing procurement was found to be diffused
and poorly enforced, and overall management of public procurement inefficient and non-
transparent. Procurement planning was found to be virtually non-existent.
71.    Overall progress: The Government launched a major reform of the public procurement
system under the PRSCI.   A complete overhaul of procurement systems at the central
Government level is ongoing, with plans to extend the reforms to districts. The reform program
is based on the recommendations of the CPAR, following its recommended actions and
sequencing. The Government has prepared new procurement regulations, which became
effective on March 1, 2001. At the same time, the Central Tender Board (CTB) ceased to exist
and its functions were taken over by contract committees in ministries/procuring entities. The
Reformed Central Tender Board (RCTB), an autonomous regulatory body, was established and
new staff hired. Progress in establishing procurement units to support contract committees and
handle process aspects of procurement has, however, been slower than initially expected due to
delays in creating the needed posts in ministries and agencies. Because the procurement function
has not had a separate scheme of service within the Government, the Government has had to
create the positions and map them to agencies, which has delayed the establishment of units.
Since setting up new structures, identifying and training the staff is taking time, to avoid
disruption in procurement, a team of international procurement agents has been assisting the
Government with the actual procurement work during the transition period.
72.    Reform strategy: Under the PRSC2, key areas for improving public procurement include
the following:
* Implement public procurement reform, including updating the legal and regulatory
framework Under the PRSC1, the Government issued new procurement regulations,
dismantled the old CTB, established a new RCTB, and created contract committees in
all procuring units. Since then the Government has tabled the new Procurement Bill
in Parliament, harmonized local and central government procurement regulations, and
issued instructions to procurement entities to establish procurement units.  All
procurement units will be established in a year.
* Strengthen enforcement of procurement rules and regulations, and planning of
procurement. RCTB has held accounting officers of procurement entities responsible
for procurement functions. To promote transparency in procurement, RCTB has
22



started publishing quarterly reports of contracts costing more than US$200,000. As
the next step, to improve enforcement of procurement rules and regulations, RCTB
will start carrying independent procurement audits in line ministries and districts.
Also, to improve planning of procurement, the Government has started incorporating
procurement plans in selected sector expenditure programs. The plan is to extend this
practice to all the sectors over time.-
* Improve efficiency of National Medical Stores. Under the PRSC 1, the Government
developed a plan to improve efficiency of National Medical Stores (NMS). Since then
the Government has recruited consultants to undertake a study on options for partial
privatization of NMS. The consultant report is expected to be available in the fall
2002, and NMS to be privatized by spring 2004.
73.    Expected results: Over the course of the PRSC program period Uganda expects to
achieve the following:
* new public procurement legislation and arrangements in place and fully operational at
the center and substantial progress in districts to produce better value for money.
* increased transparency and reduced corruption in public procurement, and better
management of expenditure programs.
* improved availability and cost-efficiency of medical supplies.
Financial Management
74.   Issues: The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) that was carried out
under PRSC1 indicated that inadequate financial accounting and auditing systems both at the
center and in the districts pose a major fiduciary risk. While Uganda has a relatively good
budgeting system, accounting for public expenditure using the present manual system was found
to be weak, largely because of disregard for timely and regular recording of transactions, side-
stepping of controls, and lack of financial discipline. Similarly, findings of audit reports were
found not to be regularly followed-up, and public accounts contain a number of material non-
reconciled balances.
75.    Overallprogress: The Government has made good progress with financial management
reforms. The reform program in this area was largely crafted based on the results of CFAA.
Progress with account preparation and audit functions has overall been notable. The Government
has' cleared the backlog of central and local government accounts from previous years, and also
audited them. It also has reconciled the material non-reconciled balances in government bank
accounts and the consolidated fund, and started the process of regularization. To promote public
financial accountability, the Government has started producing semi-annual interim financial
statements. Initially, the plan was to produce quarterly reports, but that proved not to be feasible
with the manual system. The requirement for sector audits was dropped because of their
impracticability, and replaced by a series of quantitative targets for preparation of annual
accounts and audits.
76.    The design of the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) has taken more time
than initially,expected and hence its implementation has been delayed from the original schedule.
The design process turned out to be more challenging than anticipated. The Government is
currently moving ahead on this front as fast as possible, and the design of the system is expected
to be completed by the end of June 2002, after which its implementation will commence.
23



77.    As highlighted in CFAA, there is a shortage of qualified accountants in the public sector,
given that current pay levels are only about 20-30 percent of those in the private sector. The
PRSC I Board documentation called for the Government to provide additional accounting staff to
select ministries. However, because MoFPED cannot appoint accountants unless they are
included in staffing structures of ministries, as an interim solution, the Government has
established a support team of 10 accounting professionals to assist central and local government
accounting and internal audit functions.
78.    HIPC tracking assessment carried out in Uganda in the fall of 2001, points out a number
of weaknesses in financial management at the local government level.'3 The reform program has
been expanded to address a number of them. For example, quantitative targets for the production
of districts' and urban authorities' annual accounts and their audits have been added to the
program. However, since the assessment was completed after the PRSC2 program was updated,
its results and recommendations can be more fully incorporated into the reform program only in
the next fiscal year.
79.    Finally, the Government has also decided to regularize the expenditure tracking surveys
in basic service sectors in order to monitor and sustain progress made with flow of funds. Recent
expenditure tracking surveys in education and health indicate that the flow of public funds to
primary schools and health units has neither considerable improved nor worsened between
1999/00 and 2000/01 school years. According to the survey, about 90 percent of UPE capitation
grants and health care grants reached primary schools and health units, respectively, in 2000/01.
80.    Reform strategy: Under the PRSC2, key areas for improving financial management
include the following:
* Update the legal and institutionalframeworkforfinancial management. The current
Public Finance Act, that lays out the controls and administrative framework for the
management and accounting of public funds, dates back to 1964 and needs updating.
Under the PRSC1, the Government drafted a new Public Finance Bill. Since then the
Government has tabled the new Bill in Parliament.
* Improve accounting and reporting at the center and districts. To promote financial
discipline at the central government level, the Directorate of Accounts (DA) made
preparations for introducing consolidated interim financial statements under the
PRSC1. Since then, DA has produced a semi-annual interim financial statement and
plans to start producing quarterly statements in the next fiscal year. In the medium
term, DA will establish a process to ensure a timely follow-up of material variances
listed in these reports. In addition, DA has reconciled and started regularization of
material brought forward items in government bank accounts and the consolidated
fund. To promote financial accountability at the local government level, the
Government has set up in DA's office a support team of accounting professionals to
help local government authorities with accounting and internal audit functions. As
discussed earlier, this was done in lieu of increasing the accounting staff. Further, the
Ministry of Local Government (MoLG) has prepared 90 percent of districts and urban
authorities' annual accounts for 2000/01, and cleared the backlog from previous years.
"The ranking of Uganda was slightly lowered from the first assessment This does not, however, mean that financial management in
Uganda has deteriorated. The reason for a lowered rating is that the latest assessment, unlike the first one, included the local
governments, which lowered Uganda's overall rating. The performance and functioning of systems is significantly higher at the
central level than at the local one.
24



The Office of the Auditor General (OAG) has in turn audited all annual accounts for
2000/01 that were received fTom districts and urban authorities by the end of December
2001. In addition, OAG has cleared the audit backlog from previous years. As a
longer term measure, to promote recording and reporting on financial transactions, the
Government has appointed consultants to design the Integrated Financial Management
System (IFMS) and made other preparations for its introduction, such as appointing
additional accounting graduates to assist in the IFMS implementation. As mentioned
earlier, the roll out of EFMS has been slightly delayed from the original schedule since
the design process has taken more time than initially expected.
* Strengthen audit structures and practices. Under the PRSC1, OAG was strengthened
through an appointment of aLn internationally qualified accountant as Auditor General.
Since then, in order to ensure the independence of OAG, the Govermnent has
submitted to the Cabinet a memorandum on enhancing OAG's independence with
respect to human resource management, access to information on public expenditure,
and indemnity of OAG staff. Also, to improve the quality of audits, OAG has started
recruiting quality assurance rmanagers for three years. These managers are expected to
be in place in August/September 2002.
* Implement regular expenditure tracking survey. In order to obtain information on
actual spending, the Govermnent has carried out expenditure tracking studies in health
and education sectors. Also, the Government has decided to make the expenditure
tracking studies an annual exercise in basic service sectors.
* Implement capacity building programs.  The Government has been developing
capacity building programs in financial management. These programs are supported
by IDA's Second Economic and Financial Management Project and Local Government
Development Project, and DFID's Financial Accountability and Decentralization
Support Project.
81.   Expected results: Over the course of the PRSC program period Uganda expects to
achieve the following:
* updated legislation and regulatory environment for financial management.
* more timely and reliable production of accounts and audits, and reduced fiduciary risk
at the central and local government levels.
* improved flow of funds to frontline service delivery.
Transparency, *'articipation, andAnti-Corruption
82.   Issues: A number of supportive measures in the reform program are essential if Uganda
is to control corruption. These include the reform of the public service, particularly pay and
human resources management, the creation of a strong and transparent regulatory regime to
govern public procurement, and reforms to promote financial accountability. The Government
has made progress in each area, as discussed earlier. In addition, there is a need to improve
transparency and detection, investigation, and prosecution of corruption cases. This includes
improving in general the functioning of the justice, law and order sector.
83.    Overall progress: The Government has made steady progress with the reform of the
legal and judicial sector. The integrity survey of 1998 found that the judiciary below Magistrates
was one of the most corrupt parts of the Government. Also, NSDS 2000 indicates that about 66
25



percent of households perceives Local Council Courts to offer better prospects for fair and
transparent treatment than a Court presided by a magistrate/judge. Eighty-nine percent of
households are satisfied with the quality of Local Council Courts, compared to 57 percent with
Magistrates. To improve the performance of the sector, the Government introduced the sector-
wide approach to the sector and held the first semi-annual sector review in June 2001. Also in
2001, the Government launched a commercial justice reform program. This program focuses,
among other things, on strengthening the Commercial Court to improve access and case
processing; establishment of the Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution following the
international best practice; strengthening of land and companies registries; and revision of
commercial laws.
84.    Progress has also been made in the area of transparency and anti-corruption legislation.
The Parliament passed the Inspectorate of Government (IGG) Bill in December 2001, which was
then assented by the President in March 2002. The IGG Act provides for the powers and
procedures required by IGG to fight corruption. After considerable debate and delay, the
Parliament also passed in April 2002 the landmark Leadership Code Bill 2000, that calls for open
citizen access to leaders' asset declarations. These pieces of legislation are significant since they
enable investigation of corruption cases and address the higher level corruption, respectively. In
addition to passing of the laws, the Government has enforced the content of the Leadership Code
and had the key groups of leaders that are under the control of the executive (Ministers,
Presidential Advisors, Permanent Secretaries, Directors, and URA officials) declare their income,
assets, and liabilities.'4 This is a major achievement since before only about 25 percent of all
leaders had declared their assets as required. By contrast, little progress has been made with the
proposed whistleblower protection and access to government information bills. The work on
them is underway, though.
85.    Reform strategy: Under the PRSC2, the key areas of reform to promote transparency,
participation, and reduce corruption are:
* Improve citizens' access to public information, including adopting a leadership code
and open access to leaders' declarations. Under the PRSC1, the Government
reviewed the Official Secrets Act in light of best practice regarding access to
government information, and produced a citizens' guide to the budget process. Since
then the Government has carried out consultations with stakeholders on ways to
improve access to government information, and prepared a communication strategy
for fiscal policy and the budget. As the next step, the Government will assemble
recommendations on access to government information for enactment, and implement
the communication strategy. Under the PRSC1, the Government also gazetted and
tabled the Leadership Code Bill and IGG Bill in Parliament. Since then, as mentioned
earlier, Parliament has passed both bills, and the President has already assented the
IGG bill to an Act. In addition, key groups of leaders have submitted to IGG their
statement of income, assets, and liabilities. In the future, all leaders are expected to
declare their assets in accordance with the new Leadership Code.
* Improve detection, investigation, and prosecution of corruption cases. Under the
PRSC1, IGG published its first semi-annual report, and the Government started to
develop quantitative indicators to assess progress in fight against corruption. Since
then, the Government has proposed to Parliament a stronger follow-up mechanisms
14 All Permanent Secretaries, Directors, Uganda Revenue Authority officials, 95 percent of Ministers, and 77 percent of Presidential
Advisors submitted to the IGG their statements of income, assets, and liabilities.
26



for IGG reports, and the second integrity survey has been launched. The results of the
survey are expected to be available for dissemination in the fall 2002. In addition, the
Government has reviewed all anti-corruption legislation and assembled
recommendations for consolidation and amendments, and initiated consultations on
whistleblower protection legislation. Next the Government will present to Cabinet the
principles of anti-corruption legislation. Also, quantitative targets to assess progress
will be introduced to the reform program.
* Agree on NGO policy and code of conduct and harmonize the use of participatory
approaches. Under the PRSC1, the Government created a computerized database of
NGOs and faith-based organizations. In addition, it started preparing a harmonized
framework for community participation in different aspects of service delivery. Since
then the participatory framework has been completed and its implementation has
begun. The work on the NGO policy and code of conduct is also underway. An NGO
survey has been carried out to get a better understanding of functions and capacities of
NGOs in Uganda. The results of the survey are to inform the design of the NGO
policy and code of conduct. Under the PRSC1, it was envisaged that agreement on
NGO policy and code of conduct be reached by now. However, owing to a delay in
the NGO survey schedule, the finalization of the NGO policy and code of conduct has
been moved forward.
* Implement commercial justice reforms to enhance enforcement of commercial
contracts. Under the PRSC1, the justice, law and order sector adopted a sector-wide
approach to criminal anid commercial justice reforms, and developed a commercial
justice reform program. Since then the Government has started the implementation of
the program, which has progressed satisfactorily.
86.   Expected results: Over the course of the PRSC program period Uganda expects to
achieve the following:
* improved access to public information to reduce opportunities for corruption.
* more effective detection, investigation, prosecution, and follow-up of corruption
cases.
* regular monitoring of corruption.
* a better operational environment for Govemment-NGO partnerships and self-
monitoring by NGOs.
* harmonized framework for community participation in service delivery.
* improved enforcement of commercial contracts.
D. PEAP/PRSP Pillar m: Directly Increasing the Ability of the Poor to Raise their
Incomes
87.   Increasing agricultural growth rates, diversifying agricultural production, and expanding
non-farm employment are essential for poverty reduction as 85 percent of Ugandans live in rural
areas,. which includes 96 percent of the country's poor, and 84 percent of the rural poor earns
their living from agriculture. Non-farm activities also play a particularly relevant role for
women: female-headed households engaged in both farm and non-farm work have risen out of
poverty at greater rates than those engaged only in agriculture. In general, agriculture continues
27



to dominate the Ugandan economy accounting for 43 percent of GDP, 85 percent of export
earnings, and 80 percent of employment.
88.    As a response to the challenge to raise agricultural growth, the Government has
developed the Plan for Modemization of Agriculture (PMA) through a broad-based consultative
process. The comerstone of the PMA is the transformation of subsistence agriculture to
commercial agriculture, with the aim of accelerated growth through technological change
throughout the sector. The PMA identifies seven priority areas for public action: research and
technology development; agricultural advisory services; rural finance; agro-processing and
marketing; agricultural education; sustainable natural resource utilization and management; and
supportive physical infrastructure. The PMA provides the strategic and operational framework
for environmentally sustainable rural development and agricultural transformation. It does not
provide a detailed plan of action, but describes the types of policy interventions required to
promote rural development, and defines the responsibilities of the public sector, private sector,
and civil society in this effort. The challenge facing the Government is to operationalize the
PMA, which includes identifying and designing the actions that will have the largest impact on
rural development and poverty. The PRSC reform program supports that task.
89.   Issues: Improving agricultural productivity through the generation and adoption of
improved agricultural technologies is one of the PMA's priorities. The current institutional
arrangements for agricultural research and advisory services have, however, a number of
weaknesses. Currently, public sector support for agricultural research is channeled almost
exclusively through the National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), and research is
predominantly supply-driven. There is a need to expand the involvement of other organizations
(university, private sector, NGOs) in some areas of research, and to include researchers, farmers,
and extension workers in decision making over the use of public funds for agricultural research to
improve and promote demand-responsiveness. For the past two years district governments have
been responsible for the extension services, but with discouraging results. Surveys indicate that
extension workers are not visiting farmers much, their advice lacks a coherent direction, and may
fail to address key problems such as animal and plant disease. The central Government is now re-
engaging its support for this activity through the multi-donor supported National Agricultural
Advisory Services (NAADS). NAADS is a demand-driven program where public funds are
channeled to farmer fora at the sub-county level for them to contract the services of farm
advisors. It will also attempt to empower women's groups to demand the services they need. In
addition, funds will be available at the district level to both train farmers on how to contract these
services and improve skills of agricultural advisors.
90.    Access to financial services is an important condition for rural households to improve
their livelihoods, and Ugandan farmers identify lack of access to credit as a major constraint to
their development. Although farmers tend to focus on access to credit, access to savings is
equally important. To promote rural and microfmance, the PMA calls for a policy of
Government withdrawal from direct intervention in rural credit, and for the development of a
legal and regulatory framework to govern operations of different actors in this arena.
91.   Improved market access is also essential for the transformation from subsistence to
commercial agriculture and hence for the success of the PMA. Both geography and institutional
impediments are constraining crop marketing, and creating disincentives for commercial
agriculture, and non-farm rural enterprises that are particularly important from the gender point of
view. There has been progress in improving district roads, with a tripling of maintenance
expenditures since 1997 and with pilots for labor-based maintenance methods. A White Paper on
district and urban roads sets out the new strategies and plans for maintenance of district, urban,
28



and community access roads, but does not explicitly address the implementation of the strategy.
In addition, analytic work to identify the constraints to marketing of different commodities has
been carried out in the past year. This work will guide the design of the reform program in this
area in the next fiscal year.
92.    Uganda faces challenges related to: land tenure, including tenure insecurity; resolving the
impasse between landlords and tenants in the mailo regions; improving women's access to secure
land tenure; and greater formalization of communal land tenure rights. The Land Act of 1998
provides a legal basis for regularizing land tenure under mailo, freehold, and customary tenure
regimes, and by providing for decenatralized land administration and conflict resolution.
Implementation of the Land Act has, however, proceeded slowly.
93.    Finally, it is important that all this is done in an environmentally sustainable manner.
Given that agriculture is the dominant user of land and water resources, efforts to improve
sustainability of natural resource use focus heavily on it. Currently, environmental sustainability
concerris are not adequately integrated into government programs. Environmental factors also
influence health and other development outcomes. According to estimates, about 25 percent of
the burden of disease in the Africa region is associated with environmental factors, including
exposure to unsafe water, lack of sanitation, indoor air pollution, and exposure to chemicals.
94.    Reform strategy: Under the PRSC2 key areas of reform to promote rural development
include:
* Improve responsiveness and impact ofpubliclyfunded agricultural research. As the first
step, the Governnent has completed a draft review of the National Agriculture Research
system. Next, based on the review, it will agree on a new strategy for agricultural
research and then initiate its implementation with pilots.
* Increase access and effectiveness of agricultural advisory services. The Government has
recently launched NAADS, which so far has contracted agricultural service providers in
at least in ten sub-counties. The program will be extended to further sub-counties and
districts in the next few years.
* Develop the legal and regulatory framework governing microfinance, and improve
operating capacity of microfinance institutions. The Government has tabled in Parliament
a Microfinance Deposit-taking Institutions Bill that enables microfinance institutions to
become licensed financial intermediaries, without restricting credit-oriented NGOs and
member-based savings and credit associations, or imposing interest rate controls. In
addition, the Government has agreed on an outreach program for microfinance
institutions.
*  Implement the 1998 Land Act in a prioritized manner and promote access to land by
,women and orphans. As the first step, the Land Sector Strategic Plan (LSSP) to
implement the 1998 Land Act has been submitted to Cabinet for approval, and the
Government has finalized the financial and institutional arrangements for its
implementation. Also, the Government has developed a draft proposal to strengthen land
rights of women and orphans, which is expected to be implemented in the next fiscal
year.
*   Integrate environmental sustainability concerns in government programs. As the first
step, the Government has agreed on the scope of a review on ways to improve integration
of environmental concerns in all government programs. Based on the results of the
review, the environmental component of the credit will be developed.   Also,
29



environmental issues will be gradually introduced into education and, more fully than
currently done, in health sector reviews and programs. Environmental concerns are
already fully integrated in the sector-wide program for water and sanitation. The
Government is also expected to begin in the next fiscal year gradually increasing funding
for the National Environmental Management Agency (NEMA) within the budget.
*  Improve the network of district roads. The Government has agreed on policy and
strategy for planning, construction, and maintenance of district roads. The plan is to
establish technical offices to assist district governments in the implementation of the
strategy. Also, based on the strategy a 10-year district road investment program will be
developed.
95.    Expected resiuts: Over the course of the PRSC program period Uganda expects to
achieve the following:
* increased responsiveness and effectiveness of publicly supported agricultural
research.
* improved quality of and access to agricultural advisory services.
* financially sustainable microfinance institutions, and greater access to financial
services by the rural poor.
* more effective use and management of land resources through more secure tenure
rights, reduced conflicts, and transparent land markets.
* more equitable and secure access to and control of land by women and orphans.
* reduced level and risk of environmental degradation.
* increased accessibility in rural areas.
E.   PEAP/PRSP Pillar IV: Directly Increasing the Quality of Life of the Poor
96.    Issues: Public services, in particular primary education, health care and potable water
and sanitation, have a direct impact on the quality of life of the poor. Consequently, their
delivery is a central element of the PEAP/PRSP and the PRSC reform program. In the education
sector, the Government continues emphasizing the delivery of universal primary education (UPE)
and the need to improve its quality by providing the necessary infrastructure, teachers and
instructional materials, while also developing a strategy for post-primary education. The
Government's national health policy and health sector strategic plan (HSSP) continues to guide
the delivery of public health care. At the heart of this plan is the minimum health package which
.includes the most important and most easily treatable diseases. The plan also attempts to
strengthen health care delivery and ensure equal access to health services. The National Strategic
Framework for HIV/AIDS Activities (2000/1-2005/6) guides the work to control the spread of
HIV/AIDS, to mitigate its effects on households and communities, and to strengthen the national
capacity to respond to it. According to the results of the Uganda Participatory Poverty
Assessment Project (UPPAP), in addition to education and health, one of the key development
priorities of the poor is to increase access to safe water.  Responding to this need, the
PEAP/PRSP sets as a goal sustainable provision of accessible safe water and sanitation facilities
to the entire rural population, and a large share of the enhanced IIIPC debt relief has been
allocated to water and sanitation.
30



Improving Quality of Education
97.    Overall progress: According to the 2000 school census, the primary school gross
enrollment rate has increased to about 130 percent, and net enrollment rate to about 89 percent.
Dropout rates, however, have remained high. The survivor rate to P4 level is about 65 percent.
According to NSDS 2000, the most common reason for dropping out of school is lack of money
for direct school related expenses and the demand for children's labor. The 2000/01 data from
the Education Management Information System suggests that low quality of primary education is
another important reason.
98.    The Government has made progress in improving the quality of primary education. It is
attempting to improve the quality through increasing the number of teachers, availability of
textbooks, and classrooms. The pupil-teacher ratio has decreased from 63:1 in 2000/01 to 54:1 in
2001/02, and the pupil-classroom ratio fTom 121:1 in 2000/01 to 98:1 in 2001/02. The number of
primary teachers is, however, still significantly less than available funding would allow owing to
recruitment difficulties, particularly in remote areas.
99.    The single most critical non-wage input in primary education is textbooks, but the
introduction of the new curriculum starting in 2002 invalidated all the old textbooks and new
ones are currently being procured.  Concurrent changes in the procurement system for
instructional materials have, however, resulted in improvement of the quality of learning
materials and reduced the unit cost of textbooks by over two-thirds. The targets for pupil-
textbook ratio will be adjusted in the October 2002 education sector review.
100.  Education, and in particular UPE, remains the Government's top priority. In 2000/01,
public spending on education was about 31 percent of non-statutory recurrent expenditure.
Spending on primary education was about two-thirds of this. These shares will be maintained in
the 2002/03-2004/05 MTEF. The Government is also determined to support post-primary
education so that gains from UPE can be sustained. While only about 50 percent of those who
complete primary school currently continue post-primary education, the number of children
completing primary school is expected to increase from 200,000 to 700,000 by 2004. This
together with the Government's intention to increase the transition rate will put pressure on the
system and available resources. The Government is currently developing a strategy for post-
primary education which sets priorities within the available resource envelope.
101.  According to NSDS 2000, UPE is highly appreciated by parents and 62 percent of
households are satisfied with the quality of primary schools. Eighty-nine percent, however,
consider the class sizes to be too large. To reduce class sizes, households most frequently
suggested that the Government increase the number of classrooms, teachers, and reduce P1 and
P2 class sizes by teaching in the mornings and afternoons (currently, P1 and P2 classes are taught
in the mornings only).
102.  Reform strategy: Government-led semiannual education sector reviews involve all major
stakeholders (the Govermment, donors, NGOs) to monitor progress, set targets, and maintain a
focus on the quality of education. Education sector reviews have agreed on a set of monitoring
indicators and quantitative targets for education. These are fully consistent with the PEAP/PRSP.
The key reform areas to improve the quality of education are the following:
*  Reduce pupil-teacher ratio. Under the PRSC1, to reduce the pupil-teacher ratio, the
Government launched a national recruitment drive of teachers. Since then the
recruitment drive for teachers has continued and there has been marked improvement
31



in the recruitment of primary school teachers by some districts. In addition, in-
service training has been provided to unqualified teachers through the Teacher
Development and Management System (TDMS). The Government has commenced
implementation of Cabinet decisions aimed at attracting primary school teachers to
remote areas, which include utilization of 15 percent of the classroom construction
budget for teachers' houses and payment of a monthly incentive allowance (20
percent of the monthly salary) to those teaching in hard to reach areas.
* Reduce pupil-textbook ratio. Under the PRSC 1, the Government made progress in
increasing the number and improving the distribution and utilization of textbooks
available. Since then, however, the introduction of an expanded curriculum,
including 11 subjects, has invalidated the current textbooks. The procurement
arrangements were reviewed and the new arrangements have resulted in an
improvement in the quality of learning materials, while reducing the unit cost by over
two-thirds. Book orders for the new curriculum has been placed.
*  Reduce pupil-classroom ratio.  The Ministry of Education and Sports (MoES)
established the School Facilities Development Program in 1999 and as part of the
program developed a national plan for expansion of school facilities. Under the
PRSC1, in a bid to reduce pupil-classroom ratio, the Government undertook an
evaluation of the classroom construction program, which made recommendations to
increase efficiency in classroom construction. As a result, the pupil-classroom ratio
declined to 104:1. Since then it has dropped to 98:1.
* Strategy for post-primary education. The Government and donors have jointly
undertaken a series of studies on post-primary education to identify options for
expansion. The results of these studies and stakeholder consultations will contribute
to the strategic framework for post-primary education.
103.  Expected results: Over the course of the PRSC program period Uganda expects to
achieve the following:
*  a decline in the pupil-teacher ratio from 63:1 to 45:1.
*  a decline in the pupil-textbook ratio from 6.7:1 to - (to be determined in the October
2002 education sector review) .
*  a decline in the pupil-classroom ratio from 121:1 to 89:1.
* an increase in net enrollment in the final grade of primary school (P7) from 14 to --
percent (to be determined in the October 2003 education sector review).
Improving Quality of Health Care
104.  The Government has made progress in developing the health system according to the
HSSP. Recruitment of health workers has proceeded as planned, although continuing shortages
of anesthetic assistants, laboratory assistants, and comprehensive nurses is limiting the delivery of
the integrated package of services. The reforms have resulted in a decline in HIV prevalence
rates, and increased TB cure and contraceptive prevalence rates.  Also, the decline in
immunization coverage has been arrested. According to NSDS 2000, about 61 percent of
households surveyed consider immunization services to have improved in the past 12 month, and
about 88 percent fmd immunization services accessible.
32



105.   However, the results of the recent DHS 2000 indicate continued high level of infant
mortality, that has not improved in the past 15 years, and persistent high fertility and child
mortality.  While other factors influence these indicators, health service delivery plays a
significant role in improving them. lThe Government is concerned about the stagnated infant
mortality levels and is carrying out analysis to better understand the underlying causes so that
they can be addressed. The preliminary results of analysis indicates that the key determinants of
infant, mortality relate to health care utilization (place of delivery; child and maternal
immunization) and maternal characteristics (age and marital status of the mother).
106.   NSDS 2000 reveals that only about 56 percent of households are satisfied with the quality
of services offered by health centers, dispensaries, and pre/postnatal care. About 62 percent are
satisfied with the services of midwifes/nurses. Further, the results of DHS 2000 indicate that 42
percent of women complain about the negative attitude of government health care providers.
This will make women less inclined to seek medical assistance. These findings are disconcerting
and highlight the need to improve the delivery of health services.
107.   Overallprogress: The Govermnent abolished user fees in government health facilities in
February 2001. This led to an immediate surge in the use of government health services. The
longer! run impact of user fee abolishment on the utilization of public health care will, however,
be seen only over time. While the next household survey results can be used to rigorously
analyze how user fee abolishment has affected the use of government health care services by
different income quintiles, a health facility survey is planned to be carried out in the next fiscal
year to assess the impact of the policy on health facility functioning. Since the user fees financed
a significant share of activities at the facility level, their abolishment may have had an adverse
impact on the quality of health services. Partly to mitigate that risk, the health share of the
government budget increased from 7.3 percent in 2000/01 to 9.0 percent in 2001/02.
108.   Reform strategy: The Government's health policy and the health sector strategic plan
(HSSP) lay out the vision and strategy for achieving a better health service. To support
implementation of the HSSP, the Government has developed a sector-wide approach in
partnership with donors, private-for-profit and private-not-for-profit (PNFP) health providers, and
non-governmental organizations. Semiannual joint sector reviews are held to coordinate and
maximize the use of resources in the sector. These sector reviews also monitor progress, and set
targets for the sector. The health sector reviews have identified 20 key indicators, including
baseline data, to monitor performance of the HSSP. These are fully consistent with the
PEAP/PRSP. Key areas for improving the quality of health under the PRSC2 include the
following:
* Rationalize health care financing. While the financing of the health sector has
traditionally been donor driven, donor funds have recently been increasingly
channeled through the government budget. To rationalize the financing of the
sector, the Govermment has approved a health care financing strategy.
*   Strengthen procurement and management of drugs and medical supplies. Special
attention has been given to procurement in the health sector. Under the PRSC I,
interim procurement arrangements were made in the Ministry of Health (MoH)
according to procurement regulations, and a sector procurement plan was prepared.
Since then MoH's contract committee and procurement unit have become
operational, and MoH has recruited a consultant/s to assist in the development of a
procurement manual for dlrugs and supplies. In addition, it has approved an
implementation plan for the national drug policy and pharmaceutical strategic plan.
33



*   Increase human resources for health. Less than half of health facilities are filled
with qualified staff in Uganda. Under the PRSC1, two training schools begun
training comprehensive enrolled nurses. Since then the Government has agreed on
management and support to health training schools, including private-not-for-profit
schools. Also, the Government has prepared and approved a human resource policy
for the health sector. Among other things, the policy addresses harmonization of in-
service training, with the aim to rationalize the numerous uncoordinated seminars
and workshops.
*   Improve health infrastructure.  Many health facilities are rundown and lack
equipment, but it is critical that their rehabilitation is based on rational use of
resources. Under the PRSCI, the Govermnent completed the mapping of health
facilities to assess their condition and capacities. Since then.if has approved the
National Health Infrastructure Development and Maintenance Plan. The plan aims
to rationalize the distribution of facilities (both public and NGO), and outline the
need for rehabilitation, minimum new construction targeted at under-served areas,
articulate the needs for health facilities, and lay out procedures for approval of
construction.
109.  Expected results: Over the course of the PRSC program period Uganda expects to
achieve the following:
* rationalized financing of the health sector.
*  a decrease in stock-outs in basic drugs and medical supplies.
*  an increase in the share of health facilities with qualified staff from 40 to 46 percent.
*  an increase in (DPT-HepB-HiB)3 vaccination coverage for infants from 46 to 54
percent.
*  an increase in out-of-patient department utilization per capita from 0.43 to 0.47.
*  a decrease in IRV prevalence among the adult population from 6.1 to 5.4 percent.
*  31 percent of deliveries assisted by trained health workers.
Improving Access to and Equity in Water and Sanitation
110.   OveraUl Progress: In the past year, the Government adopted a sector-wide approach to
planning of the delivery of water and sanitation (WSS) in Uganda. This is a significant
milestone. Development of the sector has been fragmented and carried out on a project basis,
resulting in limited and unequal access to safe WSS, low utilization of facilities, and low
sustainability of services. The sector-wide approach, by taking a comprehensive look at the
sector, is expected to improve management of the sector and thereby service delivery. The sector
work is based on the Government's National Water Policy (1999). In addition, sub-sector
strategies have been formulated for rural areas and urban areas covered by piped systems. The
first joint Government-donor WSS sector review was held in September 2001.
111.  The safe water coverage in Uganda has improved in the past year, and the Government
met the set targets. Over 2,900 water points were delivered for rural areas, extending the rural
safe water coverage for an additional 820,000 people. In urban areas, 6,300 new connections
were provided, of which 1,800 serve poor households. According to NSDS 2000, about 46
percent of households surveyed reported that the availability of clean water has improved in the
past five years.
34



112.   The target for sewerage connections in urban areas was, however, not met and the future
targets were revised downwards. The revision was necessary since the former targets did not take
into account that only core urban centers are suitable for sewer facilities. Sewerage connections
are not the cost-efficient means to provide sanitation to areas outside urban centers because of
low population density. In those areas, on-site septic tanks are the cost-effective way to provide
sanitation.
113. While the safe water coverage has improved, the Government is concerned about the
quality of and cost-effectiveness of WSS investments, specifically in rural areas.  Service
delivery in rural areas has been affected by poor procurement planning and poor construction
supervision at the district level. Also, the analysis done by the Government indicates that the unit
cost of WSS investment has increased in the past four years. The Govemnment is taking steps to
address these issues. In the past year, to improve quality of investments, it established Technical
Support Units (TSUs) to assist districts implement and maintain WSS systems, among other
things. To identify the inefficiency leading to increased unit costs, the Government is planning to
carry out a value-for-money audit of the sector. The reform strategy in rural and urban areas and
small towns is explained in more detail below.
114.   Reform Strategy: The strategy arising from the WSS sector reform process is to increase
access to and reliability, affordability, amd sustainability of the provision of services.
115.  In the rural WSS sector, the reform strategy aims to increase access and quality of WSS
delivery, which remains a problem. District planning, procurement management, and especially
construction supervision and monitoring remain inadequate. The strategy, and progress made in
each component, include the following:
*  Strengthen decentralized planning, implementation, and management through
local governments. Under the PRSC1, to strengthen capacities for decentralized
planning, management, and supervision, half of the districts set up fully staffed
district water and sanitation teams. Since then this work has continued in other
districts. In addition, the Directorate of Water Department (DWD) has finalized a
WSS operational manual and implementation guidelines for districts, and
introduced templates for environmental screening of sub-projects in districts.
*  Improve the capacity of the central Government to channel technical assistance to
local governments. To achieve this, under the PRSC 1, the reorganization of DWD
commenced.   With reorganization, the implementation of new projects for
providing the WSS services in rural areas was devolved to the districts. To
provide capacity building and technical assistance to districts, DWD started
establishing eight technical support units (TSUs) that work with districts. Since
then the reorganization of DWD has moved forward and is close to completion,
and all TSUs have been established and fully staffed'
*  Increase the capacity for sustained delivery of goods and services by developing
and utilizing local private sector capacities in engineering, construction, spare
parts distribution and maintenance. Under the PRSC1, as the first step, DWD
reviewed the maintenance and cost recovery arrangements for WSS facilities.
Since then DWD has carried an operation and maintenance study and developed a
national maintenance strategy for WSS facilities.
*  Develop a strategyfor national hygiene promotion, sanitation and communication.
Under the PRSC1, the Ministry of Water, Land and Environment (MoWLE) and
35



MoH agreed on institutional responsibilities for sanitation. Since then MoWLE,
MoH and MoES have jointly prepared a strategy for national hygiene promotion,
sanitation, and communication.
116.  In urban WSS sector, the strategy focuses on improving the access, reliability and
sustainability of WSS through privatization of the National Water and Sewerage Corporation
(NWSC).15  Operations of NWSC have been inefficient, with performance indicators below
African utility standards, and the connection/reconnection policies have acted as a deterrent to
existing and potential new customers. The urban WSS reform strategy includes the following:
*  Introduce commercialized operations so that services are delivered by local or
international private operators with a clear contractual relationship with the
Government that will retain the ownership of WSS assets. Under the PRSC 1,
NWSC signed a performance contract with the Government as an interim measure
to improve efficiency. Since then MoWLE and MoFPED have selected a
transaction advisor to prepare the necessary documentation and manage the
selection process of a private operator to run NWSC. Also, MoWLE has finalized
an urban WSS policy framework and investment program.
* Improve financial sustainability of urban WSS delivery. To attract potential private
investors, financial performance of NWSC needs to be strengthened. Under the
PRSC1, Ush 5 billion of the debt owed by government agencies to NWSC was
settled. Also, to attract new customers, NWSC simplified its connection policy.
Since then another Ush 1.7 billion out of total Ush 2.58 billion of verified
outstanding arrears owed to NWSC has been settled. The balance is expected to be
settled by end June 2002. In addition, as the first step to adjust the tariff structure,
NWSC has adopted a formula for periodic tariff adjustment.
117.  In small towns WSS, the strategy centers on changing the management framework.
While the development of piped water supplies in small towns was initially based on an upgraded
rural WSS approach, recent experience has shown that they should rather be treated as simplified
urban WSS. The strategy is thus as follows:
*  Introduce a new WSS management framework for small towns, treating WSS as
simplified urban WSS. Under the PRSC1, the Government adopted an interim
management strategy for small town WSS and started preparing the long-term
strategy. Since then DWD has prepared a long-term management strategy for
small town WSS, which includes the use of small local private WSS operators to
provide WSS services.
118.  Expected Results: Over the course of the PRSC program period Uganda expects to
achieve the following:
*  fully operational sector-wide program in WSS services.
*  in rural areas, by March 2003 an increase in access to safe water and sanitation
from 52 to 60 percent for an average investment of about US$50 per capita, while,
as a result of the implementation of a national maintenance strategy, the
functionality rate of WSS systems will be maintained at a minimum of 80 percent.
" NWSC is an autonomous parastaal serving 12 large municipalities.
36



*  in urban areas, by March 2003 an increase in access to safe water and sanitation
from 50 to 65 percent for an average investment cost of US$150 per capita. WSS
systems under NWSC are placed under an asset holding authority, and its
operations under private sector management.
* in small towns, WSS systems are placed under WSS authorities, and their
operations shifted under private sector management.
VII. .THE PROPOSED CREDIT
119.   The proposed Credit is a core operation to implement the objectives of the PEAP/PRSP
and the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy. As detailed below, Uganda has achieved, prior
to presentation to the Board, several key program benchmarks in the areas of equitable and
efficient use of public resources, cross-cutting public sector reforms, rural development, and
education, health, and water and sanitaLtion.
A.   Reform Measures and Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
120.  PRSC2 Prior Actions. As part of its PEAP/PRSP and reform program supported by the
proposed PRSC2, the Government of Uganda has carried out the following prior actions:
*  In the annual public expenditure review, the Government has agreed with donors on
MTEF for 2001/02-2003/04, and has executed the 2001/02 budget through the first two
quarters consistent with budget allocations.
*  Cabinet approved and published the pay strategy, consistent with MTEF and improved
public service delivery.
*  MoPS, in consultation with other stakeholders, has developed a draft strategic
framework for the new phase of public service reform.
* MoFPED has tabled Procurement Bill in Parliament.
* MoFPED has tabled Public Finance Bill in Parliament.
* Parliament has passed the Leadership Code and IGG Statutes Bill.
* Most Ministers, Presidential Advisors, Permanent Secretaries, Directors, and Uganda
Revenue Authority officials have submitted to the Inspectorate of Government their
statement of income, assets, and liabilities.
* MAAIF has completed a draft institutional review of public funding of agricultural
research.
* MoFPED and MoWLE have agreed on financial and institutional arrangements for the
implementation of the Land Sector Strategic Plan.
*  Satisfactory implementation of undertakings agreed in education sector review in April
2001 and confirmed by October 2001 review.
*  Satisfactory implementation of undertakings agreed in health sector review in April
2001 and confirmed by October 2001 review.
*  MoWLE/DWD has established fully staffed technical support units (TSUs).
37



* NWSC has adopted a formula for periodic tariff adjustment.
In addition, the Government has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of the overall
reform program and the PEAP/PRSP, as indicated in the PRSP progress report.
121.  PRSC3 Triggers. Whether IDA will proceed with the PRSC3 will be triggered by the
completion of the following:
*  In the annual public expenditure review, the Government has agreed with donors on
MTEF for 2002/03-2004/05, and has executed the 2002/03 budget through the first two
quarters consistent with budget allocations.
*  Leaders compliance with the provisions of the Leadership Code Act 2002.
*  Satisfactory implementation of undertakings agreed in the education sector review in
April 2002 and confirmed by the October 2002 review.
*  Satisfactory implementation of undertakings agreed in the health sector review in April
2002 and confirmed by the October 2002 review.
*  Satisfactory progress in implementation of public service management reforms.
* Satisfactory progress in implementation of public procurement reforms.
* Satisfactory progress in implementation of financial management reforms.
* Satisfactory progress in operationalization of the Plan for Modernization of Agriculture
(PMA).
*  Satisfactory progress in implementation of water and sanitation reforms.
B.   Implementation and Monitoring
122.  Monitoring Arrangements. Uganda has made great strides in the use of information for
policy making in recent years. One of the main objectives of the PRSC is to build on this positive
experience and help streamline the numerous ongoing monitoring and evaluation initiatives. Key
monitoring mechanisms for poverty and sector-level outcomes include regular household, service
delivery, and integrity surveys. In addition, annual expenditure tracking surveys will be carried
out in basic service sectors. Periodic participatory poverty assessments and enterprise surveys
will also be carried out. In addition, management information systems are being set up in the
health, education, and water and sanitation sectors, and a poverty monitoring strategy has been
prepared. Sector reviews in health and education have gone a long way towards agreeing on a
small but consistent set of monitoring indicators and their means of verification. Water and
sanitation and justice, law and order sectors also launched their sector programs in 2001. The
PRSC focuses, in particular, on ensuring that the reporting requirements set by the center on local
governments will be streamlined. Monitoring is increasingly a joint effort between the
Govermnent, IDA other donors, and civil society in the context of the PRSC review process,
PEAP/PRSP, and education, health, water and sanitation, and justice, law and order sector
reviews. The Government is currently exploring options to streamline and strengthen monitoring
arrangements.
123.  Supervision and Subsequent PRSCs. Supervision and preparation of the subsequent
Credits will take place in close collaboration with other donors and be consistent with the PRSP
review mechanism. The Govermnent will report to IDA and other donors on a quarterly basis on
progress made in each PRSC program area. In addition, the achievement of PRSC targets will be
38



assessed annually in the context of the PRSP review that will document the progress made in the
PEAP/PRSP implementation and analyze the outcomes of reforms. The reform program sets out
clear .quantitative and qualitative benchmarks for three years. The PRSC targets are fully
consistent with the PEAP/PRSP. The benchmarks for later years are guideposts to signal when
progress is advanced or falling behind in any given area. If progress is considered adequate,
Uganda's reform program will be supported through subsequent PRSCs under the programmatic
lending framework, subject to the approval of the Board of Executive Directors.  The
Government and IDA will agree on PRSC3 and PRSC4 on an annual basis.
C.   Credit Administration
124.   Borrower and Credit Amount. The Borrower is the Republic of Uganda. A single-
tranche Credit of SDR 120.2 million would be made available upon credit effectiveness,
anticipated for July 2002. The closing date of the Credit would be June 30, 2003. It is envisaged
that over the next two years, there will be two further single-tranche annual PRSCs (each in the
amount of US$150 million equivalent) to support the implementation of the PEAP/PRSP.
125. Disbursement, Reporting and Auditing Arrangements.16 The Credit will follow IDA's
simnplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations."7 In other words, the Credit
proceeds will be disbursed in compliance with the stipulated single tranche release conditions.
Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will
be needed. Once the Credit is approyed by the Board, the Borrower will open and maintain a
dedicated deposit account in US Dollars for the Borrower's use. As the single tranche is released
on Credit effectiveness, IDA will disburse the proceeds of the Credit into the deposit account.
Thereafter, at.the request of the MoFPED, the US Dollars amount will be converted to Uganda
Shillings at the-Bank of Uganda (BoU) for the credit of the Govermnent account (Consolidated
Fund Account) to be used subsequently for public.expenditures. If after deposit in the deposit
account the proceeds of the Credit or any part thereof are used for ineligible purposes, as defined
in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either: (i) return that
amount to the deposit account for use for eligible purposes, or (ii) refund the amount directly to
IDA.
126.   Through MoFPED, the Borrower will: (i) report the exact sum received into the deposit
account; (ii) indicate to IDA details of the Consolidated Fund Account to which the Uganda
Shillirigs equivalent of the Credit proceeds will be credited; (iii) ensure that all withdrawals from
the deposit account are for budgeted public expenditures except for purposes such as military
expenditures or for other items on IDA's negative list; (iv) report to IDA the equivalent in the
local currency of the US$ amount withdrawn from the deposit account producing evidence that
the local currency sum was paid into the Consolidated Fund Account and that disbursements from
that account were for budgeted public expenditures other than those on IDA's negative list; and
(v) submit a report on receipts and disbursements for both the deposit account and Consolidated
Fund to enable IDA to review the consistency of the withdrawal with the Development Credit
Agreement and the objectives of the Credit operation.
16 The RAF Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (August 1999) concluded that: "Uganda has made notable improvements in
enhancing transparency practices in key areas, especially fiscal and monetary policy and banking supervision".
17 Operational Memorandum: Simplifying Disbursements Under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans, February 8, 1996.
39



127.  The controls described above are intended to provide assurance that IDA funds have
arrived at their intended destination and are being used for their intended purpose of funding
budgeted public expenditures, and are subject to the Borrowers' rules and regulations.
128.  The following summarizes the external audits:
*  Deposit account. The deposit account will be independently audited on terms of
reference acceptable to IDA within 6 months of credit disbursement.
*  Audits. The capacity of the Auditor General (AG) will be augmented by a support
team of quality assurance managers to assist in improving audits.
*  Public (Government) accounts. The AG is required by law to produce his/her annual
report to Parliament on the Public Accounts within 9 months of the financial year-end.
IDA will have access to those Accounts.
* Bank of Uganda (BoU). The annual entity financial statements of BoU, audited in
accordance with International Auditing Standards as promulgated by the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC), are publicly available.
129.  The Country Financial Accountability Report (CFAA) on Uganda concluded that the
central and local government financial management systems represent high fiduciary risk. The
major recommendations contained in that report have been reflected in the reform program
supported by the PRSC. The challenge will be securing the effective implementation of those
recommendations in practice.  In that regard, the assiduous monitoring of the financial
management reform initiatives by the Government is critical.
130.  Environmental Assessment. Given that the proposed second PRSC includes a significant
focus on sectoral policies and institutions, it is treated as a sector adjustment operation for
purposes of the Bank's operational policies on environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01). The
Credit has been classified as Category B, with the requirement that environmental analysis be
incorporated in the Credit documentation (Annex 6), but no freestanding environmental
assessment report is required.
131.  According to the environmental analysis undertaken for the Credit, it is considered to
have mostly positive environmental impacts and most sector activities supported are not expected
to result in any significant negative environmental impacts. The sector activities associated with
potential environmental and social impacts are in the health, education, water and sanitation,
agriculture, agro-processing, and districts roads, where there are some direct and indirect
environmental and social issues that require evaluation and analysis. Preliminary assessment
carried out during the Credit preparation concludes that these are expected to be sufficiently
addressed by appropriate institutions and implementing agents (Annex 6). IDA currently has a
strong presence in both these sectors and will continue working with counterparts to ensure that
appropriate safeguard measures are promoted and incorporated into sector policy and planning.
132.  Environmental risks are associated with medical waste in health care, school and
facilities construction in education, several environmental design and sustainability issues of
water supply and sanitation facilities, and usage of pesticides in agriculture. Social concerns
include access to safe drinking water and economic strategies to expand point source and network
coverage to those who cannot afford such services, and community participation in choosing
water services and associated commitments to operation and maintenance. Potential conflict and
other social issues may arise with regard to land use and common property resources. The
40



Government and the implementing agencies have embarked on efforts to improve environmental
sustainability for these sectors. IDA is working with its counterparts in the Government to create
a viable framework for identifying and tracking key safeguard issues (Annex 6).
D.   Benefits and Risks
133.  Benefits. The proposed PRSC2 will help the Government to implement the PEAP/PRSP
and reach the goals set in the strategy. The reforms supported will strengthen the institutional
infrastructure needed to improve the public sector's capacity to carry out its role more effectively,
as envisioned in the PEAP/PRSP. Improved delivery of public services is essential if the
Government is to reach its goals for poverty reduction and improve the quality of life in Uganda.
134.  Risks and Efforts to Mitigate Tlhem. The Uganda CAS highlights the main risks facing
Government: institutional and human capacity, security, corruption, HIV/AIDS, exogenous
shocks (weather or terms of trade related), and political transition. While broader in scope than
the proposed Credit, these risks have a bearing on the PRSC as well. Risks that attend this
operation are as follows:
* There are pervasive institutional and human capacity weaknesses. They are especially
acute at the district level, given ongoing decentralization. There is a risk that these
constraints could impede the much needed improvement in public service delivery.
However, in addition to ongoing projects and non-lending services, the PRSC2 reform
agenda is geared to addressing institutional deficiencies and hence will help mitigate
against the risk. Also, a separate capacity building project is currently being designed
and is expected to be presented to the Board in the year 2003. This project will be
designed to complement the series of PRSCs, providing the needed technical
assistance to implement the reform program. Until the project becomes effective, the
support of other donors will continue to be solicited to support the technical assistance
needs of the Government.
*  Corruption remains a problem.  It could inhibit private sector confidence and
investment and hamper improvements in service delivery. However, the top leadership
in Uganda has stressed its commitment to rebuilding Uganda's ethics and integrity.
Key challenges facing the Government are the implementation of its anti-corruption
action plan and building an effective incentive system needed to improve service
delivery. The reform program supports both of these efforts.
* Fiduciary risks are significant. However, the Government is seeking to rapidly
enhance the financial accountability framework to mitigate these risks. These efforts
are at the center of the Government's reform program supported by the proposed
PRSC2.
* Institutional reforms are complicated and take time. Progress in many areas will be
gradual and measuring the impact of reforms initiated will be difficult. Lack of
immediate, tangible results may weaken the resolve to keep the momentum going and
raise questions about the results of the program. However, the benchmarks will
provide a roadmap spanning over a series of PRSCs to assess the Government's
commitment to the reform agenda.
* Development partners bring in a number of measures that require complementary
actions on their part; for example, integration of donor-funded projects in the MTEF,
and reaching a shared view on outcomes. However, since a number of other donors
41



intend to disburse their assistance against the PRSC reform prograrn, aligning donor
support for proposed reforms is likely to be easier.
VIII. COORDINATION W1ri OTHER DONORS
A.    Coordination with IMF
135.   The International Monetary Fund (IMF) will continue concentrating on macroeconomic
and financial sector issues in Uganda, focusing specifically on short- and medium-term
macroeconomic stability, financial sector regulation and supervision, and long-term
sustainability. As before, IDA will closely collaborate and coordinate activities with the IMF
staff. In particular, the staffs of the two institutions have prepared an updated debt sustainability
analysis for Uganda and will continue to prepare joint assessments of the PRSP and PRSP
Progress Reports on an annual basis. Also, the staffs are coordinating their efforts on fiscal
decentralization and governance issues.
136.   The IMF has been holding discussions with the Ugandan authorities on a program that
could be supported by a new three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
arrangement (see Box 1). The staffs of IDA and IMF are coordinating the contents of the PRSC
and PRGF to ensure that the instruments complement one another. In general, the social and
much of the structural and governance benchmarks will be covered by the PRSC, while the PRGF
structural program will focus on monetary and exchange rate policy, expenditure management,
near-term steps to improve monitoring and accountability of local government operations,
financial sector regulations and supervision, and tax administration issues.
Box 1. Proposed Second Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
Fund staff has been holding discussions with the authorities on a program to be supported by a new
three-year PRGF. In broad terms, the program aims to maintain macroeconomic stability, fiscal
and external stability, and encourage strong economic growth, including export growth and
diversification, in support of further reductions in poverty.  In this respect, the main
macroeconomic challenge will be effective and financially sound implementation of government
programs to support economic growth and poverty reduction, and the sterilization of fiscal liquidity
injections generated by the large amount of donor financed government spending.
The structural program will focus on the areas of tax administration, budget management,
monitoring of local government finances, financial sector regulations and supervision, and
improving the national accounts and fiscal statistics. Specifically, the program will seek measures
to reduce corruption in the Uganda Revenue Authority; broaden the commitment and control
system; establish regular reporting on local government operations; passage of a new financial
institutions bill; closure of insolvent banks; and development of the expenditure side of the national
accounts and fiscal statistics in line with the new Government Finance Statistics manual.
B.    Cooperation with AIDB
137.   Consistent with the memorandum of understanding between the African Development
Bank (AfDB) and the World Bank, the staffs of these organizations increasingly conduct joint
missions, share information and documents more systematically, and coordinate their respective
activities in Uganda. The AfDB has designed, in collaboration with the Government and donors,
a Poverty Reduction Support Loan (PRSL) that is consistent with and supports aspects of the
PRSC. In addition, the project modality, particularly at the sector level, remains an important
42



vehicle that the AfDB will use to channel financial aid to Uganda in the medium term. This
notwithstanding, the priority sectors in the PRSC are the same as those that would underpin the
strategic focus of the AfDB in Uganda over the period of 2002-2004, namely, agriculture and
rural development, and human resource development focusing on improving the quality and
equitable access to basic public services in education, health, and water and sanitation. The
AfDB also intends to place increased emphasis on cross-cutting public sector reforms and to
strengthen institutions as well as human capacity. This strategy will help ensure that AfDB's
project lending is consistent with the objectives of the PRSC.
C.   Partnership with Other Multilateral and Bilateral Donors
138.   A number of other donors (DflD, European Union, Ireland Aid, Netherlands) are
currently supporting the PEAP/PRSP using the programmatic approach, and some (KfW) are
planninmg to join the group. These donors use or plan to use the PRSC policy matrix as the
framework to disburse their support, whilst monitoring the PEAP/PRSP implementation via the
MTEF,and PEAPIPRSP processes. The donors disbursing against the PRSC policy matrix are
currently exploring the options to move towards shared disbursement cycle and monitoring.
Several other donors also remain closely associated with the process (Austrian Aid, DANIDA,
NORAD, SIDA, UNDP, USAID). The Government has confirmed that this approach is in line
with the partnership principles espoused in the PEAP/PRSP and spelled out in the PEAP volume
III. They welcome the fact that donors will have shared and hence compatible benchmarks as this
approach will free up time for officials to perform their other duties.
139.   At the sector level, donors have agreed to operate within Government's education, health,
water and sanitation, and justice, law and order policies and priorities in the context of the sector
review process. In the health sector, for example, Belgium, UK (DFID), Ireland, Sweden, and
IDA will provide their support in a programmatic fashion and use joint documentation.
43



UGANDA
SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
Schedules
Schedule 1   Letter of Development Policy
Schedule 2.  Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies and Progress Indicators
Schedule 3.  Quantitative Monitoring Indicators and Outcome Targets



Schedule 1
Ministry of Finance,
Telophones: Ministr.*                                           Planning & Economic
Kariupala: 232370                                      Development
Offtie,                                                PO     o     17
Kampala 23s700i9 (10 Isuias)                           P .0. Box 8147,
Fax:    3ZO1631)41337                                           Kampala.
Email:  lanance@iflUICOm                                        Uganda
In any cOrraspOn@enCe On 
Wnis supjec please quoTe No FAD.91113721 J
TtiE R.EPUSuC OF UGMDA
29"' May 2002
Mr James L). Wolfensohn
Presidekt
LnternaTional Development Association
3 I I l1 STreet, NW
Washington DC 20433
Dear Mr Walferesohi:
RE: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1. I am wnung to request, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Uganda, a second
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) of SDR 120.2 million in support of our strategy
under Thc Poverty fr4dicaTion Action Plan (PEAP). This leitcr seTs out the actions that
Governinent will undertake over the medium term to implement the strategy, focusing on
measures that will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of Government operations,
resulting in improved servicc delivery, particularly io ihe poor. In addition, I am attaching a
policy matrix and a matrix of quantiiative morrtooring in ic4tors and outcome targets we have
prepared in collaboration with the IDA team and other donors that sets out The contents of this
letter in summary form.
2. lhe prioritisatiolL process in the autached matrix incorporates critical time constraints on
the various actions and outputs descnbed. Completion of the actions and outputs shown in
bold typeface in the matrix by April 2002 is considered critical to the success of our refonns.
Thcrefore, we propose these actions and outputs as prior actions for PRSC 11. The remaining
actions and outputs represent our vision of the ongoing process and our best current estimate
of aciions and outputs that will be carried out and demonstxate the ongoing success of cur
reform process during the subsequenm iwo years
I. Background and Recent Developmetts
3. The overridin, objective of Government policy is the reduction of poverty in Uganda.
L ganda's first national comprehensive str4iegy for fighTing poverry, the Poverty E-radication
Action Plan (PEAP) was completed in 1997 and has guidcd Govemment policy since then.
The PEAP has becn extremely influenTial in guiding ihe preparation of sector-wide
approaches to policy reform and invesunent programnuiing, aTid iTnproving the focus of
Goveriunent's rhree-year rolling Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in the fight
against poverty.
47



Schedule 1
4. The PEAP was revised during 2000 in the light of progress obtained since 1997, including
the development of sector-wide approaches, the findings of the Uganda Participatory Poverty
Assessment Project (UPPAP), the constraints identified in the 1999 Poverty Status Report, and
the development of costings of public actions and monitorable indicators in key poverty-oriented
sectors. In addition, the PEAP has taken into consideration the sector investment plans
completed so far, including the Education Sector Investment Plan (ESIP), the 10-Year Strategic
Plan for Main Roads (RSDP), the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP), the Plan for the
Modernisation of Agriculture (PMA), and the Medium Term Competitiveness Strategy for the
Private Sector (MTCS). The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which was endorsed by
the Boards of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in April/May 2000, is a
summary of the revised PEAP. The Poverty Status Report 2001 was the basis for the first PRSP
progress report. Since Government is scheduled to prepare a Poverty Status Report only every
second year, this year the PRSP Progress Report is a summary of Government's Background to
the Budget document. The next revision of the PEAP is due to start in the 2002 calendar year and
completion is expected in 2003.
5. Government wishes to improve both the efficiency of its delivery of public services and the
effectiveness of these services in reducing poverty. While these concepts are interlinked,
increased efficiency implies improved management systems and practices in the public sector,
including improved financial accountability. Improved effectiveness implies a closer alignment
between outcomes and policy objectives through greater focus on service outputs during budget
preparation and implementation. Government is therefore requesting the second Poverty
Reduction Support Credit from the World Bank to support Govermment's reforms in these areas
and help finance implementation of the PEAP. The reform programme outlined below will help
ensure the success of the PEAP.
2. The Reform Program
6. The revised PEAP is structured around four overarching pillars:
* rapid and sustainable economic growth and structural transformation;
* good governance and security;
* increased ability of the poor to raise their incomes; and
* enhanced quality of life of the poor.
The selected policy reform measures set out below are grouped under the same four headings.
PEAP Pillar 1: Rapid and Sustainable Economic Growth and Structural Transformation
Efficient and Equitable Use of Public Resources
The Macro-economy
7. Since 1987, Government has introduced macro-economic reforms aimed at restoring and
maintaining macro-economic stability and undertaken structural reforms aimed at improving
Uganda's economic, social and institutional infrastructure. The results have been impressive.
48



Schedule 1
GDP growth has averaged close to 7 percent since 1987, inflation has averaged 5.5 percent since
1992/93, whilst international reserves have accumulated to comfortable levels of about 5 months
of imports of goods and services. Domestic Government revenue increased from 6 percent of
GDP in 1986/87 to close to 12 percent currently and, while maintaining macro-economic
stability, Government has been able to increase public expenditure from 8.6 percent of GDP in
1986/87 to 22.7% percent in 2000/01. Generous external assistance from our development
partners; has also substantially contributed to these positive developments. In 1999/2000 and
2000/01 we experienced a slow down in economic growth to between 5.5 and 6 percent due to
adverse 'terms of trade as international coffee prices declined. In this fiscal year, economic
growth has started to pick up again, and the real GDP is estimated to have grown by 5.9% in
2001/02.
8. In the 1990s Uganda has established a welfare monitoring system with regular household
surveys. These show a dramatic and consistent downward trend in income poverty and suggest
that Government is on track in achieving its longer term target of eradicating poverty. By
1999/2000, the share of Ugandans living below the poverty line (based on the headcount index)
had fallen to 35 percent from 56 percent in 1992/93. For most of the 1990s, poverty fell fastest
for the poorest sections of society as evidenced by the more rapid growth in real household
consumption. This trend has, however, been reversed in the North because of prolonged
insurgency.
'9. Governrment regards continued macro-economic stability as critical for a framework that
promotes economic growth. No changes of direction are planned, therefore. Rather we will
continue with existing policies aimed at achieving the following macro-economic targets:
' achieve GDP growth rate of 7 percent;
*   contain underlying inflation to nlo more than 5 percent;
*   maintain foreign reserves at about five months' imports of goods and services;
* sustain levels of external debt; and
*  support a competitive exchange rate.
'Revenue
10. After having roughly doubled in the early 1990s, Government revenue as a proportion of
GDP has stagnated at 11-12 percent since 1996/97. This has seriously constrained the size of the
iresource! envelope and also the level of expenditures necessary for attaining PEAP objectives.
[ncreasing the revenue yield as a percentage of GDP will require significant efficiency
improvement at the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA), increased efforts to mobilise non-tax
wrevenue of Government agencies and increased revenue-generating capacity of local
3overnments. To improve URA performance, Government has taken measures including
recruitment of new top management that is in the process of improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of URA operations by:
* ensuring the design and implementation of a viable business plan and human resource
development plan; and
49



Schedule 1
* ensuring the development and implementation of a new and effective integrated computer
system to facilitate administration of internal taxes in a single application and enabling the
sharing of information with customs.
11. With assistance from the IMF and DFID, Government is currently implementing the above
reforms focussing on effective computerisation, improving the professional skills of URA staff,
removing corrupt staff and reducing smuggling.
12. With regard to Non Tax Revenue, the outturn for 200/01 against target was around 63% -
Shs. 54.1 billion out of a projection of Shs. 86.5 billion. This is less than 1% of GDP. The
operational constraints that give rise to such poor levels of collection (both potential and actual)
have been identified as:
*  failure by some ministries to budget adequately for Non Tax Revenue. In some cases it is
likely that collections are better than projections, but there is a lack of transparency in the
submissions;
*  inadequate incentive for the collecting institutions to increase their collections of Non
Tax Revenue.
13. To address these constraints, during fiscal year 2001/02 Government has introduced the
following measures to increase collections:
*  abolition of Appropriation in Aid (AIA) so that all Non Tax Revenue collections are
remitted to the Consolidated Fund bank account and no funds are used at source. In
addition, where AIA was shown as a single line budget item, budget for former AIA
expenditure against specific line items such as fuel;
*  publication of the Non Tax Revenue budget estimates;
* require ministries to budget for revenue collections and project monthly collections.
Failure to meet the resulting targets will lead to deductions from the subsequent cash
release from the Treasury for the defaulting ministry;
*  phase transfers of collection on Non Tax Revenue to the URA to minimise leakage of
funds;
*  increase inspection;
*  review and systematically update rates and charges, some of which are long out of date.
14. During the initial phase, the collection of passport fees has been transferred to the URA.
During the first half of 2001/02 collections have exceeded the annual target by a significant
margin.
Strategic Exports
15. Macro-economic policy will be accompanied by a deepening of current institutional reforms
in the public sector and in other key areas such as public utilities, transport infrastructure, the
commercial justice system and the banking and financial system, which are aimed at removing
key constraints to private sector growth. These reforms are set out in the Government's Medium
Term Competitive Strategy for the Private Sector (2000-2005).
50



Schedule :1
16. Government is committed to removing specific bottlenecks that impede the ability of the
private sector to take advantage of the African Growth Opportunities Act (AGOA) in the USA,
the "Everything But Arms" initiative in the European Union and other trade opportunities. To
t]is end Government has decided to focus on a few strategic export commodities as part of its'
efforts to remove bottlenecks that impede the growth and development of exports.
17. To increase total export earnings, Govermnent is implementing a strategy that seeks to
strengthen activities encouraging strategic exports. This is an important area for Uganda and
CGovernment has initiated a dialogue that is expected to identify priority activities that will
strengthen strategic exports. Commodities that Government has identified as strategic for export,
based on Uganda's production potential and world market prospects, include coffee, tea,
livestock, fish, cotton, horticulture and Irish potatoes. In addition, in the service sector,
Information and Communications Technology (ICT) has been identified as another potential
export area. Government is working closely with the donor community to identify suitable
interventions and the timing of the necessary activities.
1 . Some of the Government interventions during 2001/02 that are aimed at achieving the above
export objectives are:
* the support of skills development in: textiles and garment manufacture; export products
development; and knowledge and application of international trade rules and regulations;
* support for farmer groups and export associations through training and skills
development and the acquisition of appropriate tools and equipment;
* accelerated production of planting and stocking materials including fish fry; and
* fast track formulation and/or amendment of laws and regulations that govern strategic
exports.
19. As these interventions are in their infancy and early, signs are encouraging, it is too early to
draw concrete conclusions regarding their effectiveness regarding increases in future exports.
Allocations and Actual Expenditure
20. From a situation ten years ago where the majority of public expenditure was determined by
donor priorities, considerable progress has been made in ensuring that most public expenditure,
whether Government or donor-financed, now reflects the priorities set out in the PEAP. The
development of the MTEF and sector investment programmes in key sectors such as education
and health have strengthened the alignment of donor funding with PEAP priorities. Government
will continue to place priority on adequate funding of PEAP priorities in the MTEF. To this end,
Government will continue (through its Public Expenditure Review process) to agree with its
development partners, including IDA, oln the broad composition of the MTEF as it is updated
each year. In order to monitor that budget execution is consistent with the agreed budget,
Government will continue to share relevant information with its development partners for review
and discussion. In the annual Public Expenditure Review in May 2001, Government agreed with
the donors, including IDA, on the Medium Term Expenditure Framework for 2001/02-2003/04.
51



Schedule 1
It has also been agreed that Government has executed the 2001/02 budget through the first two
quarters of the fiscal year consistent with the agreed allocations.
21. The macro-economic achievements outlined above have been underpinned by the MTEF, the
resource envelope of which has consisted of non-inflationary sources of financing. In recent
years, this has been supported by the Poverty Action Fund (PAF), which was created in 1998
mainly out of the expenditure savings arising from the highly indebted poor country (HIPC) debt
relief and enhanced HIPC initiatives and additional donor funding. As a result there has been a
major shift of resources into PAF which has increased from 18% of the Government budget in
1997/98 to 35% of the Government budget in 2001/02. These reforms have encouraged donors to
shift their financing away from projects towards programmatic support because they broadly
share the policy priorities articulated by Government and expressed in the MTEF and are
confident that the sectors they feel are important will be funded. Government has encouraged
this shift because it strengthens the budget system, facilitates the planning of prioritised
expenditure on a coherent sectoral basis, increases Government's flexibility in resource
allocation and simplifies aid management.
22. To improve coverage of the MTEF, Government intends over time to integrate donor project-
financing within the MTEF process. Government has so far integrated expenditure ceilings for
donor projects in 2002/03-2004/05 MTEF for education, health, and water and sanitation. As part
of the MTEF process, sector working groups were given envelopes for externally financed
projects and asked to identify development priorities over the MTEF period within these ceilings.
The plan is to extend this to at least two additional sectors in the 2003/04-2004/05 MTEF, and
thereafter to the remaining sectors. It is important to recognise the significance of the active
involvement of all stakeholders in this initiative. As part of the solution to address this issue,
Government is seeking to move the Stockholm Partnership process forward. The role of the
donor community in providing the necessary level of detail of expected disbursements to enable
the allocation of donor projects' funding into the MTEF process was initiated during a Joint
Partnership Meeting held in Entebbe during September 2001.
23. In the preparation of the MTEF, staffing and wage-level issues have been handled outside the
sector-specific expenditure programmes. This has had the effect of significantly restricting the
range of budgetary choices available to these sectors. As a pilot effort, the sector working groups
for health and education have explicitly included staffing and wage issues in their Budget
Framework Papers for the period 2001/02-2003/04. For the 2002/03 to 2004/05 Budget
Framework Papers, the Sector Working Group Terms of Reference and Guidelines have been
revised to address staffing and wage issues in all sectors. In addition, Government is seeking to
appraise and review Sector Working Group responsibilities and performance more objectively
starting with the current budget cycle. The newly formed Public Expenditure Review Working
Group is spearheading this initiative.
24. Government will also endeavour to ensure that execution of the budget is consistent with the
MTEF objectives. As part of this process the Budget Performance Report for 2000/01, which
analyses discrepancies between budgeted and actual revenues and expenditure,was produced and
published for distribution during the first budget framework consultative workshop at the end of
52



Schedule iL
October 2001. The Budget Performance Report for the half year to December 2001 has also been
published and distributed and this marks the beginning of semi annual published Budget
Performance Reports.
Intergovernmental Transfers
25. A number of issues have arisen in the system of fiscal transfers from central to local
government. Under the current system, a multitude of conditional grants fund basic service
delivery, while the unconditional grants mainly fund the associated management and
administration expenses. One issue is that in the attempt to ensure that conditional grants are
used for the purposes for which they are intended, mainly activities falling under the PAF,
guidelines for use of the grants have not been flexible enough. As conditional grants provide
about 80 percent of total grant funding, local governments, particularly those at lower levels,
consider that their particular needs are not being addressed, implying less than maximum
e5fectiveness. Second, cumbersome reporting systems and multiple bank accounts, though
designed to ensure proper use of funds, have led to system inefficiencies, while also failing to
ensure accountability. Third, there is an inherent balance that must be found between transfers
along sectoral lines that are oriented towards national priorities and transfers along non-sectorat
lines that are oriented towards local priorities. Fourth, unconditional grants have, in many
districts, not been sufficient to finance the management and administration costs of service
delivery, thereby affecting the quality of service delivery itself.
26. To address these issues, MoFPED commissioned a comprehensive study on the system of
fiscal transfers in October 2000. The results of the study were presented to all stakeholders in a
series of workshops in January 2001. Since then, based on the recommendations of the study,
Government has prepared a strategy for a modified fiscal transfer system oriented towards both
increased!efficiency and effectiveness. This strategy has been finalised and presented to Cabinet
during FY 2001/02. Implementation will begin in FY 2002/03.
Mlonitoring and Evaluation and Results-Oriented Budget Planning
27. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) processes require strengthening in order for stakeholders
to determine more easily whether the effectiveness of public service delivery is increasing and
the pace 'of poverty reduction is maintained. M&E remains at present overly centred on
compliance with government rules and regulations and with focus on inputs and processes rather
thban on the end results of policy, program and project efforts. Recurrent and development
expendituies are reviewed separately rather than for their combined contribution towards overall
goals. The collecting, organising and use of data for M&E are compartmentalised and
fragmented between multiple government and donor planning and progress reporting
alTangements. Officials are therefore burdened with reports but they have little systematic
information about the performance and effectiveness of actual public service delivery.
2:3. Government has established a task force from the existing Poverty Monitoring Network to
prepare an action plan that will strearmline and strengthen M&E. It has also prepared and
submitted to Cabinet a national poverty monitoring and evaluation strategy. Under the guidance
oi the task force, the harmonisation of different progress reporting and evaluation formats has
started, with potentially substantial resource savings for Government. Government has initiated a
53



Schedule 1
review of M&E in education, health, water and sanitation, and agriculture to identify ways to
strengthen and streamline existing arrangements.
29. To this end, we are enhancing transparency and consultation in the budget process, but we
need to do more in terms of generating feedback from the public on the quality of service
delivery. Govermment sees it as critical that the findings of the National Service Delivery Survey
recently carried out by the Ministry of Public Service be utilised to establish a baseline, goals
and targets for service delivery and measures of client satisfaction. The findings were
disseminated last year and the plan is to translate the results into service delivery standards to
assess performance. Translating the results of the survey into standards has turned out to be
complicated since, among other things, the format and frequency of further service delivery
surveys are only now being decided.
30. To ensure that managers focus on real progress towards PEAP/PRSP objectives, Government
will undertake the following:
* continued efforts to establish clear output and outcome targets at the sectoral and district
levels. Such targets will cascade through from the National Poverty Monitoring and
Evaluation Strategy (NPM and E) to sector and district policies, budget frameworks and
work plans. Projects like the Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment Programme
(UPPAP) represent a way of bringing a bottom-up perspective to planning and spending
decisions. Last year, the roads, education, health and water and sanitation sectors
introduced output targets and monitoring of results in their Budget Framework Papers
(BFP). This year the practice was extended to the Justice, Law and Order sector. This
process will be extended to other sectors in subsequent years;
* continued alignment of the Outcome-Oriented Budget (OOB) process being implemented
by the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED) with
Results Oriented Management (ROM) being implemented by the Ministry of Public
Service (MoPS), to ensure consistency of targets and accountability. So far, MoFPED, in
consultation with MoPS, has started integrating ROM in the budget process.
Reconciliation of ROM and OOB is taking longer than initially expected and MoFPED
and MoPS are going to prepare an action plan to align the two initiatives. Since 1997, a
programme of Results-Oriented Management (ROM), geared towards enhancing
performance and accountability, has been launched. All Ministries, Departments and
Local Governments are required to prepare annual performance plans that reflect their
performance output targets and with verifiable indicators as a basis for appraisal of
performance by the organisation and staff. ROM will complement the Output-Oriented
Budgeting (OOB) initiative to facilitate the attainment of efficiency and accountability in
the use of budgeted resources.
54



Schedule 1
PiLLAR 2: GOOD GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY
IMPROVE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND PRACTICES IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
31. In order to further improve service delivery and encourage donors to adopt programmatic
funding as opposed to project funding, there are a number of cross-cutting issues that
Government has targeted for improvement:
* reforming the public service, including pay;
* reforming the public procurement system;
* strengthening financial management in the public service;
* increasing transparency and civil society participation;
* implementing the Government Strategy and Plan of Action to Fight Corruption and Build
Ethics and Integrity in Public Office.
:32. Looking at each of the above issues, I am setting out below the progress made so far and our
intended actions in the next few years.
P'ublic Service Management
53. Government has pursued and sustained a public service reform programme that was launched
in the early 1990s. A downsizing initiative launched in 1992 reduced the numbers on the
Government payroll by about a half over five years, from about 320,000 to 160,000 in 1997.
Thereafter, there have been continuous efforts to right-size the of the public service with a view
to enhancing its capacity and performance in delivering essential services to the public.
Following the introduction of Universal Primary Education (UPE); Primary Health Care Strategy
(PHC); the Plan for Modernisation of Agriculture PMA); and the expanded administrative
demands due to the creation of new districts; there is a steady increase in numbers to match the
agreed staff establishment. Consequently, the number of Government employees has risen
relatively fast in the past few years to 208,793 as of April 2002. The expansion of the Public
Service through the creation of new institutions will be reviewed to ensure cost effectiveness and
to contain expenditure on Public Administration. MoPS has initiated a study on: (i) the
implications of expanded public administration on the wage bill; and (ii) cost-effectiveness of
increased employment in social sectors.
34. A programme for systematic rationalisation and restructuring underpin the right sizing
exercise. Operations that are non-core will be abolished or divested to quasi-autonomous
agencies so that ministries can focus on policy and regulatory functions. The Executive Agencies
Btill is being drafted to provide a legal framework for the creation of agencies.
35. An amoitious programme of decentralisation of delivery of primary public services to local
governments has been a central thrust of the public service reform. The programme, which is
backed by the constitutional changes legislated in 1995, involves devolution of mandates as well
as resources to local governments. Since then, there has been a fiscal transfer of considerable
resources to Local Governments, which niow accounts for about 35% of total Government funded
55



Schedule 1
expenditure. Meanwhile, with considerable support from the Bank and other development
partners, major initiatives to improve effectiveness and ensure sustainability of the
decentralisation programme by strengthening the resource base of the local governments have
been launched. An on-going review of local government structures will form a basis for
rationalising and developing appropriate human resource strategies.
36. Government recognises inadequate capacity as a major constraint to effective and sustained
implementation of the programs for public service reform. Therefore, capacity building
continues to receive priority attention. To this end, among other measures, Government has
approached the World Bank and other development partners to support an initiative for
comprehensive and innovative measures to enhance capacity and performance across the public
sector.
37. A major constraint to capacity building and maintaining morale, discipline, performance and
integrity of public servants is poor pay especially for public service managers and professionals.
Wage bill limitations, reflecting the severe budgetary constraints facing Government have not
enabled the sustainability of the progress in salary enhancement. These limitations are now
exacerbated by the relatively rapid growth in the public service numbers as more teachers and
health workers are recruited to meet the demands of expansion in services crucial to our poverty
reduction agenda.
38. Since my previous communication on this subject in the Letter of Development Policy for the
first PRSC, Government has put in place a medium-term pay reform policy. This policy supports
a strategy in which the priority objectives to be pursued in the medium-term are circumscribed
by the severity of resource constraints, as reflected in the wage bill envelope, and the need to be
responsible to the market for scarce managerial, technical and professional skills. In this context,
the pay reform strategy will pursue the following two priority policy targets: (i) to minimise
distortions arising from past selective pay awards and non-duty facilitating allowances, and (ii)
to achieve market-benchmarked pay targets for managerial, technical and professional cadres. In
the long-run, the objective will also be to preserve the purchasing power of pay levels for all.
39. During October 2001, Government and our Development Partners held a Joint Strategic
Review on the Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP). The Joint Review presented
stakeholders with an opportunity to refocus the Programme and consider proposals for the new
Public Sector Reform Strategy. As a follow up to the review, further consultations with
stakeholders were held in order to refine the strategy. As a result, it has been agreed that the
Public Service Reform Programme will aim to achieve three key objectives, namely:
* to enhance the capacity of the Public Service to design, implement and monitor policies
for social-economic transformation and poverty reduction in a decentralised context;
* to improve employee motivation and morale; and
* to improve the efficiency and quality of Public Services.
40. Consequently, a draft Strategic Framework for the Public Service Reform Programme has
been drawn up focusing on five broad areas of:
56



Schedule 1
* public service remuneration;
*  capacity enhancement;
* performance management;
* managing structures; and
*  co-ordination, monitoring and evaluation of cross-cutting reforms.
41. The above objectives and strategies are expected to guide the Public Sector Refonn
Programme over the period 2002 to 2007.
42. Government has continued to sustain the improvement in payroll management that have been
introduced over the past year. In particular, following decentralisation of the Teachers' Payroll
manual processes, newly recruited teachers are accessing the payroll within one month from the
date of assumption of duty. A Payroll Management Action Plan has been developed to ensure an
integrated approach to actions intended to improve the management of the payroll. In the
medium term, emphasis will be placed on strengthening internal payroll controls and developing
an Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPS) compatible with the Integrated
Financial Management System that is currently being developed.
I'ublic rrocurement
43. Government has realised that the existing public procurement system is inadequate to address
the demands of a liberalised economy modelled on the principles of economy, efficiency and
transparency. In order to address these inadequacies, Government established a Task Force in
I)ecember 1997 aimed at reviewing the procurement system and proposing a system that will
ensure transparency, economy, and efficiency in public procurement. The report of the Task
Force identified a number of major weaknesses. First, the legal instruments for controlling the
procuremient process are not only diffused over several laws and regulations, but they also lack
enforcemient and monitoring provisions. Second, the procedures in a number of areas are
deficient:' lack of standard procurement documents, weak conflict of interest provisions,
inadequate contract management and monitoring provisions and inadequate record keeping
systems. Third, the former Central Tender Board (CTB) was found to be inefficient, and lacking
in autonomy, while its membership did not represent the full' cross-section of stakeholders.
Lastly, there was a serious shortage of skilled, qualified and experienced procurement staff in the
country, partly because donors have often perforned the procurement function.
44. The Task Force focused only on procurement systems at the central Government level, but
the donor community and Government, through the Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR), reviewed the whole public sector procurement system, including that of the local
governments. The CPAR exercise identified more weaknesses in the system, including
inconsistencies between the central and local government procedures, overly restrictive tendering
al: local government level, lack of provisions for procurement planning and weak management of
the pre-shipment inspection function.
4:5. Following the recommendations of the Task Force and the CPAR, Government is reforming
the procurement system in the medium term through the following actions:
57



Schedule 1
* a new Procurement Bill has been tabled in Parliament in 2001/02;
* new Public Finance (Procurement) Regulations for ministries, departments and agencies
became effective March 1, 2001;
* procurement regulations at central and local government levels are being harmonised;
* MOPS has issued instructions to procurement entities to establish procurement units. The
creation of units was delayed because, before creating the units, MOPS had to create the
positions and map them to various entities.;
* the CTB has been transformed into an autonomous regulatory institution and renamed the
Reformed Central Tender Board (RCTB) in March 2001;
* contract committees were established in 2000/01 in all ministries with full authority to
undertake procurement;
* RCTB has re-emphasised the responsibility of Accounting Officers for the procurement
function of their institution by reiterating this requirement in their annual letters of
appointment during 2001/02;
* Weak procurement entities will hire procurement agents to provide support;
* Government has incorporated procurement plans in sector expenditure programs in
health, education, and water and sanitation;
* RCTB will publish the first quarterly report of contracts awarded costing more than
US$200,000 by mid May 2002;
* RCTB will carry out ex post procurement audit of a sample of 20 percent of the value of
the 2001/02 recurrent and capital procurement expenditures for education, health and
water and sanitation by March 2003;
* MoFPED has recruited consultants to undertake a study on options for partial
privatisation of National Medical Stores (NMS). The plan is to privatise NMS by April
2004.
46. The budget allocated to the above reforms amounts to Ush 4 billion in 2001/02. The reforms
are expected to be completed during 2002/03 at a further cost of Ush 5.3 billion. Training of
contract committees and procurement units has already commenced and will be a continuous
activity. Government will continue to ensure that funds for procurement reform are included in
the MTEF.
Financial Management
47. In recent years, significant improvements in public sector accounting and reporting have
been achieved. Most notably, (1) the annual public accounts of central Government have been
produced within the statutory period, (2) the backlog of the preparation and audit of local
government annual accounts have been cleared and (3) tracking studies have been carried out
and follow-up actions taken in two line ministries. Still, a number of measures are required to
strengthen and enhance financial management within government.
48. With the support of a number of donor assisted initiatives, such as the Second Economic and
Financial Management Project (EFMP 1I) and the Local Government Development Project
(LGDP) supported by IDA, and the Financial Accountability and Decentralisation Support
58



Schedule 1
Projectffunded by DFID, Government is seeking to rapidly enhance the financial accountability
framework in pursuit of the following objectives:
* mitigate fiduciary risk in public expenditure management for both taxpayers and donors;
* achieve economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds;
* enhance transparency and accountability; and
* establish an appropriate enabling enivironment for private sector development and regulation.
49. To achieve these objectives, Government has undertaken the following measures:
* strengthened the legal and regulatory framework by tabling a new Public Finance and
Accountability Bill in Parliament;
* improved the quality and timeliness of Government financial reporting, by producing
semi-annual consolidated reports on budget execution;
*  appointed consultants to design a computer based Integrated Financial Management
System (IFMS). The system is expected to be launched in 2003/04 initially at the
MoFPED and rolled out thereafter in a pilot project to selected line ministries and local
government authorities in a step-by-step approach;
*  established a financial management team of accounting professionals appointed to form a
support unit for both central and local government accounting and internal audit
functions;
* reconciled and started the process to regularise material non-reconciled items referred to
in the 1999 Report of the Auditor General on the Public Accounts, including the
Consolidated Revenue Fund and bank accounts;
* completed the audit of the backlog of previous year's annual accounts of districts and
urban authorities as well as those accounts submitted for the most recent financial year;
* provided adequate information on actual public spending on frontline basic services usinLg
expenditure tracking surveys;
* submitted to the Cabinet a memorandum on enhancing the independence of the Auditor
General through initiatives that will increase the OAG's influence on its own funding and
human resource management without violating the constitutional position and status of
the supreme audit institution;
* improved the effectiveness of the Office of the Auditor General through recruitment of
additional quality assurance managers and capacity building initiatives;
* released the Treasury Memorandum for the fiscal year 1996/97.
50. Some indicative PRSC2 benchmarks in PRSC1 policy matrix differ from the actual PRSC2
benchmarks as a result of the following factors:
* The target date of 31 March 2001 for the planning, design and development of the IFMS
was not achievable because the design phase took longer than originally envisaged under
the EFMP II. However, some significant progress has been achieved as reflected in the
restated objectives. It is envisaged that the design will be completed by 30 June 2002 and
subsequently approved after which the contracting will be undertaken.
59



Schedule 1
*  The regularization process of material brought forward items in the government bank
accounts and consolidated fund has started, but will take longer than initially envisaged,
and is now expected to be completed by mid 2002.
*  The preparation of quarterly financial statements is on track. However, with the current
manual accounting system the first half of the financial year is primarily occupied with
the preparation of the annual financial statements and assisting the external auditors with
queries. For this reason quarterly financial statements for the first half year is
impracticable and it had been decided to prepare a semi-annual report for this period.
*  While it was envisaged under PRSC1 that MOFPED would provide additional
accounting staff to MOES, MOH, MOWLE, and to at least 10 of the weakest districts,
the focus of this target has changed as the MoFPED cannot appoint accountants if they
are not indicated in the organisational structure of a ministry. New accountants so far
recruited by MoFPED have been posted in the Treasury, which was assessed to be in
highest need of strengthening. In addition, further recruitment is being carried out under
the aegis of EFMP II. Ten accounting professionals are being recruited to fortn a support
unit for both central and local government accounting and internal audit functions. This
unit will be deployed in Ministries and Districts as the need arises. One of the main tasks
of the team would be to implement a training program based on a national training needs
assessment that was conducted under the EFMIP II.
*  The appointment of quality assurance managers by the OAG has been delayed as the
process of preparation of TOR's and recruitment took longer than envisaged. Short listing
is completed and interviews will soon be conducted. The appointment process will be
completed by September 2002.
Transparency and Anti-Corruption, Participation and Legal and Judicial Reform
Transparency and Anti-Corruption
51. Government plans to improve the right of access to public information, as one of the
measures to improving accountability. First, we plan to revise the Official Secrets Acts, and
replace it with a modern access to government information law. Consultations with stakeholders
on access to government information have already started and in the next fiscal year, the plan is
to assemble recommendations for enactment of the law.
52. We have embarked on issuing a number of publications to clarify Government processes and
the rights and responsibilities of stakeholders in those processes. For example, "The Citizens
Guide to the Budget Process" has been issued by my Ministry in English and also in the most
commonly used Ugandan languages. My Ministry has also prepared and approved a
communication strategy for full implementation by March 2003.
53. Government has increasingly continued to use public information to empower citizens to
demand greater accountability from local governments. My Ministry, together with the Ministry
of Local Government regularly disseminates information through the media on both the PEAP
and also provides details of mandatory financial releases to primary schools. Our plan is to
extend this practice to health, water and sanitation and agriculture services so that public notices
60



Schedule I
of financial transfers for these services will be posted at facilities, districts and sub-counties,
respectively.
54. Government has singled out the following priorities to signal progress in its fight against
corruption.
* The Hon Minister of State for Ethics and Integrity (MSEI) tabled and Parliament passed.,
the Inspectorate of Government (IGG) Bill, which was then assented to by H.E the
President in March 2002. The I(GG Act 2001 puts into effect the improved powers and
procedures required by the Inspectorate of Government to fight corruption more
effectively as provided for in the 1995 constitution;
*  The Inspector General of Government has also proposed a stronger follow-up mechanism
for his reports. By April 2003 Government should have strong follow up mechanisms
emanating out of these recommendations;
* The Leadership Code Bill 2001 has been tabled and passed by Parliament and now awaits
assent by H.E the President. The Leadership Code also caters for a wider group of key
leaders and closes the loopholes in the old one, and also provides avenues for citizen to
access leaders' asset declarations. It provides for sanctions for non-compliance, including
disqualification from office;
*  To this effect most Ministers (95 percent), Presidential Advisors on pay roll (77 percent),
Peimanent Secretaries (100 percent), Directors (100 percent), and Uganda Revenue
Authority Officials (100 percent), have submitted their statement of income, assets and
liabilities;
* The process for whistleblower protection legislation has already started. Consultations
are going on, but the process may take longer than expected because Government has
decided to conduct broader consultations than initially planned to ensure broad support
for the proposed bill. Government plans to table the principles for the law before Cabinet
by April 2004;
* Government has also set out the following broad areas for action: (i) strengthening the
capacity of law enforcement for better detection, investigation, prosecution and judgment
of corruption cases; (ii) strengdlening the procurement systems; (iii) strengthening
financial accountability; (iv) implementing public sector pay reform; (v) ensuring
effective co-ordination of agencies on corruption issues; (vi) strengthening the legal
framework related to corruption; and (vii) strengthening the system of enforcement of
codes of conduct. Implementing this action plan has necessitated the participation of
several agencies under the co-ordination of the Directorate for Ethics and Integrity (DEI),
in the Office of the President.
55. In 1996, H.E President Museveni made eradicating corruption a national priority. In 1998,the
Government prepared a draft plan to combat corruption. After broad-based stakeholder
participation the plan was revised and in July 2000 and the President launched the "Government
Strategy and Plan of Action to Fight Corruption and Rebuild Ethics and Integrity in Public
O-ffice- Fiscal Years 2000/01-2002/03. 'The plan aims at building capacity for co-ordination,
plmnning and monitoring anti-corruption efforts and building the ethics and integrity of the
people of Uganda.
61



Schedule 1
56. In this connection, Government is reviewing all anti-corruption laws to consolidate them into
a single comprehensive legislation and has already assembled the relevant recommendations.
The plan is to table the principles before Cabinet by April 2003 and to gazette the proposed Bill
by 2004.
57. To ensure that monitoring of corruption becomes part of M and E, DEI has, with the support
of donors, been developing quantitative monitoring indicators to assess progress in the fight
against corruption. In this context, IGG and DEI has started the second integrity survey. We plan
to disseminate the results through workshops and seminars by April 2003.
Civil Society Participation
58. Government acknowledges the contribution to development and growth made by civil
society, and recognises that full involvement of this sector in the improvement of service
delivery and good governance is both necessary and challenging. One area that has been
explored to enhance service delivery is to build stronger partnerships between government at all
levels and non-governmental organisations (NGOs), including faith-based organisations. To this
end Government has established a computerised database of NGOs to improve information
available on NGOs as well as accountability. In addition, Government and the NGO community
are undertaking a NGO sector survey that will provide the much needed information on the
sector and at the same time guide the preparation of the NGO policy. The overall objective of the
NGO survey is to identify and better understand NGO roles, the nature and quality of services
they offer, potential areas for capacity building, opportunities, constraints and mechanisms for
improved collaboration, possible criteria for engaging NGOs in both policy debate and service
delivery, and indicators for assessing the quality of services provided. The NGO sector survey
was delayed by over six months due to capacity problems in the area of procurement in the
government office undertaking this task.
59. Government has set up concurrent collaborative initiatives that are expected to result in a
new NGO policy and Code of Conduct. The code of conduct is an initiative by NGOs towards
self-monitoring that requires acknowledgement from Government. NGO policy is aimed at
providing for a regulatory framework that defines the role of NGOs and the environment they
operate in. The findings of the NGO sector survey will provide for key information among other
things, on the legality and authenticity of NGOs to operate in the districts. The draft NGO bill
has been re-submitted to the 7th Parliamentary Committee on Defence and Internal Affairs, and
we are working with the NGO community to promote a consultative process that will provide for
a policy that has been agreed on by stakeholders. This process therefore includes discussions of
the concerns of NGOs, awareness creation about the draft bill for the general public, and other
related activities that aim at participatory formulation of a regulatory framework. We will also
work with the NGOs and other groups of civil society to establish mechanisms and channels for
feedback to monitor service delivery and accountability at the lowest levels. The expectation is
that all the above initiatives will result in an improved operational environment for Government-
NGO partnership and self-monitoring of NGOs.
62



Schedule 1
150. Government recognises the need to improve district and sector plans to adequately reflect
community perspectives and priorities. The numerous agencies apply participatory methods and
approaches in an uncoordinated fashion. Under the leadership of the Ministry of Local
Government the guide to harmonised participatory development planning and management for
lower councils has been prepared in consultation with districts and civil society groups. The
guide is expected to lead to more effective participatory community development as services
respond to user preferences. Government is to adopt and review the experience in its
implementation during the PRSC program period.
Legal and Judicial Reform
61. Government has adopted a sector-wide approach to criminal and commercial justice reform.
The Justice Law and Order Sector launched its' Medium Term Strategic Investment Plan in
Niovember 2001. The Plan, developed through a participatory consultative process involving all
stakeholders defines the sector mission, strategic objectives, policy reform agenda and
performance indicators for the ten institutions that comprise the sector. Key priority areas in the
reform process are Commercial and Criminal Justice. Three Committees are in place to guide
and co-ordinate implementation of the Plan. The National Council for Justice Law and Order to
guide political support and policy development across the sector; the Steering Committee to
guide the' implementation of the programme and monitor policy co-ordination across the sector;
and the Technical Committee responsible for the implementation of the Plan supported by both
the Commercial and Criminal Justice sub committees. In addition, a full time Sector Secretaria.t
supports the committees. The criminal and commercial justice reform programmes are expected
to be fully operational by March 2003. Implementation of both reform programmes have started,
including the establishment of a Commercial Court, the Prison Farms Project, the Case Backlog
Reduction Programme, the Chain Linked Initiative and review and reform of commercial and
criminal laws.
Pillar 3: Actions which Directly Increase the Ability of the Poor to Raise their Incomes
62. Govermnent's efforts to directly increase the ability of the poor to raise their incomes is
premised on the fact that the majority of Uganda's population live in rural areas, are self-
employed in farm and non-farm activities and are constrained by limited skills and knowledge,
productive assets and market opportunities. Eighty five percent of the population live in rural
areas which, in 2000, accounted for 96 percent of the poor and although poverty has declined
significantly over the 1990s, the overall decline in rural poverty has been slower than in urban
areas thus leading to widening urban-rural income inequality. Government actions to increase the
ability of, the poor to raise their incomes, articulated in the Poverty Eradication Action Plan
('EAP), are focused on several intervention areas including: increasing access to productive
assets; increasing the returns to assets of the poor; improving access to markets; enhancing
sustainable management and use of the natural resource base; and expanding farm and non-farm
employment opportunities.
63. The principles set out in the PEAP have guided the formulation of sector plans as reflected in
the Plan 'for Modernisation of Agriculture (PMA). The core focus of the PMA is the
63



Schedule 1
transformation of subsistence agriculture to commercial agriculture. However, the plan proposes
a set of rural development actions that will effect development of both farm and off-farm
enterprises in rural areas. Seven priority intervention areas are highlighted in the PMA:
agricultural research; agricultural advisory services; agro-processing and marketing; rural
finance; physical infrastructure; agricultural education; and natural resources management,
clearly delineating the roles of the private and public sector. Government interventions will focus
primarily on promoting an enabling environment for private sector led agricultural and rural
growth.
Agricultural Research
64. Over the last decade, several higher yielding varieties of maize, groundnut, millet and
sorghum, and notable technologies to combat cassava mosaic disease and control water hyacinth
have been developed. However, despite these advances, many challenges persist. Use of
improved husbandry practices and application of extemal inputs remain low compared with other
sub-Saharan African countries and recent studies indicate declining soil fertility and persistently
high levels of disease and pests, all of which reduce yields.
65. There have been continual efforts to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the national
agricultural research system. Following the adoption of the PMA in 2000, the National
Agricultural Research Organisation (NARO) developed a medium term plan with strong
adaptive research and outreach programs. The outreach program was launched in February 2001
and currently two Agricultural Research Development Centres (ARDCs) have been established
in separate agro-ecological zones. In addition, a draft institutional review of public funding of
agricultural research has recently been completed to find ways to improve the practical
application of agricultural research results. The review identifies ways: to promote demand-
driven, farmer responsive research; to decentralise the delivery and funding of research and
outreach services; to promote private sector participation in the delivery and financing of
agricultural research services; to introduce competitive mechanisms of research financing; and to
enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of national institutional arrangements supporting
agricultural research. The review will be further discussed with stakeholder groups to reach
agreement on the future strategy for the national agricultural research system.
Agricultural Advisory Services
66. A new extension delivery system, the National Agricultural Advisory Services (NAADS) has
been developed to improve access to and the effectiveness of advisory services. Once fully
developed, the NAADS program will be a demand-driven program primarily designed to provide
smallholder farmers with access to the expertise of agricultural professionals to help them with
the decisions they face in their farming enterprises. Under NAADS, public funds will be
channeled to farmers' fora at the sub-county level for them to contract the services of farm
advisors. Additional funds will be available at the district level to train farmers and extension
workers and give them access to the services of agricultural advisors and researchers.
64



Schedule 1
67. The NAADS program has now begun implementation in selected sub-counties and districts.
tOver the second half of 2001, twenty four sub-counties, farmer fora together with local
government have identified and signed initial and interim agreements (Memorandum of
Understandings) with service providers securing their advisory services to June, 2002. From
mid-2002, regularized contracts will be signed with the same (or with alternative) service
providers in these sub-counties. Meanwhile, the signing of these agreements establishes the
conditions for the launch of field activities in the twenty four sub-counties.
Rural Finance
68. Access to rural financial services is an important avenue for increasing the ability of the poor
to raise their incomes. However, the outreach of rural financial services in Uganda is still low
End past Government-directed credit programs, such as Entandikwa, have not provided a
sustainable solution to improving access to these services. A micro-finance outreach program,
with an institutional capacity building framework for micro-finance institutions, has recently
been designed to promote private sector led delivery of rural financial services in the country.
Trhe outreach program has been submitted to Cabinet for approval.
69. The Micro-finance Deposit-taking Institutions (MDI) Bill has been tabled in Parliament,
*vhich is soon to become legislation. The enactment of the law should facilitate the expansion of
raicro-finance institutions to poorer clients, particularly in rural areas by enabling leading NGO
rriicrofinance institutions (MFIs) to become licensed to take and intermediate savings from the
public, and encourage new investment in specialised microfinance institutions. This will permit
MFIs to reach wider and deeper by freeing them from dependence on commercial bank branches
and on donor subsidies and by enabling them to offer savings products that are attractive to even
poorer clients than those who are creditworthy.
Land Tenure
70. Landdis one of the most important assets for poverty reduction. Although Uganda's land
resource is still sufficient to support agricultural based development (a third of Uganda's arable
land is under cultivation); population growth is high, estimated at 2.5 percent per annum; land
conflicts are high, particularly in the west, east and central regions of the country; land
degradation is increasing and there is need to protect vulnerable groups such as women and
orphans. The Land Act passed in 1998 provides the legal basis for regularising land tenure under
mailo, freehold and customary tenure regimes. More secure tenure would raise investment levels
and formalised tenure would increase marketability of land. Development of land markets would
have a significant and positive contribution to equity, as previous experience suggests in Uganda,
and would improve allocation efficiency and enhance agricultural productivity and household
welfare. A Land Sector Strategic Plan (LSSP) has been developed to implement the Land Act
which prioritises interventions and forms the basis for developing a National Land Policy,
gradual development of institutional capacity for land administration, and initiating pilots for
land consolidation and land re-adjustment.
65



Schedule 1
71. The amendments to the Land Act, providing for more affordable implementation
arrangements at district and sub-county level, have been approved by Cabinet. In addition, the
institutional arrangements at national level for implementation of the LSSP have been finalised
together with the financial arrangements. The LSSP has been submitted to Cabinet for approval.
Government is also preparing a set of specific actions to strengthen land rights of women and has
developed a proposal for pilot schemes to strengthen common property management systems.
Environmental Mainstreaming
72. Government is currently trying to ensure adequate mtegration ot environmental sustainability
concerns in government programs to reduce the level and risk of environmental degradation. The
National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) is building capacity for environmental
management and ownership of an environmental agenda, and developing strategic and sectoral
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) guidelines. Sectoral guidelines for works have been
developed and implemented, and draft guidelines for water and sanitation are being reviewed.
Agreements on further guidelines are being negotiated with relevant agencies, such as mining,
energy, agriculture, forestry, and wildlife. NEMA is being engaged under the PMA prograrn to
ensure that these strategies promnote environmentally sustainable rural development. The
Ministry of Local Government has drafted new local government planning manuals, which
promote environmentally sustainable local government planning. Government is also in the
process of finalising guidelines for integrating environmental concerns and screening of sectoral
plans and programs to be used by the Poverty Eradication Working Group and sector working
groups. NEMA is working closely with the Poverty Monitoring Unit and Uganda Bureau of
Statistics to develop environment indicators for the Government's Poverty Monitoring and
Evaluation Strategy. In addition, a review of implementation arrangements for improving
integration of environmental concerns in all government programs is currently underway.
Agro-processing and Marketing
73. Agro-processing and marketing constraints continue to inhibit domestic sales and exports of
agricultural products thereby inhibiting income growth. Improving access to input and output
markets by reducing transportation costs and other transaction costs remains a key factor to
increase the competitiveness and incomes of the poor. Two studies, one on options for reducing
transaction costs for the marketing of several key crops, and one on options for improving the
legal, regulatory and policy environment for private sector led rural development are being
completed.
74. As mentioned earlier, there is also ongoing work on the Strategic Exports Strategy (coffee;
cotton; tea; livestock, hides, skins and leather products; fish and fish products; cotton, lint
textiles and garments; horticulture-fruits, flowers, vegetables, Irish potatoes and information and
communication technology) with further background analysis on each on commodity. In
particular, progress has been made in advancing a Coffee Strategy under the leadership of the
Private Sector Foundation (PSF). The consultative nature of the coffee strategy preparation has
stimulated greater goodwill along the supply chain, allowed a forum to reconcile differences and
66



Schedule 1
has increased awareness of the mutual benefits to farmers, processors, merchandisers, and
exporters of particular interventions.
District Roads
75. During the last several years Government has invested substantial resources in the
construction and maintenance of feeder roads. More recently, in early 2001, a draft White Paper
on district and urban roads, was prepared which sets out the new strategies and plans for
maintenance of district, urban and community access roads. To maximise returns for road
investments, Government has commissioned work to prepare a ten-year investment programnie,
which includes developing criteria for road prioritisation, developing a road classification system
and the 'associated design standards. Following this analysis, appropriate guidelines and manuals
to assist the districts in classifying, designing and prioritising the road networks that will be
developed.
PILLAR 4: ACTIONS WHICH DIRECTLY IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR THE POOR
76. Government has a major role to play in improving the quality of life of the poor through the
provision of essential social services. Following the recommendations of the PEAP in 1997,
Government has substantially increased the proportion of the total budget devoted to key poverty
reducing services to 33 percent in 2001/02. While this has already had a significant impact on
poverty in some areas-for example, through the enormous increase in educational enrolment-
service aelivery has yet to improve in proportion to the increased funding.
77. Government is determined to resolve the key bottlenecks which are holding back improved
service delivery. Cross-cutting issues include public service management and pay, the fiscal
transfer system, results orientation, public sector procurement, financial management and
accountability, monitoring and evaluation, and transparency and corruption, which have been
discussed above. Others are sector-specific. I focus here on the three sectors: education, health
and water and sanitation of greatest corkcern to the poor.
Education
78. Government's Universal Primary Education (UPE) policy has dramatically increased primary
school enrolment since 1997 and increased access to education for the children of poor
households. UPE has thus eliminated the wealth bias that had characterised access to primary
education. The key challenges now are to improve the quality of primary education and maintain
high enrolments. Government needs to increase the stock of classroorns, the number of qualified
teachers, the supply and utilisation of instructional materials, the efficiency of input use, and
improve: accountability and transparency. In order to sustain UPE it is also important to increase
access to post-primary education for primary school leavers. Govermnent has been working
closely with all stakeholders within the institutional arrangements of the sector-wide approach
(SWAP) in the Education sector. Government is committed to achieving the following critical
primary education targets by March 2003 compared with the provisional outturns for 2000/01 (in
parenthesis):
67



Schedule 1
* average pupil: teacher ratio of 50:1(63:1);
* average pupil: classroom ratio of 92:1 (121:1);
* average pupil: book ratio (to be determined in the October 2002 Education Sector Review
for assessment in October 2003);
79. The following indicates the impact of reforms undertaken under PRSC 2, sectoral outcomes,
as well as actions that will be undertaken in the short and medium term in order to achieve these
targets:
* Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES), MOPS, MOFPED, MOLG and districts are
collaborating in. the implementation of a national effort to recruit, deploy and add to the
payroll 35,000 new teachers by 2003. A national campaign was launched and 15,000 new
teachers were recruited by April 2001, including retirees, secondary school graduates and
new graduates from teacher training colleges. The aim is to add over 20,000 new teachers to
the payroll by 2003. About 3,000 under qualified teachers have been inducted, and are being
trained and supported through the Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS).
A system to closely monitor established positions filled is being put in place. Based on this,
an action plan for increasing the number of teachers on the payroll, with particular attention
to the districts with largest establishment gaps will be implemented to ensure that all districts
achieve at least 95 percent of their established ceilings by 2003. As agreed under PRSC2,
Government reduced the pupil-teacher ratio to 54:1 (from 63:1 in 2000). A tracking study on
primary teachers' recruitment, deployment and payroll management will be undertaken to
identify areas that require improvement;
* Government intensified its efforts with regard to classroom construction and completion.
These efforts have been guided by the recommendations of an evaluation of the classroom
construction program. As agreed under PRSC2, Government reduced the ratio to 98:1 (from
121:1 in 2000). Efforts to increase efficiency in classroom construction will continue with the
aim to reduce the ratio further to 92:1 by March 2003;
* in order to reduce class sizes, Government will investigate possible cost efficiency measures,
including sequential teaching, and agree on a way forward to achieve the required targets
within the available resources. MOES has completed the report on double shift and agreed
clear policy recommendations with MOFPED, which will be presented, discussed and
finalised during the October 2002 education sector review.
80. The introduction of an expanded new curriculum, including eleven subjects, has invalidated
the current textbooks in classrooms and, as a consequence, the current pupil-to-textbook ratio is
not available for the new subjects. New textbooks are being published for the new curriculum.
Procurement arrangements were reviewed and the new arrangements have resulted in an
improvement in the quality of learning materials while, at the same, time reducing the unit cost
by over two-thirds. Book orders for the new curriculum are being placed. It is projected that the
pupil: book ratio for Primary 3 and 4 will be 3:1 (for Mathematics, English, Integrated Science,
Agriculture, Social Studies and Religious Education) by 2004.
68



Schedule 1
81. The'semi-annual Education Sector Reviews (April and October), involving all stakeholders,
have been the main forum for agreeing on undertakings and monitoring progress in achieving
them. Education sector undertakings and PRSC actions and benchmarks for education are now
fully integrated. In the semi-annual sector review of April 2001 the following undertakings were
agreed upon and their satisfactory implementation was confirmed during the October 2001
review:
* Financial commitment: Budget and releases are in line with the MTEF, and MOES and PAF
guidelines maintaining a minimum of 31 percent of recurrent discretionary expenditure for
the education sector with at least 65 percent of this for primary education;
* Public expenditure management: A tracking study carried out in an area of mutual concern
(2001 UPE capitation grant);
* Quality enhancement: the following were achieved (targets are in italics in parenthesis)
pupil-teacher ratio (66:1) 55:1; pupil-classroom ratio (109:1) 100:1; pupil-textbook ratio
(n/a));
*  Outcome (equitable quality): Share of appropriate age range of girls and boys in Primary 7
(8%) Female 12%, Males 12%;
* Equitable access: A draft policy paper on disadvantaged groups developed out of on-going
consgultation process, which aimed to enhance equitable access for disadvantaged groups was
in place for the October 2001 Education Sector Review;
*  Teacher recruitment: The national recruitment drive continued, and efforts were made to
reduce teacher attrition with the aim of having 105,000 teachers on the payroll by the
commencement of the October 2001 Review;
* Monitoring and evaluation: 2001 EMIS data, in which a registry of private schools has
been incorporated, collected, entered, analysed, verified and resulting statistics reported
on at the October 2001 Review.
Health
82. Improving health is essential to reducing poverty. Government has therefore developed a
National Health Policy (NHP) and Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP), with the main objectives
of improving quality and equity in access to a minimum health package of health services,
developing partnerships with stakeholders under the sector-wide approach, and strengthening
health service delivery system. The HSSP is now in its second year of implementation and all the
development partners are supporting it through monthly Health Policy Advisory Committee
(HPAC) meetings and semi-annual joint reviews of the health sector.
83. Considerable progress was made in the first year of implementation. Key achievements were
noted in arresting the decline in immunisation coverage, increasing contraceptive prevalence
rates, continued decline in HIV infection rates, and improved TB cure rates and OPD utilisation.
Satisfactory progress was noted in the development of a draft policy on Public Private
Partnership, a draft Health Financing Strategy, the National Pharmaceutical Sector Strategic
Plan, National Infrastructure Development and Maintenance Plan, the Procurement Plan, a draft
strategy for in-service training, the strategy on sanitation and health care waste disposal in health
facilities and in addressing payroll issues with MOPS. 65 percent of the targeted number of
69



Schedule 1
Primary Health Care (PHC) workers were recruited, renovation/expansion and equipping of
HCIVs is in progress, and interim procurement arrangements have been put in place in the MOH.
The October 2001 joint Government-donor health sector review confirmed the satisfactory
implementation of undertakings agreed in the April 2001 joint Government-donor health sector
review as reflected below:
* Doubling of the funding to PNFP providers in the 2000/1 budget compared to the
previous year;
*  Putting in place interim procurement arrangements in accordance with procurement
regulations;
* Preparation and submission of the health sector procurement to the MOFPED;
* Completion of the baseline survey under the district drug management initiative;
* Making proposals for pay reform in the health sector in its 2001/02 budget submission;
*  Initiation of training of comprehensive enrolled nurses in two training schools;
*  Completion of mapping of the entire health facilities in the country.
84. Despite the progress highlighted above, the health status of the Ugandan population remains
poor and is not improving at rates comparable to the levels of economic growth witnessed in the
last decade. The results of the latest Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) 2000-2001 indicate
continued high levels of infant mortality, and persistent high fertility, and child and maternal
mortality. While other factors (education, water, sanitation, nutrition, household income) play a
key role in determining health status, the functioning of the health service delivery system also
plays a critical role, hence the need for increased investment to address the constraints besetting
the sector.
85. Geographical and financial access to services continues to be poor. Fifty-one percent of the
population is still more than 5 kilometres from a health facility providing basic curative and
preventive services. While Government has increased funding to the sector, including the
private-not-for-profit (PNFP) sub sector, facilities are still grossly under-funded for their proper
functioning. Many of them are understaffed, are run down and regularly run out of drugs and
supplies which adversely affects the public perception of the sector. As a result, despite the
abolition of user fees, the facilities are still under utilised. The above problems are compounded
by staff that are poorly motivated due to meagre salaries, which are sometimes not paid or are
paid very late, weak co-ordination and support systems leading to delays in financial flows,
procurement, and personnel and payroll management, and co-ordination between departments
and levels.
86. The primary reasons for these problems are:
* the Health sector suffers the same type of budget constraint as other sectors within the
Government budget. The current Government budget allocation (including PRSC) amounts
to US$5 per capita which represents [10.5%] Government budget for the current FY, and
donor projects provide additional US$3. This is lower than the Government commitment to
Abuja Declaration to provide 15 % of the Government budget by 2006, which is in turn
lower than both the HSSP costing of $ 28 per capita and the World
70



Schedule 1
Health Organisation Commission for Macroeconomics for Health estimate of US$34 per capita;
* there is a significant shortage of trained health workers which hampers recruitment especially
in reinote areas;
6 the inefficiencies allocation, release and use of funds and also of the current structure at the
centre and districts to support delivery of an integrated package of health services within the
HSDs and the communities.
B7. Government is addressing these problems in a number of ways. These include:
* the significance of the funding constraint is recognised by Government. Government also
recognises that in the face of macro-economic constraints it is only possible to remedy
the funding shortfalls in this and other sectors through channels that do not destabilise the
economy as a whole. In this way, key benchmarks, such as inflation, can remain within
acceptable levels and public sector spending does not result in a crowding out of bank
credit availability for the private sector, among other things;
*  Government also recognises that further work is needed to identify whether the funding
required to achieve health outcomes should focus on the health sector share of the budget
alone, or be more broadly based to review all budget areas that contribute to health
outcomes, including, Education and Water and Sanitation. This issue is in the very early
stages of review and analysis at present. When it has developed further, it will be
practical to identify the long term target levels of expenditure and the optimum sector
allocations for the achievement of health outcomes;
* in addition to the above, the newly developed Health Financing Strategy outlines
proposals to increase Government funding consistent with MTEF for the delivery of the
package and measures to improve efficiency. This will form the basis for negotiations
within Government and with development partners through the Budget Framework Paper
process, for resource allocations to the sector. Government is increasingly collaborating
with PNFPs as important deliverers of health services, and will regularly assess their
fu6nding requirements and continue to increase funding to PNFP providers. Government is
also studying proposals to set up a pilot scheme for Social Health Insurance. Government
will continue to monitor and improve the flow of funds. Government is making proposals
for making national and referral hospitals autonomous, with a view to improving the
efficiency and effectiveness;
* the Ministry of Health has developed a National Health Infrastructure Development and
Maintenance Plan. This plan outlines the rehabilitation needs, minimal new construction
targeted at under-served areas, and articulates maintenance needs for health facilities.
Procedures for approval of construction of health facilities are also clearly laid down to
ensure prioritisation in providing infrastructure. The plan is now  ready to be
operationalized. As a first step Government has issued guidelines to districts ear-marking
a:proportion of the PHC conditional grant for maintenance and repairs of health facilities;
*  Government will further develop its strategy on human resources for health through:
increasing the number and improving the quality of health workers; addressing the
current shortage of frontline workers; training and upgrading skills of nursing assistants;
settling salary arrears previously owed to health workers; and streamlining the payroll
systems. In particular, Government will review and agree on management and financing
71



Schedule 1
modalities for the basic health training institutions to ensure the training of adequate
numbers of health workers needed for the implementation of the HSSP. The MOH has
requested MOPS to further review the structure of MOH headquarters and conduct a
needs assessment of staffing levels given current mandate, roles and workload and make
recommendations to address the identified needs; and
institutional arrangements to manage the pharmaceutical sub-sector remains of particular
concern. Therefore, by October 2002 the MOH is conducting a drug tracking study to
monitor availability of drugs at service delivery points and the functioning of systems to
ensure drug availability (quantification, procurement, expenditure, distribution,
management and accountability).  During 2001/02 MOH expects to approve an
implementation plan for the national drug policy and a strategic plan for pharmaceuticals
and develop procurement guidelines for drugs and supplies, based upon a recently
completed drug management initiative. The capacity of the pharmaceutical unit within
the Ministry of Health is expected to be defined and the regulatory framework for the
pharmaceutical sector updated.
88. Using the joint reviews, Government and its partners will continue to agree periodically on
the undertakings necessary to implement the HSSP and closely monitor progress in achieving
them. These undertakings will form the benchmarks in the PRSC matrix. The quantitative
indicators have been revised to reflect what can be achieved within available resources.
89. During the October 2001 joint Government-donor health sector review the following list of
undertakings were selected as a basis of monitoring sector performance. They were achieved by
April 2002:
* finalise the Health Financing Strategy and produce an action plan for its implementation;
* finalise Tracking Study on PHC Conditional Grant, agree on recommendations and
develop action plan for implementation of recommendations;
* monitor availability of drugs at service delivery points and functioning of systems to
ensure drug availability (quantification, procurement, expenditure, distribution,
management and accountability);
* review and develop structures and mechanisms for an integrated programme of support
and supervision of districts by the centre and of lower units by the DDHS and Health Sub
District in order to deliver the basic package;
* revise indicators where necessary, update and approve the baseline data and targets for
the HSSP Monitoring indicators and ensure consistency of PEAP, PRSC, HSSP and
District Indicators;
* MOH and MOES to agree on management modalities for the basic health training
institutions to ensure the training of adequate numbers of health workers needed for the
implementation of the HSSP;
* develop and disseminate guidelines for social mobilisation and operationalization of
Village Health Committees/Teams;
* review existing strategies and initiatives and document a set of critical interventions
(including the provision of essential products and drugs) that need to be undertaken to
improve RH status in Uganda;
72



Schedule 1
'Water and Sanitation
90. The UPPAP showed water and sanitation services to be a high priority for the poor. In
r esponse, to this, Government has doubled the proportion of the discretionary budget allocated to
water supply and sanitation (WSS) from 1.7 percent in 1998/99 to 3.3 percent in 2001/02 and has
-ormnulated sector strategies and drawn up investment programs for rural and urban water supply.
In partnership with donors and other key stakeholders, Government has adopted a sector-wide
approach (SWAP) to the WSS sector based on community demand-orientation, decentralised
management through local governments, combined with central government facilitation and
delivery of services by the private sector. The SWAP will be broadened to incorporate water for
production and water resources management as soon as the sub-sector strategies are completed.
9)1. In rural WSS, Government intends to increase access to safe water and sanitation from the
present 52 percent to 60 percent by April 2003 in line with the Rural WSS Reform Study and
Investment Plan. In pursuance of this objective, Government has strengthened the capacity of
districts by setting up district water and sanitation teams (DWSTs). These will be fully integrated
into the district establishment by the end of the programme period. At least half of DWSTs have
been fully staffed with support from the Department of Water Development (DWD). All districts
aire expected to achieve full staffing and training of DWSTs by March 2003. DWD has been re-
organised to support district capacity building and delivery of technical assistance to DWSTs
through the establishment of Technical Support Units (TSUs), which have been fully staffed.
92. To enhance sustainability of rural WSS systems, Government has reviewed existing
operation and maintenance arrangements and finalised the district WSS operational manual and
implementation guidelines. This strategy is based on the utilisation of the private sector and full
c ommunity cost recovery for operation and maintenance. Through this strategy, the percentage
of systems that are functional at any one time is expected to be at least 80 percent. At the same
time, Government through the combined efforts of the Ministry of Water, Lands, and
Environment (MoWLE) and MoH has agreed on institutional responsibilities for sanitation and
has prepared a National Hygiene Promotion, Sanitation and Communication Strategy. In
addition, Government has introduced and pre-tested templates for environmental screening of
sub-projects in districts.
93. In uroan WSS, the objective is to improve safe WSS coverage from 50 percent to 65 percent
by April 2003. The urban sector consists of 78 urban centres and district towns. Based on the
recommendations of the recent urban WSS study, Government will seek to introduce efficiency
and commercial orientation into the management of urban WSS. Assets management and
investment planning will be transferred to professionally constituted public urban WSS
atuthorities in small towns and a dedicated asset holding authority in the larger towns. All
technical, commercial and financial operations in both regimes will be sub-contracted to
professional private operators under a two-prong strategy:
* Small urban WSS systems under local government management: Government has
gazetted 15 urban WSS authorities that will have overall responsibility for asset
management. It has also commenced the sub-contracting of service provision operations
to local private sector operators under management contracts to increase sustainability.
Tb date, about 34 small towns under urban WSS authorities have been contracted to
73



Schedule 1
private sector operators. Government will initiate the clustering of these towns into viable
operational areas and procure private sector operators to manage their operations. Urban
WSS project appraisal, financing and performance measuring capacities will be
developed with assistance from DWD by April 2003.
* Urban WSS systems under National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC)
management: Government through MoWLE and MoFPED has begun the process of
putting NWSC on a firmer financial footing. It has signed a three-year performance
contract with NWSC to stabilise the commercial operations of NWSC ahead of the
transition to private sector participation and has settled Ush 1.7 billion of outstanding
verified bills (Ush 2.58 billion in total) owed to NWSC by various Government agencies.
The balance of verified arrears will be settled by the end of June 2002. Government will
clear all outstanding debt owed to NWSC as well as resolve the issue of NWSC long-
term debt obligations by April 2003. Following the simplification of its connection policy
in 2000/01, NWSC has adopted a formula for periodic tariff adjustments. Govermment
through the MoFPED has selected a privatisation adviser to prepare the necessary
transaction documents for the creation of an asset holding authority and pre-qualification
of* an intemational water operator. Govermment expects that the intemational water
operator will be in place in 2004. In parallel, Govermment will take steps to ensure the
establishment of an independent regulatory system prior to the engagement of the
intemational water operator.
94. A summary of the key policy and quantitative benchmarks for the WSS sector for the
medium term is presented in the attached policy matrix and quantitative target matrix. Following
the first Govermment/Donor joint review of the WSS sector held in September 2001, an inter
ministerial committee has been established under the leadership of MoFPED and MoWLE that
includes donor participation. The committee is tasked with ensuring sector oversight and co-
ordinating monitoring, technical assistance and guidance for the development of the SWAP. The
MoWLE will carry out a tracking study as part of this monitoring programme. The first tracking
study report will be available by the next joint Govemment/Donor sector review scheduled for
September 2002. The MoWLE will establish a monitoring protocol that draws on the routine
returns from the districts, the annual household and service delivery surveys, independent
surveys and issue an annual sector report, "State of the WSS Sector". This report will capture
progress on agreed operational indicators and policy benchmarks from districts and WSS
authorities, and provide feedback for districts and national planning.
74



Schedule I
Co-ordination and Implementation
95. Government is cognisant of the need to establish an effective co-ordination mechanism in
order to ensure successful implementation of the identified actions for the achievement of the
overall objective of improving basic service delivery. Considering the level of resources
requested, from the IDA under the PRSC II, together with the complementary resources from
other donors, it is critical to ensure effective supervision of the implementation of the credit.
96. Government has a two tier co-ordination system for the PRSC to ensure progress with
reforms. The PRSC Technical Committee co-ordinates the work at a technical level across
ministries and meets on a monthly basis. Above the Technical Committee is the PRSC Steering
Committee that oversees the implementation of reforms and makes strategic decisions where
necessary. The Steering Committee meets quarterly, is chaired by the Head of Public Service and
is composed of Permanent Secretaries and Heads of Department. The Steering Committee also
irLcludes donors. Reports on the progress of reform implementation are submitted by the
Technical: Committee to the Steering Committee on a quarterly basis. The overall co-ordination
of Public 'Sector Reform will be reviewed in the context of the development of the new Public
Sector Reform Programme during fiscal year 2002/03.
4. Conclusions
97. I would like to take this -opportunity to reiterate the commitment of Government to the
irmplementation of the Poverty Eradication Action Plan. The actions to be undertaken over the
rnedium term under each PEAP pillar focus on measures that will improve, through greater
eificiency and effectiveness, both the quantity and quality of service delivery, particularly to the
poor.
9,B. Increased efficiency of service delivery implies improved management systems and practices
inl the public sector, including improved financial accountability. Improved effectiveness of
service delivery requires closer alignment between outcomes and policy objectives through
greater focus on service outputs during budget preparation. The requested Credit is expected to
suipport the critical Government reforms set out in this letter and to enable achievement of those
objectives.
99. On behalf of the Government of Uganda, I wish to thank the IDA for the assistance already
provided 'under the vast Structural Adjustment Credits (I-III), the EFMP I and II, the
75



Schedule 1
ICBP, ui[ LGDP, and the PRSC i. rhey have been critical in achieving a dramatic reduction
in poverty in the 1990s. I trust that this request for additional assistance trough the proposedl
PPSC II will receivc your favourable consid4ration.
Ygur sincerel
H-Ion. Gerald  - S;cndaula
Minisier of Fuwance, Planning and Economic Development
76



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)
SUB-                                                 --ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS
OBJECTIVESI- -
ACTION                                             -PRSC2-                     PRSC3                          PRSC4              I
AREAS -    -- -    .-    ~ ISSUE        --     APRIL 15,'2002:-            APRIL 15, 2003     :           APRIL 15, 2004     .      OUTCOMES
Overall outcomes (verification):
1. Reduction in headcount index of poverty (annual household surveys).
OVERALL PRSC OBJECTIVE: IMPROVED BASIC SERVICE                       2. Increased satisfaction with public services (national service delivery surveys and periodic
DELIVERY                                                             participatory poverty assessments).
PEAI'F.'RSI' I'ILI-AR 1: 1 RAMNILWORK I-OR ECONOM IC GROWTIHI ANI) TRANSIFORNIATION
.             j Overall outcome (verification):
PRSC OBJECTIVE A: EFFICIENT AND EQUITABLE USE OF PUBLIC              1. More equitable access to public services (incidence analysis using household surveys and
RESOURCES                                                            public expenditure data).
Allocations and     Allocations and actual  In the annual public     In the annual public expenditure  In the annual public expenditure  Directly poverty
Actual              spending will need to  expenditure review, GoU   review, GoU has agreed with   review, GoU has agreed with    reducing
Expenditure         remain consistent with  has agreed with donors on  donors on fMEF for 2002/03-  donors on MTEF for 2003/04-   expenditures as a
priorities of the PEAP.  MTEF for 2001/02-       2004/05 and has executed       2005/06 and has executed      share of total
2003/04 and has executed  2002V03 budget through first two  2003/04 budget through first two  allocations and
2001/02 budget through    quarters consistent with the   quarters consistent with the  actual expenditures
first two quarters        agreed allocations.            agreed allocations.           expected to increase
consistent with the agreed                                                             from 24 percent in
allocations.                                                                           1999/2000 to about
36 percent in-
2003/04.
While in the Public    MoFPED has integrated     MoFPED integrates expenditure  MoFPED integrates expenditure  More
Investment Plan, donor-  expenditure ceilings for  ceilings for donor projects in  ceilings for donor projects in  comprehensive
funded projects are not  donor projects in 2002/03-  2003/04-2005/06 MTEF for at  2004105-2006/07 MTEF for the  budget,
included in the        2004/05 MTEF for          least two additional sectors.  remaining sectors.            incorporating donor
expenditure ceilings in  education, health and                                                                projects and wage
MTEF.                  water/sanitation.                                                                      bill.
Actions and outputs in bold are credit conditions that will be included in the Credit Agreement of PRSC2. Actions and outputs for PRSC3 and PRSC4 are indicative.
77



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)-
SUB- - .ACTIONS AND OUTPU.T-ARGETS                                                                                              -   -  .      -- -
.OBJECTIVES/                                  .
ACTION                                             PRSC;                       PIRSC3                        PRSC4
AREAS - -,-.              ISSUE       -               1APRL;15j.2002      APRIL1i5, 2003           .    APRIL 15, 2004            OUTCOMES.-
SLaffing plans and wage  MOFPED and MioPS have   Introduce the agreed approach of  Introduce the agreed approach of
bill not integrated in  started consultations on an  integration to a few sectors in  integration to additional sectors
sector expenditure     approach to integrate     their expenditure plans for  in their expenditure plans for
programs within MTEF.  staffing/wage bill in     2003/04-2005/06.              2004/05-2006/07.
expenditure programs.
Annual outturns have   MoFPED has published      MoFPED publishes semi-annual                                Budget execution
deviated from approved  semi-annual budget       budget performance reports                                  closer to the
budgets.               performance reports.      which cover outputs, and makes                              approved
quarterly reports available on                              appropriations.
request.
Intergovernmental  Inflexibility in the use  MoFPED and MoLG have   MoFPED and MoLG begin                                       Reduction in
Transfers           of conditional grants  finalized a strategy on  implementing the strategy on                                administrative costs
weakens local          streamlining all         inter-governmental fiscal                                    and increased
ownership and imposes  intergovernmental fiscal  transfers according to an agreed                            ownership of public
burdensome reporting  transfers.                implementation plan.                                         expenditure
requirements.                                                                                                programs at local
level.
Results-            Sector plans and      Justice, law and order    Based on sector working group  Based on sector working group  Sector plans and
orientation, and    expenditure programs  sector has introduced     proceedings/decisions, roll out to  proceedings/decisions, roll out to  expenditure
Monitoring and      are input-oriented.   output/ outcome measures  other sectors by incorporating  additional sectors by       programs are
Evaluation (M&E)                          and targets in 2002/03 -  output and outcome measures   incorporating output and      output/outcome-
2004/05 BFP.              and targets in 2003/04-2005/06  outcome measures and targets in  oriented.
BFP.                          2004/05-2006/07 BFP.
PEAP goals not         MoPS and MoFPED have      MoH, MoES, MoWLE, and         UBOS conducts another national  M&E systems
adequately translated  disseminated the results of  MoLG translate the results of the  service delivery survey.  linked to goals and
into intermediate     the national service       national service delivery survey                            performance.
outcomes and service   delivery survey.          into service delivery standards to
delivery standards.                              assess performance.
MoPS make service delivery
standards a benchmark for ROM
goals and targets.
78



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)1
S,U-  -  :; .. ,a,.       ACTIONS'ANDOUTYPUT.TARGETS               .             -
AC,T I,ON-- - -.   -  =.       t -        ,    -   PRSC2,-                      PRSC3               e         PRSC4
AREAS              -       ISSUE           -   APR11M 1542002,             APRIL 15,.2003            .   -APRIL,15,2004             OUTCOMES:
MoFPED. in consultation   N1oFPED and NloPS prepare an   NloFPED, N1oPS and line
with MoPS, has started    action plan to align ROM with  ministries align ROM with
integrating ROM in the    OOB.                          OOB.
budget process.
MoFPED adjusts resource
allocations according to
performance.
Lack of coordination in  Cabinet has approved the  MoFPED agrees on common      MoFPED implements common      Streamlined and
M&E and prolif.-ation  national poverty monitoring  M&E a-rangements across GoU  M&E arrangements across GoU  simplified M&E
of work plans and      and evaluation strategy,  and donors.                    and donors.                   arrangements.
reporting formats.     including an action plan
and agreement on M&E
coordination arrangements.
GoU has completed a       GoU translates M&E study       MoFPED, MoLG and line
review of M&E in          results into simplified M&E    ministries harmonize local
education, health, water and  practices.                 governments' work plans and
sanitation, and agriculture.                             progress reporting requirements.
I'lAP/I'RSI' lIILlAR II: I:NSUiRING GOOD) (.(O\'ERNANCI. ANI.) SECURITN'
Overall outcomes (verification):
PRSC OBJECTIVE B: IMPROVE SERVICE DELIVERY THROUGH                    1.  Increased access and usage of public services (public service delivery surveys)
CROSS-CUTTING REFORMS                                                2.  Reduction in corruption in public service (national integrity surveys)
BI: IMPROVE MA.NAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND PRACTICES IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
,~ -____-___.___.___.___...___________._
Public Service      Pay systems and        Cabinet has approved and  MoPS effects salary adjustments                              GoU better able to
Management          practices are          published the pay strategy  consistent with the pay strategy                           recruit, motivate
inconsistent wcapwith MTEF                       and linked to performance.                                   and retain skilled
sustainable capacity   and improved public                                                                    staff.
service performance.
79



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)'
SUB-                -                                 ACTIONS,-AND OUTPUT TARGETS                 -       _;                      - - -         -.
OBJECTIVES/
.ACTION -             :                            PRSC2                       PR-SC3-                       PiRSC        ..
REAS         :    -     :SSUE               -APRIL 15,12002               APRIL1 15,                    APRJV15i2004. -. .. -OUTCOMES:
building and           MoPS have effected salary
performance. Pay for   adjustments aligned with
professional and       the strategy.
managerial staff is not
competitive.
Personnel and payroll  MoPS has implemented the  MoPS commits to a strategy for  MoPS implements the strategy  New staff entered in
management systems     action plan to expedite   modemizing personnel and      for modemizing personnel and  30 days on
are fragmented and not  access to payroll, and   payroll management.           payroll management            government payroll
promoting efficient    developed another action                                                              that contains only
human resource         plan of short-term measures                                                           bona fide
management            to improve intemal payroll                                                             employees.
controls.
Public service reform  MoPS, in consultation     MoPS launches the new phase of  MoPS implements the new     The new public
has not yet yielded    with stakeholders, has    the public service reformn    phase of the public service   service reform
major improvements in  developed a draft         program.                      reform program.               reflects the
service delivery.      strategic framework,                                                                  objective of
reflecting lessons learned,                                                           improved service
for the new phase of                                                                  delivery.
public service reform.
Rapid expansion in     MoPS has initiated a study  MoPS develops and adopts a  MoPS regulates and controls the  The growth of
public administration  on: (i) the implications of  policy and modalities for  expansion of public           public
threatening to         expanded public          regulating and controlling the  administration based on the  administration
jeopardize the         administration on the wage  expansion of public         policy.                       contained.
achievements of the    bill; and (ii) cost       administration.
public service reform.  effectiveness of increased
employment in social
sectors.
Public              Legal and regulatory   MoFPED has tabled                                                                    Modernized
Procurement         framework requires     Procurement Bill in                                                                  legislation and
modernization.         Parliament.                                                                          regulatory
framework.
80



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)1
*SUB;            -:.  .    .-~        -                 ~   ~ ACTIONS:ANIDOUTPUTTARGETS.                       -                      - -
.OBJECTIVESI -          -                           - .    -                               .                 -        L  - -            - .
~~~pT!ON  ~~~~~~~~~~~~!SC-2                                          PS3PRSC4
'AREAS                                          AP.-U. iSSUEA IL 5-2,002  ; . APRIL 15,-2003                -APRIL.1 5,2004            . -OUTCO     ES
MoLG has harmonized
local govermment
procurement regulations
with central govermment.
MoPS has issued            Procurement units are created in
instructions to procurement  all procuring ministries,
entities (mninistries,     departments and agencies.
departments, agencies) to
establish procurement units.
Weak enforcement of     RCTB has held accounting   RCTB carries out independent   RCTB carries out independent   Increased
procurement rules and   officers of procurement    procurement audits covering at .  procurement audits covering at  transparency and
regulations.            entities responsible for   least 20% of the value of      least 20% of the value of      reduced corruption
procurement functions.     procurement in education, health  procurement in MAAIF and     in procurement
and water/sanitation.          30% of the districts.
MoFPED establishes an Appeals  The Appeals Board publishes its
Board to handle complaints.    first annual report.
RCTB has published the     RCTB publishes its first annual  RCTB publishes its second
first quarterly report of  report.                        annual report
contracts awarded costing
more than US$200,000.
Weak procurement        MoH, MoES, and MoWLE       MAAIF incorporates             Procurement plans are          Better management
planning procedures     have incorporated          procurement plans in its sector  incorporated in all sector   of expenditure
and practices.          procurement plans in sector  expenditure program.         expenditure programs.          programs.
expenditure programs.
Weak capacity of        Weak procurement entities  Weak procurement entities hire                                Better value for
procurement units.      have hired procurement     procurement agents to provide                                 money in
agents to provide support.  support.                                                      procurement.
81



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)
SUB- -. -                                             ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS-               .
OBJECTIVES/         -                                        :.:  -                .
AWTION.                                            PRSC2                       PRSC3                         PRSC4
AREAS       -       . .-. --- ISSUE       -   APRIL;i5,':2002             APRIL 154 2003               :APRL 15,2004             -OUTCOMES
National Niedical Stores  MoFPED has recruited   MoFPED approves the           NMS pri%atized.               Improved
(NMS) operate          consultants to undertake a  consultant report on                                      availability and
inefficiently.         study on options for partial  restructuring and privatization of                      cost-efficiency of
privatization of NMS.     NMS.                                                        medical supplies.
Financial           Legal and institutional  MoFPED has tabled new   MoFPED revises treasury       Financial statements of       Legislation and
Management          framework outdated.    Public Finance Bill in   instructions and financial    MoFPED, MoPS, MoLG and        regulatory
Parliament.               regulations.                 line ministries comply with core  environment reflect
financial regulations.        current budget
system and comply
with GAAP.
The present manual     MoFPED has approved and   MoFPED approves the design of  5 ministries (including MoFPED, More timely and
system inadequate for  adopted a Charter that    computerized IFMS.            MoES, MoH and MoWLE) and 3    reliable accounts are
accurate recording and  provides for quality                                  local governments pilot the    produced in key
reporting of financial  assurance on the                                       accounting module of IFMS.    basic services at the
transactions.          management of IFMS                                                                    central government
implementation.                                                                       level in compliance
with GAAP.
MoFPED has appointed a    MoFPED begins contracting the
consultant to design the  external supplier(s) of IFMS.
IFMS.
MoFPED has appointed      MoFPED has deployed
additional accounting staff  additional accounting staff
(graduates) to assist central  (graduates) to assist central and
and local governments in  local governments in IFMS
IFMS implementation.      implementation.
The Directors of Accounts and
Budget agree on a framework for
a new Chart of Accounts by June
2002, and finalize the Chart of
Accounts thereafter.
82



Schedule 2
ITTcnd- PR1C2 PnGu"mn 1ae.n.: G        Vft          - -efe,M                          --.a A .;---
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)
SUB-                                    -. .           AC-rIONS.AND'OUTPUT.TARGETS                               - -              --
-()BJEC-TIVES/ E S:.---. 
-AM ON                         A  - ;               PRSC2 -PRC3                                 --              PRSjC4.
AREXS      -) i--    ,     -ISSUE' :-% -    - -APlIL 15, 2002           --        IPRI5, 2003  .           APR1I; 1S 2004             OUTCOMES .
High fiduciary risk and  DA has reconciled and    DA ensures the accounts and                                   Reduced fiduciary
weak public financial  started the process to     financial statements for                                      risk at the central
accountability cycle at  regularize material brought  2001/2002 reflect the                                     govemment level.
the central government  forward items in the      regularization/reconciliation of
level.                 government bank accounts   all material brought forward
and consolidated fund.     items, and that reconciliation
includes all Treasury bank
accounts.
DA demonstrates that
reconciliation reflects all public
expenditure.
DA establishes a process to    DA continues to follow-up
ensure a timely follow-up of   material variances reported in
material variances reported in  semi-annual and quarterly
semi-annual and quarterly      reports.
interim financial statements.
MoFPED issues the Treasury     MoFPED issues the Treasury
Memorandum for 1997/98 and     Memoranda for 1999/00 and
1998/99.                       2000/01.
High fiduciary risks at  MoFPED has set up in     DA's office develops and                                      Timely production
local govenmment level,  DA's office a support team  implements capacity building                               of accounts and
shortage of financial  of 10 accounting           programs for central and local                                reduced fiduciary
management skills, and  professionals to support  governments.                                                  risk at local
weak financial         central and local                                                                        government level.
accountability cycle.  government accounting and
intemal audit functions.
OAG, MoFPED and MoLG           OAG introduces audit of sub-
agree on an approach for audit of county govermnents.
sub-county govermments.
83



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)
SUB-                                                   - ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS
-O BJECTIVES/
ACTION                                               PRSC2               -        PRS(3                          PRS4
- AREAS   : -   -           ISSUE'    ..        APRIL IS,--2002-              APRIL:5, 2003                  APRIL 15, 2004      ;      OUTCOMES-
Current fmancial        MoH and MoES have          MoH, MoES, DWD and JLO         MoH, MoES, DWD and XLO          Improved flow of
management system       carried out financial      carry out tracking studies and  carry out tracking studies and  funds to front-line
does not provide        tracking studies, and taken  take follow-up actions.      take follow-up actions.         service delivery.
adequate information on  follow-up actions.
actual spending.
Weak audit structures   OAG has suomrtted to the   The Government prepares a                                      A more independent
and practices.          Cabinet a memorandum on    proposal on constitutional                                     OAG.
enhancing the              reform to enhance independence
independence of OAG with   of OAG.
respect to human resource
management, access to
information on public
expenditure, and indemnity
of OAG staff.
OAG has started recruiting  OAG has appointed quality     OAG develops for its staff a    OAG able to
quality assurance managers  assurance managers for three  training program accredited by  discharge its
for three years.           years.                         ICPAU for continued             mandate effectively
professional education credits.  by providing quality
audit services.
OAG carries out capacity
building programs for its staff.
OAG starts preparing detailed  OAG strengthens its capacity to
work plans, regular progress   manage "contracting ouf' of
reports and capacity building  audits.
programs for financial and value
for money audits, and          OAG develops comprehensive      Quality audit
computerized auditing and      guides for the implementation of  services delivered to
evaluation of financial        new audit techniques.           enhance public
management systems.                                           financial
accountability and
fiduciary assurance.
84



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Pnli.v Matrix- Gtvernment's 1afn,rm                          1Ah. ^*M*v- fflh  f.  --A A.a:.vs
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)1
SfflUB-,         ; :>-  -~     -    :      : .  .  ......  . -ACTIONSANDOUTPUTYTARGETS                             :. -
OEJECTIV!ES/        ...  -- -...   .- 
A^T   . -- -   :PRSCS2  ~~--.  -  :-;PRSC-3      I-           PRSC4:-                -
AROS..                                            - --P L15'2002           -   APRI-L 15, 2003                 APRIL-       -           _OUTCO_S_-
AREAS.  -.*,         ~~~ISSUE              API                                                  1       ARL       5204              O  TO      E
B2: INCREASE TRANSPARENCY,.PARTICCIPATION AND REDUCE C.ORRUPTION
Transparency         Limited access to public  MOI, in consultation with  MOI assembles                 MOI tables the principles of    Improved access to
information to empower  DEI, has initiated          recommendations for enactment   access to government           government
citizens to demand      consultations with                                          information to Cabinet.        information to
greater accountability.  stakeholders on access to                                                                 reduce opportunities
government information.                                                                    for corruption.
Parliament has passed the
Leadership Code and
IGG Statutes Bill.
Most Ministers,            Leaders compliance with the
Presidential Advisors,     provisions of the Leadership
Permanent Secretaries,      Code Act 2002.
Directors and Uganda
Revenue Authority
officials have submitted to
the Inspectorate General
of Government their
statement of income,
assets, and liabilities.
MoFPED has prepared and     MoFPED implements the                                          Improved public
approved a communication   communication strategy.                                         awareness on fiscal
strategy.                                                                                  policy and the
budget.
Detection,           Corrupt acts not        IGG has proposed to        The Government implements the   IGG reviews implementation      More effective
Investigation and    exposed and sanctioned  Parliament a stronger      stronger follow-up mechanism.   and proposes changes, if        follow-up of
Prosecution of       effectively.            follow-up mechanism for                                    necessary.                      corruption cases.
Corruption Cases                             its reports.              I_I_I_                                                 _
85



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)1
.SUB-                    .                             ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS .                             -                       -
OlBJECTWIVES              -.
ACTION                                             PRSC2                       PRSC3                         PRSC4
.AiRE;AS         .      . ISSUE               APRIL 15, 2002 -            ARIL 15, 2003             -   APRIL 15,2004      .      ;OUTCOMES
DEI has initiated         DEI assembles                 DEI tables to Cabinet the
consultations on          recommendations for enactment  principles of whistleblower
whistleblower protection                                protection legislation.
legislation.
DEI has reviewed all anti-  DEI presents to Cabinet the  DEI gazettes the anti-corruption
corruption legislation and  principles of anti-corruption  bill.
assembled                 legislation.
recommendations for
amendments.
IGG and DEI have started  IGG and DEI disseminate results  IGG and DEI ensure that    Regular monitoring
the second integrity survey.  of the survey and conduct  monitoring of corruption     of corruption.
awareness workshops.          becomes part of M&E.
Civil Society       Limited transparency                             OPM, MoIA and the NGOs        OPM, MolA and NGOs            A better operational
Participation       and accountability of                            agree on NGO policy and code  establish channels of feedback  environment for
NGO service delivery                             of conduct                    from civil society on NGO     Govemment-NGO
entities.                                                                      participation in service delivery  partnership and self-
in districts,                 monitoring by
NGOs.
Participatory          Central and local         MoLG and local govemments     MoLG and district govermments  Coordinated
approaches in service  governments have prepared  establish channels of feedback  review the implementation of the  framework for
delivery are           a harmonized participatory  from communities to monitor the  participatory framework,  community
uncoordinated.         framework and initiated its  performance of the participatory                         participation in
implementation.           framework.                                                  service delivery.
Legal and Judicial  Limited ability of the  JLO has developed and    Satisfactory implementation of  Satisfactory implementation of  Improved
Reform              private sector to enforce  begun implementing the  undertakings agreed in JLO  undertakings agreed in JLO    enforcement of
commercial contracts.  Commercial Justice Reform  sector review in June 2002 and  sector review in June 2003 and  commercial
Program.                  confirmed by November 2002    confirmed by November 2003    contracts.
review.                       review.
86



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Ob4ectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)
SUB-                     -        ;      :             ACTIONSANDWOUTPUT-TARGETS                                           -   - -        . _
OBJECTIVES/                                                          1
ACTION                  :                      .  . PRSC2                        PRSC3                          PRSC4
IARIEAS, -;..          -ISSUE                 --.APRER;i15, 2002     1.     APRIL 15, 2003                 APRIL 15, 2004             OU.TCOQMES
PEAP/IRSI' PILLAR III: I)IRECTLY INCREASING. THE ABILITY OF THE POOR TO RAISI lTHEIR INCO('IES
Overall outcome (verification):
PRSC OBJECTIVE C: PROMOTION OF ENABLING ENVIRONMENT                   1.   increased access and usage of agricultural and rural services (household and national
FOR RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                      service delivery surveys)
2.  increased proportion of household agricultural production sold (household survey)
3.  reduced environmental degradation (data from MoWLE and Forestry Department)
Research and        Limited responsiveness  MAAIF has completed a     MAAIF, with broad              MAAIF puts in place legal and  Publicly supported
Technology          and impact of           draft institutional review  consultation, completes and  institutional arrangements for  agricultural research
agricultural research.  of public funding of      endorses a new strategy for    the implementation of the      is more responsive
agricultural research.     agricultural research and initiates  strategy.                and effective.
its implementation.
Agricultural        Access to and           NAADS has contracted      NAADS contracts agricultural   NAADS contracts agricultural   Improved quality of
Advisory Services   effectiveness of        agricultural service      service providers in at least 30  service providers in at least 100  and access to
agricultural advisory  providers in at least ten  sub-counties in ten districts.  sub-counties in at least 20   agricultural
services limited.      sub-counties.                                             districts.                     advisory services.
Rural Finance       Government-directed     MoFPED has tabled         No direct Government credit                                   Financially
credit programs        Microfinance Deposit-      programs (re)established.                                     sustainable
undermine              taking Institutions Bill in                                                              microfinance
microfinance and rural  Parliament that enables                                                                 institutions.
financial market       licensing of microfinance
development            institutions.
Limited operating      MoFPED has agreed with                                                                   Rural poor have
capacity of            Micro Finance Forum on an                                                                greater access to
microfinance           outreach program, in                                                                    financial services.
institutions, especially  particular on the
in rural areas.        institutional capacity
building framework for
microfinance institutions
87



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)
SUB:-         T. .1                         '           '  TIONS AND OUTPUJT.*-TAGETS                                                   -.
OBtJEC TIVES/         ,,
ACTION                                              PRSC2                        PRSC3                          PRSC4                  .
________'-__*_._;,         ISSU1        ;         .       .. AP.RlLIS;-2O002 . :  APRIL' 154P003'          A ,   APRIL 15-Q2004  . .  O 'UTPORI 5S2
Agro-processing     Agro-processing and                                NloFPED, NMoTI and MAAIF      Government begins              Increased revenues
and Marketing       marketing constraints                              agree on agro-processing and  implementing the strategies.   from agricultural
inhibit domestic sales                            marketing strategies for strategic                            exports.
and exports of                                    exports.
agricultural products.
Natural Resource    Implementation of the   Cabinet has approved the   MoWLE and district                                           More effective use
Management:         1998 Land Act           Land Sector Strategic Plan  governments implement the                                   and management of
Land                provisions to address   (LSSP) to implement the    LSSP.                                                        land resources
land tenure insecurity  1998 Land Act                                                                           through more secure
and conflict resolution                                                                                         tenure rights,
unaffordable and                                                                                                reduced conflicts
require prioritization.                                                                                         and transparent land
markets.
MoFPED and MoWLE           MoV. -    ishes annual
have agreed on financial   evaluation of previous year's
and institutional          pilot projects on systematic
arrangements for the       demarcation, land adjudication,
implementation of LSSP.    and land adjustment
Cabinet has approved
amendments to the Land
Act.
Women (and orphans)    MoWLE has developed a      MoWLE implements agreed                                       More equitable and
have limited access to  draft proposal of specific  actions.                                                    secure access to and
secure land rights.    actions to strengthen land                                                               control of land by
rights of women (and                                                                     women (and
orphans).                                                                                orphans).
Informal communal      MoWLE has developed        MoWLE implements pilot                                        Improved
land tenure rights may  proposals for pilot schemes  projects and establishes annual                            customary tenure
lead to resource       to strengthen common       evaluation.                                                   arrangements and
degradation.           property management                                                                      better management
systems.                                                                                 of common property
resources
88



Schedule 2
IrTnonAg           uuiq ivae na. GxuveIUIVfs Reform Strategies (ObJectives and Acbons)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)
SUB.-CT- -ACIONS AND-OUTPUT.TARGETS -                                                                                                 - .
A2TION,                          -                 PRSC2           -            PRSC3                         PRSC4
.-iAREAS;S '....  - -   -  -ISSUE - . -.. A;5PRIL.15,.2002        .       -APRIL I5S2003                  APRIL-]5,    04       -   .OUTCOMES--
Natural Resource    Inadequate integration  MoWLE, NloFPED,          Government reviews current     Government implemenLs the     Reduced level and
Management:         of environmental       MoLG, and MAAIF have      implementation arrangements    options.                      risk of
Environment         sustainability concerns  agreed with other       and prepares options for                                     environmental
in government          stakeholders on the scope  integration.                                                degradation.
programs.              of a review on
implementation
arrangements for improving
integration of
environmental concerns in
all gover=nent programs.
Financing for NEMA is                            MoFPED begins gradually                                      Sustainable
not within MTEF.                                 increasing funding for NEMA                                  authority for
within MTEF.                                                 environmental
management.
District Roads      Inadequate network of  MoWHC and distnct         MoWHC and district                                           Increased
district roads.        gover=nents have agreed   governments develop proposals                                accessibility in rural
on policy and strategy for  to establish technical offices to                          areas.
planning, construction and  assist in implementation of the
maintenance of district   strategy for district and feeder
roads.                    roads.
MoWHC and district            MoWHC and district
govemments start developing a  goverments implement the
10-year District Road         investment program.
Investment Progrm.
89



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)
SUB-    '                                             ~ -  -  ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS:
['AECTIO     EIN                                                                  PRSC3                          -PRSC4
-      ISSUE    I   .      APRIIS 15,-20      _        -APRIL 5,-2003        -        - _ ....APRIL-15,.2004  -   OUT,COMES
PEAI'/I'RSP IILLAR lx': l)IRECTLY INCREASING THE QOUALIT' OlF LIFIE
PRSC OBJECTIVE D: IMPROVE DELIVERY OF BASIC SERVICES
*         ' ,, ey, *   ,   -  -     .          Overall outcomes (verification):
Dl: lIPROVE,QUALITY OF EDUCATION                                       1. Universal primary -ducarion (annual datafrom ediwauion managemren inforrnarioh
t.;---system)._
-./                              X -  *    ' * ' 2. Improaed learning outcomes iin priumay education (biailnual hitionf assessmenr of
IA; --iSi  i   irv     .wY   . ____________ _ 'w_ ...  .'.  m_     . -  progress in educaton).   ,
Joint Government-                           Satisfactory               Satisfactory implementation of  Satisfactory implementation of  Satisfactory
Donor Education                             implementation of          undertakings agreed in education  undertakings agreed in education  implementation of
Sector Review                               undertakings agreed in    sector review in April 2002 and  sector review in April 2003 and  agreed education
education sector review in  confirmed in October 2002     confirmed in October 2003      sector programs
April 2001 and confirmed   review.                        review.                        against agreed
by October 2001 review.2                                                                indicators and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ._                                            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   t r e s
-                                     *>, > v   ,,  -   - - -  ' Overall outcomes (veririeatioh): .  -  .  .  ',
.D2: [MJ'RO   E QUALITY OF HEALTH CAE                             .    1. Increased satisfiacnon with health carc servicts (national s,rvice de,liver surveysand
-                                   .          . - .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pericodic national poveri assessmenit). .
' n-          -                 -         ,   2. Inc4reased'access and usage of health care services (national'sWrvice delivery stirVevs).
Joint Government-                           Satisfactory               Satisfactory implementation of  Satisfactory implementation of  Satisfactoty
Donor Health                               implementation of           undertakings agreed in health  undertakings agreed in health  implementation of
Sector Review                               undertakings agreed in    sector review in April 2002 and  sector review in April 2003 and  the health strategic
health sector review in    confirmed by October 2002      confirmed by October 2003     plan against agreed
April 2001 and confirmed   review.                        review.                        monitoring
by October '2001 review.3                                                               indicators
2 See Annex I for the list of education undertakings.
3 See Annex 2 for the list of health undertakings.
90



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)
-SUB-    -   -                -                 -        A(TIONSAND OUTPUETARGETS -                    :      :_'-..        --
' OB JEC,TIVES/.                              - ''-;~'                            ,'---          --:--,-                                       . 
ACTION                      : -                      PRSC2                        PRSC3 PRSC4
AREAS;       .I- ISSUE                      -  -APRIL'-15,2002--          ---APRIL 15; 2003         :        APRIL 15; -2004 .          OUTCOMES
*, - -  -  --  -,  -  ,, ,"     {         ' OverIll ou'tc'omei(veirification):  -
D3: IMPROVE ACCESS AND' EQUITY IN WATER AND                             I. Increased san7ifaction wth- WSS services (national sen-ice delive7r surveys and periodic -
' ' S'A&NTATION          .'                                   -        parricipatpoverty assessmenis).    '         ..  7- ' '
2. firs6 acesgs aid; usageof WSS services (nationai service delivery surveys and
________________  -.              .   'hci~1~6isehi6idsurie'eys
Access to Rural      Planning and           GoU and donors have         Ke) stakeholders endorse WSS   Expansion of sector-wide       Framework for
Water Supply and     management systems in  completed the first joint   sector-wide approach at the    approach to cover water for    WSS sector-wide
Sanitation (WSS)     WSS function poorly    WSS sector review and      second joint WSS sector review.  production and water resources  approach
for decentralized       agreed on coordinated                                     management.                     operational.
service delivery.       support
DWD has finalized district  All districts have set up fully  DWD completes an extemal     DWSTs integrated
WSS operational manual     staffed and trained district water  institutional and service delivery  into district
and implementation         and sanitation teams (DWSI)    review of all DWSTs.            establishment
guidelines.                with support from DWD.
MoWLE/DWD has              All districts have WSS plans   MoWLE/DWD carries out a         District capacity for
established fully staffed  developed with assistance of   mid-term evaluation of TSUs.    WSS service
technical support units    TSUs.                                                          planning
(TSU).                                                                                    strengthened.
DWD has introduced and     TSUs, in collaboration with    TSUs, in collaboration with     Environmental
pre-tested templates for   NEMA, initiate annual          NEMA, expand annual             screening is
environmental screening of  environmental audits in selected  environmental audits to all WSS  mainstreamed for all
sub-projects in districts.  districts.                    sub-projects in all districts.  WSS services.
WSS services            MoWLEIDWD has carried      MoWLE/DWD prepares a           MoWLE/DWD implements the        Private sector based
unsustainable.          out an O&M study, and      support program for private    support program for private     maintenance
developed a nation-wide    sector implementation agents   sector implementation agents.   strategy and cost
maintenance strategy for   (including maintenance                                         recovery policy
WSS facilities.            services).                                                     operational in most
districts.
9 1



Schedule 2
Uganda PRSC2 Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies (Objectives and Actions)
and Progress Indicators (Outcomes and Outputs)'
'SUB-          - '   -      -.   ;     .      .      ---ACTIONS A]D,OUTPUT TARGETS                      -             --         .               .
(3BJECTIVES/
ACTION      -PRSC2                                                              PRSC3                         PRSC4       . 
ilEof -APRIL-15j 2002                          5APR1L I,2003             :     APRRlI5, i004     : -   ;:OUTCOMES.
Low utilization of WSS  MoWLE, MoH, and NloES    MoWLEDWID and Mol-EHID         MoWLE,DWD and MoH-/EHD        Improved utilization
services and poor      have prepared a strategy for  implement a training program  carry out an annual review of the  of WSS services
hygiene.               national hygiene          for community extension        training program for community  and hygiene.
promotion, sanitation and  workers in districts and sub-  extension workers in districts
communication.            counties.                      and sub-counties.
Access to WSS in    Inappropriate          MoWLE/DWD has             MoWLE/DWD initiates            MoWLE/DWD reviews the         Improved
Small Towns         management framework   prepared a long-term      implementation of the long-term  management strategy.        management
for sustainable WSS    management strategy for   management strategy and                                      framework for small
services.              small town WSS.           prepares an investment plan for                              town WSS.
small town WSS.
Access to WSS in    Inadequate regulatory  MoWLE and MoFPED          The transaction advisor prepares  The asset-holding authority  Arrangements and
Urban Areas         framework for          have selected a transaction  the legal framework for     privatizes WSS operations.    regulatory
improved commercial    advisor for privatizing   MoFPED and MoWLE to                                          framework for
operations.            NWSC operations.          establish an asset-holding                                   private sector
authority and appoint a                                      participation in
regulator.                                                   urban WSS services
established.
MoWLE has finalized       MoWLE completes detailed       The asset-holding
urban WSS policy          designs of urban WSS systems,  authority/operator initiates
framework and investment  including sewerage master plan  implementation of WSS
program, and included it in  for Kampala and other large  investment program.
the Strategic Plan for WSS  towns.
services.
WSS services not       MoFPED has settled Ush    MoFPED settles the remaining                                 NWSC operations
financially sustainable.  1.7 billion of verified  arrears owed to NWSC and                                   on strong financial
outstanding arrears owed to  resolves NWSC long-term debt.                             footing for transfer
NWSC.                                                                                  to private sector
management.
NWSC has adopted a        NWSC simplifies water tariff   MoWLE and the asset holding
formula for periodic tariff  structure to include pro-poor  authority implement the new
adjustment.               connection policy and safe water  tariff structure.
tariff for the poor.
92



Schedule 3
Uganda PRSC2: Quantitative Monitoring Indicators and Outcome Targets
SUBL.
OBJECTIVESiACTION                      PRS!C2 -                      PRSC3                          JPRSC4             I
-AREA'-'       il                -AIPRM    Ji`2002                APRIL15,2003        -  -       APRIL15,-2004-      -      -    UTC    MSj
A: Emcientan     Equitabielpse of Public Resourcf                                -.
Quantitative Targets         Real GDP growth rate 7%       Real GDP growth rate 7%        Real GDP growth rate 7%        Poverty headcount reduced
Annual average inflation 5%  Annual average inflation 5%    Annual average inflation 5%    to 10% or less by 2015.
Gross reserves (in months of  Gross reserves (in months of  Gross reserves (in months of
imports of goods and services)  imports of goods and services)  imports of goods and services)
5 months                     5 months                       5 months
BI: Financial Man         n              :..
_ M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                          *     -   ..   ... ..sL - ......... _. .. . . ..  . _... 
Quantitative Targets         MoLG has prepared 90%, of     At least 60%o of districts and  At least 80% of districts and  I. Reduced fiduciary risk
districts' and urban authorities'  urban authorities have produced  urban authorities have produced  at the local governm-ent
annuai accounts for 2000/01,  annual accounts for 2001/02   annual accounts for 2002/03     level.
and cleared 100% of the      within the statutory deadline of 4  within the statutory deadline of 4
backlog from previous years.  months. All the remaining  -  months. All the remaining      2. Reduced fiduciary risk
accounts have been submitted by  accounts have been submitted by  at the central government
March 31.                      March 31.                      level.
At least 700/o of sub-county
govemments have produced
annual accounts for 2002/03.
OAG has audited all annual    OAG has audited 60% of        OAG has audited 80% of
accounts for 2000/01 received  districts' and urban authorities'  districts' and urban authorities'
from districts and urban     annual accounts for 2001/02    annual accounts for 2002/03
authorities by December 31,  within the statutory deadline.  within the statutory deadline.
2001 (including the backlog
from previous years).
93



Schedule 3
Uganda PRSC2: Quantitative Monitoring Indicators and Outcome Targets
.-BJECT          S/-CTION-    *:   -       C2 . -         '  . . ' . PRSC3 -    .      -    P        -                      *        -
APRIL 15,2002.              ;.A- . R     l5  003   -          P R       .      . 4,,                     .
DA has produced a semi-      DA has produced regular semi-  DA has produced regular semi-
annual (July-December 2001)  annual and quarterly interim   annual and quarterly interim
interim financial statement  financial statements within 2  financial statements within 2
within 2 months after the    months after the reporting     months after the reporting
reporting period.            period.                        period.
DA has effeetively followed up
material variances reported in
semi-annual and quarterly
interim financial statements by
requiring feedback within 2
months of preparing the report.
Ci:- Improve Quaity orEducation                                             .                          -
Quantitative Targets         Pupil-teacher ratio 54:1.    Pupil-teacher ratio 50:1       Pupil-teacher ratio 45:1      1. Universal primary
Pupil-textbook ratio 4:1     Pupil-textbook ratio -         Pupil-textbook ratio-5        education (annual data from
Pupil-classroom ratio 104:1  Pupil-classroom ratio 92:1     Pupil-classroom ratio 89:1    education management
P7 net enrollment 16%4                                      P7 net enrollment-6           information system).
2. Improved learning
outcomes in primary
education (biannual
national assessment of
progress in education).
4 Indicator to be reviewed after the upcoming Population Census.
5 To be determined in the October 2002 Education Sector Review.
6 To be determined in the October 2003 Education Sector Review.
94



Schedule 3
Uganda PRSC2: Quantitative Monitoring Indicators and Outcome Targets
O      CTIES/ACBION             -      PRSC2                          PRSC3              -            RSC4
.AREAS    .     .:    -            -APRIL 15, 2002              - APRELi5,2003.                 APRIL 15, 2004               -OUTCOMES
C2:- Imiprov,e Q,uality of-Health Care-
Quantitative Targets         509o of health sub districts                                                                l. Increased satisfaction
have in post medical officers                                                              with health care services
(excluding existing hospitals).                                                            (annual service delivery
MoH makes data on                                                                          surveys and periodic
monitoring indicators available                                                            national poverty
for sector reviews on a regular                                                            assessment).
basis.
2. Increased access and
46% of children less than 1   50% of children less than 1 year  54% of children less than I year  usage of health care
year old have received (DPT-  old have received (DPT-HepB-  old have received (DPT-HepB-   services (annual service
HepB-HiB)3 vaccination.      HiB)3 vaccination.             HiB)3 vaccination.             delivery surveys).
Out-of-patient department    Out-of-patient departinent     Out-of-patient department
utilization per capita 0.43.7  utilization per capita 0.45.  utilization per capita 0.47.
40% of approved posts in      43% of approved posts in      46% of approved posts in
Government and PNFP health   Government and PNFP health     Government and PNFP health
units filled by appropriately  units filled by appropriately  units filled by appropriately
qualified health workers.    qualified health workers.      qualified health workers.
HIV prevalence rate reduced to  HIV prevalence rate reduced to  HIV prevalence rate reduced to
6.1%.                        5.8%.                          5.4%.
Institutional deliveries in  Institutional deliveries in    Institutional deliveries in
Government and PNFP health   Government and PNFP health     Government and PNFP health
units 25%.8                   units 28%.                    units 31%.
7 New attendances in Government and PNFP facilities/total catchment population.
A percentage of total estimated births in the catchment population.
95



Schedule 3
Uganda PRSC2: Quantitative Monitoring Indicators and Outcome Targets
;OBJIECTIVESIAyCTION;                   BRSC2                         PRSC3           -|             PRSC4              |
*   - -                                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pi,  ,04  UC ME
AREAS             ;    -    | -    APRIL 15,;2002    -         --qRIL 15 2003       -           APRIL 15,12OO4    -
C3: lmprove Access and Equuiy in Walerand Sanitation.            -
Quantitative Targets for      2,900 new water systems      3,700 new water systems,       3,700 new waler systems,       Increased access to safe
Rural WSS                    serving 820,000 people.       serving 950,000 people.        serving 950,000 people.        water and sanitation from
1,205 new public, school, and  900 new public, school and   900 new public, school and     52% to 600/o by April 2003.
institutional sanitation systems.  institutional sanitation systems.  institutional sanitation systems.  80% WSS systems
functioning.
Value for money: average
investment cost per
beneficiary $50.
Quantitative Targets for     MoWLE/DWD gazettes 30         DWD gazettes 20 urban WSS      DWD gazettes the remaining 15  All small towns systems
Small Towns WSS              urban WSS authorities and     authorities and appoints private  urban authorities and appoints  under private sector
initiates clustering and     sector management contractors  private sector management      management contracts.
procurement of private sector  to manage them.              contractors to manage them.
management contractors to
manage them.
Quantitative Targets for     6,300 new connections (of     7,000 new connections (of which  7,000 new connections (of which  Increased access to safe
Urban WSS                     1,800 connections for poor   2,100 connections for poor     2,100 connections for poor     water and sanitation from
households).                 households).                   households).                   50% to 65% by April 2003.
75 new sewerage connections.  100 new sewerage connections.  100 new sewerage connections.  Value for money: average
14 NWSC staffll000            11 NWSC staff/I1000           10 NWSC staff'l000             investment cost per
connections.                 connections.                   connections.                   beneficiary $150.
22% intemal cash generation   21% internal cash generation to  21% internal cash generation to
to capital investments.       capital investments.          capital investments.
96



UGANDA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
Annexes
Annexes:
Annex 1:       Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
Annex 2:      Progress Reaching Quantitative Outcome Targets
Annex 3:      Education Sector Undertakings
Annex 4:      Health Sector Undertakings
Annex 5:      Institutional Reform Program
Annex 6:      Analysis of Environment & Resettlement Issues
Annex 7:      Uganda - At a Glance
Annex 8:      Uganda - Social Indicators
Annex 9:      Uganda - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 10:     Uganda - Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 11:     Uganda - -3alance of Payments
Annex 12:     Uganda - Status of Bank Group Operations



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2:-Progress in-Implementing the Reform-Program-
SUBr,             -    -:                              ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS
OBJECTIVES/-                                         Indicative PRSC2        -     -.
CTION-         --    .-PRSC    benchmark              ,-beYnhark in2 Actua               SC   benchm'ark,                 -Cmment
Fs  3  ;.   ;; . t -                                   ,  - '  -i -i. .;Board documentation'- S;,I  - -,- Artu"-a P   .mH
I'PAI'/I'RSI' I'll.LAR 1: IZRAI E\\0RI  [1 ()R NOM l()1  C;ROWI] ANI) 1 I4ANSI OR.AI-N
Overall outcome (verification):
PRSC OBJECTIVE A: EFFICIENT AND EQUITABLE USE OF PUBLIC                       1. More equitable access to public services (incidence analysis using household
RESOURCES                                                                     surveys and public expenditure data).
Allocations and     In the annual public        In the annual public         In the annual public expenditure  | The wording was adjusted to reflect the fact
Actual              expenditure review, GOU has  expenditure review, CWOU has  review, GOU has agreed with  I that several other donors, in addition to IDA,
Expenditure         agreed with IDA on MTEF     agreed with IDA on MTEF for   donors on MTEF for 2001/02-    are disbursing against the PRSC reform
for 2000/01-2002/03 and has  2001/02-2003/04 and has      2003/04 and has executed       programn.
executed 2000/01 budget     executed 2001/02 budget       2001/02 budget through first two
through first two quarters  through first two quarters    quarters consistent with the
consistent with the agreed  consistent with the agreed    agreed allocations.
allocations.                allocations.
MOFPED has included         MOFPED integrates             MOFPED has integrated
indicative expenditure levels  expenditure ceilings for donor  expenditure ceilings for donor
for donor-financed projects in  projects in 2002/03-2004/05  projects in 2002/03- 2004/05
MTEF for 2001/02-2003/04.   MTEF for education, health,   MTEF for education, health and
and water/sanitation.        water/sanitation.
MOES and MOH have           At least five sector expenditure  MOFPED and MOPS have started  Since the Government's pay reform strategy
reflected staffing plans and  programs reflect staffing plans  consultations on an approach to  has differential imnpact on various budget
wage bill in their sector   and wage bill for 2002/03-   integrate staffing/wage bill in  items, consultations with MOPS and other
expenditure programs for    2004/05.                      expenditure programs.          agencies are needed before staffing plans and
2001/02-2003/04 as a pilot                                                               wage bill can be integrated into expenditure
programs.
MOFPED has published the    MOFPED publishes semi-        MOFPED has published semni-
first annual budget report.  annual budget performance    anmual budget performance
reports.                     reports.
99



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
---    £.    .                 4   ND      U  -T:,A-R                   -     ;-    -- ;GETS        _
l ,OBwJCnvS;/-- ; ;-.    -               -             dicative;PRS---2----i._ - ; , _ r _
IA-CTTON   -PRSCI benchmark                       bench    riin-PRSCl.        Actual PRSC2 benchmark                     Cmments
i'A  E..                                           . . -  - Bo ard docu nen it-.:.: *- . - .
Intergovernmental   MOFPD completes a study of  MOFPED and MOLG finalize     MOFPED and MOLG have
Transfers          inter-governmental transfers.  a strategy on streamlining atl  finalised a strategy on
intergovernmental fiscal     streamlining all
transfers.                   intergovernmental fiscal transfers.
Results-            Roads, education, health, and  Justice, law and order sector  Justice, law and order sector has
orientation, and    water/sanitation have       introduces output/outcome    introduced output/ outcome
Monitoring and      introduced output targets and  measures and targets in   measures and targets in 2002/03 -
Evaluation (M&E)    monitoring of results in    2001/02-2003/04 BFP.         2004/05 BFP.
2000/01-2002/03 Budget
Framework Paper (BFP).
MOPS has disseminated key   Basic service sectors translate  MOPS and MOPFED have       Translating the results of the survey into
findings of the baseline    findings of the survey into  disseminated the results of the  service delivery standards has turned out to
service delivery survey.    service delivery standards for  national service delivery survey.  be complicated since, among other things,
performance assessment.                                     the format and frequency of further service
delivery surveys are only being decided.
Also, the survey data is not disaggregated
enough.
MOFPED and MOPS align        MOFPED, in consultation with   Reconciliation of OOB and ROM initiatives
OOB and ROM initiatives.     MOPS, has started integrating  has started, but will take more time.
ROM in the budget process.
Cabinet approves the national  Cabinet has approved the national  Cabinet review of the national poverty M&E
poverty monitoring strategy.  poverty monitoring and        strategy provided an opportunity get an
evaluation strategy, including an  agreement on M&E coordination
action plan and agreement on   arrangements that has remained unresolved.
M&E coordination arrangements.
100



Annex I
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
*sus;S.B-  i          § .         -- -           -        -ACTIONS ANDWOUTPUT TARGETS                    .                  - .
OB;JECTIYES/ -                                        InIdicative PRSC2                                     -                 -
ACTION             -    PRSCI benchmark            benibinark in PRSCI         Actual PRSC2 benchmirk                      Comments
AREAS-                 -.-   .B                       ard.docunientation     .    ,
MOFPED in collaboration     N1OPFED. NIOLG and relevant   Govemment has completed a      OPM has prepared a unified project-level
with OPM, OP and MOPS has   line ministries harmonize work  review of M&E in education,  format for work planning and progress
appointed a task force from  plans and progress reporting  health, water and sanitation, and  reporting, but its scope is limited and use is
the existing poverty        required from local           agriculture.                   lacking. The benchmark was changed
monitoring network to prepare  governments.                                              because, instead of looking at project-level
an action plan to streamline                                                             reporting, it was considered more meaningful
and strengthen M&E.                                                                      to focus on sectors as a whole and assess
how sectoral M&E arrangements could be
strengthened and streamlined.
- 4I 1A/l'RS' PILIA.-R I-1: IENNSI R-I-.NG GC()() C;()V ERNAN(CI  ND) Sl C'tU RllYV
I, -  .-.                                           I.... -~_ 7  -T
Bi;. I [PibiVE-.MAN4AGEMEN1T SYST1EMS AND PRACTICES IN THE PUBLCSECTOR- 
Public Service      MOPS and MOFPED have        Cabinet approves and publishes  Cabinet has approved and
Management          agreed on objectives and    the pay strategy consistent with  published the pay strategy
principles of a pay reform  MTEF and improved service     consistent with MTEF and
strategy consistent with    delivery; MOPS effects salary  improved public service
MTEF and improved service   adjustments aligned with the  performance.
delivery.                   strategy.
MOPS has effected salary
adjustments aligned with the
strategy.
101



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
,SlIR    .*                       ~i-ACTIONS AN,OMU'UT, TARGE-TS.
; OB.IEETIVES/                                :       IDdicave7PRSt2;-                .         .       -
ACTION        -         PRSCI benchmirk             benchmiark-in PRSCI         Actual PRSC2 benchmark                      Comments
AREAS.                          .    -          ;   Board1documentition .._                               -      -           -
An inter-ministerial task force  MOPS and other ministries  N10PS has implemented the      The Go% emment has implemented the actAon
led by MOPS prepared an     implement the action plan. An  action plan to expedite access to  plan to expedite access to payroll as planned.
action plan to expedite access  inter-ministerial task force  payroll; and developed another  However, because a recent review of payroll
to government payroll.       oversees progress and         action plan of short-term       system revealed that some basic intemal
implementation.               measures to improve intemal     payroll controls are still missing, another set
payroll controls.               of short-term actions needs to be taken, while
a long-term plan for an integrated payroll and
personnel management is worked out.
MOPS develops a strategy to   MOPS, in consultation witl      Finalizing the strategy has taken longer than
enhance and sustair, the      stakeholders, has developed a   initially expected since the Government
progr,ess made under the public  draft strategic framework,   decided to involve more stakeholders in
service reform.               reflecting lessons leamed, for the  developing the strategy-to ensure from the
new phase of public service     start that there is an overall consensus about
reform.                         the next phase of public service reform.
MOPS has initiated a study on: (i)  A new benchmark.
the implications of expanded
public administration on the wage
bill; and (ii) cost effectiveness of
increased employment in social
sectors.
Public              Minister of Finance has issued  MOFPED tables Procurement  MOFPED has tabled Procurement
Procurement         new procurement regulations  Bill in Parliament.           Bill in Parliament.
for ministries, departments,
and agencies.
MOLG has harmonized local     MOLG has harmonized local
government procurement        government procurement
regulations with central      regulations with central
government.                   government.
102



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
SU; ,;                                         :-               - AGTIONSANDOUTPTTAIRGETS
n;dica'ive'PRSC2
ACUIOM        -  =     P sClbenchniark            .benchimarkin rPRSCI       - Actua;   %RC   benchmark                    Comment-
AR-EAS        -                                    Boa d4ocumnntation -i              -       . -. r,
Minister of Finance         Procurement units are created  MOPS has issued instructions to  Because previously the procurement function
establishes a new Central   in all procuring ministries,  procurement entities (ministries,  had no separate scheme of service within
Tender Board (CTB) and      departments and agencies.     departments, agencies) to      GoU, before creating the units, MOPS had to
contract committees are                                   establish procurement units.   create the positions and map them to various
created in all procuring                                                                 entities, which led to a delay.
ministries, departments, and
agencies.
Treasury holds accounting    RCTB has held accounting
officers responsible for their  officers of procurement entities
department's procurement     responsible for procurement
function.                    functions.
RCTB has published the first   A new benchmark.
quarterly report of contracts
awarded costing more than
US$200,000.
Procurement plans are        MOH, MOES, and MOWLE have
incorporated in sector       incorporated procurement plans in
expenditure programs in health,  sector expenditure programs.
education and water/sanitation.
Employment of procurement    Weak procurement entities have
agents to support weak units.  hired procurement agents to
provide support
MOFPED has recruited           A new benchmark.
consultants to undertake a study
on options for partial privatisation
of NMS.
103



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
SUB-                                  -       -         'ACTIONSAND10UTPUT- TARGETS:.                                 -   .
Sk.
OBJEC1JIVES/,       i       .                    -~ - *Iilnd; i ,caPtR  RSC2*-                              .  ..
ACTION          :.-     PRSCI benbemarai k          beicni'arkin PRSCI              URAcu                               s! PRSC  benchmark --  Comment-
'AREAS          T. ,                                Board documentation       --        .       -.         - . .
Financial           MOFPED has established a     MOFPED tables new Public      NIOFPED has tabled new Public
Management          coordination mechanism for   Finance Bill in Parliament    Finance Bill in Parliament
guiding and monitoring
reform programs in financial
management.
MOFPED approves the design    MOFPED has approved and         The design phase has taken longer than
of computerized IFMS and      adopted a Charter that provides  initially envisaged. The design is expected to
launches implementation.      for quality assurance on the    be approved by the end of June 2002 after
management of IFMS              which contracting will be done.
implementation.
MOFPED has appointed a          A new benchmark
consultant to design iFMS.
MOFPED has appointed            A new benchmark.
additional accounting staff
(graduates) to assist central and
local govemnments in IFMS
implementation.
Directorate of Accounts (DA)  DA reconciles and/or         DA has reconciled and started the  The regularization process has started, but it
has made preparations for    regularizes material brought  process to regularize material  is taking longer than expected.
introducing consolidated     forward items in the          brought forward items in the    Regularization is expected to be completed in
quarterly reports on budget  government bank accounts and  government bank accounts and    June/July 2002.
implementation from 2001/02.  consolidated fund.           consolidated fund.
MOFPED and MOLG have         MOFPED provides additional    MOFPED has set up in DA's       The benchmark was adjusted because
agreed to appoint additional  accounting staff to MOES,    office a support team of 10     MOFPED cannot appoint accountants unless
accounting staff at central and  MOH, MOWLE, and to at least  accounting professionals to  they are included in the staffing structures of
district levels.             10 of the weakest districts.  support central and local       ministries.
government accounting and
internal audit functions.
104



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
SUB- -,                                                       l __NS_A_     OUTP - ';- : 1oIjTPUTTM'ETS                .            _      -- - TARGET-
O      CTIVES                                          -    C 'l -,
- ,_.-                                      ve MtiP SC2, L 
sN>e-                 'P,.PCI:be.chm,ark-~     .- ':b* rp                  i'R'    Actu-AIPRSC      b 'b e h     .         -    -       ents
AREAS.         ; .-.-.      - :;. -. - -   _.      - BoarcCdoconientation                  -    - -             - -   -  -. 
MOH in collaboration with     MOFPED and lne ministres      MOH and MOES ba%e camed out
MOFPED has designed and      jointly carry out tracking     financial tracking studies, and
contracted an expenditure     surveys in at least two service  taken follow-up actions.
tracking survey on PHC        sectors.
conditional grant.
GOU has appointed an          MOFPED submits to the         OAG has submitted to the
internationally qualified     Cabinet a memorandum          Cabinet a memorandum on
accountant as Auditor         enhancing the independence of  enhancing the independence of
General.                     the OAG.                       OAG with respect to human
resource man-agement, access to
information on public
expenditure, and indemnity of
OAG staff.
OAG appoints quality           OAG has started recruiting       The recruitment process has taken longer
assurance managers and retains  quality assurance managers for  than expected. Quality assurance managers
a reputable intemational firm/s  three years.                   are expected to start the work by
to assist in improving audits in                                August/September 2002. Given the
the education, health, and                                      impracticability of sector audits, that part of
water/sanitation sectors,                                       the benchmark was replaced by a series of
including districts.                                            quantitative targets on audits (see the
quantitative target matrix)
BZ-- INC.--E-:E                -             , .     ,      .    .       ::*'.. - . i                                         -   *     .  -7-.- 
B2            -       RANSPARENCY, rARTICIPATTION ANDREDUCE-CORRUPTION
Transparency         MOI in collaboration with     Cabinet approves principles of  MOI, m consultation with DEI,  The w%ork has proceeded slower than initially
MEI has reviewed the Official  access to govemment          has initiated consultations with  expected since MOI that has limited capacity
Secrets Act in light of best  information.                  stakeholders on access to        was asked to take the lead.
practice regarding access to                                govemment information.
government information.
105



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
:'.S1JB-1                  .                  . s   ->s  ; *-  L  -A I[ONSAND OUTUT TAGETS,r.                          '       -        ...
.'-~ ~ :': _-  . ,,. IidjicftivePRSC2'. 7 -
ACTION-                PRSCI benchmaark                     rk in' PRSCI  -   Actual PRSC2 benchmark       -              Comments-
REASk-                         s.' ; a          .Boarddocumnentation'..            .                        -            -         ;        - r -
Minister of Ethics and      IGG ensures open citizen     Parliament has passed the      Due to Parliarnentar) elections in the
Integrity has gazetted and  access to leader asset       Leadership Code and IGG        summer 21, the Leadership Code Bill and
tabled Leadership Code Bill  declarations. Leaders who fail  Statutes Bill.             IGG Statutes Bill lapsed and had to be re-
2000 and Inspectorate of    to complete asset declarations                              tabled in the new Parliament. Given this
Government Bill 2000 in     are sanctioned, including    Most Ministers, Presidential   delay, the benchmark was adjusted.
Parliament                  disqualification from office.  Advisors, Permanent Secretaries,
Directors, and Uganda Revenue
Authority officials have submitted
to the Inspectorate General of the
Government their statement of
income, assets and liabilities.
MOFPED has produced a       MOFPED prepares and          MOFPED has prepared and
citizens' guide to the budget  approves a communication  approved a communication
process.                    strategy.                    strategy.
MOFPED, MOLG and line
ministries ensure that public
notices on transfers are posted
in health, water/sanitation, and
agriculture at facility, district
and sub-county level,
respectively.
Detection,          IGG has published its semi-  IGG proposes stronger follow-  IGG has proposed to Parliament a
Investigation and   annual report for the first half  up mechanism for its reports  stronger follow-up mechanism for
Prosecution of      of 2000/01.                 and GOU initiates its       its reports.
Corruption Cases                               implementation.
MEI will have reviewed all   DEI has initiated consultations on  The whistleblower protection legislation has
anti-corruption legislation and  whistleblower protection   taken longer than anticipated because the
whistleblower protection.    legislation.                   Govemment is conducting broader
consultations than initially planned to ensure
broad support for the proposed bill.
106



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
SUB- . v .         ..... , . - ACTIONS' ANDQI1P UT TARGETS                                                   ---
..   _    -.     -_. .                   -. -       .ldctveR6@                             .           --          --                :        -
ACTTON'~            - PE-RSI benchmark      -      b6chWi=a'r in PRSC                           -               =          Comments
AREA       -              -    . - .       -,      Boird'documienation'                                        --*..        - --:           -- - - .;
DEI has reviewed all anti-
corruption legislation and
assembled recommendations for
amendments.
MEI and donors have initiated  IGG and MEI carry out the  IGG and DEI have started the   Launch of the second integrity survey was
a process to develop        second integrity survey and   second integrity survey.       delayed, because of a procurement problem.
quantitative monitoring     disseminate results.                                         According to RCTB, proposals were not
indicators to assess progress                                                            evaluated based on sufficient common
in fighting corruption.                                                                  information. The work is currently
underway.
Civil Society       OPM and MOIA have created   OPM, MOIA and the NGO                                        The timetable was adjusted because the
Participation       a computerized database on  community mutually agree on                                  implementation of the NGO survey, whose
NGOs and faith-based        NGO policy and code of                                       results will feed into the NGO policy and
organizations with public   conduct.                                                     code of conduct, was delayed.
access.
MOLG has taken the lead in  Central and local government  Central and local governments
promoting a harmonized      adopt the harmonized          have prepared a harmonised
framework for participation in  framework and initiate its  participatory framework and
service delivery.           implementation.              initiated its implementation.
Legal and Judicial  Justice, law and order sector  JLOS develops a strategic plan  JLOS has developed and    The two benchmarks were combined.
Reform              (JLOS) has adopted a sector-  for criminal and commercial  implemented the Commercial
wide approach to commercial  justice reform, including    Justice Reform Program.
justice reforms.            monitoring indicators.
ILOS has developed a        JLOS implements the
commercial justice reform   commercial justice reform
program 2001-2004.          program, including commercial
courL
107



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
SUB-        I           -       ''                      ' ' ~' -  .  ACTIONS ANDWOUTPUT TARGETS
2oesEC'nvri'S                                            .- IndicativrPRSC2  -I  -
VACTION:     --      ~ PRSCI-benchmark              benchmark insPRSIl        - Actual PRS   2       mbenchmark-            Commnets. 
AR.E. . ..S-- _                  -   t     . -w  i   rL -  Board d6cumenttion. r'  .--.- -
I'EAP/I'IRSP PI LI AR III: DIRECTLY INCREASING TIlE ABILITN' oF 1ll l 'OOR TO( RAISI                  I   RllEIR INCOIMES
Overall outcome (verification):
PRSC OBJECTIVE C: PROMOTION OF ENABLING ENVIRONMENT FOR                       1. increased access and usage of agricultural and rural services (household and
RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                             national service delivery surveys)
2. increased proportion of household agricultural production sold (household
survey)
reduced environmental degradation (data from MOWLE and Forestry Department)
Research and                                                                  MAAIF has completed a draft    A new set of benchmarks added to the reforrn
Technology                                                                    institutional review of public  program.
funding of agricultural research.
Agricultural                                                                  NAADS has contracted
Advisory Services                                                             agricultural service providers in at
least ten sub-counties.
Rural Finance                                                                 MOFPED has tabled
Microfinance Deposit-taking
Institutions Bill in Parliament that
enables licensing of microfinance
institutions.
MOFPED has agreed with Micro
Finance Forum on an outreach
program, in particular on the
institutional capacity building
framework for microfinance
institutions.
108



Anney I
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
-ACTIONS1AND OUTPUT TARGETS
e QB.IECT1VE,S/ --=    a -                --        Indicative PRSC2 :
ACU ON      - -  - .  ~ PRSC1 benchmark-         bencAiaTrk in PRSClm        Actual-PRSC benchmark -c-                 Coml   ent -e-m-
AREAS     -            -*---.;.                  Boared ocumentation, -.   .-   ..                 -       -.  -       -
Natural Resource                                                           Cabinet has approved the Land
Management:                                                                Sector Strategic Plan (LSSP) to
Land                                                                       implement the 1998 Land Act.
MOFPED and MOWLE have
agreed on financial and
institutional arrangements for the
implementation of LSSP.
Cabinet has approved
amendments to the Land Act
MOWLE has developed a draft
proposal of specific actions to
strengthen land rights of women
(and orphans).
MOWLE has developed
proposals for pilot schemes to
strengthen common property
management systems.
Natural Resource                                                           MOWLE, MOFPED, MOLG,
Management:                                                                and MAAIF have agreed with
Environment                                                                other stakeholders on the scope of
a review on implementation
arrangements for improving
integration of environmental
concems in all government
programs.
109



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
SUB-                                                   AC-TIONS AND OUTPUT -TARGETS
OBJECTIVES/                                          Indicative PRSC2
A(:TION                PRSCI benchmark             benchmark in PRSC I         Actual PRSC2 bencbmark                       Comments
. AREAS                                             Board'docunientation
District Roads                                                                MIOWHC and district
governments have agreed on
policy and strategy for planning,
construction and maintenance of
district roads.
PEAI/PIRSI' Pi'LLAR IV: I)IR.CTLY INCRIEASING THl QUALITY 01F LIFIE
PSRC OBJECTIVE D: IMPROVE DELIVERY OF BASIC SERVICES
Overall outcomes'(verification):-
5 ¢ '*_t ~J~>~t ' -            0                               v 1    ~-t   '~  ;   ' m. i ,*   ' ,_ _ *.  - ' I' ' Universal primary education (annual data from educat ion ianagement
;  DI IMPROVE QUALITY,OFEDUCATION                                           information systeiei).
*.~-' '      t -  >9K:7.i3     ' 4     '. =:  s          .                ,,~- 7 ; -  ~v;M s~* .2. Improved leaminrg oulcomes in primary education (biannual national
- ;<u -, r> j, 2_ ~.................................. , ttbtR asas'mm   ss ieis educarion)..
Joint Government-   Satisfactory implementation  Satisfactory implementation of  Satisfactory implementation of
Donor Education     of undertakings agreed in   undertakings agreed in        undertadings agreed in education
Sector Review       education sector review in  education sector review in    sector review in April 2001 and
April 2000 and confirmed by  April 2001 and confirmed by  confirmed by October 2001
October 2000 review.        October 2001 review.          review.
See Annex I for the list of education undertakings.
110



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
SUB-:     ---- -                                         ACTIONS AND'OUTP;UTTARGETS                --_-_                         -_  -_-_-_-__
OBJECTIVES/         -                               s   nndicatiyvePRSC2      -,
ACT ION                 PRSCI benchmark             .bench.6ark in PRSCI         - Actual PRSC2 benchmark                        Comments
AREAis          -                               .    Board docium'entition       --- 
MOPS, N1OES and NIOLG         MOES in collaboration with                                      Following the October 2001 education sector
have launched a national      MOPS, MOFPED, MOLG and                                         review, it was agreed that PRSC education
recruitmnent campaign for     districts recruit, deploy, and                                 sector actions will be integrated with the
15,000 new teachers.         add to the payroll at least                                     education sector review undertakings.
20,000 additional teachers,
given pupil-teacher ratio target
and attrition.
MOES prepares and begins to
implement an action plan to
upgrade skills of unqualified
teachers through TDMS.
MOES sets up a mechanism to
monitor the share of filled
positions and prepares and
implements an action plan to
increase the share of positions
filled in districts with
recruitment problems.
MOES.has finalized report on  MOES begins to implement
double-shift and agreed with  agreed cost-efficiency
MOFPED on a set of            measures, monitors them
recommendations to increase   closely.
cost-efficiency, including
those that reduce class size,
for presentation at April 2001
sector review.
.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
'SUB,            . ;                                  .- .ACTJONS'ANDIOLTPUT TAR;E1G            S    -_-_-_':_'_-_'_-_-_-_-_.
.OBJECTIVES/ '                                          [-idicatiPRSt2-.
AC-TION ,           ..- PRSCI -benchmark            .'benchimark inPRSCI ..'      Actual' PRSC2 bencimark                      'Comments-
w-_; .L .    ,        , =Board'dd6cuzmentation,. o: ,     -_                       -   _-__        __    __     __
:. '.  .  ;O'verall'utc'meis (verification) - 
D2: IMPROVE QUALITY OF. EALJTHCARE                                    -  ':     L:-Icreased ,is action with heakh care services (national service deli'y
- .  ..  .                      ,,    ,         ,                  :. surveys aiid peniodic natonal pdoverty assessment).
:   .,.   ,- -,  -   , .- - '  ..;:; 2:lncreaed access andus 'e -gf.h ,h.care services'(nationalse,nice delivery
).                                 . - .       .         .  .    .     . -.. N.
.......-  - .. ... . ..-  .  .  .  .,     -  .     .     -  .   .      - , .   .            .                                -  . ...
Joint Government-    Satisfactory implementation of  Satisfactory implementation of  Satisfactory implementation of
Donor Health         undertakings agreed in health  undertakings agreed in health  undertakings agreed in health
Sector Review        sector review in April 2000 and sector review in April 2001 and  sector review in April 2001 and
confirmed by October 2000    confirmed by October 2001      confirmed by October 2001
review.                      review.                        review.2
Funding for PNFP providers   MOH approves a health care                                     Following the October 2001 health sector
has doubled in 2000/01 budget. financing strategy, including a                              review, it was agreed that PRSC health sector
strategy and action plan for                                   actions will be integrated with the health
public financing of health care                                sector review undertakings.
provision by PNFP sector.
MOH has made interim         MOH contract committee and
procurement arrangements in  procurement unit filly
accordance with procurement  operational.
regulations.
MOH has submitted health     MOH approves and makes
sector procurement plan for  available an implementation
2000/01 to MOFPED.           plan for the national drug
policy and strategic plan on
pharmaceuticals.
2 See Annex 2 for the list of health undertakings.
112



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
SUB        - -- -  --                                  AC-TIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS-
'OB, JECTIVES/                     -             -   Ind,icadtifve'-PRSC2
ACTION                 PRSCI benchmark             benchmark in PRSCI         --Actual PRSC2 benchmark        - -          Comments
AREAS - .         :      _---__.                .......... Boa'rd documentation.'
NIOH has completed baseline  NIOH de,velops procurement
survey under drug management guidelines for drugs and
initiative.                 supplies for health sector.
MOH has made proposals for  MOH in collaboration with
pay reform in the health sector  MOES and MOPS prepare and
in its 2001/02 budget       approve a human resource
submission.                 policy for health sector,
including harmonization of in-
service training.
Two training schools have   MOH and MOES agree on
begun training of           management and support to
comprehensive enrolled nurses. health training schools,
including PNFP schools.
MOH completed mapping of    MOH has an approved National
health facilities.          Health Infirstructure
Development and Maintenance
Plan.
-Su -4ts                                                      ' -  -   -,s  O _x@ 1 r* _ - ~->_~ ~ _ $Ja_1  s_  vera llout comes(verilication):  .  s
D3: IMPROVE ACCESS AND EQUITY IN WATER AND-SANITATION                        -! Increased satisfaction'.with WSS services (nationaliservice delivery'surveys aid
penodic participatory,poverty- assessmems).
2. Increased ac'cess and usage of WSS services (iiational service.deliver) surveys
-    -   - -   _                                  't'  -,  _               n'oueodsr-y)-"' -                     t           -                 -.
Access to Rural     GOU has established an inter-  GOU and donors complete the  GOU and donors have completed
Water Supply and    ministerial committee to    first joint WSS sector review  the first joint WSS sector review
Sanitation (WSS)    develop objectives and      and agree on co-ordinated    and agreed on coordinated
principles for a sector-wide  support.                    support.
approach in WSS.
113



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
'SUB--" - . ::                                 -                 -. .  ACTlONS;AND OUTPUT TARGETS D*OUT. P
.OBJECTMVES/         .   -ndicativeiFRSC2                                              .     r,      ;         -      ,   ; ;_
ACTION       -   ~    - -PRSCibenchkmartk          bencima.rk in-PRSCI         Actual;PRSC2benchimark                      Commens
*AREAS                   -                          Board documentation              -   --_-___-_*-_._-_;_-
At least half of districts have  DWD rinalizes district WSS  DWD has finalized distinct WSS
set up fully staffed district  operational manual and     operational manual and
water and sanitation teams   implementation guidelines.   implementation guidelines.
(DWST) with support from
DWD.
MOWLE/DWD completes re-      MOWLE/DWD has established       MOWLE/DWD has reorganized its district
organization and establishes  fully staffed technical support  support structure and established TSUs. The
fully staffed technical support  units (TSU).                broader functional reorganization plan of
units (TSU).                                                 DWD, however, needs to be approved by
MOPS before it can be implemented.
DWD has introduced and pre-
tested templates for
environmental screening of sub-
projects in districts.
MOWLE/DWD has initiated     MOWLE/DWD develop a           MOWLE/DWD has carried out an
review of maintenance and   nation-wide maintenance       O&M study, and developed a
cost recovery arrangements  strategy for WSS facilities.  nation-wide maintenance strategy
for WSS facilities. ,                                     for WSS facilities.
MOWLE and MOH have          MOWLE and/or MOH prepare      MOWLE, MOH, and MOES have
agreed on institutional     a strategy for national hygiene  prepared a strategy for national
responsibilities for sanitation.  promotion, sanitation and  hygiene promotion, sanitation and
communication.               communication.
Access to WSS in    MOWLE/DWD adopts             MOWLE/DWD adopts a long-     MO.WLE/DWD has prepared a      Adoption of a long-term management
Small Towns         interim management strategy  term management strategy for  l long-term management strategy  strategy has been delayed due to intermal
for small town WSS.         small town WSS.               for small town WSS.            review process of DWD and funding
constraint.
114



Annex 1
Uganda PRSC2: Progress in Implementing the Reform Program
SUB-      .                                     -.  - -  ACT[ONSD OU' I           T TARGE--'S :-T_ON  T_-                 _     ----E:S:
-OBJECTIVES/                       - -ndiati-e PRS'2
. ACTlON       -      - -iPRSCI benchmark            benchmiark.in PRSCI        -=Actual PRSC2 benchmark                        Comments
tA     o A S   i '    aliona.                   . -  Bodad  o cumentation -                 -          -    - -
Access to WSS in     Naiional Waler and Sewerage  MOWLE and MOFPED              MOWLE and MOFPED have
Urban Areas          Corporation (NWSC) has      initiate selection of private  selected a transaction advisor for
signed a performance contract  operator for NWSC and       privatising NWSC operations.
with MOFPED and MOWLE.       prepare legal framework.
MOWLE finalises urban WSS     MOWLE has finalised urban
policy framework and          WSS policy framework and
investment program.           investment program, and included
it in the Strategic Plan for WSS
services.
MOFPED has settled USh 5     MOFPED settles the remaining   MOFPED has settled USh 1.7      MOFPED has settled the remaining verified
billion debt owed by GOU     debt owed to NWSC.             billion of verified outstanding  debt owed to NWSC, but new arrears are
agencies to NWSC.                                           arrears owed to NWSC.           accumulating. NWSC has submitted to
MOFPED an issues paper on this topic.
MOFPED, MOWLE, and NWSC are
agreeing on action to be taken to eliminate or
minimize arrears.
NWSC has simplified          NWSC simplifies water tariff   NWSC has adopted a formula for  NWSC has adopted a periodic tariff
connection policy.           structure and reviews tariffs  periodic tariff adjustments.    adjustment that will compensate for changes
annually to allow for inflation.                               in costs due to inflation, foreign exchange
rate changes etc. The review of the tariff
structure will be carried out with the
assistance of NWSC privatisation transaction
advisor to ensure that a new tariff structure
will be compatible with the private operator
arrangement for NWSC.
115



Annex 2
Uganda PRSC2: Progress Reaching Quantitative Outcome Targets
* SUB--  -   ;               -   : PRSC1sTaiget      .        ndicative PRSC2Target        -         Actual
.OI9ECTIVESiACTION                                                              a                                                          ment
- ~ ~     ~    ~    - !, -I *RCBor -                                                                                   - -1t @.,.., * ,' . :  -  '  - n * *n - - -
* ~    .               , .                                                                       -    .  .     .       .       . 
A: Eiiciient aiid Equiitible.Use.of.Public lResources     .
Quantitative Targets                                                                       Real GDP growth rate 5.8%     New targets added to PRSC2. Due to
Annual average inflation 5.5%  decreased international coffee prices
Gross reserves (in months of   and slowdown of the global economy,
imports of goods and services)  provisional real GDP growth, while
4.6                            relatively high, fell short of the 7/o
target and reserves were below the 5
month target.
-B1: F#tancial.Management          .     -        .      - 
Quantitative Targets                                                                      MOLG has prepared 90% of       New targets added to PRSC2.
districts' and urban authorities
annual accounts for 2000/01,
and cleared 100% of the
backlog from previous years.
OAG has audited all annual
accounts for 2000/01 received
from districts and urban
authorities by December 31,
2001 (including the backlog
from previous years).
DA has produced a semi-annual
interim financial statement
(July-December 2001) within 2
months after the reporting
period.
116



Annex 2
Uganda PRSC2: Progress Reaching Quantitative Outcome Targets
SUB-.                              *  .:' :PRSCTargeL  -  :- ' dicative-PRSC2'Target             - Actual.
"OBJECTWES/ACTION                                              In PRCi,srd                                                        Comiment      '
'AREAS_r ' -__                                                                __                                   I _'Documents-.-         .-
Cl:- I$  rove qualit ofeducation u                        '    '     -    '       '-                                                 -    .
Quantitative Targets        Pupil-teacher ratio 63:1.    Pupil-teacher ratio 54:1.     Pupil-teacher ratio 54:1.     Introduction of a new curriculum in
Pupil-textbook ratio 6:1      Pupil-textbook ratio 4:1      Pupil-textbook ratio-         2002 invalidated all former textbooks
Pupil-classroom ratio 121:1.  Pupil-classroom ratio 104:1.  Pupil-classroom ratio 98:1.   and new ones are being procured.
P7 net enrollment 14%.        P7 net enrollment 16%.        P7 net enrollment 16%.        New targets have been agreed.
p  Ipoe,qua ityo,'i!h      ae          --.-l.                    .   :       -.:'                                                   '-  - 
.     -i .     ---
Quantitative Targets       Joint GOU-donar sectof review  50%/o of health sub-dismcts   800/o of health sub-districts
has agreed on baseline and    have in post medical officers  have in post medical officers
means of verification for    (excluding existing hospitals).  (excluding existing hospitals).
selected monitoring indicators.
2,500 EPI outreach sites were  MOH makes data on            MOH makes data on
made operational.             monitoring indicators available  monitoring indicators available
for sector reviews on a regular  for sector reviews on a regular
basis.                        basis.
MOH has trained 1,300 nursing                               46% of children less than 1   5 new health targets, that provide
assistants.                                                 year old have received DPT-   better indication of service delivery,
HepB-HiB)3 vaccination.       outputs and outcomes, were added to
PRSC2.
Out-of-patient department
utilization per capita 0.43.
40% of approved posts in
government and PNFP health
units filled by appropriately
qualified health workers.
117



Annex 2
Uganda PRSC2: Progress Reaching Quantitative Outcome Targets
-sUB,                              PRSCI Target             Indicative PRSC2 Target-               Actual.
OBJECTIVES/ACTION                                              In !RSCI. Board                                                    Comment
AREAS                   -.                                    .   Documents                 :                                               -       -  :
HTV prevalence rate reduced to
6.1%.
Institutional deliveries in
government and PNFP health
units 25%.
C3: Improve access and equity in water and sanitation        -    - -                                         -
Quantitative Targets for    1,500 new water systems       2,900 new water systems       2,900 new water systems
Rural WSS                   serving 350,000 people.       serving 820,000 people.       serving 820,000 people.
450 new public, school, and   1,205 new public, school, and  1,205 new public, school, and
institutional sanitation systems.  institutional sanitation systems.  institutional sanitation systems.
Quantitative Targets for    MOWLE/DWD has gazetted        MOWLE/DWD gazettes 30         MOWLE/DWD gazetted 30
Small Towns WSS             15 urban WSS authorities and  urban WSS authorities and     urban WSS authorities and
has initiated the appointment of  initiates clustering and  initiated clustering and
private sector contractors to  procurement of private sector  procurement of private sector
manage the authorities.       management contactors to      management contractors to
manage them.                  manage them.
Quantitative Targets for
Urban WSS                   3,100 new connections (of 930  6,300 new connections (of    6,300 new connections (of     Due to low population density outside
connections for poor          1,800 connections for poor    1,800 connections for poor    core urban centers, on-site household
households).                  households).                  households).                  specific sanitation systems rather than
75 new sewerage connections.  700 new sewerage connections.  70 new sewerage connections.  sewerage connections are the cost-
24 NWSC staff/1000            14 NWSC staff/IOOO            14NWSC stafl71000             efficient means to provide sanitation to
connections.                  connections.                  connections.                  these areas. Sewerage connection
5% internal cash generation to  22% internal cash generation to  22% internal cash generation to  target was reduced to take into account
capital investments.          capital investments.          capital investments.          that only core urban centers are
suitable for sewer facilities.
118



Annex 3
EDUCATION SECTOR UNDERTAKINGS
The Government has satisfactorily implemented the following undertakings agreed in the
education sector review in the April 2001 and confirmed by the October 2001 review:
1.    Financial commitment: Budget and releases in line with the Government of Uganda
guidelines maintaining a minimum of 31 percent of recurrent discretionary expenditure for
education, of which at least 65 percent is allocated to primary education.
2.     Public Expenditure Management:
(a) Annual statutory financial audit for education expenditures for the previous financial year
carried out under the auspices of OAG for the central Government (including institutions)
and local governments.
(b) A tracking study carried out on the use of and accountability for 2001 UPE capitation
grants.
Quality enhancement:
(a) Pupil-teacher ratio calculated nationally and by district: 66:1
(b) Pupil-core textbook ratio calculated nationally and by district: --
(c) Pupil-classroom ratio calculated nationally and by district: 109:1
3.     Outcome (equitable quality): Share of appropriate age range of girls and boys in P7
nationally and by district: 8 percent.
4.     Equitable access: A draft policy paper developed on ways to enhance equitable access
to education by disadvantaged groups. A final policy framework, including a costed work plan,
in place by April 2002.
5.     Teacher recruitment: The national recruitment drive for primary school teachers has
continued. There has been marked improvement in the recruitment of primary school teachers by
some districts. Since May 2001, 10,515 primary school teachers have accessed the payroll, 2,111
have been reactivated, and 5,943 have been deleted. By October 2001, 106,854 primary school
teachers had accessed the payroll, which is slightly higher than the undertaking target of 105,000.
6.     Monitoring and evaluation: Private schools were given EMIS codes and incorporated
into the EMIS 2001 data. The annual school census 2001 was conducted, data verified, entered,
consolidated, and analyzed. Statistical reports have been produced.
119



Annex 4
HEALTH SECTOR UNDERTAKINGS
The Government has satisfactorily implemented the following undertakings agreed in the
joint Government-donor health sector review in the April 2001 and confirmed by the October
2001 review:
1.     Human resources for health:
(a) MOH, MOFPED, MOLG, and MOPS (cleaned up) the health sector payroll and
consolidated all staff into the PHC conditional grant payroll.
(b) A strategy for in-service training and continuing medical education initiated. The
strategy addresses the role, mandate, and facilitation of the Health Manpower
Development Center (HMDC).
2.     Procurement: A comprehensive medium-term procurement plan was produced.
3.     Finance:
(a) The Government of Uganda announced its commitment to increasing the proportion of
govermment funds allocated to the health sector.
(b) MOH and MOFPED, in consultation with other stakeholders including districts, reviewed
accountability conditions for the release of PHC funds.
4.     Supervision and monitoring: The Government of Uganda updated and approved the
baseline data and targets, and the data collection methods, for the HSSP and PEAP indicators.
5.     Basic package: The Government finalized the National Pharmaceutical Sector Strategic
Plan.
6.     Public-private partnership for health: A draft policy for the private-not-for-profit
(PNFP) sub-sector was developed
120



Annex 5
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROGRAM
1.     This annex provides background for the institutional reform areas that PRSC2 and
subsequent PRSCs will focus on: (1) efficient and equitable use of public resources, (2) cross-
cutting public sector reforms, (3) promotion of enabling environment for rural development, and
(4) sector-specific reforms, initially in education, health and water and sanitation.  The
institutional reform areas are presented in the context of the PEAP/PRSP pillars.
PEAP/PRSP PILLAR I: Framework For Economic Growth And Transformation
A. EFFICIENT AND EQUITABLE USE OF PUBLIC RESOURCES
2.     The budget process in Uganda has evolved significantly over the last four years. By
1997/98, Uganda had in place a reasonably well-articulated rolling, three-year budgeting process.
Since 1992 the Government had relied on a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to
set out strategic budgeting choices over a three year horizon.' Initially, the main objective of this
process was to ensure macroeconomic stability.  The MTEF, allied with a cash release
mechanism, provided the framework for the reestablishment of fiscal discipline by keeping
overall spending in line with available resources2 In subsequent years, the MTEF was used to
accommodate large new spending programs within the constrained expenditure ceiling;
specifically, the main roads program in 1995 and Universal Primary Education 1997/98.
3.     By 1997/98, the institutional structures of the budgeting process were well established.
The process began in the fall of each year when sector working groups were given expenditure
ceilings for the following three years and asked to develop spending proposals for that period.
The sector working groups, roughly 15 in number, were organized according to functional
groupings and involved representatives from the relevant line ministries and the Ministry of
Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED). The sector working groups
submitted their spending plans to the MOFPED in December/January and these proposals formed
the basis for a paper to Cabinet setting out the main strategic choices that needed to be made. On
the basis of the Cabinet decisions, the MOFPED then prepared the annual budget for the
following financial year. The annual budget was then submitted to Parliament in early June.
4.    In 1997/98, in a further evolution of the Ugandan budgeting process, the Government
decided to open up the budgeting preparation to a wider range of stakeholders. This took the
form of exposing donors and civil society organizations to the broad fiscal choices confronted by
the Government in October and involving them in the sector working group activities leading up
to the submission of spending plans to the MNFPED. Subsequently, upon the approval by Cabinet
of the three-year spending program but prior to the submission of the annual budget to
'In Uganda, the three year spending framework is set out in a document referred to as the Budget Framework Paper.
2 The success of this can be seen in the sharp reduction in the fiscal deficit. The fiscal deficit (measured exclusive of
grants) declined from 14.4 percent of GDP (1991/92) to 5.9 percent of GDP (1996/97).
121



Annex 5
Parliament, the Government outlined to donors and civil society organizations the specific
spending choices made for the following three-year period. As a result of this, the Ugandan
budgeting process became substantially more transparent and accountable.
5.     There were several objectives in involving outside stakeholders in the budgeting process.
First, it was felt that outside stakeholders, particularly donors, could provide useful technical
support to the sector working groups. By engaging donors in the work of these groups, the
quality of the sector working groups' outputs would be enhanced, leading to better budgetary
choices. Second, given the relatively high level of donor financing of the budget, it was
necessary to get a better fix on the likely level of donor support in advance of the annual budget.3
This was particularly important as regards donor budget support which was part of the resource
envelope available for Government-funded expenditures. Finally, it was felt that by increasing
the general awareness of the Government's intended spending plans post Cabinet decision, it
would be more difficult for the Government to deviate from these plans in actual budget
execution. In practice, the operation of the cash release system in conjunction with the MTEF
had led to substantial deviations between budgeted expenditures and actual outlays, undermining
incentives for budgetary management at the line ministry level.4  By making public the
expenditure choices, the costs of subsequent deviations would be higher.
6.     Performance: Over the last four years, the Ugandan budget process has been highly
successful in affecting a realignment of spending priorities while maintaining macroeconomic
stability. This has been most evident in the rising share of poverty-related spending in total GOU
expenditures. Spending on programs covered by the Poverty Action Fund (PAF) roughly tripled
between 1997/98 and 2000/01. Spending on PAF programs rose as proportion of total public
spending from 18 percent in 1997/98 to 29 percent in 2000/01. The share of PAF programs in
total expenditures is projected to increase further in the next three years, rising to 36 percent of
total expenditures in 2003/04.  As a result, over the last four years, the Ugandan budget has
become much more strongly poverty focused.
7.     At the same time, the process has led to reduced variation between budgeted spending
and actual outturns. Measuring variation as the sum of absolute differences between budgeted
spending and actual spending by line item divided by total budgeted spending, average budget
deviations have been 15 percent or less over the last four years as seen in the table below:
Table 1. Average Budget Deviations
1997/98    1998/99   1999/00    2000/01
Average deviation in percent  11.4      14.7      9.4        10.4
8.     As a result, the Ugandan budget has become more predictable in execution, providing a
basis for donor finance to shift from project to budget support modalities.
3 In 1997/98, foreign financing (grants and loans) was equivalent to 48 percent of total expenditures.
4In 1994/95, the deviation between budget and actual expenditures was 27 percent.
5The PAF was established in 1998/99 as a "virtual fund" to identify expenditures with a high poverty reduction impact.
Funding for the PAF is largely notional, although some donors ear-mark budget support for PAF expenditures, and the
budgeting of PAF expenditures occurs through normal budgeting processes. However, PAF expenditures are given
iarger than normal spending increases and PAF expenditures are protected from within year spending cuts arising from
domestic revenue shortfalls.
122



Annex 5
9.    PRSCAgenda: There has been substantial progress over the last four years in improving
Uganda's budgetary performance, management and reporting. In the latter case, the Government
has prepared detailed reports on budgetary performance for 1999/00 and 2000/01. These report
measure budget execution relative to approved levels and discuss reasons for slippages. The
Government has also prepared a report covering the execution of the 2001/02 through the first
half of the current financial year.
10.   In spite of this considerable progress, there are a number of areas in which existing
processes can be improved. First, the output-orientation of the budget is still relatively weak.
Explicit output indicators have been developed for relatively few sectors (notably, education,
health, water and sanitation, and justice, law and order) and there is virtually no linkage between
outputs and outcomes. Good budgeting requires clear links between inputs (e.g., spending on
primary teachers) and outputs (e.g., student/teacher ratios) and outcomes (e.g., literacy rates) in
order to make informed decisions on budget allocations and to provide an accountability
framework for spending agencies.
11.   Second, the range of budget choices is limited in two important respects. First, explicit
spending allocations are only made for Government-funded expenditures. Donor project funding
falls largely outside the budget allocation process. While levels- of donor project finance are
included in the budget by line item; these levels are mostly indicative and there is no formal
mechanism for the programming of donor project funds. Second, within sector spending levels,
the wage bill is largely exogenous. Determination of the wage bill in the MTEF is based on the
previous year's level, adjusted for staffing changes and projected wage increases. In practice,
these two factors limit the scope of decision-making by sector working groups. Sector working
groups do not typically trade off Government-funded spending for donor project funding and
typically can only reallocate Government-funded expenditures between non-wage recurrent and
domestic development. The result of this is to limit significantly the scope for expenditure
reallocation within sector working groups.
12.   Both of these areas are to be addressed under the PRSC process. However, doing so will
require adjustments in budgetary institutions over the medium term. First, the sector working
groups will need to be strengthened to increase their capacities to deal with output orientation.
To date this has occurred through the development of sector-wide approaches (SWAps), which tie
together donors and Govermnent in a common program with agreed objectives. There are
currently sector wide approaches in place for education, health, water and sanitation, and justice
and law and order sectors. These arrangements exist outside the formal budgeting process, but
their activities feed into the budget preparations. However, if output orientation is to be extended
to other sectors, consideration will need to be given to enhancing the technical capacities of the
relevant budget sector working groups. A particular challenge, in this regard, will be to improve
the performance of sector working groups that cut across major spending agencies with little in
common linking them functionally, i.e, the public administration group which includes spending
by theiPresidency, the Prime Minister's office, MOFPED, Foreign Affairs, and Parliament.
13.   Related to this is the need to rationalize the budgetary processes to increase the role of
sector working groups. Changes in the budgeting institutions in Uganda over the last four years
have been evolutionary. The result of this has been the development of parallel systems (e.g.,
SWAps) and some uncertainty as to the actual role of sector working groups in the process. In
particular, sector working groups, whose active engagement is central to the budget preparation
process, do not have strong incentives to carry out their assigned role. As a result, the quality of
sector working group submissions is highly variable. Providing a better incentive framework for
these groups is necessary if the budgetary objectives are to be achieved.
123



Annex 5
B. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
14.    The Government has, over the last year, undertaken a number of positive actions in the
M&E area, including: (i) establishment of PRSC sub-committee on M&E; (ii) finalization and
Cabinet approval of poverty M&E strategy; (iii) drafting of an M&E action plan; and (iv)
expanded agenda of sector-level expenditure tracking studies.
15.    Establishment of the PRSC subcommittee on M&E represents an important step in
addressing M&E policy coordination and simplification of reporting within the Government.
Moreover, since it comprises key central and sectoral ministries it helps drawing the linkage
between government operations on the one hand and monitoring of poverty outcomes on the
other. However, the role of the committee versus the existing Poverty Monitoring Network,
which comprises NGO and academic institutions in addition to selected ministries, is not entirely
clear.
16.    The poverty M&E strategy represents a useful step in rationalizing poverty M&E in
Uganda. It recognizes the role of M&E as being more than reporting on status of poverty or the
mechanics of data collection intemal to projects. Rather, it views M&E as a function integral to
the process of effectively creating results in pursuit of PEAP/PRSP objectives. To help draw
linkages between PEAP/PRSP outcomes and Government operations, the strategy highlights: (i)
identification/refinement of medium-term PEAP/PRSP goals and targets at the sectoral level; and
(ii) expanded use of operational review instruments (e.g. evaluation, expenditure tracking). At
the same time, the strategy seeks to strengthen reliability and scope of "basic" poverty data.
17.    Progress with use of the National Service Delivery Survey findings has been lacking. The
results have been disseminated, but adopting its findings on levels of service access and/or client
satisfaction as a basis for sectoral target setting and performance assessment has not moved
forward. The Government is expected to prepare a plan for the way forward in the next fiscal
year.
18.    The alignment and integration of the output-oriented budgeting (OOB) and results-
oriented management (ROM) initiatives has also progressed slower than expected. ROM training
has progressed well and MOFPED has started integrating ROM in the budget process. MOFPED
and the Ministry of Public Service (MOPS) are expected to prepare next year an action plan to
align OOB and ROM.
PEAP/PRSP PILLAR II: Ensuring Good Governance and Security
A. PUBLIC SERVICE REFORM
19.    The Government has pursued public service reform since early 1990s. The public service
reform  program  envisions the transformation of the public service to a results-oriented
meritocracy that will ensure efficient and effective delivery of quality public services. The
current central thrust of the program's strategy is to introduce a results-oriented management
culture in the public service. Towards this end, the initial steps have been taken with introduction
of output orientation in planning, budgeting and evaluation by all public agencies, and objective
and open performance appraisal of personnel.
20.    However, the successes and gains in made in public service reform program in the mid-
1990s have been sustained and, in some cases such as downsizing and enhancement of pay, have
actually been reversed. The Government, jointly with its development partners, conducted a
124



Annex 5
review of the program. The Government is currently developing a strategy for a new phase of
public service reform. So far, a draft strategic framework has been prepared.
21.    Furthermore, the Government and the Bank have embarked on the design of the Capacity
and Performance Enhancement Program (CAPEP) as the vehicle through which the Bank and
other development partners would collaboratively make available resources for technical
assistance and other capacity building necessary for the public sector institutions to deliver the
reform agenda and medium term outcomes targets in the PRSC framework. The preparation of
the CAPEP is ongoing and the project is expected to be effective in early 2003.
22.   In addition, the reforn program focuses on two areas of public service reform: pay
reform and payroll management. Distortions and inequities in the public service compensation
system contribute to low morale, indiscipline, and unethical conduct by public servants, and
constrain the ability of the Government to recruit, retain and motivate skilled aiid experienced
professionals and technicians in the public service. The weak payroll management system still a
year ago led to long delays in the recruitment of the additional teachers that were needed to
support the implementation of the Government's UPE program. Work continues on these critical
areas.
23.    Public Service Employment and Pay Reform: The Cabinet has approved a medium-term
pay reform strategy that is generally in line with the policies and principles communicated in the
PRSC1 Letter of Development Policy. The central thrust of this strategy is to evolve a pay
structure, policies and practice that will enable the Government to recruit, retain and motivate a
critical mass of technically and professionally skilled Ugandans into the public service. As
circumscribed by the severity of budgetary constraints, the medium-term pay reform strategy has
limited policy objectives, which. are to: (i) restore and preserve the purchasing power of salary
levels for all public officers; (ii) eliminate distortions arising from select pay and awards and non-
task allowances; (iii) achieve market benchmarked salary targets for critical roles and skills
positions; (iv) establish a sustainable retirement benefits scheme. To achieve these objectives the
strategy stipulates that the Government will: (i) curtail employment growth in low priority
sectors; (ii) phase out public servants paid by development partners in project implementation
units (PIUs); and (iii) raise the wage bill to support implementation of the priority medium term
policy targets. The Ministries concerned (i.e. MOFPED and MOPS) also underscored the
Government's commitment to the key principles underlying the pay reform strategy as they
adjusted salaries at the beginning of the current fiscal year. The staff in the middle (graduate
level) grades U5b-4 had the highest (33 percent) annual salary increase, while those at the top and
bottom grades received considerably lower increases, 8 percent and 10 percent, respectively.
24.    Public Service Enployment: Analysis of affordable scenarios for the medium-term
public service pay reform strategy has revealed that recent and anticipated political decisions to
expand public administration through, for example, the creation of new districts and political
posts, will not only significantly contribute to rapid growth in public service employment, but
exacerbate the severity of budgetary constraints on public service pay reform. In 1997, total
numbers on the public service payroll was about 160,000 (down from 320,000 in the early
1990s). Today, the total number is about 200,000. If control measures are not taken, the number
will be about 250,000 in the next few years. The predominant factor in this rapid rise in numbers
is the recruitment of more teachers and health workers, and this may be readily justifiable in
terms of direct impact on services delivery. However, it is not yet demonstrated that there is cost-
effectiveness in the planned rate of increase in the numbers of these employees. Even less likely
to be cost-effective are the significant increases in numbers attributable to the expansion public
administration. Therefore, the Government needs to institute policy and systems controls on the
125



Annex 5
future expansion of public administration. In this regard, the Government has launched a study
on the strategy and modalities,for controlling public sector employment and ensuring cost-
effectiveness in the growth of employment in the social sectors. Thereafter, within the PRSC3
framework, the Government's plan is to seek to obtain Cabinet approval for a policy to underpin
the strategy and its implementation modalities.
25.    Payroll and Human Resources Management Systems: The survey in health, education
and water carried out in the PRSC 1 preparation process confirmed how payroll and human
resources management were severely constrained by: (i) top-down establishment control; (ii)
weak district-level personnel functions; (iii) inefficient payroll management; and (iv) inadequate
systems for evaluating and disciplining staff. Under the PRSC 1, the Government established an
inter-ministerial task force which developed a short to medium term action plan to address the
delays in payroll access by frontline workers, especially by teachers. Since then the large backlog
of newly recruited teachers not on the payroll has been cleared. Also, payroll change reports
received from districts now take only about 30 days to be processed, because the most procedures
and controls have been decentralized.
26.    Still, there are many significant weaknesses in the payroll and human resources
management systems, as comprehensively documented in a recent consultant's report that was
commissioned by the MOPS, and funded by the DFID. This report provides a sound basis for
defining the way forward in addressing the issues of payroll and human resources management
systems. In the short to medium term, there is need for systematic efforts to streamline and
simplify the procedures and formats, and to strengthen controls in payroll and personnel
management. The Government also needs to adopt a strategy and appropriate policies and
standards for implementation, in the medium to long term, of computer-based integrated payroll
and human resources management systems. So far, the Government has prepared a short to
medium term plan of action to improve on the existing procedures and controls.
B. PUBLIC PROCUREMENT
27.    The Government has realized that existing public procurement system is inadequate to
address the demands of a liberalized economy modeled on the principles of economy, efficiency
and transparency. Public procurement is an area of government activity in which the risks of
corruption are high, given the value of goods and services procured by the government, the strong
interest of the business sector in winning govermuent contracts, and the authority given to
government officials to award contracts. Over 90 percent of the complaints received by the
Inspector General of Government (IGG) are procurement-related. Uganda channels about
US$700 million a year in domestic resources and donor funds through the public procurement
process. If it were assumed that only 10 to 15 percent of these funds are not used for the intended
purpose, this represents an economic loss of US$70 to $100 million a year.
28.    While existing procurement structures, policies, and procedures are weak, the major issue
has not been the lack of these instruments. The main problem has been failure to observe the
rules and regulations in place, inadequate monitoring, and failure to impose sanctions for
violations of the rules. (In addition, some sanctions are totally inadequate; for example, the
penalty for failure by a Tender Board Member to declare pecuniary interest in a contract award is
only UShS,000. For sometime now, the Government has realized the urgent need for
strengthening the existing procurement system especially in the area of enforcement. To this
effect, in December 1997, the Government established a Task Force aimed at reviewing the
procurement system and proposing a system that will ensure maximum transparency, economy
and efficiency in public procurement. The Task Force consisted of government representatives,
126



Annex 5
the private sector and the donor community and was assisted by consultants from the
International Trade Center (ITC), under Swiss Government financing. The Task Force produced
its report in January, 1999. The report was approved by the Cabinet in January 2000, with minor
amendments to the proposed institutional arrangements. Implementation of the proposed reforms
is in progress.
29.    The Task Force focused on procurement systems at the Central Govermment level. In the
context of the PRSC1, the donor community and the Government, through the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), have reviewed the whole public sector procurement
system, including the local government. The CPAR exercise revealed a number of weaknesses
in the procurement system besides those covered in the Task Force Report. The review
comprised analysis of the country's public sector procurement structure, including the existing
legal framework, organizational responsibilities and capabilities, and present procedures and
practices, including how these may differ from the formal rules and procedures. The following
text summarizes the major weaknesses identified by-the Task Force and the CPAR, maps out the
recomitendations that have been proposed to address them and reports on the status of
implementation of these recommendations. Implementation of these reforms started officially on
March 1, 2001, with the introduction of the new procurement regulations.  There were
fundamental weaknesses in the existing system that made it susceptible to inefficiency and
corrupt practices. These weaknesses were inherent in the following main areas of the system:
legal and regulatory, procedures and practices, organisation and resources.
30.    Legal and Regulatory Framework: The Public Finance (Tender Board) Regulations
(CTB Regulations) issued under the Public Finance Act, 1977 controlled procurement at the
Central Government and the Local Government Tender Regulations issued under the Local
Government Act, 1997, control procurement at the Local Government level. Procurement is also
controlled using a number of other laws including: the Government Central Purchasing
Corporation statue 1990; the NRA Statute 1992; the Leadership Code of Ethics 1992; the Police
Statute 1994; the Local Government Financial and Accounting Regulations 1998 (Part IX); and
the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act 1998. It is evident that the problem has not been
the lack of instruments for controlling procurement, the main issue is that these instruments are
diffused over a number of laws with no mechanism to coordinate their systematic application.
31.    The CTB Regulations and the Local Tender Board regulations are the main governmental
tools tor fiscal control and discipline at Ministries/Departments/parastatals and local government
level, respectively. However, for all practical purposes these regulations do not regulate the
actual procurement process from the point of view. of economy, efficiency, competition and
transparency. They are essentially an internal set of rules for financial/economic control of the
administration containing regulations concerning composition of Tender Boards (TB) and the
limits of their jurisdiction, and regulations concerning the actual procurement process. As these
are not laws or acts of similar authority, but administrative documents, they could be amended by
the Ministers of Finance and Local Government without regard to fundamental rights of the
suppliers/contractors. In addition, these Regulations lack enforcement and monitoring provisions.
The present system also lacks credible paths of complaints which have implications for economy,
efficiency and transparency. Suppliers and contractors are discouraged from actually lodging
complaints and therefore violation of procurement rules and regulations go unchecked resulting in
more erosion of public confidence in the system.
32.    Recommendations on Legal Framework: A number of reform actions have been proposed
to improve the current weak legal and regulatory framework including: the enactment of a
Procurement Law based on the UNCITRAL model law with provisions for appropriate control
127



Annex 5
and monitoring mechanisms; establishment of an autonomous Regulatory Body with oversight
and supervisory powers over public procurement entities and abolition of the Central Tender
Board; establishment of contract committees in ministries and parastatals with full authority to
undertake the procurement of goods, works and services required to meet their operational needs
with funds appropriated to them; establishment of procurement units in ministries and parastatals;
and establishment of an Appeals Body for complaints that cannot be adjudicated by the
Regulator.
33.    Status of Implementation of Recommendations on Legal Framework- A regulatory body
(Reformed Central Tender Board - RCTB) was created under the new Regulations that came into
effect on March 1, 2001. The Board became fully operational on September 1, 2001. The RCTB
is now the executing agency for the reforms. Contract committees have been established in all
the procuring entities to undertake the approval function originally undertaken by the defunct
CTB. The procurement law has been completed and tabled in Parliament.
34.    Procedures and Pracices: There are five main areas that need to be strengthened to
improve the transparency and efficiency of the procurement system: procurement planning,
standard bidding documents, evaluation criteria, record keeping, and contract management. The
CPAR found that the system does not provide for the need to prepare procurement plans and such
plans are not generally prepared. While inefficiency may be a contributing factor, lack of
planning, in many cases, is deliberate in order to create the preconditions for ad hoc or
unwarranted emergency procurement. Procurement planning is a key instrument for financial
planning and should be linked to the budgeting process. The lack of standard procurement
documents also contributes to the non-transparency and inefficiency of the system. Standard
documents are necessary to ensure that information contained in bidding documents and request
for proposals is known to all stakeholders in the procurement process. This normally increases
competition, leading to more economic prices. Efficiency, economy and transparency are
promoted through open competition. To this end the Local Government Tender regulations need
to be revised to limit the use of selective and restricted tendering methods which are widely
prescribed in the these regulations. The regulations also prescribe the use of merit point
evaluation criterion for goods and works which could be prone to subjectivity and hence non-
transparency. The CTB and Local Government Tender regulations also lack provisions for proper
contract management and record keeping.
35.    Recommendations: To address weaknesses in the procedures and practices, the
Government decided to issue new procurement regulations.  In addition, the following
recommendations have been proposed in the CPAR: ministries, agencies and parastatals should
be required to prepare procurement plans as part of budget proposals; standard bidding
documents (SBD) should be prepared for goods, works and services; limitations should be
imposed on the use of restricted tendering and the short-listing process should be fair when
restricted tendering is used; a handbook for monitoring services, goods and works should be
developed, and a review of the effectiveness of the current procurement filing system in all public
entities should be undertaken to ensure transparency and accountability according to international
best practice.
36.    Status of Implementation of Recommendations on Procedures and Practices:  The
Government, with the assistance of donors, introduced the new procurement regulations on
March 1, 2001. The new regulations address most of the procedural issues but the full benefits of
these Regulations will only be accomplished after the procurement law has been enacted. The law
will provide for appropriate monitoring and sanctions powers to the regulatory body. The other
recommendations have also been implemented under the PRSC2.
128



Annex 5
37.    Organization: Until March 1, 2001, procurement decisions for public procurement in
Uganda were done by user ministries, departments, and a number of tender boards including:
Central Tender Board (CTB); Parastatal Tender Boards; Police Tender Board; Military Tender
Board; and District Tender Boards.  These boards had the responsibility for processing
procurement of goods, works and services. The regulations which set up the CTB under the 1977
Finance Act were incomplete and outdated. For instance, there were omissions relating to
procedures to handle complaints from bidders. The CTB also lacked full autonomy and some
critical disciplines such as engineering were not represented in the Board. Parastatal/Ministerial
Tender Boards are prone to conflict of interest due to inadequate separation of roles in the
composition of the boards because the Act did not clearly define the structure. The District
Tender Boards suffer from excessive political interference, conflict of interest, lack of
procurement skills and unclear coordinating mechanism with the central government.
38.    The legal and regulatory reforms undertaken and described above address the
orgamnsational problems of the CTB and the Local Government Tender Boards. Establishment of
the RCTB has provided the necessary oversight for public procurement in Uganda.
Establishment of contract committees and procurement units has in turn provided the required
autonomy and accountability.
39.    Resources: In Uganda, the procurement profession is not held in high esteem, such as
accouliing and banking. The profession has been relegated over a long time during which
procurement functions were taken over by administrative officers to satisfy their personal
pecuniary objectives.  Since the Government has hardly invested in training of public
procurement specialists, there is an acute shortage of qualified and well-trained staff in public
procu,iement in Ministries/Departments, parastatals and local governments. The experience in
various agencies has been that there are a few capable, qualified and experienced professionals,
mostly at the top level, while the rest of the staff (i.e. the majority) have below average level of
capabilities.
40.    Recommendations: It will take the Government sometime to build the necessary
procurement capacity in the public sector. In the meantime, the Government is advised to employ
procurement agents to carry out procurement on its behalf. The procurement agents should also
be given the responsibility of training government employees and special incentives should be
built in their contracts to ensure that this is achieved. On training, a number of recommendations
are being proposed including: undertaking a needs assessment of procurement professionals;
developing professional standards for procurement cadres through a certification system;
developing training programs and training materials leading to certifications as cadre; and
systematic and continuous on-the-job procurement training for all civil servants since decisions
on procurement are made by multiple layers of administrative officers. To implement these
recommendations, the Government will need to increase availability of training resources in the
country for promoting the establishment of a well-qualified and trained procurement cadre. The
high cost of training and capacity building, which the proposed reforms entail, should be weighed
against the benefits of enhanced capacity and reduction in corrupt practices.
41.    Status of Implementation of Recommendations on Resources: With the assistance from
donors, the Government has employed procurement agents to assist those weak entities with large
volume of procurement. The Government has also undertaken a number of studies related to the
procurement capacity in Uganda and has identified serious gaps. These studies include: staff
needs assessment; training needs assessment; and training capacity assessment. As a result of
these studies, the Government is working with various stakeholders in the public and private
sector to build the necessary capacity.
129



Annex 5
42.    Public procurement in Uganda bears a high risk factor. The Government has started the
process of implementing the reforms that would mitigate the risk but due to lack of implementing
capacity, the progress has been somewhat slow. Donors are working very closely with the
Government to ensure that these reforms are implemented systematically and funding is made
available to the Government. Given the limited implementation capacity in Government, donor
assistance will be required for a long time to come. The progress and effect of the reforms will be
monitored closely under the PRSC. To this effect, the RCTB will be carrying out regular annual
procurement audits on selected expenditures to verify that procuring entities are adhering to the
new regulations and they are obtaining value for money.
C. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
43.    Although commendable improvements in public sector accounting and reporting have
been made in Uganda, recent evaluations, including the Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) conducted jointly by the Government and donors, have made several
recommendations for strengthening and enhancing financial management.6 With the support of
donor-assisted initiatives, the Government is proceeding with its initiatives to enhance the
financial accountability framework. These steps are not only aimed at mitigating fiduciary risk in
public expenditure management for both taxpayers and donors, but also to achieve economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds, to enhance transparency and
accountability, and to establish an appropriate enabling environment for private sector
development and regulation.
44.   In the medium term, the Government will undertake the following measures to improve
financial management and accountability in the country:
*  Strengthen the legal and regulatory framework by a new Public Finance Bill that has been
tabled in Parliament. In subsequent years it is envisaged to prepare and issue revised
Treasury accounting instructions and financial regulations.
*  Approve the design of the computerized Integrated Financial Management System
(IFMS) and launch its implementation during FY 2002/03 and, in the medium term,
establish the IFMS, initially at MOFPED and roll it out thereafter to line ministries.
*  Improve the quality and timeliness of Government's financial reporting in the short term
by expanding capacity to produce quarterly consolidated interim financial statements and,
in the medium term, establish a process to ensure a timely follow-up of material
variances reported in quarterly reports.
*  Establish a financial management support program for the decentralization process by
providing additional support in accounting to districts that currently lack capacity. The
Office of the Auditor General (OAG) has caught up with the backlog of audits of districts
and urban authorities' annual accounts.
*  Finalize the regularization of material non-reconciled items referred to in the 1999 Report
of the Auditor General on the public accounts, including the Consolidated Revenue Fund
and bank accounts. Subsequently, the accounts and financial statements should reflect
the regularization /reconciliation of all material brought forward items.
*  Implement capacity building programs through the Second Economic and Financial
Management Project (EFMP II) and the Local Government Development Project (LGDP)
6 For example, the annual public accounts of Government have been produced within the statutory period of four
months after the end of the financial year for each of the past four years.
130



Annex 5
supported by IDA, and the Financial Accountability and Decentralization Support Project
funded by DFID.
*  Enhance the independence of the OAG with respect to human resource management,
access to information on public expenditure, and indemnity of OAG staff by introducing
new legislation. Furthermore, OAG will appoint quality assurance managers.
*  Strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of the Public Accounts Committee.
*  Modernize the legal and regulatory framework for the private sector, for example, draft
bills for a new Financial Institutions Act and a new Companies Act have been prepared
and will shortly be tabled in Parliament.
*  Support the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda (ICPAU) to enable it to
fulfill its statutory obligation of regulating and developing the accountancy profession,
including the training of accountants at the technician and professional levels.
45.    As the current financial management system does not provide adequate information on
actual public spending on front-line basic services, the Government has pioneered expenditure
tracking surveys to fill the informnation gap. The education and health sectors have conducted
these surveys recently with success. These are being rolled out to other line ministries in the next
fiscal year.
46.    Although the CFAA Report concluded that the central and local government financial
management systems represent high fiduciary risk, the major recommendations contained in the
report have been reflected in the PRSC1 and PRSC2 reform program. The recent joint World
Bank and IMF Report on the Tracking of Poverty-Reducing Spending in Uganda confirms the
ongoing initiatives as follows: "In terms of budget execution, the internal controls (e.g. payroll,
pensions, and local government) are being strengthened through the extension of CCS. In
addition as a result of new public finance bill new treasury regulations are to follow enactment.
These have been undertaken by the Government with the support of IMF, Bank and DFID. In
addition, as a measure of strengthening internal control and budget reconciliation process,
tracking studies have been undertaken in health and education sector, which have substantially
improved the budget execution. Given the benefits of tracking studies, the Government and
donors have agreed to continue to implement tracking studies in other sectors. Water sector is
planning to do a tracking study next year. There are also efforts in place to review and improve
the structure of the Government bank accounts and their management. In the area of budget
reporting measures are being undertaken by the Government with donor support to strengthen the
capacity of each line ministry and also at the local government level to monitor and report on
budget outputs and outcomes. There are steps in place to increases the quality and regularity of
internal budget reporting. Measures have been undertaken mainly by the DFID to strengthen the
capacity through training and ensure independence of the Office of Auditor."
47.    The challenge facing the Government and its development partners is to implement these
recommendations. In that regard, the assiduous monitoring of the financial management reform
initiatives using the coordination mechanism initially established under EFMP II and expanded to
cover the entire scope of financial management reform under the PRSC, will be critical. The
recruitment and retention of appropriately qualified and experienced staff at all levels by offering
competitive remuneration packages are also crucial to achieving an overall improvement in the
financial accountability environment.
131



Annex 5
D. TRANSPARENCY, PARTICIPATION, AND ANTI-CORRUPTION
48.    At the Consultative Group (CG) meeting of May 2001 good governance and corruption
were discussed. Both Minister of Ethics and Integrity and the Head of the Public Service
recognized the importance of having core government functions working well if the Government
is going to curb corruption. These core functions correspond to key cross-cutting reforms
described in the PRSC matrix, that is, pay reform and human resources management, financial
management, and procurement. The CG therefore confirmed the need for the Government to
improve the management of its core functions in addition to addressing corruption more directly
through the adoption of key pieces of legislation to promote transparency, and prosecution of
corruption cases.
49.    Although public awareness programs, district integrity workshops and other events to
create awareness of the corruption issue are being conducted, progress in the area of transparency
and anti-corruption has been modest. Under the PRSC1, the Department of Ethics and Integrity
(DEI) had tabled the Leadership Code Bill 2000 and the Inspectorate General of Government
(IGG) 2000 Bill in Parliament. Since then Parliament has passed both bills, and President has
already assented the IGG Bill to an Act. Work on whistleblower protection and access to
government information has also started. The anti-corruption laws (Magistrates Courts Act,
Penal Code Act of 1964, Trial on Indictments Decree, Prevention of Corruption Act of 1970)
have been reviewed and discussed. Presently, DEI is working on a final report that proposes to
consolidate the acts.
50.    The first integrity survey was conducted in 1998. The second integrity survey, led by the
Inspectorate General of Government (IGG), has been launched. The IGG is supported by the
World Bank Institute (WBI), and bilateral donors (DFID and Ireland Aid) and UNDP are also
supporting the exercise. In the future, the Government plans to merge the integrity survey into
the national service delivery surveys. DEI is also putting in place a series of performance
indicators to monitor progress in the fight against corruption.
51.    During the period of July-December 2000 (date of last IGG report), the IGG has handled
2,416 complaints with an additional 1,040 carried over from the previous six months and
investigation took place for 1,451 cases. A total of 502 were referred to other agencies for action,
while the remaining cases are still being investigated. Forty-seven cases were under prosecution
with 8 finalized and 39 still at different stages of prosecution. An average of 576 cases are
handled monthly. The IGG reports that during the six-month period approximately USh 1.7
billion was saved through its investigation of corruption. It is to be noted that the IGG reports (7
so far) are circulated but never debated. There is a move to amend the bill to include debate to
reporting.
E. LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORM
52.   In November 2001, Uganda became the first developing country to adopt a holistic
approach to the administration of justice as it launched the Strategic Investment Plan for the
Justice Law and Order sector based on a sector-wide approach. Bringing nine institutions
together, the plan was developed to achieve significant policy reform and institutional change
across the sector. The plan outlines the need for an overarching policy reform framework, and a
focus on criminal and commercial justice reform. The sector has held a satisfactory second bi-
annual review where progress in implementation of the commercial justice reform program and
the development of a program for the criminal justice sub-sector were appraised. In addition, the
Strategic Investment Plan for the sector was endorsed by all stakeholders at the review.
132



Annex 5
53.    The Government began implementing the Commercial Justice Reform Program (CJRP),
aimed at improving service provision to businesses, in 2000. The program focuses on
institutional strengthening of the commercial justice system through the following:
a. strengthening of the Commercial Court to improve access and case processing;
b. the establishment of the Center for'Altemative Dispute Resolution (CADER) with
comprehensive arbitration and conciliation/mediation procedures based on
international best practice;
c. strengthening the land and companies registries;
d. improving the legal and regulatory environment through revision of relevant laws
pertaining to commercial activity; and
e. building capacity in commercial law practice.
54.    The Government has recently completed a baseline 2001 User Perception Survey to
ascertain client satisfaction with service delivery in the commercial justice system. User
perceptions clearly indicate that the commercial justice system is not good. Businesses
interviewed, however, indicated a strong desire to use the system and showed confidence that the
system is capable of enforcing legal rights.
PEAP/PRSP PILLAR lII: Directly Increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes
55.    Agricultural growth in Uganda over the 1980 averaged 2.1 percent per year increasing to
3.7 percent over-the 1990s. Much of this growth has resulted from an expansion of cultivated
area. l Land productivity has also improved, but just enough to cover to the productivity levels of
the 1970s. The decline in civil strife and improved incentives for farmers to produce since the
mid-i980s account for much of the growth over this period. While there still remains significant
scope for further area expansion, significant gains could also come from productivity
improvements.
A.     IPROVING TECHNOLOGY GENERATION-AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
56.    According to the Plan for Modernization of Agriculture (PMA), increasing agricultural
productivity through the generation and adoption of improved agricultural technologies is a
priority. The public sector supports generation of technologies with agricultural research through
the National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO). Over the past decade NARO has
unde,taken extensive research within a broad research program. The most pressing issue now
facing NARO is to ensure that research programs are more responsive to farmers' needs.
57.   In line with international experience, the PMA suggests that research and advisory
services can be made more effective through an institutional framework which provides for:
*  greater relevance and responsiveness to client needs - research addressing what
farmers want it to address;
*  empowerment of rural people - to enable them'to express their needs;
*  a systematic interface between research, farmers and extension (advisory) service
providers;
*  involvement (leverage) wilh other actors - in particular the university, NGOs, and the
private sector; and
133



Annex 5
accountability - mechanisms for identifying and correcting shortfalls in service
provision.
58.    NARO has stated that its strategy supports these principles, and NARO has expressed a
willingness to move towards accountability to local governments and agribusiness as they begin
to provide funding to NARO for sharing the costs of research.
59.    Stakeholders agree that there is a need to rethink the institutional framework of
agricultural research (including NARO) in Uganda. NARO's own Board and Management
proposed a review of NARO by a professional team of independent specialists towards improving
the effectiveness of the organization. In order to increase the responsiveness and impact of
publicly funded agricultural research, the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
(MAAIF) has prepared a draft institutional review of public funding of agricultural research,
which will provide a basis for a strategy to proceed in this area. In subsequent years (and
subsequent PRSCs), the Government will undertake to implement to resulting strategy to improve
the responsiveness and effectiveness of publicly funded agricultural research.
B.     IMPROVING TECHNOLOGY UPTAKE-AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY SERVICES
60..  In Uganda, the users of agricultural technology - millions of poor farmers - have been
unable to demand effectively what they need from farm advisors or research scientists. They
have had little capacity to identify and articulate their own needs, and they have had no financial
resources or any other leverage with which to influence or pay suppliers of research and advisory
services to address their needs.
61.    The new National Agricultural Advisory Services Program (NAADS), which is in the
first stages of implementation, is designed to establish a demand-driven program that will provide
farmers with access to the expertise of agricultural professionals. With regard to the adoption of
technologies, NAADS is designed to address public sector responsibilities by providing technical
services and financial resources to farmers to help them to:
*  identify the kinds of knowledge and technologies which are important to them on their
farns;
*  articulate their needs and priorities to agricultural professionals who might help them to
address their problems;
*  exert leverage (through their control of program funding, through having a voice on
decision-making boards, and through persuasion), to influence the kinds of knowledge
and technologies being produced and validated; and
* adopt technologies that fit their needs.
62.    NAADS has been designed around the guiding principles of the PMA as laid out above.
NAADS will empower fatners to be effective demanders of agricultural services by providing
them with financial resources and capacity building in the identification and articulation of their
needs. Funds and responsibilities will be allocated to local government in accordance with the
Government's own provisions for the decentralization of resources and authority over program
funds and activities. Under NAADS, local government and farmers will share the costs of the
program with proportional contributions which will grow over time. While public funds from
these various sources will be used to finance the program, actual provision of the advisory
services under NAADS will be contracted out to private service providers. Under NAADS, the
interface between researchers, farm advisors, and farmers will be secured by placing funds in the
134



Annex 5
hands of fanners (groups) with which they will be able to pay for the advice and activities of
agricuIltural professionals, from- whichever source they deem appropriate. Activities and results
of the NAADS program will be systematically monitored and evaluated; qualitatively by farmers
and quantitatively by NAADS staff.
63.   In order to increase access to agricultural advisory services by farmers, and the
effectiveness of the services, NAADS has contracted agricultural service providers in at least ten
sub-counties. In subsequent years (and subsequent PRSCs), NAADS will contract agricultural
service providers in at least 30 sub-counties in ten districts, then at least 100 sub-counties in at
least 20 districts. These measures are expected to improve the quality of and access to
agricultural advisory services.
C.    RURAL FiNANCE
64.    The Government regards development of agriculture and the rural sector as essential to
achieving rapid economic growth and reducing poverty in the country. In preparing and
approving the PMA, the Government has recognized the critical importance of rural finance to
increasing income from farming and other rural activities while improving food security. The
Government has stated that the mission in rural finance is "to develop a system and institutional
arrangements that will ensure increased availability of market-based rural financial services in
Uganda."
65.    The PMA calls for establishing a conducive policy, legal and regulatory framework as the
primary thrust of Government. An important mechanism for stakeholder consultation in
implementing this approach is the Micro Finance Forum (MFF), chaired by the MOFPED. To
ensure coordination with PMA, a joint subcommittee of MIFF and PMA has been formed to
oversee implementation of programs in rural and micro finance.
66.    A key -policy issue is the Government withdrawal from direct provision of credit, in light
of the extremely poor perfornance of subsidized loans under Entandikwa and the general failure
of various directed credit programs to achieve sustainable loan and cost recovery rates. Despite
political pressures to revive such credit programs, the Governmnent has so far responded favorably
to proposals from the MFF to avoid direct Government credit programs and instead support a
syster,natic approach to Expanding the Outreach of Sustainable Microfinance in Uganda,
including implementation of the Uganda Capacity Building Framework (UCAP) to strengthen
performance in private micro and rural finance institutions.
67.    UCAP. is intended to provide a common framework and guidelines for programs that
provide training and capacity-building support to Uganda's microfinance institutions (MFIs), in
order to improve their financial sustainability and increase outreach, especially into rural areas. It
is complemented by a proposed set of Donor Principles for Support to Uganda's Microfinance
Sector. The rationale is to encourage consistent, demand-driven approaches to capacity-building
that aim to reduce the dependence of MFIs on donor funding and strengthen their ability to
mobilize their own funds from savings and commercial sources. UCAP is part of the program for
Expanding the Outreach of Sustainable Microfinance in Uganda, which facilitates coordination
with community development programs and attempts to provide information and build
capabilities at the grassroots in areas that currently lack MFIs, to create the conditions for
extending rural finance.
68.    A positive step in reforming the legal and regulatory environment is the Micro-finance
Deposit-taking Institutions Bill, which has been submitted to Parliament. This Bill will enable
135



Annex 5
leading NGO MFIs to become licensed to take and intermediate savings from the public and
encourage new investment in specialized microfinance institutions. This will permit MFIs to
reach wider and deeper by freeing them from dependence on commercial bank branches and on
donor subsidies and by enabling them to offer savings products that are attractive to even poorer
clients than those who are creditworthy. The Government has indicated its intention to enact this
law as a means of better integrating commercial microfmance for the poor with the financial
system, without unduly restricting NGOs, community-based organizations, and member-based
savings and credit associations that aim to serve the rural poor and other low-income groups.
D.     AGRO-PROCESSING AND MARKETING
69.    The long-term competitiveness of Uganda's traditional and non-traditional agricultural
exports is influenced by government policies which has been relatively effective in promoting
both traditional and non-traditional agricultural exports. It took both general macroeconomic
measures and specific sector measures to stimulate trade and investment and to increase Uganda's
competitive advantages. It stimulated foreign investment by passing the Investment Code and by
establishing and supporting the Uganda Investment Authority. Nevertheless, there is still a lot of
policy-related constraints affecting exports. Different government agencies interpret measures
differently, licensing and duty drawback schemes are time-consuming, the financial sector is still
not healthy, export financing is expensive, the legal system is weak, and the physical
infrastructure remains underdeveloped. Uganda has a bright future in its agricultural exports, but
its success is contingent to the country's political and macroeconomic stability and to its policy-
related constraints being solved. As most Ugandans live in rural areas and earn their living from
agriculture, increasing agricultural growth rates, diversifying agricultural production, and
expanding non-farm employment are essential for poverty reduction.
70.    The Government has recently developed a set of interventions to promote production,
processing and marketing of selected strategic exports - coffee; cotton; tea; livestock; hides; skins
and leather products; fish and fish products; cotton, lint textiles and garments; holticulture-fruits,
flowers, vegetables; Irish potatoes and information and communication technology. Further
background analysis on each of these strategic exports is underway. In addition, two other
complementary studies are being undertaken on: (i) options for improving the policy, legal and
regulatory environment for private sector led rural development; and (ii) options for reducing
transaction costs for the marketing of several key crops.
71.    Progress has been made in advancing a Coffee Competitiveness Program under the
leadership of the Private Sector Foundation (PSF). Following a workshop on Enhancing
Competitiveness for Ugandan coffee in October 2001, attended by merchandisers, processors,
farmers, government officials, regulators, donors, and consultants, a team of 12 experts7 and
stakeholders from the coffee sector formed a task force to develop a draft PSF Coffee Sector
Development Strategy position paper. Since then the position paper has been refined, agreed and
adopted by both PSF and the Uganda Coffee Development Authority (UCDA) boards to form the
basis of their interventions in the sector.
72.    The rationale for the coffee sector strategy is to deepen the discourse and to update the
efficacy of potential solutions proposed in the PMA by integrating the most current developments
and information. Giving coffee's fundamental importance as the country's leading agricultural
crop and primary export and the extent of both internal and external threats to its future, a
7 The Task Force members included: UCFA, PSF, UCTF, EAFCA, UCDA, MOFED, PMA Secretariat, COMPETE,
SPEED, Coffee traders and exporters, and PSF consultants.
136



Annex 5
practical and private sector driven strategy will be especially appropriate. It is the objective of
this analysis to highlight lessons from reforms in the coffee sector and to carry these reform over
to other sectors (such as tea, cotton, fish, and horticulture) in subsequent reform efforts in these
sectors.
E.     NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT: LAND TENURE
73.    With the enactment of the 1998 Land Act, Uganda has embarked on a significant reform
aimed: at solving a wide-range of land tenure issues, which will increase tenure security, promote
on-farm investments, and facilitate land market transactions. The Act provides the legal basis for
regularizing land tenure under mailo, freehold and customary tenure. The Act also provides for
the resolution of long-standing issues, such as the historical impasse between landlords and
tenants in mailo regions, gradual formalization of customary rights by communities and
individuals, and for a decentralized system of land administration and conflict resolution.
74.    However, the Government has recognized that the Act calls for the creation of large
number of new entities which is financially and institutionally unsustainable. Consequently,
implementation of the Land Act has proceeded very slowly over the last three years. In 2001, the
Government prepared a comprehensive strategic action plan (the Land Sector Strategic Plan)
which,calls for a significant reduction in the number of land administration entities and prioritizes
public: investments over a 10-year period (with detailed costing for the first three years, in the
context of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework).
75.    The PRSC reform program will support implementation of LSSP in the following areas:
*  Institutional capacity building for land administration, particularly at the district level
(including amneniments to the Land Act), in a phased manner;
*  Launching of pilots (systematic demarcation, land adjudication, land adjustments) as a
cost-effective mechanism to implement the Land Act;
*  Resolving conflicts to enhance security of tenure under all regimes;
*  Developing actions to strengthen land rights of women and other vulnerable groups.
F.     NATURAL RESODURCE MANAGEMENT: ENVIRONMENT
76.   Environmental Management in Uganda: The importance of environmental management
in Uganda has been well recognized and attention has been paid to the issue since the early
1990's when the GOU embarked on the process of developing the National Environmental
Actiori Plan (NEAP) in 1994.  This was followed by the establishment of the National
Environmental Statute (1995) and the Local Govermnent Act (1997) which provide the
framework, at both the national and local level, for sustainable environmental development in
Uganda. Since 1995 the World Bank has been financing a project to support the implementation
of the NEAP and the associated enviromnental legislation.
77.   Leadership Role in Environmental Legislation and Regulation: In Africa, Uganda is
seen as a leader in both the development and implementation of strong environmental policies,
legislation and a rigorous environmental regulatory framework. The Government has established
the National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) as the central coordinating and
regulatory body for environmental management in Uganda. A comprehensive regulatory
framework has been established and further work is underway to build the capacity for
enforcement and compliance at the district and national level.
137



Annex 5
78.    Environment and Poverty Eradicadon:   The importance of sound environmental
management is highlighted in the Government's own strategy for economic transformation,
which is spelled out in the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) 2000. The Government has
articulated three conditions as pre-requisite for economic growth to eradicate poverty: (1)
structural transformation (agricultural modernization, industrialization, institutional reform and
capacity development); (2) the poor must participate in economic growth by expanding
smallholder agriculture and employment in the industry and services sectors; (3) economic
growth must be sustainable - renewable natural resources must be conserved and not "mined" in
the pursuit of short-term growth, judicious management of land, forests, wetlands, rangelands,
rivers, lakes and the environment is essential for sustaining any gains in poverty eradication that
are made possible by pursuing the above two conditions.
79.    Moving Towards Mainstreaming: Clearly the enabling environmental legislation and
government commitment exist in Uganda for better environmental management. While this
provides a strong basis to work towards full integration of environment across the board, this can
only be achieved through a clearly articulated and specific strategy for such an effort. NEMA is
in the process of developing such a strategy for mainstreaming environment. The strategy must
include: high level political commitment including government financial support for NEMA and
other environment related activities; genuine country ownership; and a comprehensive and
integrated approach which addresses issues of longer-term environmental sustainability. Specific
mainstreaming activities which are already under implementation include the following:
* Capacity Building in Lead Agencies: There is a serious lack of capacity in the
sectoral ministries and lead agencies to fulfill their sectoral mandate as required by
the National Environment Statute (1995). To address this deficiency, a program of
capacity building has been developed which includes: sensitization and awareness
raising in lead agencies in areas of environmental policy and law, poverty-
environment indicators, and tools for environmental management and planning;
training in environmental management, including information collection, analysis
and reporting, appropriate environmental economic and accounting tools; sectoral
EIA's; strategic environment assessment; environmental audits, regulations and
inspection; enforcement capacity in lead agencies; economic instruments for
environmental management; creating partnerships with joint agencies.
Comprehensive Review of Sectoral Policies: The objective is to assess the extent to
which the sectoral policies adequately address environmental concerns. NEMA will
provide guidance and assistance to sectoral ministries and lead agencies to amend
and improve the sectoral policies to incorporate the necessary environmental issues.
Decentralization and Capacity Building of Local Governments and Communities:
Capacity at the local government and community level for environmental
management is also lacking. A program of capacity building is being implemented to
support and enable local governments and communities to fulfill their roles in
decentralized environmental management. The program aims to empower local
communities to use natural resources prudently and sustainably in their efforts to
increase their incomes to alleviate poverty, while also appropriately addressing
environmental degradation problems of local concern.
138



Annex 5
G.     DISTRICT ROADS
80.    The Government's medium-term transport sector policy aims at promoting efficient and
effective transport services as a means of providing effective support to increased agricultural and
industrial production, trade, tourism, social and administrative services. This will ensure an
efficient transport sector and will play a critical role in the development of an integrated and self-
sustaining economy. It will further enhance the Government's strategy for the eradication of
poverty and the economic integration of the country.
81.    The Government intends to achieve this through the following road sub-sector policies:
* Continued improvement of the managerial and operational efficiency of the road
administration;
*  Encouragement and promotion of active private sector participation;
*  Involvement of stakeholders at appropriate levels in the formulation and management
of road projects and policies;
.  Encouragement of the use of labor-based     construction  and  maintenance
methodologies, where appropriate; and
*  Enhancement of road safety measures.
82.    Through these policies, the government will put in place a safe and efficient road network
to meet the ever-increasing traffic volumes and loading, and environmental, safety and social
chalieiges within the Government's overall objective.
83.    The Road Network and Mandated Institutions:   The country's road network is
categorized into national, district, urban and community access roads. The national roads total
9,600 km, district roads total 24,688 km, and urban roads total 2,800 km, while community
access roads are estimated to be 30,000 km. District roads link communities and connect the
countryside to major trading centers and the national road network. Urban roads are all those
roads of varying types within the boundaries of town councils. Community access roads are the
small link roads providing access to schools, villages, and community centers and connect to
districi and national roads.
84.    The Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC) is directly responsible
for national roads while the district and urban councils are responsible for district and urban roads
respectively. Community access roads are a responsibility of communities (Local Council III).
85.    Constraints: The planning of road works is constrained by lack of systematic road
inventory and associated data. Traffic surveys, vehicle operating costs, and socio-economic data
need to be updated and integrated into a comprehensive Management Information System of the
MOWHC.
86.    Management of the equipment of the district units has posed challenges. Diversion of
equipment from sanctioned tasks to un-programmed work and unofficial private ventures
continues to be experienced. The equipment is under-utilized and poorly maintained due to lack
of spare parts, facilities, and staff. The recently enacted Land Act 1999 also poses severe
constraints to acquisition of gravel deposits and land for road reserves.
87.    The Govemment would like the limited resources available applied where the investment
guarantees the highest retums. For effective planning and programming, criteria for road
139



Annex 5
prioritization, a road classification system and associated design standards still need to be
developed and widely disseminated. Appropriate guidelines and manuals to assist the districts in
classifying, designing and prioritizing their road networks have not yet been adopted in order to
ensure that all roads receive appropriate attention.
88.    Action Plan on Institutional Strengthening, Funding, and Execution of Works: Given
the problems and constraints as identified and the strategies to overcome them, the Government
will achieve its objectives through a Plan of Action that will comprise of institutional
strengthening; mobilization and efficient utilization of funds; human resource development; better
modalities for execution of physical works; and effective planning and programming. Proposed
institutional set up to plan and implement the sector will include establishment of Technical
Implementation Units who will ensure efficient program/project implementation and capacity
building of the permanent structures at central Government and local government level. It is
anticipated that development partners will fund these temporary structures and their functions
while the Government will fund activities of a sustainable nature.
89.    Rehabilitation and Maintenance of District Roads-Estimated Costs: The interventions
to be carried out on district roads will include full rehabilitation8 spot improvement, periodic
(including repair and installation of culverts) maintenance, routine maintenance and emergency
works. Some existing bridges will be rehabilitated and new ones constructed. Rehabilitation,
spot improvement and periodic maintenance will improve roads to a good condition.
Table 2. Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program of District Roads -Estimated Costs
Action                  FY03/04  FY04/05  FY05/06  FY06/07  FY07/08   FY08/09  Total
Rehabilitation  510     510      510      510      375       180      0        2595
Spot           625      625      1875     2750     3750     3500      3000     16125
improvement
Culverting     375      375      375      3000     3750     4500      5200     17575
Total          1510     1510     2760     6260     7875      8180     8200     36295
Rehabilitation
Periodic       2956     3456     4456     5456     6456      7456     7920     38154
Maintenance
Routine        13176    133320   12756     13230    13380    13380    13380    92622
Maintenance
Emergency      335      335      335      335      335       335      335      2342
Maintenance
Total          16466    17110    17546    19020    20170     21170    21640    133124
Maintenance
Source: Review/Update of Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Strategy, Africon Ltd., October 1999
PEAP/PRSP PILLAR IV: Directly Increasing the Quality of Life
A. IMPROVING QUALrrY OF EDUCATION
90.    In late 1996, the President of Uganda launched the Universal Primary Education (UPE)
program, providing free access to primary schools for up to four children per family: two boys
and two girls. Orphans were given free access. This had a massive impact on enrollment:
children attending school increased from 3.1 million in 1996 to 6.9 million in 2001 (5.9 million in
S Full rehabilitation of the roads will cover roads that had not been rehabilitated over the last 15 years (since 1986).
This activity is to be carried out in the first seven years of the program. A total network of 2595 kan will receive full
rehabilitation in the six years.
140



Annex 5
Government-aided schools) and the gross enrollment ratio increased from 75 percent to
approximately 130 percent9 over the same period. In addition, analysis from the 1999/2000
Household Survey indicates that UPE has eliminated the wealth bias that characterized access to
prinary education, helped to establish gender equality by increasing girls' access to primary
education and reduced the incidence of cost-related drop-outs from primary schools. National
surveys indicate that UPE is highly appreciated by parents and it remains Government's top
priority. In order to support UPE, public spending on education has increased from 19 percent of
the discretionary recurrent budget in 1995/96 to. 31 percent in 2000/2001 and this share was
mairitained in the 2001/02-2003/04 Medium Term Expenditure Framework. Primary education
spending is about two-thirds of the total expenditure on education.
91.    Primary School Classrooms: The Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES) established
the School Facilities Development Program in 1999, and a national plan for expansion of school
facilities was developed, including targets of 55:1 by 2010 and 75:1 by 2005 for the pupil-to-
'classroom ratio in Government-aided schools. One aim of the program is to target the poorest
communities through a system of ranking applications to ensure that the neediest schools receive
help first. The benefits of this modality are speedy construction, high community involvement,
an iinfuision of money to local areas and the greater likelihood of regular maintenance in the
future. Based on experience so far, however, the available capacity (financial and other) is
inadequate to meet the targets. In a bid to reduce pupil: classroom ratio, Government undertook
an evaluation of the classroom construction program, which made recommendations for increased
efficiency in the classroom construction program. Under the PRSC 1, the Government has
reduced the ratio to 98:1 (from 106:1 in 2000). Efforts to increase efficiency in classroom
construction continued and the ratio decreased further to 92:1 by April 2002.
92.    Primary School Teachers: The enormous expansion in enrolment combined with limited
resources forced allocations of 1 teacher to every 80 pupils in the first two grades of primary
school and 1 teacher to every 55 pupils in the remaining five grades. While these ratios are
clearly inadequate, the resources are not currently available for the budget to support the targeted
ratio of 48:1 by 2003. In addition, despite the inadequate establishment, the Government has not
managed to fill all the established positions, and the gaps between the establishment numbers and
those in post are largest in rural/remote areas. In a bid to reduce pupil: teacher ratios,
Government efforts have in the past concentrated on implementing the national recruitment drive.
A national campaign was launched and 15,000 new teachers were recruited, including retirees,
secondary school graduates and new graduates from teacher training colleges, by April 2001,
with' the aim of adding over 30,000 new teachers to the payroll by 2003. About 3,000
unqualified teachers have been inducted, and are being trained and supported through the Teacher
Development and Management System (TDMS).     A system to closely monitor established
positions filled is being put in place. Based on this, an action plan for increasing the number of
teachers on the payroll, with particular attention to the districts with largest establishment gaps
will be implemented to ensure that all districts achieve at least 95 percent of their established
ceilings by 2003. Government has commenced implementation of Cabinet decisions aimed at
attracting primary school teachers to remote areas , which include utilization of 15% of the
classroom construction budget for teachers' houses and payment of a monthly incentive
allowance of 20 percent of a monthly salary to those teaching in hard- to- reach areas. Currently,
the puDil:teacher ratio is 59:1. Despite agreement under the PRSC1, the Government has not
9 Both net and gross enrolment rates are subject to the accuracy of the projections based on the last population census.
This was conducted in 1990 and there is reason to mistrust the projections: since 1999 calculations of net enrolment
using school data for the numerator and the projections for the school-age population for the denominator have resulted
in ratios exceeding 100 percent.
141



Annex 5
implemented the plan to increase cost efficiency and reduce class size. This is likely to have
implications for the quality of provision in the short-term. Lower ratios may also be
unsustainable in the medium-term as Government attempts to provide greater resources for post-
primary and tertiary education. This ratio is projected to reduce to 54:1 in 2002 and 50:1 in 2003.
A tracking study on primary teachers' recruitment, deployment and payroll management will be
undertaken to identify areas that require improvement.
93.   Instructional Materials: The introduction of an expanded new curriculum, including
eleven subjects, has invalidated the current textbooks in classrooms and the current pupil-to-
textbook ratio is n/a for the new subjects. According to the 2000 Education Statistical Abstract,
the pupil-to-textbook ratio for the traditional subjects was 4:1 in PI-P3 and 2:1 in P4-P7. New
textbooks are being published for the new curriculum. The procurement arrangements were
reviewed and the new arrangements have resulted in an improvement in the quality of learning
materials while, at the same, time reducing the unit cost by over two-thirds. Book orders for the
new curriculum are being placed. It is projected that the pupil: book ratio will be 3:1 for the core
subjects by 2004.
94.    Post-primary education: The Government is determined to support secondary education
so that the gains from UPE can be sustained. In the year 2000, 515,687 students (about 15
percent of the age range) were enrolled in secondary schools. Of these, about 23 percent were
enrolled in private schools. There is a parallel technical and vocational system that consists of
three years of technical and farm schools, but enrollment in these schools is negligible (about
8,000 in 2000). A 1995 study found that parents on average pay USh 80,000 (about US$50)
annually for one child's secondary education. Consequently, secondary education provision is
elitist in Uganda. Regional, gender, and income-based inequities are evident everywhere in the
system. The top income quintile group is occupying 63 percent of all secondary places. In
addition to participation, the inequity is manifest in the type of school attended, with the rich
attending elite boarding schools and the poor resorting to low quality, poorly resourced
community schools, when they can afford them. In addition, there are concerns about the
relevance and quality of secondary education delivered: secondary education tends to be
theoretical with little practical application of knowledge and skills.
95.    The Government plans a massive expansion of post-primary education, doubling the
transition rate. Through Economic and Sector Work the Bank is supporting the ongoing dialogue
on secondary education and assisting the Government in identifying options for delivery of post-
primary education. In order to develop a coherent policy and strategic framework which balances
issues and sets priorities within a realistic resource envelope a series of inter-related, in-depth
studies have been conducted jointly with the Government and other donors in the following areas:
teacher utilization; coverage, equity and efficiency; unit cost analysis; school quality; firm
demand; management; and options for expansion. The results of these studies and a major
stakeholder consultation exercise will contribute to the strategic framework for post primary
education, that will be presented to the education sector review in October 2002.
96.    Tertiary Educahon: Government-supported tertiary education in Uganda comprises four
Government universities, 10 National Teacher Colleges, colleges of commerce and technology,
and a range of agricultural, health and other training institutions.  The Commission for Higher
Education within the MOES has responsibility for oversight of all tertiary institutions. (Until
1999, these other tertiary institutions were managed by a range of other ministries.) Access is
very limited at 2 percent of the age range and skewed towards the rich. The Government has
encouraged the establishment of 11 private universities and allowed the Makerere university to
142



Annex 5
enroll fee-paying students: in the year 2000 Makerere enrolled more than 20,000 students, of
which about 6,000 were supported by Government: the remainder were fee-paying students.
97.    The Govermnent has undertaken to double the number of sponsored students in Makerere
from 2001 and has plans to establish two new universities, one in the North and one open
university. In addition, the Government has removed cost-sharing whereby tertiary institutions
were allowed to charge a fee to all students. From 2001, Government-sponsored students will not
pay any fee, while private students are expected to pay the full cost of their education. There are
no current plans to screen Government-sponsored students for courses or for ability to pay.
98.    The Bank and other funding agencies have been assisting Government to develop a
strategic plan for the sub-sector  through support for a series of studies, including:  (a)
Management and Financing of Tertiary Education, (b) Macro Study of Positioning Uganda
Tertiary Education in an International Context, (c) Micro Study of Coverage, Equity, and
Efficiency The results of these studies, together with the outcomes of a stakeholder consultation
shape the strategic plan for tertiary education and will be presented to the ninth Education Sector
Review in April 2003.
99.    Decentralized provision of education: Responsibility for delivery of primary education
has been decentralized to the district level.10 District Service Commissions are responsible for
teachve recruitment while District Education Officers are responsible, in conjunction with
comrnunities, for the delivery of primary education. MOES' role has shifted to become one of
policymaking, investment management and quality assurance.  About 72 percent of all
government resources for education are provided through the districts (the bulk of this through
the Poverty Action Fund). Schools receive finances directly through a "conditional" grant
transferred from central Government to districts but earmarked for schools. The size of the grant
is determined by the number of children in the first three grades and the number of children in
the next four grades. This devolution of responsibility for primary education to district level has
a number of consequences.  The lack of clarity over roles and responsibilities confuses
management and accountability responsibilities. Capacity to plan and account for expenditure is
low, especially at the school level.
100.   Financial Management: Financial tracking  surveys carried out in 2000 and 2001
showed that 90 percent of the amount allocated by MOFPED reached the schools as intended, up
from 20 percent in 1995. While the later studies noted significant improvements, there were also
problems of delays in the allocations reaching schools and significant problems of appropriate
utilization and record-keeping at the school level. Plans to improve the regular audits, which
started in 1999, to fit within the Government statutory requirements will continue, and will be
complemented with regular financial tracking studies. Based on the recommendations of a
study,to determine the allocation formula for primary school capitation grants, the allocation will
now be more dynamic and determined on the basis of enrolment, gender, number of disabled,
location on the rural/urban axis and the cost of living axis. The decentralization budgeting pilot,
covering four districts, has the potential to consolidate ownership of education development
strategy within districts and provide well performing districts with more discretion on use of
conditional grants. The pilot has revealed strengths with decentralized budgeting, which among
others include: more realistic and lower unit costs for classroom construction; allowing schools to
focus lon their individual priorities; and enabling districts to respond to local needs. The results of
the pilot will be discussed during the October 2002 Education Sector Review. The plan is to
expand the pilot to cover more districts.
0 Currently, there are 56 Districts in Uganda.
143



Annex 5
101.   Financing of Education: The Government is committed to supporting the education of
its citizens and is providing over 30 percent of its discretionary recurrent budget for this purpose
over the next three years. In order to maintain the benefits of UPE, the Government is committed
to providing two-thirds of its resources for primary education. The remaining one-third is to be
shared between post-primary (currently 18 percent in 2000/01), tertiary (11 percent in 2000/01)
and other, including administration of education (3 percent in 2000/01) . However, the decision
to double the number of Government-sponsored students in Makerere will drive the share of
tertiary up to 15 percent of budget within 3 years and the costs of supporting the two new
universities can be expected to drive up costs even more beyond 2004/05. In addition, the
Government plans to expand secondary education, including establishing Community
polytechnics and Community secondary schools, will demand increased fnancing for this sub-
sector. Despite the Government's commitment to primary education, it is likely that there will be
very strong pressures on this allocation. Given these pressures, it will be vital for maintenance of
the quality of primary education that experiments with cost efficient provision are undertaken.
102.   Monitoring and Evaluation:   A system to measure pupils learning achievement
National Assessment of Performance of Education - is being developed and administered
standardized tests in four subjects to a representative sample of children in 1996 and 1999. A
repeat of the above national assessment tests will be undertaken during 2002. Further indications
of low quality are the high repetition (estimated to be about 8 percent in PI and 11 percent in P2)
and dropout rates.
103.   The Government will also continue to monitor the share of appropriate age range of girls
and boys in P.7 nationally and by district. A policy framework to assure equitable access is
under preparation. The policy and costed framework will be ready for incorporation in the
planning and budgeting cycle by October 2002. To facilitate monitoring of sector performance,
the Education Management Information System (EMIS) will increasingly incorporate private
schools, capture an increasing proportion of secondary schools and post-primary education and
training institutions, as well as complementary primary education centers.
104.   The semiannual education sector reviews (ESRs) which involve all major stakeholders
(external financing agencies, districts, parliamentarians, NGOs and other partners to education)
remain the main forum for discussing sector issues, determining modes of dealing with these
issues, setting targets for the sector and monitoring sector progress towards meeting these targets.
The reviews also establish the basis on which funding agencies release budget support to the
sector. Accordingly, the ESRs will be the forum for presenting and discussing the specific PRSC
indicators and associated targets. These indicators and targets are jointly agreed and are
monitored at the ESR. The indicators to be monitored for the PRSC cover financial
commitment, public expenditure management, quality enhancement, outcome and process
indicators. These indicators are described in further detail in the Annex: the precise targets for
each year are established at the ESR of the previous year . In addition to achieving these targets,
satisfactory progress of the ESR process itself is a necessary condition for release of PRSC funds
to education.
B. IMPROVING COVERAGE AND QUALI1Y OF HEALTH CAREII
105.   Despite economic growth and reduction in income poverty in the 1990s, health status of
Ugandans has not achieved similar improvement as indicated by the UDHS data (Table 3).
" This section provides a summary of the main issues and actions described in the health background paper for the PRSC 'Support to
the Health Sector Plan 2000-2005," which has been developed jointly by financiers providing programmatic support to the health
sector, namely DFID, IDA, Ireland Aid, and Sida. Belgium also provides programmatic support to the health sector.
144



Annex 5
Infant, child and maternal mortalities are still very high. The leading causes of morbidity and
mortality are attributed to preventable, largely communicable diseases, with women and children
bearing a disproportionate amount of the burden of ill health. A burden of disease study
conducted in 1995 found that over 75 percent of the life years lost due to premature death are
attributable to ten diseases including prenatal and maternal-related conditions (20 percent),
malaria (15 percent), acute lower respiratory tract infections (11 percent), HIV/AIDS (9 percent),
and diarrhea diseases (8 percent).
Table 3: Trends in Health status indicators, Uganda 1989-2000
1                                         1989    1995    2000    GoU Target
Infant Mortality                              119    97        101    68 (2005)
Underfivemortality                            180     147      151.5   103(2005)
Infant Immunization Rate                      31%    47%      38%     60%(2005)
Matemnal Mortality                            523     506     496      354 (2005)
Deliveries supervised by skilled health providers  38%  38%   38%      50% (2005)
Total Fertility Rate
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                 7.3     6.9     6.9
Stunted children                              5%      15%     23%
43%     38.8%    38%
Source: Uganda Demographic and Health survey (1989, 1995 and 2000)
106.   Though Uganda has registered steady progress with reducing the HIV prevalence, from
18 percent in the early 1990s to 6.1 percent in 2000, the AIDS epidemic has had a devastating
effect on health status and on the overall social and economic development of the country. The
2002 H1V/AIDS Surveillance Report June 2001, estimates that there are 1.4 million people living
with HIJV/AIDS, over 800,000 people have since died from the epidemic and 1.1 million children
have been orphaned. Earlier gains in improving key health indicators have been reversed. There
has been a resurgence of diseases such as tuberculosis and an increase in opportunistic infections
accompanying AIDS. Health services have been overwhelmed with AIDS patients taking up to
70 percent of hospital beds in some health facilities. The effects of the epidemic are far reaching:
loss of household heads and main income earners; young children forced out of school and into
early labor; and depletion of the human capital resulting in loss of professional and skilled
workers. All this has had a negative impact on productivity.
107.   Despite efforts to improve health services, there are still large segments of the population,
especially in the rural areas, with limited access to health care services. There are also marked
variations in access both within and between districts and regions. Furthermore, many people do
not seek modern health care services when they are ill. While there has been a major expansion
of the;number of health facilities, many of them are underutilized for a number of reasons. Many
facilities, especially those closest to the communities, do not provide the full range of essential
primary health services, such as maternity services and immunization. For example, only 38
percent of children have been fully immunized before their first birthday12  The quality of
services has been shown to be the main reason for low utilization.'3 One of the key problems is
the inadequate number of trained health staff especially in public health facilities. By the end of
1999, 'only 33 percent of established positions in public facilities were filled by qualified staff,
with 54 percent of these concentrated in hospitals or the non-primary health care sub-sector. The
remaining posts were either vacant or as was the case in more than 60 percent of peripheral units,
12 Uganda Demographic and health survey preliminary report, May 2001.
13 "Health Care in Uganda: Selected Issues", Paul Hutchinson in collaboration with Demissie Habte and Mary Mulusa.
World Bank Discussion Paper No. 404, Washington D.C.
145



Annex 5
filled with untrained staff, mostly nursing aides.14 In addition, most of the staff were poorly
motivated due to delays in salary payments.
108.   Working conditions in many of these facilities are inadequate, with little maintenance of
buildings and shortage of basic equipment. Non-availability of drugs common to public health
facilities is often quoted as the single most important reason for low utilization of health facilities.
The public health system has been characterized by weaknesses in the following: projection of
requirements for drugs; procurement and logistics systems for receiving, storing drugs at the
central level and delivering them to district; controls and supervision at the point of use; and, poor
prescribing practices. Financial management is another area that also hampers service delivery.
Delays in flow of fluds from central levels to health facilities caused delays in carrying out
planned activities. Districts' capacity for financial management is also weak. There have been
problems in disbursing, accounting and auditing of funds, particularly for the primary health care
conditional grant (the main channel for funds for district health activities).
109.  Nongovernmental organizations, especially those that are faith-based private not-for
profit health facilities, play a critical role in health service provision in Uganda, where they
provide more than 50 percent of health services. Surveys repeatedly indicate that NGO services
are considered to offer better quality services than the public sector. For this reason, people have
been willing to pay for NGO services. External funding to the NGO sector especially to health
services provided by faith-based organizations has decreased markedly over the years.
Furthermore, Government's recent actions to motivate health workers through improved salaries
and other incentives are resulting in movement of health workers from NGOs to government
facilities. There is a limit to which fees can be raised without affecting utilization, and many
NGO facilities have now reached that level. This poses a great threat to the sustainability of
NGO-provided health services.
110.  Health Sector Reform:. The recently adopted National Health Policy (NHP) is the health
sector's framework for implementing PEAP/PRSP goals. It provides the country's vision for
addressing the health sector issues outlined above. Specifically, the NHP aims to develop an
effective, efficient, responsive and accountable national health care system that would lead to
increased access, usage and satisfaction with the health services. The NHP is elaborated in the
Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP). The HSSP outlines strategies for addressing key policy and
operational issues including the health care delivery system; the legal and regulatory framework;
the integrated support systems (human resources, quality assurance, information management
system, procurement and drugs, equipment, supplies and logistics, and health care financing); the
policy, planning and information management systems; and research and development. The
HSSP provides an overall framework for costs and financing service provision. The plan covers
the costs of delivering the minimum health care package; the referral hospitals and MOH
headquarters; and health councils and autonomous bodies. Financing sources include the
Government, donors, NGOs and households. The current HSSP covers the five-year period from
2000/01 to 2004/05.
111.  Implementing the HSSP: The implementation of the HSSP started in 2000/01 under a
sector-wide approach (SWAP). The SWAP as an instrument enables the Government to maintain
leadership of the sector; rationalizes external investments to the sector, reduces transaction costs
for the Government in dealing with the donor community; increases predictability of external
resource flows over a medium-term planning framework; and strengthens local service delivery
4 Ministy of Health, Health Sector Strategic Plan. October 1999.
146



Annex 5
systems. The first year implementation shows that co-ordination between the government and
development partners are strong and growing.
112.   The October 2001 review carried out jointed by the Government and the development
partners has confirmed that considerable progress has been made with the implementation of
HSSP and a strong foundation has been established to improve service delivery in the health
sector. The review also confirmed that the Government has made satisfactory progress in
achieving most undertakings previously agreed under the HSSP monitoring and evaluation.
Major achievements towards the health system development were noted in the development of a
draft Health Financing Strategy, the National Pharmaceutical Sector Strategic Plan, the
Procurement Plan, a draft strategy for Continuing Medical Education, a draft policy on Public
Private' Partnership and in addressing pay roll issues with MOPS. Various guidelines and policies
were developed in major areas of service delivery. The studies such as the Tracking study on
PHC Grant; Social Insurance Feasibility Study, Study on the PNFP sector were carried out and
the information from those studies would contribute to a better understanding of the sector
progress and issues. The priority areas under the HSSP are as follows:
113.  Delivery of the minimum health care package: Under the HSSP, a package includes
minimum preventive and curative services that address key diseases that contribute to the disease
burden was defined. The package consists of selected cost-effective interventions that present the
best value for money, given the limited resources available. It addresses twelve priority
programs: (i) control of communicable diseases including malaria, sexually transmitted diseases,
HIV/AIDS, and tuberculosis; (ii) integrated management of childhood illnesses; (iii) sexual and
reproductive health and rights; (iv) immunization; (v) environmental health; (vi) health education
and promotion; (vii) school health; (viii) epidemics and disaster preparedness and response; (ix)
nutrition; (x) diseases targeted for eradication; (xi) mental health; and, (xii) essential clinical care.
The choice to strategically focus resources on selected interventions in each of the priority areas
is in contrast with the past when resources were spread too thinly across too many interventions
resulting in very little impact. Emphasis is given to information, education and communication
(IEC) programs to improve personal health practices and promote health-seeking behavior
especially among the poor. The goal is to ensure the provision of the minimum package to all.
The Government intends to increase its support to the private not-for profit facilities (PNFP) to
increase the provision of services under the minimum health care packages.
114.  Health infrastructure: The Government's strategy is to enhance utilization of existing
capacity through rehabilitation and limiting construction of new health facilities based on the
population and rational use of resources. An exercise for mapping health facilities throughout the
country ias been completed and the national health infrastructure and maintenance plan was
developed including procedures for prior approval of health facilities by the district councils and
central government prior to commencement of construction.
115.  Human resources: Actions to address the acute shortage of human resources are
underway and include training of all nursing assistants immediately to enhance the quality of
health workers at the front line, formation of an inter ministerial committee between the MOES
and MOH to advice on health sector training institutions, finalization of the in-service training
strategy to coordinate and rationalize in service training which is currently fragmented and on
going recruitment of qualified staff to achieve minimum staffing norms at 60 percent of the
facilities. Other priority actions include: pay reform for health workers; increasing skills of
nurses through the introduction of the comprehensive enrolled nurses training program; and
reaching agreement between MOH and MOES on management and support to health training
schools, including those of NGOs or PNFP organizations. Considerable progress has been made
147



Annex 5
in recruiting health workers-80 percent of the planned recruitment through PAF was achieved in
2000/01.
116.  Drug and medical supplies:    The Government's strategy is to enhance MOH
procurement capacity with the aim of ensuring that on average 80 percent of health facilities have
adequate stocks of needed drugs and vaccines. In this regard, the MOH has already undertaken a
number of interim procurement arrangements which include; appointment of a contracts
committee and establishment of an interim procurement unit; and development of integrated
annual procurement plans encompassing procurements by the Government and donor/project
funds. For drugs management, the MOH completed the baseline survey of requirements under
the district drug management initiative and developed a national pharmaceutical strategic plan. A
study is now under way to review modalities to improve drug procurement and logistics
management. This study will inform government decision on what to be procured by districts
("pull") and by the center ("push").
117.   Financing Health Care: The Government seeks to enhance and rationalize financing to
the sector. The MOH recently completed a draft health care financing strategy that includes a
strategy and action plan for public finanrcing of health care services by the NGO sector. Under
the SWAp approach, donor funding is increasingly being channeled through the Government
budget. The first year implementation of the HSSP has been financed by funds from government
and donors including the funds from the PRSC1. This will increasingly give government the
flexibility to manage its resources effectively.
118.   Overall, the health care system remains under-resourced. The annual total per capita
expenditure on health is estimated at US$12. A significant proportion of this is financed by
donors (43%). At the household level, expenditures on health per household differ significantly
between the non-poor and the poor. For example, in 1995/96, the lowest income quartile spent
US$4.85 per capita, while the highest income quartile spent US$15.37 per capita. The
Government abolished user fees in public health facilities in March 2001, which has led an
immediate surge in the use of public health services. However, its long term impact on utilization
and services provision is yet to be seen. Since user fees financed a significant share of activities
at the facility level, their abolishment may have an adverse impact on the quality of health
services. To mitigate some of negative impact, Government has increased allocation of resources
to the health sector: the health share of the total government budget increased from 7.3 percent in
2000/2001 to 8.6 percent in 2001/2002.
119.   The Government completed a feasibility study on social health insurance as part of the
effort to explore alternative financing mechanisms for the health sector.  Under the
implementation of HSSP, Government and donors are closely monitoring the impact of the
abolishment of user fees in the public sector and experiences in community health insurance.
120.  Special attention to HIVIAIDS:   Uganda's response to the epidemic has been
characterized by high level political conmmitment, openness and partnership between the
Government, NGOs, and communities, and has resulted in a decline in HIV prevalence from 18.5
percent in the early 1990s to 6 percent in 2000. However, despite the achievements, there is still
need for a sustained effort to fight the epidemic. The Government has adopted a multisectoral
national strategic framework for HIV/AIDS covering the period 2001-2006. The HSSP outlines
the health sector role of providing (i) prevention services (IEC; condom use; treatment for
sexually transmitted diseases, voluntary counseling and testing, reducing mother-to-child
transmission); (ii) care (treatment of tuberculosis and opportunistic infections); and (iii) technical
148



Annex 5
guidance on home-based care and strengthening links between health facilities and the
communities for continuum of care.
C. IMPROVING ACCESS TO AND EQUrrY IN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
121.   About 85 percent of Uganda's estimated population of 21.5 million live in rural areas.
These are currently served by about 16,000 water point sources and small rural piped systems.
The Government has devolved most responsibilities for the provision of water and sanitation
(WSS) services in rural areas to the district level. The Directorate of Water Development
(DWD), which is a central authority under the Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment
(MOWLE) and responsible for rural WSS provision prior to devolution, retains the responsibility
for policy formulation, water resource development and regulation. In urban WSS, the respective
78 gazetted urban local authorities and district capitals (representing 11.5 percent of the total
population) are responsible for their WSS operations, except in 12 large municipalities where an
autonomous parastatal - the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) - provides the
services.
122.   Historically, the sector is largely characterized by limited and unequal access to safe
water and public sanitation services in both urban and rural areas; poorly functioning
decentralized sector planning and management capacity; and ineffective utilization and non-
sustainability of services characterized by a poor maintenance culture. In rural WSS, over 30
percentI of systems were nonfunctional. In urban WSS, there was a high degree of inefficiency in
the operations, and lack of an adequate regulatory framework and incentives for commercial
operatibns. As of 1999, NWSC suffered from high unaccounted for water (45 percent), high
staffing levels (24 staff per 1,000 connections) and high accounts receivable (8 months sales).
Development in the sector was fragmented and depended heavily on donor financing for capital
expenditures, while operation and maintenance expenditures in rural areas and small towns came
mainly from the central Government budget. Water supply coverage was estimated at about 52
percent for both rural and urban water supply and about 50 percent for sanitation (mostly based
on pit latrines). Sewerage coverage of around 5 percent was limited to a few municipalities
including Kampala.
123.   Sector-wide Approach to Planning (SWAP): In order to address the deteriorated
situation and the fragmented development of the sector, the Government is moving toward a
programmatic support framework and has commenced the transition to align development
activities under this framework. This is being supported by the implementation of sector-wide
approach to planning (SWAP) in the sector. The PRSC instrument forms a major vehicle for the
formulation and implementation of SWAP. The WSS agreements and benchmarks in PRSC are
geared towards achieving this end.
124.   The SWAP framework for the WSS sector are consistent with the National Water Policy
(1999).! 5The development objective arising from the rural and urban WSS strategy formulation
exercise is to increase access, reliability, affordability and sustainability of the provision of WSS
services. Follow-up sub-sector strategies have been formulated for rural and rural growth centers,
as well as for the urban and secondary urban centers covering piped systems. In rural WSS, the
underpinning approaches are (i) community-driven demand and extension management, (ii)
planning and management at the district level, (iii) facilitation by the central Government, and
(iv) private sector involvement. In urban WSS, the underpinning approaches are to (i) achieve
15 This policy states policy objectives for each subsector, including the roles of the private sector and NGOs in the WSS
sector.
149



Annex 5
efficiency and commercialized operations through the participation of the private sector in service
delivery, (ii) manage the public sector through professional personnel, and (iii) regulate using an
independent regulation system. In order to support these underpinning tenets, the coordination of
technical assistance, especially to the district level WSS institutions and public sector asset
managers will be very important.  To facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of the SWAP, a sector-wide management information system protocol will be
needed.
125.   The Govermment's framework for SWAP in WSS sector was endorsed at the first joint
Government/Donor review meeting of the WSS sector held in September 2001. The meeting also
confirmed the commitment of Government and development partners to a coordinated support for
sustained WSS delivery within the SWAP framework. The undertakings reached during the
review were consistent with the benchmarks stipulated in the PRSC policy matrix.
126.  Rural WSS: The strategy in this sub-sector centers around demand-driven planning
where communities will determine their requirements, and subsequently be responsible for the
sustainable operations and maintenance of the system. Management of implementation (that is,
promotion, sub-project planning support, procurement and front-line accountability) will be
carried out at the district level. Districts will access funding on the basis of agreed work plans
through conditional grants available directly from the budget allocation to the sector. The
districts will utilize the private sector in upstream project activities (that is, obtain consultants for
design of small-piped systems, drilling, spring protection, public latrine construction, hand-pump
and piping supply and installation, and so forth). While communities will be responsible for the
management of the WSS systems (through either water and sanitation committees for point
sources or water user associations for small, rural-piped schemes), they will engage the private
sector for maintenance and after-sales services to ensure continued system functionality. District
Water and Sanitation Teams (DWSTs) have been or are being formed within each district's
establishment to facilitate these activities. Many districts have demonstrated their ability to carry
out basic planning and construction of WSS infrastructure - during PRSC1 over 3,500 water
points were delivered (against a target of 1,500) utilizing over 90 percent of budgeted resources,
improving coverage for an additional 700,000 rural people. Under the PRSC2 the safe water
coverage further increased.
127.   However, much needs to be done to develop local appraisal, implementation and
operation capacities, and critically local quality control and construction supervision capacities.
DWD has created Technical Support Units (TSUs) that provide capacity building and technical
assistance support to districts. DW)D will also provide monitoring and evaluation support as well
as some higher-level appraisal support. DWD has developed standardized operational guidelines
for accessing the conditional grants to guide the training and capacity building of personnel from
the communities, sub-counties and districts. DWD has also carried out an O&M and private
sector participation study and developing environmental screening templates.
128.   Urban WSS: Private Sector Participation forms the core of the Government's Urban
WSS strategy. In the smaller towns with piped systems, the ownership of assets will remain in
the public sector. However, management and fiscal autonomy will be achieved through the
creation of autonomous WSS authorities to manage these systems. The WSS authorities will be
staffed by professional WSS system managers and operated along a 'miniutility' principle. The
WSS authorities will be tasked with managing their systems using commercial and cost recovery
principles. The WSS authorities will contract the operations of the systems to private operators,
promoting efficient pricing, and technical and commercial operations through transparent and
competitive contracting processes. This will be done through the use of management contracts.
150



Annex 5
Several WSS authorities may package their systems to be privately operated to achieve enhanced
efficiency and economies of scale where feasible and practical. The current conditional grant
allocation has earmarked a small amount of financial resources for the use of WSS authorities
with old systems to jump start their rehabilitation, and introduction of commercial operation and
cost recovery.
129.  As of PRSC1, the Government had gazetted 18 urban WSS authorities and had initiated
the appointment of private sector contractors to managed the WSS operations in the gazetted
small towns. Since July 2001, three private management contractors have been engaged to
operate the WSS systems in 13 small towns. DWD is in the process of preparing and adopting a
long term management strategy for small towns, based on the use of private sector through
management contracts between gazetted WSS authorities and private operators for the latter to
manage the WSS systems for the authorities. MWLE/DWD will continue to gazette urban WSS
authorities and initiate the procurement of management contractors for these towns. To ensure
financially sustainable operations and the success of the private sector strategy, it is critical to
cluster the towns into financially viable and geographically sensible blocks. DWD's TSUs and
Local Authorities Unit will play a critical role in evaluating and clustering of towns for the
purposes of letting them out in an integral lot for private sector participation. These would be
done in full consultation with the WSS authorities, although the clustering of towns in financially
unviable ways should be strongly discouraged. While clustering is critical, individual WSS
authorities will retain individual control of their WSS systems as they will execute individual
contracts with the appointed management contractor.
130.  In the larger and more viable towns--especially those already under NWSC-the
Government is currently pursuing a lease arrangement for the operations of WSS services where
an asset holding authority will replace NWSC to hold the asset in public hands and administer the
lease contract. Steps have been taken to strengthen the operational and financial standing of
NWSC to achieve the most attractive and competitive lease proposals.  Operational
improvements have been achieved through the use of incentive based internal performance
contracts while separation programs have brought staffing levels down to 13 per 1000
connections. A lease transaction advisor has been mobilized, keeping up the momentum for
privatization.
131.  Oversight and Monitoring: Arising from the September 2001 joint Government/donor
review meeting, the Government (MOFPED and MOWLE) will establish and inaugurate the
Steering Committee on WSS Coordination to provide overall guidance to development in the
sector. The committee will guide the creation of other relevant task forces to spearhead the rural
and urban WSS reform agenda including the implementation arrangements for the sector strategic
plan. MOWLE will establish a monitoring protocol that draws on the routine returns from the
districts, the annual household and service delivery surveys and independent surveys. The
Government has undertook during the joint review to review the performance of the first year of
the Poverty Action Fund (PAF) activities and intensify the level of technical and financial
auditing (tracking study).  In line with this, donors also undertook to coordinate their
accountability requirements in order that a single annual tracking study and audit becomes
sufficient.
151



Annex 6
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
(PRSC2)
ANALYSIS OF ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT ISSUES
This document presents an analysis of environmental and resettlement issues in the second annual
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC2) for Uganda. The Annex is divided into four sections.
Section I summarizes the analysis. Section II presents the key environmental, resettlement,
pesticide and other policy issues along with relevant mitigative measures and monitoring needs.
Section IH discusses institution capacity building for issues of environment and involuntary
resettlement in Uganda. Finally, Seclion IV proposes indicative plans for monitoring and
supervision.
I. SUMMARY
1.    PRSC2 Project Goals, Objectives and Structures.    PRSC2 will support the
implementation of Uganda's poverty reduction strategy as spelled out in the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan (PEAP) and summarized in the Uganda's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
The overarching goal of PEAP policies and resource allocations is to reduce the incidence of
poverty in Uganda (based on the headcount index) from 44 percent in 1997 to 10 percent or less
by the year 2017. The PEAP also sets forth the specific goals of achieving universal access to
primary education, primary health care, safe drinking water, rural development, guaranteeing
political freedom and human rights, and establishing an effective disaster relief system targeted at
the poor. Government's strategy for poverty eradication is based on four pillars:
I.     A framework for economic growth and transformation;
II.    Ensuring good governance and security;
m.     Directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes; and
IV.    Directly increasing the quality of life of the poor.
V.     PRSC2 will support a set of reforms under each pillar.
2.     PRSC2 Objective and Activities. The specific objective of PRSC2 is to improve public
service delivery, given that poor public service performance is one of the key constraints to
economic development and poverty reduction. In particular, PRSC2 will continue supporting the
reform program adopted under PRSC 1. The reform program put together under PRSC 1 supports
activities that raise the quality of life of the poor; specifically, improve access to and quality of
education, health, and water and sanitation services. Since improving the delivery of these
services requires a more broad-based action than only addressing sector-specific constraints to
their delivery, the reform program focuses heavily on cross-cutting governance issues (such as
public procurement, financial management, anti-corruption, and monitoring and evaluation) and
public expenditure management. Because of its significant focus on sectoral policies and
institutions, PRSC 1 was classified for environmental purposes as a B, with the requirement that
environmental analysis (but no separate environmental assessment report) be incorporated in
credit documentation. PRSC1 was approved by the Bank's Board in May 2001 and the
President's Report with all the annexes was disclosed to the public shortly thereafter.
153



Annex 6
3.     Expanded focus of PRSC2. In addition to continuing to support the reform program
developed under PRSC I, PRSC2 will expand the reform program to support the implementation
of Government's Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (PMA). The program will be
expanded to support efforts to promote an enabling environment for rural development, including
steps to improve the effectiveness of agricultural research and advisory services, promote rural
finance, district roads, and sustainable resource management, all with the aim of raising the
incomes of the poor. The Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED)
will coordinate the implementation of the reform program in Uganda.
4.     Environmental Classification and Safeguard Policy.  Based on the above project
objectives and structures, PRSC2 was classified as a sectoral adjustment credit (SECAC) at a
meeting convened by the Bankwide PRSC Working Group on August 30, 2001, in accordance
with the Interim Guidelines for PRSCs of May, 2001. According to Bank policy, the Operational
Directive (OD) 8.60, Adjustment Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, apply. Because the Project Concept Document (PCD) for this credit was reviewed
prior to January 2002, OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement, also applies, as adjustment lending is
not excluded by that OD. Given the nature of the credit, which includes support to Uganda's Plan
for the Modernization of Agriculture, OP 4.09, Pest Management, is also applicable. Operational
Policy Note (OPN) 11.03, on the Management of Cultural Property in Bank-financed Projects,
OP 4.04, Natural Habitats, OP 4.36, Forestry, and OD 4.20, Indigenous People, may also be
applicable to specific interventions undertaken by the Government using PRSC2 funding. In
accordance with OP 4.01, the credit was categorized as a B without a separate Environmental
Assessment, and is so documented in the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet. In accordance with
the Bank's revised disclosure policy, this environment and resettlement Annex is being disclosed
through the World Bank InfoShop, and in Uganda.
5.    Potential Environmental and Resettlement Impacts of PRSC2. Overall, the activities
supported by the PRSC2 are not expected to result in major adverse, or irreversible,
environmental impacts. Biophysical environmental impacts, although thought to be modest given
the nature of the activities, can be foreseen at this time only in a generic manner. The potential
for land acquisition, resettlement, and effects on cultural resources also cannot be ruled out, but
such effects are likely to be limited in extent given the de-emphasis on large-scale construction in
the PEAP approach and the nature of IDA support to it. The environmental impacts of activities
in agriculture, education, health and water and sanitation are expected to be sufficiently addressed
by appropriate Ugandan institutions and implementing agencies. Potential conflict over land use,
land tenure, and common property may arise in some of these sectors. IDA currently has a strong
presence in the above sectors and will continue to work with counterparts to ensure that
appropriate mitigative measures are promoted and incorporated into credit activities. Annex 4
Table 1 shows the investment projects that complement PRSC2 in the areas of environment,
roads, agriculture, health, and water and sanitation and their development objectives in Uganda.
154



Annex 6
Annex 4 Table 1 Investment Projects Complementing PRSC2
Name of Project                              Project's Development Objectives
Environment:
Second Environmental Management Capacity     Promote sustainable environmental and natural
Building Project                             resources management at the national, district and
community levels.
Institutional Capacity Building--Protected Areas  Establish effective institutional capacity within
Management and Sustainable Use Project       wildlife and tourism sectors for strategic planning,
program development and implementation, and
promote long-term sustainability.
Lake Victoria Environrnent Credit            Rehabilitate the lake ecosystem.
Roads:
Roads Development Program                    Improve access to rural and economically
productive areas, and build up road sector planning
and management capability.
Second Phase of the Road Development Program  Improve access to rural and economically
productive areas, and build up road sector planning
and management capability.
Road Sector/Institutional Support Technical  Strengthen the Government's road sector
Assistance Project                           management.
El Nino Emergency Road                       Assist the Government to restore and rehabilitate
key roads and bridges severely damaged by heavy
rains associated with the El Nino weather pattern.
Agriculture:
Agriculture Research and Training            To support technology development and
dissemination, consistent with Uganda's Plan for
Modernization of Agriculture (PMA).
National Agriculture Advisory Services Project  Establish an effective and sustainable demand-
driven agricultural advisory service.
Health:
HIV/AIDS Control Project                     Support the implementation of the National
Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS to reduce the
spread of HIV; mitigate the health and socio-
economic impact of HIV/AIDS; and to strengthen
the national capacity to respond to the epidemic.
District Health Support Project              Pilot test public financing of an essential health
services package to districts.
Water and sanitation:
Small Towns Water                            Upgrade or rehabilitate water supply and sanitation
systems in towns already served and constructing
systems in towns not yet covered.
155



Annex 6
Sectoral Impact Analysis
6.     Rural Development. Potential adverse impacts of the activities under the Plan for the
Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) include environmental and natural resource degradation due
to intensification of small-holder agriculture; expansion of large-scale agriculture (cash crops);
increased use of agro-chemicals, and development of rural roads to support agricultural
marketing. Such impacts need to be anticipated and managed appropriately. Several agencies are
responsible for environmental management in Uganda. Ministry of Water, Lands, and
Environment (MOWLE) and Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF)
are responsible for management of sustainable natural resources development. National Bureau of
Standard (NBS), National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), and National
Agricultural Advisory Services (NAADS) are responsible for mitigating impacts from agro-
chemicals (including pesticides) through improvement of agricultural technology, research, and
training. The Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) is developing capacity to screen activities
and prepare environmental assessments and management plans for its own projects, including
district roads. The National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) coordinates
intersectoral review of environmental impact assessments for projects that will significantly affect
the environment, and reviews the work of the sectoral environmental units that it is helping to
launch.
7.     Education Sector. Construction of school building and sanitary facilities is not expected
to cause significant adverse impacts. Most impacts are local and can be easily mitigated. The
Government of Uganda mandates that measures of the Public Health Act be applied to
construction of school buildings and other public works. The Bank needs to ensure that the
Government's standard requirement for school construction meet the Bank's requirements and
policies.
8.     Health Sector. Concerns include construction activities as well as overall health care
waste (HCW) management. Environmental risks are associated with hazardous medical waste
materials, including possible infection from HlV/AIDS through used needles and blood waste;
building health clinics and hospitals; construction of water supply and sanitation facilities.I The
Ministry of Health (MOH) has identified the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP) to address the
handling, storage and disposal of HCW at all levels of the national health care delivery system.
This includes development of a management strategy, guidance, and human resources
development. Such measures address various sanitation and waste issues, including the handling,
storing and disposing hazardous medical wastes.
9.     Water and Sanitation Sector. In the water and sanitation sector, the focus of the PRSC
operation is to promote systematic reforms in the sector in order to ensure sustained access to safe
drinking water and sanitation services and in particular, expand services to those who currently
do not have or cannot afford such services. Under PRSC I, strategies were implemented to initiate
nation-wide decentralized planning and management system that enhances community
participation in choosing water and sanitation services as well as increases commitment to
operation and maintenance of the service. Through the MOWLE, environmental checklists for
both design and operation of systems have been developed and incorporated into the Planning and
Operational Guidelines for District WSS Conditional Grants. This includes a section covering
' For purposes of this discussion, health care waste includes pharmaceutical, anatomic, radioactive, infectious,
genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, pressurized containers, sharps, and associated contaninated materials following
WHO, Safe Management of Wastesfrom Health-Care Activities, 1999.
2Ministry of Health, Health Sector Strategic Plan, 2000/01-2004/05, August 2000.
156



Annex 6
enviromnental screening criteria for subproject appraisal and environmental requirements for
contractors. It is also standard practice in Uganda for ElAs to be conducted for all investments
and development projects (including but not limited to donor-supported projects) using guidelines
developed at the sectoral level by the lead agency involved (MOWLE in this case) and NEMA (in
this and other sectors). These guidelines and the environmental screening checklists were
developed in Uganda to be directly compatible with World Bank environmental standards.
Measures for protection of water sources will also be refined. The reorganized Directorate of
Water Development (DWD) in MOWLE will engage trained staff and experienced consultants to
implement these measures under PRSC2 as well as carry out annual environmental audits to
ensure compliance by local governments. Expanded stakeholder consultation will also be
provided through further training of staff.
Mitigation Measures
10.   Environmental Issues and Mitigation Measures. NEMA has the mandate to coordinate,
monitor and supervise all environmental activities. The framework for environmental assessment
and regulation is based on the National Environment Statute of 1995. The more recent
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Regulations of 1998 define in detail the EIA process,
which requires, as appropriate, environmental impact assessments, environmental impact
statemrents, and/or environmental audits for all private and public development projects.
Basically, a system of EIA and monitoring that identifies adverse environmental impacts is in
place. On physical cultural property, the Ugandan EIA system includes a stipulation to prevent
destruction of cultural heritages, historic sites, and archaeological resources.3 NEMA undertakes
the EIA oversight function, but leaves implementation to the relevant line ministries and
departments. In addition, NEMA also develops EIA capacity in sectoral ministries, line-
departments and at the district level through an ongoing investment project financed by IDA.
11.   Involuntary Resettlement. The anticipated number of people potentially affected is
expected to be small in any individual activity. Land tenure and resettlement issues will be
specifically taken into consideration for acquiring land for new schools or health units and in
siting and sizing of water supply, and other infrastructure for modernizing the agriculture sector.
Water delivery issues for small towns, including disposal of wastewater produced at the water
treatment facilities, and routing of new distribution pipes will be addressed during or prior to
design of each activity. In specific investment projects supported by IDA in parallel with the
PRSC, any significant taking of land or other physical assets that would invoke the Bank's
principles concerning involuntary resettlement will be identified, and individual resettlement
plans will be prepared by the proponent organization or agency, reviewed and monitored during
implementation by IDA. Over time it is expected that Ugandan procedures for resettlement will
guide such activities, and that the Bank will be able to rely on Uganda's own processes as
indicative for Bank review.
12.   National Land Acquisition and Resettlement Procedures.  Resettlement and land
acquisition procedures similar to Bank procedures currently are not in place in Uganda. Instead,
involuntary resettlement has been typically been handled as a special topic in each Bank-
supported investment where land acquisition has entailed the displacement of some set of people.
In order to gain the efficiencies and coverage of having a national policy in place on this subject,
in 1995 the Bank supported an activity in Uganda to define policy, procedures, and administrative
arrangements for issues of involuntary resettlement at the country-wide level. The adoption of
3NEMA Statute Supplement, section 50, May 19, 1995.
157



Annex 6
this program was set aside by other priorities in the country at the time. In the intervening period,
administrative ambiguities have been resolved. The Permanent Secretary's Office in the Prime
Ministry has become responsible for actions regarding refugees and natural disasters, issues
which, like involuntary resettlement, involve displacement, transitional support to people, and
long-term rehabilitation. Policy papers have been written and passed on refugee affairs and
disaster relief. The Office has approached the Bank to re-convene the process of getting a
regulatory regime in place for involuntary resettlement, which it sees as the last part of a "three-
part process" of dealing with these related issues. Like the Bank, the Government is committed
to ensuring that processes of involuntary land acquisition leave those affected no worse off than
they would otherwise have been. The Bank will explore options to support the intended updating
of the background and policy work carried out in 1995, for presentation of a National Policy on
Involuntary Resettlement sometime during Uganda's next fiscal year, which begins in July 2002.
Public Disclosure
13.    Consultation and Disclosure. In accordance with the requirements of the revised
disclosure policy, this annex will be disclosed publicly in-country and at the World Bank
Infoshop. Investments made with support of the PRSC will be subject to Government policy,
which likewise requires public consultation and for environmental impact statement (EIS)
documents of projects with potential adverse impacts on the environment.
Institutional Capacity Building, Monitoring and Supervision
14.   Impact Assessment Institutional Capacity Building. The Government's implementing
agencies have embarked on efforts to improve environmental management for sectors associated
with PRSC2. The Bank will work with its counterparts in the Government to create a viable
framework in identifying and tracking key issues. Through the IDA-supported Environmental
Management Capacity Building Projects (EMCBP) I and II, IDA has been assisting NEMA to
enhance environment management in lead agencies, districts and communities, in addressing
environmental degradation problems and sustainable resource management. IDA has also funded
NARO and NAADS to mitigate adverse impacts from the agricultural sector, for example by
conducting research and training in Integrated Pest Management. The policy exercise referred to
in paragraph 12 above will include the capacity-building needed for work on involuntary
resettlement. In addition, the second Protected Areas Management project now under preparation
contains an activity in support of the National Museums Board, which has responsibility for
cultural heritage issues.
15.    Monitoring and Supervision. A monitoring plan to review the Government's EIA
procedures and other relevant regulatory procedures for sectoral activities in the PRSC2 will be
developed. IDA will undertake regular supervision to assure that the Bank's requirements on
environment assessment and resettlement are being complied with, including appropriate
involvement of specialists.
II. KEY ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT ISSUES AND MITIGATION PLANS
16.    Key Environment and Resettlement Issues of PRSC2. There are direct and indirect
environmental and potential resettlement issues primarily linked to reforms under the
PEAP/PRSP Pillar m and IV of PRSC2, respectively on Increasing the Ability of the Poor to
Raise their Incomes (Pillar HI) and Directly Increasing the Quality of Life (Pillar IV). While the
158



Annex 6
types of activities in each sector are known, the specific locations and conditions of activities will
only be known as the implementing agencies execute their budget plans.
Degraaation of Environment and Natural Resources
17.    Environmental Degradation. PRSC2 addresses issues of environmental degradation by
integrating environmental concerns in all government programs, particularly in modernization of
agriculture (Pillar HI). In Uganda, degradation of the environment and natural resources (ENR)
sectors is estimated to range from 4 percent to 12 percent of GDP.4 The agricultural sector alone
is estimated to be responsible for 86 to 91 percent of ENR degradation in monetary terms. This
takes the form of deforestation, loss of natural habitats, loss of top soil, uncontrolled growth of
water hyacinths, pollution of water bodies, illegal logging, and bush land burning.
18.    Environmental Regulations.  The National Environmental Statute of 1995 (NEMA
Statute) and regulations passed under this statute are the principal safeguards to curb ENR
degradation in Uganda.5 The Statute also mandated the National Environmental Management
Authdrity (NEMA) to coordinate, monitor, and supervise policies/programs on environmental
management. This is done primarily through the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
process. A large-scale agricultural project, such as development of cash crops (coffee, tea, oil
palm, and sugar cane), which will affect the environment, is required to undertake an EIA. The
Statute also promotes conservation in ecologically sensitive areas, such as lakes, wetlands,
forests, and hillside areas. However, for high altitude crops, such as tea and horticultural crops,
farming the hill sides may be unavoidable. For the ecologically sensitive areas, the following
measures are recommended: use of appropriate farming methods, curbing of soil erosion, and
protection of water catchments. The NEMA Statute prohibits activities that will reclaim and
drain the wetlands; and limits other human activities in the wetlands. In the same manner, it also
prohibits activities that will lead to the destruction of forest and hillsides areas 6
19.    Soil and Water Conservation. On farms, soil and water conservation is a priority.
Agricultural development in Uganda is constrained by weathered soils whose fertility varies
across districts. There are thirteen districts scattered through the Eastern, Central and Western
regions. The districts with high population density -- over 300 persons per sq. km. -- coincide
with good agricultural potential and high rainfall. Consequently, those are at risk of soil erosion
(e.g., in the Jinja district and around Lake Victoria). Currently, the traditional farming systems to
restore soil fertility and land productivity do not keep up with the rate of soil degradation and
population pressure on land.7
20.    Mitigation and Management of ENR impacts. Mitigation and management of adverse
impacts on natural resources are mainly the responsibility of NEMA, MOWLE, and MAAIF. The
research and extension advisory services agencies, NARO and NAADS, support those agencies in
managing adverse environmental impacts of agricultural sector through research and training.
IDA, however, needs to ensure that any PRSC2 activities that will involve large scale agricultural
development comply with the Bank's policies on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Natural
Habitats (OP 4.04), and Forestry (OP 4.36). IDA has funded several capacity building initiatives
4 Yakobo Moyini and Eugene T Muramira "The Cost of Environmental Degradation and Loss to Uganda' Economy
with Particular Reference to Poverty Eradication"-Final Draft, IUCN Uganda, July 2001.
5The Water Statute 1995, The Wetland Policy 1995, National Environment Waste Management Regulations, 1999,
Draft Forestry Act, 2001.
6 NEMA Statute sections 37,38; and 39-47.
7Planfor Modernization ofAgriculture, Eradicating Poverty in Uganda. MAAIF Report, 2000.
159



Annex 6
in Uganda, including current investment support to NARO and NAADS. The agencies are
expected to play important roles with regard to compliance with environmental, resettlement and
other relevant policies in Uganda.
Use ofAgro-chemicals
21.    Low Use of Agricultural Chemicals. At present the use of agro-chemicals (pesticides,
herbicides, and fertilizers) in Uganda is low, but modernization of agriculture will facilitate
intensification of small-holder agriculture and extend large-scale cash crop production for export.
This process predictably will result in increasing use of agro-chemicals. Cotton, horticultural
crops, and sugarcane are the major crops that use a significant amount of agro-chemicals, mainly
pesticides. Recent Government initiative to boost coffee export will also have an effect on agro-
chemicals use in Uganda. Other than in cash crops, pesticides are also used in animal husbandry
to eradicate ticks and flies on cattle.
22.    Agro-Chemical Control. Through IDA on-going supports to MAAIF (primarily to
NARO and NAADS), the following measures are recommended to enhance Government capacity
in implementing national policy to mitigate the negative impacts of excessive use of agro-
chemicals: (i) raise awareness of pesticide risks and hazards through training of vendors,
stockists, and farmer/users; (ii) enforce and strengthen Control of Agricultural Agro-chemical
Statute of 1980 and Agricultural Chemical Registration and Control Regulation of 1993; (iii)
extend registration scheme to non-agricultural activities, mainly public health and animal
husbandry; (iv) mandate registration and licensing for agro-chemical traders; and (v) enhance
capacity to monitor pesticide use and storage facilities.
23.    Pest Management. MAAIF is the line ministry responsible for administering the Statute
and Regulation on pest management and related program in Uganda. Together with the PMA
Steering Committee, MAAIF shall ensure that pest and pesticide management issues are
addressed at the sub-project level. This includes designing a PMP (Pest Management Program)
when there are significant pest management issues, or when procurement of substantial quantities
of agro-chemicals is envisaged. MAAIF should also be aware of the Bank's requirements in OP
4.01 and OP 4.09. The role of NAADS and NARO, both supported by IDA funding are important
in these activities. The NAADS, for example, has developed general guidelines for pest
management. At the farm level, the institution has trained farmers and cattle herders about the
potential risks and hazards of pesticides on health and the environment, including how to store,
handle, and apply agro-chemicals.
District Road Work
24.    District and Rural Roads. Agricultural marketing in Uganda is constrained by the poor
quality of the road network. More than 90 percent of Uganda's road network consists of earth and
gravel roads and 25 percent of the rural roads in the districts are impassable during the rainy
season.8 During PRSC2, a program of district and community roads will be begun. This program
will run parallel to and be guided by the principles of outsourcing and the environmental
regulatory frameworks in the long-term Roads Program (APLs 1-4) currently under
implementation in Uganda. In parallel with this national program, the Ministry of Works,
Housing and Communication (MOWHC) has initiated a sectoral Environmental Liaison Unit in
charge of promoting, developing, and disseminating guidance in environmental issues, and the
8 Plan for Modernization of Agriculture, Eradicating Poverty in Uganda MAAIF Report, 2000.
160



Annex 6
training of transport staff in particular. This work is consistent with the national mandate that
lead agencies should build up their own environmental regulatory capabilities, to carry out the
work in environment that they need to do in liaison with NEMA. In any case, the vast majority of
the work to be carried out in the PRSC will involve stabilizing and reconstruction of existing
minor roads at the community and district level, with no changes of alignments, widening, or hard
surfacing. Thus, no environmental or land acquisition issues will arise, except for minor drainage
and maintenance works. Appropriate environmental measures are already built in to the district
roads crews standard operating procedures.
School Building Construction
25.    School Building Construction. No significant environmental impact is expected from
school construction. Minor impacts are associated with physical activities such as construction of
class room, dormitories, latrine and other facilities. The activities are regulated by the
Government in the Public Health Act (sections 72 and 73). Standard requirements for classroom
construction include approved lists of materials, location of latrines with washing facilities and
safe drinking water. The Bank needs to ensure that the Government's standard requirement for
school construction meets the Bank's requirement and policies.
Disposal of Health Care Waste in Health Units, Health Centers and Hospitals
26.    Health Care Waste. Uganda is committed in its policies to ensure that no harm comes to
people from the management of health care wastes (HCW) or from gaps in sanitary facilities at
health care institutions. To date, it is difficult to assess the general status of sanitation and
medical waste at health facilities in Uganda because of limited data. Generally there is a need for
significant improvement in both areas. The following are the Ugandan problems in health care
wastes:
* Pharmaceutical waste includes drugs and chemicals that are outdated, contaminated,
spilled or no longer required.
* Radioactive waste includes solids, liquids and gaseous radio nuclides generated from
in vitro analysis of body tissues and fluids, in vivo body imaging and tumor
localization and therapeutic procedures.
* Anatomic or pathological waste consists of human and animal tissues, organs, body
parts, fetuses, blood and body fluids.
* Sharps comprise needles, syringes, scalpels, blades, broken glass and other puncture
inducing items.
*  Infectious waste that can transmit infectious disease with pathogen concentrations and
quantities of that are of concern for exposure originate in laboratories, infectious
patient wastes, surgery and autopsies.
* Other waste of concern include genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, and pressurized
containers.
* Communal/domestic type material such as packaging, paper and plastic products and
other organic material.
161



Annex 6
27.     Health Care Waste Strategy.     Strategy for health care waste management was drafted
through dialogue with the appropriate decision-making and national authorities'9 The national
HCW planning process led by a task force that includes representatives from all the relevant
ministries. The proposed national HCW policy and strategy includes:
*   Strategy for proper HCW management and disposal.
*   Prevention and reduction of waste generation.;
*   Means of monitoring of infection control and environmental protection.
*   Use of appropriate technology for packaging, transportation, treatment, and disposal.
*   Central or decentralized treatment and disposal.
*   Distribution of responsibility in the sector between national and local governments.
*   Recommendations on private sector involvement.
*   Investment plan for implementation of improved HCW      management.
*   Mechanisms for financing health care waste management.
*   HCW    management training programs at facility and municipal/district level.
28.     Health Care Waste Management by 7Tpe of Facility.            Specific HCW     management
considerations related to the key health care facilities in Uganda are outlined in Annex 4 Table 2.
Table 2: Considerations for Health Care Waste Management at Small and Large Health Care
Facilities
Small facilities                                  Large facilities
Raise awareness at the management level.         Raise awareness.
Develop an integrated HCW management plan.       Ensure special HCW is segregated from other waste.
Ensure segregation of special HCW from other     Determine appropriate treatment technology.
waste.                                           Consider facility-based vs. centralized waste
Determine appropriate treatment and disposal    treatment and disposal options.
site for facility.                               Ensure proper packaging and storage of special health
Train health care workers in proper HCW          care waste.
procedures.                                      Ensure safe transport of special HCW.
Develop a HCW management plan for facility.
Train health care workers in HCW management
procedures.
Address scavenging issues.
Water Supply and Sanitation.
29.     Water Sector Standards and Guidelines.       Currently, all water supply and wastewater
projects will have to meet existing national environmental standards and water sector
guidelines.'0 In addition, all larger village and urban potable water supply and distribution
9Draft Policy and Strategy on Sanitation and Healthcare Waste Disposal at Health Facilities, September 2001.
10 Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, Water Supply Design Manual, 2000; RUWASA, Environmental
Guidelines and Code of Conduct; RUWASA, Guidelines for Assessing the Risk to Groundwater from On-site
Sanitation; RUWASA. Shallow Wells Information Booklet, 1999; Eastem Centers Water and Sanitation Project
Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Pit Latrine Systems, 2000; Eastem Centers Water and Sanitation
Project Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Human Excreta Disposal, 2000; RUWASA, Socio
162



Annex 6
systems and wastewater proposals (covering population clusters of above 5,000 people) submitted
to the DWD will undergo a prescribed EIA process that includes the following information:
*   description of the project and identification of all phases;.
*   description of the proposed site and reasons for rejecting alternative sites;
*   environmental effects of the project, including direct, indirect, cumulative short-term  and
long-term effects and possible alternatives;
*   measures proposed for eliminating, minimizing or mitigating adverse impacts; and
*   a monitoring and evaluation program.
30.     Water Supply Regulations. Regulations concerning water supply fall under the Water
Resources Regulations of 1998. They specify particular requirements for (i) any water extraction
by motorized water pump that temporarily or permanently pumps water from a borehole or
waterway and (ii) weir, dam, tank, or other work capable of diverting or impounding an inflow of
more than 400 cubic meters in any 24-hour period. Furthermore, both drilling and construction
permit requirements include submission of standard application forms.     Since DWD     is the
delegated NEMA agency, all EIA and technical requirements are managed by DWD, specifically
in the Water Resources Division. Based on these standards, guidelines and current practices, the
EIA process in the sector is characterized by the features highlighted in Annex 4 Table 3.
Table 3: Key Elements of the EIA Process for Water and Sanitation Projects-Design and
Construction
Objective                                     Responsible Party
*   Ensure that environmental issues are      District WSS Units
considered as part of design.             DWD Water Resources Division and Technical
*   Ensure that environmental impacts are     Support Units
reduced or minimized at site.             Commissioned Consultants and Contractors
*   Solicit feedback from affected stakeholders
Actions
*   Review the current environmental condition at  Verification
the site.                                -Subproject appraisal by District WSS Units
*   Assess the potential environmental impact  Environmental Impact Statement for large projects
associated with the proposed scheme.      Independent Environmental audit within a period
*   Identify mitigation measures in construction  of 12 months after completion of project
and operation.                            DWD inspections
31.     Protection of Water Sources, Drinking Water Standards and Sanitary Conditions. There
are several types of small-scale rural water supply schemes in the country: shallow wells,
boreholes, protected natural spring water points and borehole pump and distribution systems.
Most of the environmental considerations for water supply schemes involve avoiding water
contamination. Measures should be taken to ensure initially good water quality. During
operation of the system, measures need to be taken to prevent contamination from agricultural
activities, grazing animals, and human contamination. Borehole construction in alluvial areas
with intense sugar cane production is of potential concern because of concentrated pesticide
treatments.   Testing of the water supply. should be performed regularly to detect any
Technical Manualfor Siting, 2000; Eastem Centers Water and Sanitation Project, Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation
Transformation, 2000.
163



Annex 6
contamination to the system, and this should be done in conjunction with periodic chlorine
treatment under certain circumstances. Also, proper training of technicians is critical to ensure
that adequate maintenance occurs for both the single source and network water systems. The
MOWLE has developed envirornental screening checklists for both design and operations which
has been incorporated into the revised Planning and Operation Guidelines for District WSS
Conditional grants. IDA will review the guidelines and the checklists for compatibility with OP
4.01 during Appraisal of PRSC2. These checklists identify any potential environmental, land
tenure, and resettlement impacts of proposed activities. These checklists apply to borehole
drilling for water supply, expanding and improving the existing water supply, latrine, other
sanitation facilities, and wastewater treatment.
32.    Water Distribution. The PRSC will be used mainly to extend focus on rural water supply
for the poor. DWD and other water delivery programs incorporate standard water quality
analysis to assess potential point water sources. Post-construction water quality monitoring is
also undertaken. Data collection and reporting procedures are regularly undertaken, yet such data
is not fully utilized. For example, monthly water quality reports for one district showed high
levels of nitrates among numerous spring point sources, yet no one had determined possible
causes. Improved data analysis at the regional and national level as the delivery of potable water
is expanded will become more important to identify potential environmental and human health
concerns. Other issues including access to drinking water and sanitation services as well as
resettlement requirements for the larger construction schemes will be summarized in a standard
report summary.
Public Disclosure
33.    Disclosure. PRSC2 has been categorized as a B (without a separate EA) under OP 4.01.
The requirements of the Bank's revised disclosure policy for Category B projects apply for those
appraised after January 1, 2002. The Bank's policy also requires public consultations and
disclosure for activities with potential adverse impacts on the environment in sectors supported
by PRSC that will occur in the future. The requirements include discussions of the project's
potential environmental impact with the project affected groups and local NGOs, and take their
views into account. 1 Similarly, the Government mandates public consultation, stakeholders
involvement, and information disclosure of project with potential adverse impacts on the
environment through the EIA process. Public consultation with local NGOs and affected people
has been the normal pattern within Bank assisted-projects in Uganda, and non-Bank projects
under NEMA-led EIA procedures, for several years. Some stakeholders feel that the consultation
could be improved by a better selection of NGOs, and by following through more proactively on
stakeholder feedback during project implementation.'2
34.    Outreach in Water and Sanitation Programs.  Poor communities may have little
opportunity to learn about programs designed to help them. In the case of a water and sanitation
project, DWD uses mobilizers, staff trained in social work, to undertake community out-reach
programs and conduct community consultations. These staff also engage in sanitation and health
promotional programs. It is common practice now for DWD to assist in organizing water
committees that identify the type of water system they want and are willing to pay for and
procedures for operating and maintaining the water supply facilities. In numerous cases, access
to water is controlled at public standpipes by an approved operator who is entitled to charge for
water and is also responsible for paying monthly-metered water bills. Restricting hours of
" OP 4.01, para 15.
12Conversation with Mr. Kivoumbi of NGO Environmental Alert in Kampala, October 2001.
164



Annex 6
operation, reauction in the number of faucets and social conflicts regularly occur. Practical
mechanisms to quickly identify such problems and engage in conflict resolution are required to
ensure that water is available.
35.    Local Level Consultation. The purposes of public consultation include both the spread of
information and the incorporation of local knowledge and perspectives into development projects.
Supported by donor advice and resources, for example, the Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable
Forest Conservation Trust (MBIFCT) was formed to conserve the Mgahinga and Bwindi forests
through a consultative and participatory approaches driven by the local communities. Donors
alone Ido not drive participatory development. In Uganda, the, degree of openness and
inclusiveness in the local political process helps condition the support for consultations and
participation. Ugandan local level councils have been very vocal for at least a decade, and so
there is an inbuilt mechanism for projects to get and incorporate local feedback. As district
government becomes a better-performing, more powerful process at a level just above the
community, some observers see the potential for weakening the individual community inputs into
governance. District government will have to find a way to continue the sense of participatory
"'owne'rship" by communities as more resource decisions are made at the district level.
m.     INSTIrMT  ONAL CAPACITY BUILDING FOR IMPACT ASSESSMENT
36.    NEA   's Mandate. In Uganda, NEMA has the mandate to co-ordinate, monitor and
supervise all environmental activities.. NEMA leads an oversight function on EIA but leaves its
implemr entation to the relevant line ministries and departments. In practice, NEMA is the focal
institution and the ETA has become a primary tool for safeguarding the environment from the
adverse impacts of development activities in Uganda. To further the effort, NEMA has
developed EIA guidelines (including public hearing guidelines), code of conduct for EIA
practitioners, regulations for appointing inspectors, and environmental easements. From January
1996 to September 2001, a total of 286 projects were subjected to EIA; 314 projects received
certificates; 9 environmental audits were conducted; 15 projects were stopped. Supported by
IDA-funding through the EMCBP credits, NEMA also builds EIA capacity in sectoral ministries,
departmnents, and at the district levels. NEMA also assists districts to establish and strengthen the
statutory management institutions and ensure adequate community inputs into district
environmental planning and management. Since 1996, 41 out of 56 districts have recruited
District Environment Officers (DEOs). In addition, NEMA has helped to recruit 54 environment
inspectors. To enhance NEMA capacity, the Bank approved the Second Environmental
Management and Capacity Building Project (EMCBP-II) in February 2001.
37.    NEMA's Capacity in Relation to PRSC2. Currently, NEMA is, and has been, largely
donor-funded. This is a risky situation that creates uncertainty about the sustainability of its
programs. At the district level, similarly, resources and funding to recruit personnel and to make
the DEOs operational are inadequate. This lack of capacity undermines full integration of
environmental concerns at local government and community levels. Several ways to improve
environmental management could be mainstreamed within the framework of PRSC2: (i)
improving the effectiveness of the institutional arrangements to address environmental concerns
across government programs; (ii) integrating environmental risks and opportunities into districts
and municipal government development plans, and taking steps to implement the management
plans; (iii) implementing sectoral environmental policies (such as pest management, agricultural
chemicals, medical waste, forest conservation, etc.); and (iv) ensuring that funding for NEMA is
reflected more in the government budget. At the district and community levels, planning and
decision-making require the appropriate rpeasures to conserve water, soil, and forests, to keep the
165



Annex 6
human environment healthy; and to ensure that more intensive development in rural and urban
areas does not introduce unmanaged dangers of environmental degradation, displacement, or
tenure conflict. Key to supporting these efforts is continually improving human resources in
environmental management through institutional capacity building and training. NEMA, under
IDA-assisted project, has been building capacity within the sectoral ministries/lead agencies.
IV. MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
40.    Environmental and Land Acquisition/Resettlement Monitoring Plan. Monitoring plans
are needed to ensure that adverse environmental impacts are addressed and any land acquisition
and resettlement are adequately implemented and sustained in each of the key sectors which the
PRSC will support. The NEMA statute indicates that "the lead agencies should monitor
compliance and implementation of activities to ensure that the design criteria ,mitigation
measures, and monitoring plans are implemented, the monitoring plan should also identify the
key indicators of environmental impacts." A simple and practical array of potential monitoring
indicators is provided below in Table 4.
41.    Relationship of Monitoring Plan to PRSC2 Monitori*g.  The monitoring plan for
environment and land acquisition/resettlement will be incorporated into the overall PRSC2
monitoring plan described in the Credit documentation and overseen by the Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED). Consequently, MOFPED will be the ultimate
information focal point. The relevant sector will be responsible for submitting appropriate
information as described below to the PRSC Steering Committee and PRSC Technical
Committee. The PRSC Steering Committee will provide a report to IDA on the issues addressed
in this Annex on an annual basis. This report will be expanded as additional sectors are added to
the subsequent annual Credits.
42.    Subsequent PRSCs. In preparing subsequent PRSCs, IDA will include participation of
environmental and resettlement specialists. These 'specialists will review progress in
implementing the Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP). The specialists will coordinate with
other IDA staff in the relevant sectors to ensure that appropriate environmental assessment,
resettlement, and other relevant policy issues are addressed and any consequent management
plans are being implemented. Where additional capacity building is needed, the PRSC team will
work with the selected sector agencies to develop such initiatives. The missions will review the
performance of sectoral procedures and progress in increasing awareness of and appropriate
measures for environmental and other concerns as detailed in this analysis.
166



Annex 6
Table 4. Indicative Monitoring Plan By Sector
Information
Sector and Issues            Monitoring              ResponsibUity          Collection Process
Indicators                                      and Frequency
Agriculture/Rural
Development Sector:
Natural Resource          ElAs are prepared by     NEMA, NAADS,              Annual records/survey
Degradation in Large-    investors and reviewed (by  MAAIF, NARO, PMA
Scale Agricultural Projects  NEMA); management plan  Steering Committee, and
is integrated into project  districts. Districts are
implementation           responsible for
implementing programs
Restriction on the use of  and projects. Activities
ecologically sensitive   like training for service
areas, forest, wetlands, etc.  providers, waste
management, etc., have to
Soil conservation in     Improved soil and water   take place in the districts
Smallholder Agriculture   conservation; judicious
application of agricultural
inputs
Increasing Quantities of  PMP is designed, e nsure  NEMA, NAADS, MAAIF,      Annual records/survey
Agro-Chemicals used by   that pesticides are used in  NARO, PMA Steering
Agricultural Activities   accordance with IPM      Committee, districts (see
principles               above discussion on the
districts), and NBS.
Training for service     Capacity building for
providers, fanners, and  community and farmer
stockmen to understand   level monitoring
potential risks and hazards
of pesticides on health and
environment
Agro-chemicals used by    MRL (Maximum Residue
Small Holder Agriculture  Level) is observed
particularly for commercial
crops
Training for appropriate
storage, handling, and
application of
agrochemicals
Waste and effluent from   Waste management and
Agro Processing           environmental audit for  In addition to the above
selected agro processing  authorities: selected private
facilities               sectors
District Roads:           Policy and implementation  MOWHC and Districts     Annual Review
arrangements, including
related environmental
guidelines, for road
construction and
maintenance works
developed and adopted
Improvement of
institutional capacity for
transportation and
environmental
167



Annex 6
Information
Sector and Issues            Monitoring               Responsibility         Collection Process
Indicators                                       and Frequency
management, including
training for staff and
contractors.
Health Sector: Health     EIA or Environmental      MOH, Environmental
Care Waste                Review for construction of  Health Division, NEMA
new facilities            (for review of EIAs),
district health inspectors
Environmental
guidelines/checklist are
prepared and used in
operation stage
Conduct selective/random
environmental audits for
HCW facilities
Awareness training
incorporated into health
care professional and
technical curriculum
Waste Supply and          EIA or Environmental      DWD Water Resources       Annual Review/Survey
Sanitation Sector         Review for urban large    Division and Technical
(wastewater treatment,    scale construction of new  Support Units at district
sanitation facilities,    facilities               level, other WSS
adwtrsupply and      EvrnetlAuthorities, NEMA (for
and water supply and      Environmental             review of ELAs)
distribution)             guidelines/checklist are
prepared and used in
operation stage
Conduct selective/random
environmental audits for
WSS facilities
Awareness taining
incorporated for WSS
professionals
168



Annex 7
Uganda at a glance                                                              81W2
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low.
Uganda     Afria    Income     Developnim dlamond'
2001
Population, midd-year (millWns)                      22.8      659     2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Aas method, US$)                     280       480       420
GNI (Alias method, USS billons)                      6.0       313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1"801
Population (%)                                        2.9       2.6      1       GM
Labor force(%)                                        2.7       2.6      2.4     GM                             Gross
par                           primary
Most recent estimate (ltatt year avwlable, 1995081)                              capita                      enmroiment
Poverty (I% of populabon below national povery lne)   35
Urban population (% of total populaton)               13        34        32
LIfe expecancy at birth (years)                       42        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 nve biths)               68         92        77
Chnd malnutrtin (% of cdildren under 5)               38                              Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)  52        55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  38        38        38
Gross primary enrolment (% of school-age population)  128       78        96                 Ug5nd5
Male                                               132        85       102                  LOw-Incoaw group
Female                                             124        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RAIIOS and LONG-TERMn TRENDS
1991      2000      2001
Econornide rasolo
GDP (USS blihlons)                                    3.3       5.9      5.7
Gross domestic InvestmentlGDP                        15.2      19.8     20.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and seroesGDP                        7.5      11.1     11.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           0.7       6.6       5.4
Gross national savings/GDP                            14       8.4       5.5
Cunent account balance/GDP                          -13.5     -13.2    -14.4     Dometic
Interest payments/GDP                                 1.6      0.8       0.4  es    ngs                     Investment
Total debWGDP                                       78.0       61.5     55.0
Total debt servIce/expots                           94.3       10.4     10.5
Present value of debt/GDP                            39.0      16.8     20.4
Presentvalueofdebt/exports                          641.1     142.1    171.4
Indebtedness
198141   199141     2000      2001   200145
(average annra growdr)
GDP                                 4.5     18.1     5.0       5.6       6.f5                 Uganda
GDPpercapita                        1.6     14.6     2.2       2.9       4.0                  Low.4onwlegup
Exrports of goods and services      1.0     17.3     4.1        9.0      7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1991      2000      2001     Groth of lnvetnwnt nd GOP I%)
(X of GDP)
AgrIculture                                          52.8      37.7     38 8     160
Industry                                             12.4      20.4     21.0     10
Manuracturtng                                       5.8       9.8       9.9    Dr
Services                                            34.8       41.9     42.3      e
Private consumpbon                                  90.5       81.3     82.1                                  ar -  rr  o   01
General government consumption                       8.8       12.1     12.5
Impots of goods and services                        21.9      24.1      25.7                    GDI      0t   P
a g a   10141  199141  2000    200tl     Growth of exportv and Imports
(average arnnuas/grob7)
AgrIulcture                                  3.5     14.6       5.6      4.6     so
Industry                                     7.0    23.4       3.1       6.5    o4
Manufacturtng                              5.5     25.1       3.5       8.8
Services                                     4.5    19.4        6.5      7.2     20
Prhvate consumpion                          4.2     18.8       3.9       4.7      o        rr
General government consumptin                2.2     0.0       5.0      12.3    -2a
Gross domestic Investment                   9.7      9.7       -2.2      3.8               'Exports          r nvprs
Imports of goods 'and servIeA               4.5     1 i.2      40.5      2.2
Note: 2001 data are prelnrinary esmates.
The dlaninds show four key Inrdeators In the country (n bold) compaed with Iht Incorne-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vAi
be Incomplete.
169



Annex 7
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1931       2000     2001      InftIMon (%)
D   r d-w)                                                                           20
Consumer prces                                         24.5        6.3       4.6     o0                            0
lmpfpdt GDP deflator                                   26.0        4.1       8.6    20       r,      70
9Cof GDP, /ndudw wmDentgrnts)                                                      40         
Cuent revenue                                           7.5       11.4      10.9     F0
Cuffent budget bak&nce                                  0.0        0.4      40.6             -   -GDP dellato   C--PI
Overl surplustdefldt                                    -7.6     -13.0      -9.3
TRADE
1991       2000     2001      Expart and Import levels (USS nIll).
(IJSS mgDowu)
Totad exports (rob)                                     175        454      442      20 .
Coffee                                                127        187       110     roco
Cotton                                                  8         23        14
Totailmports(clt)                                       545      1,513     1,501    J,oo..IIh                     Jjil
Fuel and energy                                        83        143       170      .n
Exportprice ndex(1995-100)                               56         58       51        0
Importpricelndex(19956100)                               87        104      102              06 o    07   os    99   00   01
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                64         56       50                  *Eiperts    *minorts
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1991      2000      2001
pUS$ MOOo)                                                                            Curent account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goorJs and services                          199        651      630
Imports of goods and servIcs                            671      1410      1.454      0
Resource bdanlae                                       -472       -759      -825      2
Nat Icome                                               -58        *60      -119     4
Not cuffntntmnstens                                      el         95      124      -a             -     -    - 
Current scoourt balance                                8449       -724      241     .10*
Flnandng Items (net                                     412        710      860      12
Changes In net reseres                                   37         15       -41     14
Mamo:                                                                                16
Reserves Including gdd (USS mlMons)                      50        719      739
Converion rote (DEC. Iocafl/S$)                       550.9     1,511.4  1,762.9
EXTERNAL DEBT anrd RESOURCE FLOWS
1991       2000     2001
(LISS rOfios)                                                                        Composrdon af 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Tot debt outstanding and dIdsed                        2,592     3,602     3,107
IBRD                                                   18          0        0
IDA                                                   957      2,098     2,101                  e 17. 29
Toted da tserove                                        191         68        71            Ds54
IBRD                                                    a          0        0
IDA                                                     9         31       37
ComposItion of net reource flows
Oflidalgrants                                         282        312      405          C:294
Oftidal credItort                                     203        151       151
Pdvatecreditors                                       -18          2       11                                      :2.101
Foreign dred bnvesniment                                1        194      169
World Bank program
Commthments                                           277        148      358
Disbursements                                         169        139      151      A - IBRD                     E - naeml
PrncIpl repayents                                       7         16       22      B-IDA     D-COthesr llataeI  F - Prlato
Net flws                                              162        295       145     C-IMF                        G - Short-tnn
Interest payments                                       9         15        15
Netlrensfers                                          152        281      130
Development Economcs                                                                                                     6/6/02
170



Annex 8
Uganda Social Indicators
Latest single year           Same    IonIlncome group
Saharan           Low-
1970-75    1980-85    1993-01             AfrIca        Income
POPULATION
Total populatlon, mid-year (millons)       11.2       14.1        22.2             642.8        2,417.1
Growti rate (% annual avemge fbr perlod)  2.7        2.0         3.3               2.6            1.9
Urban populaton (% of population)           8.3        9.9       16.1              33.8            31.4
Total fertIity rate (births per woman)      7.1        7.2         6.7               5.3            3.7
POVERTY
(6 ofpopulaion)
National headcount index                     ..         ..         35
Urban headcount index                       ..        ..         10
Rural headcount Index                      ..         ..         39
INCOME
GNlpercapita(US$)                                      180        280               490            420
Consumerprkoeindex(1995=100)                 ,,          1        122               131            138
Food price Index (1995=100)                  ..         ..        107
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Share of income or consumption
Gini Index                                   ..         ..        37.4
Lowest quintile (% of Income or consumption)  6.0       ..        7.1
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption:  47.0     ..        44.9
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                          ..         ..         1.9               1.7            1.2
Educaton (% of GNI)                       2.7        3.5         2.6               4.1            3.3
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)     ..         ..
Net prlmary school enrollment rate
(56 of age grup)
Total                                       ..        41         89
Male                                                44
Female                                   ..         38
Access to an Improved watr source
(% of populaton)
Total                                       ..        16         52                55              76
Urban                                    ..         45         60                82             88
Rural                                    ..         12         52                41             70
Immunkiation rate
(S6 under 12 nmonths)
Measles                                    ..         17         57                57              64
DPT                                         ..        14         47                59              70
Child malnutriton (% under 5 yeamn)           ..        ..         38
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                      50         48         42                47              59
Male                                     48         48         42                46              58
Female                                  51          49         41                48              60
Mortality
Infant(per1,000IOveblrths)                111        116         a8                92              77
Under 5 (per 1,000 lve bths)              185        180        152               161             116
Adult (15-89)
Male (per 1,000 population)             447        463        597               499             288
Female (per 1,000 population)           393        395        590               453             258
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)          ..         ..        505
Births attended by skIlled health staff (96)  ..        ..         39
Note: Net enrollment ratios In the Educaion Statistical Abdnact are believed to be reliable, the raos must be taken
as approxlmations due to the high degree of unceftaInty over the size of the population.
2001 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank
171



Annex 9
Uganda- Key Economic Indicators
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Grossdomesticproduct/a                              100      100     100     100     100     100    100      100
Agriculture                                       44.6     44.4    37.7   36.6    34.4     33.6   33.0     32.7
Industry                                          17.6     17.8    20.4   21.0    21 7     22.3   22.8     22.7
Services                                          37.8     37.8    41.9   42.3    43.9    44.1    44.2    44.5
Total Consumption                                   95.6    92.1    93.4    94.6    95.0    95.9    94.9    94.1
Gross domestic fixed investment                     16.6    20.0    19.6    20.0    20.6    20.2   20.4     20.5
Govemment investment                               4.7      5.5     6.5    6.4     5.9      6.4    6.3     6.1
Private investment                                11.9     14.5    13.1   13.6    14.6     13.8   14.1     14.4
Exports(GNFS)/b                                     9.7     12.3    11.1    11.1    10.7    11.9    12.5    13.5
Imports (GNFS)                                      21.9    24.5    24.1    25.7    26.3    28.0    27.8    28.1
Gross domestic savings                               4.4     7.9     6.6     5.4     5.0     4.1     5.1     5.9
Grossnationalsavings/c                               4.0     7.5     6.4     5.5     5.7     4.3     6.1     7.3
Memorandwn items
Gross domestic product                             6522     5946    5855    5651    6045    6307   6663     6960
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (USS, Atlas method)                  480      360     300     280     260     270    280      280
Real annual growth rates (0, calculated from 1997/98 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices            4.7      7.6     5.0     5.6     5.7     6.7    6.9      6.2
Gross Domestic Income                              5.4      6.8     3.5     4.7    5.6      7.2    71       6.1
Real annual per capita growth rates (YO, calculated from 1997/98 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices            2.6      2.5     2.2     2.9     3.2     4.1    4.5      3.8
Total consumption                                  3.5      1.4     1.2     2.3     3.4     4.8    4.1      3.2
Private consumption                                3.4      0.8     1.2     2.0     2.1     5.2    4.0      3.3
Balance of Payments (USS millions)
Exports (GNFS) /b                                  634      726     651     630     650     747    826      930
Merchandise (fob)                                458      549     454     442     456     540    604      693
Imports (GNFS)/b                                  1426     1497    1410   1454    1583    1757    1836     1935
Merchandise (fob)                                966     1039     978     973    1077    1200   1250     1316
Resource balance                                  -792     -770    -759    -825    -933   -1010  -1011    -1006
Net current transfers                              -17      -10      95     124     174     151    190      216
Current account balance (before grants)           -817     -795    -724    -819    -890    -998   -948     -908
Currentaccountbalance(aftergrants)                438      -518    -412    414     -491    -615   -586     -575
Net private foreign direct investment              158      175     194     169     182     220    226      237
Long-term loans (net)                              -80       11     186     173     242     337    434      399
Ofricial                                          194      194     163     191     158     168    271      226
Private                                          -274     -183      24     -18      84     169    163     172.9
Other capital (net,incl. errors & omnissions)      161      123     -63      22      66     174    165       47
Change in reserves /d                             -134      -33      15     41     -148    -106    -98      -70
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                       -12.1    -13.0   -13.0   -14.6   -15.4   -16.0   -15.2   -14.5
Real annual growth rates ( YR91 prices)
Merchandise exports (fob)                         -31.7    19.8   -17.3    -2.7     3.3    18.4    11.9     14.6
Primary                                          -21.6     13.0  -33.0   -19.2     2.8    32.2    13.7     17.9
Manufactures
Merchandise imports (cif)                          13.2    -1.4     8.8    -0.8     6.7     6.4     7.2      8.2
(Continued)
172



Annex 9
Uganda - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Pubflic finance (as % of GDP at market prices) he
Currentrevenues                                    10.7     11.7   11.4    10.9    11.8    12.1    12.6    13.0
Currentexpenditures                                 9.7    10.7    11.0    11.4    13.8    13.1    12.9    12.5
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)
excluding grants                                -5.8     .6.3   -12.9   -9.3    -11.5   -10.0   -8.9    -7.8
including grunts                                -0.5     -1.3    -7.1   -0.9    -4.0    -3.0    -2.4     -2.0
Capital expenditure                                 6.7     7.3    13.3     8.8     9.5     9.1    8.6      8.3
Foreign fnancing                                    8.1     8.3     9.3    11.7    12.1    10.7     9.4     8.2
Monetary indicators
M21GDP                                             13.6     14.3   15.2    15.9    16.7    17.0    17.5    18.1
GrowthofM2 (%)                                     26.1     13.8   16.1    17.5    11.6    12.0    13.9    13.3
Private sectorcredit growth/                      481.2    72.3     9.3    60.3   101.9   130.1   144.5   103.9
total credit growth (Y)
Price Indlces( YR91 -100)
Merchandiseexportpriceindex                       112.1    95.4    84.7    79.9    87.5    91.0    92.0    95.1
Merchandise import price index                    116.7    121.1  123.5   114.8   116.1    118.0  119.8   122.2
Merchandise terms of trade index                   96.0     78.8   68.5    69.6    75.4    77.2    76.8    77.9
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU) If                    37.2    32.3    33.0    33.0    33.0    33.0    33.0     33
Real interest rates
Consumerpriceindex (%change)                        5.8    -0.2     6.3     4.6    -1.8     3.5     3.5     3.5
GDPdeflator(%change)                               10.1     0.4     4.1     6.6     0.7     2.5     3.8     3.4
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes 'goods and nonfactor services.'
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding ofricial capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
173



Annex 10
Uganda- Key Exposure Indicators
Totl debt outstanding and                        3631    3494     3602     3107     3206     2919      2807   2694
disbursed (TDO) (USSm) /a
Netdisbursements(US$m)/a                          192     175      151      152      299      196       163     143
Total debt service (TDS)                          148     116       68       71       67       69        84      90
(US$m) /a
Debt and debt service indicators
(Yo)
Debt/Exports of Goods and Service             536.9    450.4    520.1    459.8    469.2    373.7    319.6   270.4
Debt/GDP                                       55.7     58.8     61.5     55.0     53.0     46.3     42.1    38.7
DebtService/ExportsofGoodsandServices          23.0     15.9     10.4     10.5     12.9     12.0     11.6    10.5
Concessional/TDO                                97.0    97.0     98.0     98.0     98.0     98.0       0.0      0
IBRD exposure indicators (Yo)
IBRD DS/public DS                                0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0
Preferred creditor DS/public                    64.0    63.4     64.3     75.0     68.1     74.7      81.3
DS (%) /c
IBRD DS/XGS                                      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0
IBRD TDO (USSm) Id                                0       0        0        0        0        0         0       0
Share of IBRD portfolio (N)                                ..         ..
IDATDO(USSm)/d                                 1971     1935     2098     2101     2077     2046     2007    1966
IFC (USSm)
Loans                                             6        2        7        1       71
Equity andquasi-equity /c                         0        0        0
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                           53       60       60
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. *XGS7 denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMU, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
174



Annex 11
Uganda - Balance of Payments
(USS rnl4ons at current prlce4
Total exportsofGNFS/a                              634      726      651      630       650       747      826       930
Merchandise (fob)                              458      549      454      442       456       540      604       693
Nonfctor savices                               175      177      197      188       193       207      221       237
Total Impors ofGNFS                               1426     1497     1410      1454     1583      1757      1836     1935
Merchandise (fob)                              966     1039      978      973      1077      1200     1250      1316
Nonfactorsavices                               460      457      432      481       506       557      586       619
Resource baance                                   -792      -770    -759     -825      -933     -1010     -1011    -1006
Net factor income                                   -9      -14      -60      -119     -131      -140     -128      -119
Factor receipts                                 43        50      42        46       34         34       53       67
Factorpayments                                  51        64      102      165       164       174      180       185
Interest (scheduled)                         45       45       13       71        69        73       76        79
Totalinterestpaid/b                     45       45       13        71       69        73       76        79
Net adjustments to scheduled interest    0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Other factor payments                        6        19       89       94        95       101      104       106
Net private current transfers                      -18       -10      95       124      174       151       190      216
Currentreceipta                                -18       -10       95      124      174        151      190      216
Cuirent account balance (before grant)            -817     -795     -724      -819     490        -998    -948      -908
Cuwrent account balance (afTer grants)            -438      -518    -412      -414     -491      -615     -586      -575
Official capital gants                             380      277      312      405       398       383      362       334
Private investment(net)                            158       175     194       169      181       220      226       236
Directforeign investnent                       158      175      194       169      181       220      226       236
Net LTc borowing                                   195      198      165       180      316       282      233       209
Disbarsements/b                                263      273      247      260       366       331      294       273
Repayments (scheduled)                          68       76       82       80        50        49       61        64
Totalprincipalrepaid/b                     30         4       4       -18      -57       -57       -43       -32
Netadjustmentstosceduledrepayments         38        72      90        98      107        106      104       97
Adjustmentstoscheduleddebtserviee                   38       72       90        98      107       106       104       97
Debt:service not paid                          100      131      319       98       107       106       104       97
Reduction in aears/prewayments (-)               2      -59     -229        0         0         0        0         0
Othercapitalflows                                  161      124      -63        22       66       174       165       47
Netshort-temncapital                             3       13        0       -29      -16       -11        0         0
Net capital flows n.ei.d                         0       -7        0        0         0         0        0         0
Effors and omissions                           158      118      -58        37      -23         0         0        0
Change in net intenationalreserves                -134       -33      15      -41      -148      -106       -98      -70
(- indicates increase in assets)
Memorandumn items
Total 'gross reserves, ofwhich                 750       748      719      739       840       905      955       978
Totalreservesminusgold                     750       748      719      739       840       905      955       978
Gold (at yer-cnd London plice)               0         0        0        0         0         0        0         0
Total grossreserves(Cmonths'imporftG&Se)          6        6        6         6        6         6         6        6
Exchanp rates
Annualavera(LCU/USS)/f                          1150      1362     1511     1763      1755      1843     1937      2033
Atendy ear(LCU/USS)                             1232      1453     1572     1724      1801      1885     1981      2079
Index real average exchange rate (YR91 =100)      37        32       33       36
Current AccountBabnce as %  GDP                     4        -7       -5      -14       -15       -14       -13      -12
a. Goodi and nonfactor services.
b. 'Data-YRtorical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff
c. LT, denotes "tong-term."
d. n.en." denotes "not elsesvhere included."
e. "G& S" denotes "goods and services,'
f. "LCU denotes "local currency units."
g. The index of the real exchange rate reflect USS/LCU, so an increase is an appreciation at the real exchange rate.
175



l e xi 1,  'U'll  3  - 1 3U2
Iii    I R r E i   _           IL
ii~~~~~~~ i'I0i.ii 'ia!.isx}'0'
*  S~ 3  X  i|0 
X :, * §  Bg2i22o§|i 



Annex 13
Public Information Notice (PIN) No.
International Monetary Fund
700 19k" Street, NW
Washington, D. C. 20431 USA
The Republic of Uganda: Fund Relations Note
On March 26, 2001, the 1MF Executive Board concluded the 2001 Article IV consultation with the Republic
of Uganda, and completed the second review of the third annual arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and
GrDwth Facility (PRGF).'
Backgrouna
Sirice the last Article IV consultation in August 1999, Uganda has continued to implement disciplined
financial policies and strong structural reforms that have helped to sustain relatively strong economic growth
despite a generally unfavorable international environment. Consumer price inflation has been kept to moderate
levels and gross international reserves have been maintained at the equivalent of five months import cover. In
2000/01 (July-June), overall economic activity would be weaker than envisaged under the program on
account, primarily, of the negative effects of the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade. Nevertheless, the
contraction in economic activity is expected to be partially mitigated by the positive impact of the exchange
rat- depreciation on noncoffee output and the strong rebound in food crop production. Despite the marked
increase in the retail prices of petroleum products and the depreciation of the shilling against the U.S. dollar,
consumer price inflation remained moderate (4.2 percent) in the 12 months to December 2000.
The relatively strong recent economic performance, as well as the implementation of the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan' (PEAP), has helped Uganda to significantly reduce head count poverty in recent years. According
to a household survey data, between 1997 and 2000, mean real per capita consumption rose by 22 percent,
lovvering the head count poverty level to 35 percent from 44 percent over that period. The increase in
consumption was higher in the urban areas than in the rural areas. However, the incidence of poverty in the
north, which has been affected by civil conflict and insecurity, increased. Income inequality in Uganda rose
between 1997 and 2000.
Overall fiscal performance in the first half of 2000/01 was broadly as foreseen under the program. The deficit
before grants in the six months to end-December 2000 amounted to the equivalent of 8.6 percent of GDP,
'The Board of the IMF approved Uganda's request for a third annual arangement under the PRGF on December 10, 1999. On September 6, 2000, the
Board of the IMF concluded the first review of the third annual arrangement under the PRGF. The Boards of the IMF and the IDA agreed that Uganda
had reached the 'decision point under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HEPC) Initiative in February 2000. In early May 2000, the two
Boards agreed tlhat Uganda had fulfilled the conditions for reaching the completion point under the enhanced HIPC Initiative. However, the completion
point decision became effective in September 2000 when the African Development Bank (AftDB) confirmed its participation in the debt relief operation
for Uganda.
177



Annex 13
compared with 8.4 percent during the corresponding period of the previous year. The depreciation of the
shilling has had a net positive effect on the overall fiscal position because of the large external grant and loans.
In addition, donor inflows were larger than projected as a result of disbursements that had been scheduled for
1999/2000. In consequence, the deficit was more than offset by donor budgetary support, resulting in a
stronger-than-expected government position with the Bank of Uganda at end-December 2000.
Monetary conditions during the first half of the year were broadly consistent with the inflation objective under
the program. Nevertheless, the exchange rate came under pressure, with the Ugandan shilling depreciating by
4.3 percent in real effective terms largely because of the negative effects of the fall in the terms of trade. The
underlying position of the banking sector strengthened when compared to 1998/99, although the performance
of a few small banks remained weak.
The fiscal deficit (excluding grants) is projected to fall from 14.3 percent of GDP in 1999/2000 to 11.5 percent
of GDP in 2000/01. This is higher than the program target of 10.4 percent of GDP, largely because of the
effects of the depreciation of the shilling on budgeted external government payments and expenditure
pressures arising from the presidential and parliamentary elections. Nevertheless, poverty-related outlays will
be protected. On the revenue front, progress has been made in strengthening tax administration that has
enabled collections to be maintained at the budgeted level despite a more difficult economic enviromnent. Net
external assistance would amount to 14.1 percent of GDP, which would finance the fiscal deficit and a
substantial clearance of domestic arrears and enable a buildup of government deposits with the banking
system.
The monetary program calls for a 14 percent increase in broad money, including foreign exchange deposits, in
2000/01. The envisaged growth of broad money, coupled with the increase in the government's deposits with
the banking system, would allow credit to the private sector to rise by 16 percent. Gross international reserves
would amount to the equivalent of 4.9 months of imports of goods and nonfactor services.
For further information, please contact David Dunn at (202) 623 8609.
178



Annex 13
Uganda: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 1995/96-2000/01 1/
1995/96    1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/2000    2000/01
Prol.
(Annual percent change)
Domestic economy
Real GDP at factor cost                   7.8        4.5       5.4       7.5          5.0       5.0
Consumer prices (end of period)           5.4       10.4      -1.4       5.3          1.9       5.0
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
External economy
Exports, fo.b.                          590.3      670.9     458.4     549.1       438.8      380.5
Imiports, c.i.f.                      1,218.3    1,246.3   1411.12    1,391.5     1,513.3    1,508.7
Current account balance
(excluding official transfers)       -386.6     -360.8    -514.4    -531.5       -612.3    -688.3
Private capital (net)                   -72.0       -8.2       2.5      12.6         23.7      22.2
Piiblic capital (net)                   210.2      209.5     194.8     191.3        158.7     222.5
Capital account balance                 138.2      201.2     197.4     203.9        182.4     244.7
Gross official reserves (end of period)  479.7     621.9     750.5     748.1        719.4     815.9
Cirrent account balance                  -7.0       -6.3      -8.4      -9.1        -10.7     -13.1
(in percent of GDP)
Change in real effective exchange rate   -1.7        2.2       2.2     -13.0          2.0
(in percent, + = appreciation) 1/
(In percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
Fjbanclal variables
Overall fiscal balance (excluding        *-6.5      -6.4      -6.1      -6.4        -14.3     -11.5
grants)
Chlange in broad money (in percent) 2/   19.7       18.3      26.1      13.8         16.1      14.4
Interest rate (inpercent) 3/             10.2       11.6       9.5       6.5         10.1      15.0
Scurces: Ugandan authorities; and IMF staff estimates and projections.
1/ Fiscal year begins in July.
2/ Broad money comprises M2 and foreign exchange deposits.
3/ Average interest rate on 91-day treasury bills. The figure shown for 2000/01 is for the second half of 2000.
179









IMAGING
Report No.:         24400  UG
Type:     PAD



