RESTRICTED
CIRCULTING COPY     s        Report No. P-1008
.IO,B RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
G=FI         L cpy
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR THE
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 6, 1972






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATICN
REPCRT AND RECUOENDATICN OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOFMENT CREDIT
TO THE REUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR THE KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for the equivalent of US $6.6 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for integrated rural
development.
PART I - THE ECCKQMY
2.      Malawi became independent with the break-up of the Federation of
Rhodesia and Nyasaland in 1964. Nyasaland, the future Malawi, has been
the poorest of the three countries forming the Federation and on
independence required support from the United Kingdom to balance its
current budget amounting to US $16 million or about 4O percent of curren-t
expenditures. This picture has changed remarkably. Real output since
independence has increased by about 5.3 percent annually and gross invest-
ments by 28 percent annually. While not yet able to balance the current
budget, Malawi's need for budgetary support from the United Kingdom has
sn cut to the equivalent of 13 percent of current expenditures in 1971
a..d budgetary independence is now within reach. Exports doubled between
196. and 1970, and an increased capital inflow in 1970 brought about a
rise in foreign external reserves which reached US $28 million at the end
of November 1971, the equivalent of about 41!~ months imports.
3.      There are several factors underlying this progress.  In spite of
disturbances about the time of independence, Malawi has enjoyed a large
measure of internal stability. Malawi has good agricultural land and a
generally favorable climate. The agricultural sector, which provides
half the gross domestic product, has been served by a strong agricultural
extension service for a number of years. Farmers have proved to be
highly responsive to market incentives and receptive to guidance from
extension efforts, due perhaps at least in part to the fact that hundreds
of thousands of Malawi workers have found temporary employment in Southern
Rhodesia and South Africa over the past half century and have become
accustomed to living in money economy. Moreover, since 1965, there has
been a concerted and successful effort by the government and the ruling
Malawi Congress Party to encourage farmers to adopt the improved cultiva-
tion practices being suggested by the extension services. Finally, Malawi
has proved attractive to private foreign investors, who have invested
substantial sums in the development of tobacco and tea, and more recently
in manufacturing.



-2-
4.      The marked improvement in the fiscal situation has resulted from
measures that have increased current revenues by over 15 percent a year
since 1964 while the expansion of recurrent expenditures has been held
down to an average of 7 percent a year. However, while this was
accompanied by measures to increase the efficiency of government services,
expenditures on certain services has been inadequate. Expenditure on
health, for example, showed little increase and now amounts to less than
one US dollar per capita annually, one of the lowest rates in Africa.
The Government has now approved ceiling rates in increase for different
types of recurrent expenditures for the next three years in order to limit
the overall rise in recurrent expenditureBto 6 percent a year to eliminate
British budgetary support by the end of 1973, except for the "topping up"
of salaries of the remaining British expatriate civil servants in Malawi.
The prospect that the government will succeed in this objective seemrs
reasonably good.
5.      Gross investment rose from 11 percent of GDP in 1964 and 1965 to
20 percent for the last two years. Part of this increase was financed by
a rise in net capital inflow from US $3 million in 1960 to about US $40
million in 1970. Another part was met during 1966 and 1967 by drawing
down foreign exchange reserves. However, a rising portion of gross
investments was covered by an increase in private domestic savings. In
1964 domestic consumption almos-t equalled GDP; Malawi now saves about US
$19 million annually, equivalent to about 30 percent of total investment.
6.      Since independence, public investments have increased by about 30
percent a year with increasing emphasis in recent years on agriculture and
transport. A number of agricultural schemes, incorporating provision of
inputs, credit, extension services, marketing and some infrastructure,
were introduced at Salima (financed by German aid) and at Lilongwe and
Chikwawa (financed by IDA) during 1968 and 1969. Investment in roads has
increased since 1968 with particular emphasis on opening up access to the
northern part of the country. However, some of the increased public
investment during the period since independence has been in projects
which in economic terms were undertaken prematurely.
7.      The government has no investment plan for the economy as a whole,
but maintains a three year revolving central government development
program which includes proposed expenditures on projects and possible
means of financing. It is currently formulating some general economic
targets for the next 10 years. The current central government development
program for FY1972-FY1974 envisages expenditures of about US $37 million
a year, slightly higher than the average of the previous two years.
Development of agriculture and roads is emphasized but a notable amount
of investment is allocated to complete construction of the new capital
at Lilongwe. The proposed Karonga project and the Lilongwe II project
approved last May for an IDA credit of US $7.25 million (No. 244) form
the core of the current program for agricultural development.
8.      The overall level of public investments for the next three years
under the current development program is probably feasible provided that



-3-
an adequate supply of experienced manpower is available. This may be
especially important in agriculture where the recent rapid increase in
investment from US $2 million in 1965-1967 to US $14 million in 1968-1970,
i.e., from 6 percent to 17 percent of total central government develop-
ment expenditures, was not matched by a comparable expansion of the sup-
ply of skilled manpower for extension services. Already there are a
number of unfilled vacancies, particularly at the level of lower field
assistants. With a further budgeted increase in agricultural investments
to US $28 million for the following three years (thus reaching about 25
percent of total central government development expenditures), the demand
for skilled manpower will increase. The projected expansion of agricul-
tural education will go some way to meet the gap, but dependence on expa-
triate technical and managerial personnel is likely to remain heavy.
9.     In the absence of public savings, the level of public investments
that can be financed depends directly on the flow of external capital
assistance to Malawi. Improvements in the fiscal situation of the
central government would first go to reduce external budget support and
the scope for local borrowing to finance public investment, although
rising, is still limited. High priority projects in sectors such as
agriculture, transport and education would, therefore, require a high
proportion of external financing, including financing of local expendi-
tures.
0U.    The service on Malawi's external public debt as of December 1970
amounted to iS $5.7 million or about 9 percent of export earnings. It
is probable that despite continued rapid increase in exports, Malawi's
debt service burden will increase during the next few years. The govern-
ment has acknowledged the need for a careful management of capital flows
and external debt, so that borrowing on hard terms is kept to a minimum
and restricted to economically justifiable projects. Malawi should seek
the bulk of its external financing on concessional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
11.    Malawi has to date received a total of six IDA credits amounting
to US $40 million. There have been no-Bank loans or IFC investments. A
summary statement of IDA credits as of November 30, 1971, is at Annex I.
12.    Three development credits, totalling US $23 million, have been
made for highways, education and power, respectively. The remaining
three credits, totalling US $17 million, have been for integrated rural
development, with the emphasis on peasant agriculture. This approach
has been particularly successful in Malawi, and the Government proposes
to follow it wherever feasible.
13.    One of the first projects supported by IDA in Malawi, a US $6
million IDA credit in 1968 for Phase I of the Lilongwe Agricultural
Development Project (No. 113), helped finance on an integrated regional
basis land development, land reorganization and registration, marketing



- 4 -
and storage facilities, extension services, credit for farm inputs and
administrative services and staff training. A second phase of this
project was approved for financirg by an IDA credit of LS $7.25 million
in May 1971 (No. 244).
1I.      Future Bank Group lending will continue to emphasize rural
development. With the assistance of the Bank's Permanent Mission in
Eastern Africa, the Government of Malawi is preparing a second phase of
the Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project, which also was suc-
cessfully launched in 1968 with IDA assistance (Credit No. 114 of
US $3.7 million). The project will provide a package of services to in-
crease productivity and the standard of living of a large number of small
farmers in the area. In cooperation with the government, projects in
education, transportation and power are also under preparation.
15.      Although there have been delays in project execution in some
cases, particularly in the initial stages, progress is now generally
satisfactory. In the first phases of the Lilongwe and Shire Valley
Projects, there were procedural delays in applying for disbursement
which have been satisfactorily overcome. Construction of the primary
teacher-training college under the Education Proje.-t is behind the
initial schedule, owing to a last minute change of site. Progress of
this component of the project has been satisfactory since construction
started in mid-1970, and the remaining portion of the project has been
progressing well from the beginning.
PART III - THE PROJECT
Sector Background
16.      Agricultural production over the past four years has grown at
about the same rate as GNP, that is, by 8 to 9 percent annually. The
country is divided into three regions: Southern, Central and Northern
(first Map). Whereas maize, cotton, pulses and groundnuts are grown
throughout the country, cotton and tea are produced mainly in the south;
tobacco, groundnuts and pulses in the Central region; and rice in the
north. Maize is the principal subsistence crop. Production is estimated
at 1.0 to 1.3 million tons per year. Surplus quantities are marketed,
some directly to shopkeepers and the rest to the Agricultural Development
and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC). Except in years of shortage, most of
ADMARC's purchases are exported to neighboring countries. AIMARC has
statutory monopoly rights to purchase all major crops grown on smallhold-
ings at prices it fixes itself. However, it has so far chosen to exercise
this right only for cotton, groundnuts and tobacco. Most rice and maize
is also sold to ADMARC, but farmers are free to sell directly to shop-
keepers. ADMARC purchases farm inputs in bulk for smallholders through-
out the country and distributes them throtugh its depots.
17.      During the last five years, domestic consumption of milled rice
from the Northern Region has gone up by 50 percent. Exports have climbed
from 1 to 3 percent of total exports, and further growth is expected.



-5-
Malawi continues to be somewhat sheltered from the decline in world mar-
ket prices through her ability to sell high quality rice under favor-
able trade arrangements in markets in Southern Africa. The Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) expects to increase marketed
rice production from 9,600 tons in 1970 to 32,000 tons by 1975, with the
Karonga area maintaining its present share of 35 percent. Ihese fore-
casts are based on the implementation of small irrigated schemes on the
plains along Lake Malawi. Several such schemes have been started in the
Central and Southern regions under bilateral aid programs, mainly British.
18.      Many farmers in the Central Plains grow groundnuts and tobacco
as cash crops, in addition to maize. Like cotton, the main cash crop of
the lowlands, they are grown mainly for export. Although subject to
seasonal factors, output of these cash crops has not shown the marked
variations that have characterized the marketing of surplus food crops.
Cash crop production by smallholders has been increasing at some 7 per-
cent per annum in recent years, and now accounts for more than 9 percent
of GDP (as against 6 percent in 1957). The overall contribution of cash
crops to GDP is about 15 percent, and of agriculture as a whole slightly
less than 50 percent.
19.      The long-term growth of agricultural production has been achieved
primarily by expansion of acreage. The recent growth in cash crop pro-
duction and in marketing, of surplus food crops has been due in part to
bringing back under cultivation land which had been neglected during the
previous decade. Further expansion of acreage is restricted by the limit-
ed area of agriculturally suitable land, particularly in the densely popu-
lated Central and Southern Regions. To maintain present output, it will
be necessary in many areas to protect farm land from erosion. The Karonga
project includes soil conservation measures in the areas to be covered.
Further production increases will be dependent on increases in yields.
Recent research and pilot programs have shown how such increases can be
achieved practically.
20.      The cattle population in Malawi is estimated at about 510,000
head and is increasing by about 3 percent per annum. Most are in small
privately owned herds. Beef consumption has more than doubled since 1965,
and presently stands at 57,700 head per annum. Beef fattening is carried
out mainly in the Southern and Central Regions near the main consumption
centers, but there is a severe shortage of feeder cattle and projections
emphasize the future importance of the north as a major area for produc-
tion. The proposed project would initiate this development.
21.      There are shortages in all categories of staff in the Agricul-
tural Services in Malawi and training facilities will eliminate only
those in some categories by 1972. The Bunda College of Agriculture - a
part of the University of Mal;awi - will produce, from 1972 on, about 12
graduates in agriculture per year, so that most of the senior profes-
sional posts will continue-to be held by expatriates during the next few
years. Technical Assistants are trained in the Colby College of Agri-
culture, which has an annual output of about 125. This is inadequate



-6-
and Government is considering the creation of a National Resources
College to fill the need.
The Project
22.      A report entitled "Appraisal of Karonga Rural Development
Project - Malawi" (No. PA-106a, dated December 30, 1971) is being
circulated separately. A Credit and Project Summary is provided in
Annex III and the project area is shown in detail in the second map.
23.      The Karonga project was prepared with substantial assistance
from the Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa. The project was
appraised in the field in April 1971. Negotiations for the proposed
IDA Credit were held in Washington in November/December 1971. The
Malawi delegation was led by Mr. G. Jaffu, Secretary to the Treasury.
24.      The proposed project, the first phase of a long-run develop-
ment, would be a five-year program of agricultural development in the
Karonga area of the Northern Region supported by improvements to
health services and transportation. The region has considerable
development potential, as it has high, although poorly distributed,
rainfall and large areas of good soils, and is inhabited by industrl-
ous people who have shown their interest in development by their will-
ingness to participate in Government-sponsored pilot projects. But
the area lacks even the minimum infrastructure necessary. It is
almost cut off from the rest of Malawi by a high mountain range that
is impassable to commercial transport and must rely on the Malawi Lake
Service, which, however, needs rehabilitation and additional investment.
Improvements are also needed in health facilities since the prevalence
of disease and the danger of its spreading with the expansion of the
area under irrigation present an obstacle both to economic and human
development.
25.      The project would comprise:
(a) Construction of eight rice schemes:
(i)  two irrigated rice schemes with intake and water
control structures to produce double-cropped rice
on about 1,500 acres, involving the settlement of
about 830 farmers;
(ii)  six schemes for rain-fed rice  with simple earth
structures to control flood waters to produce
single-crop rice on about 6,000 acres, involving
the settlement of about 2,000 farmers.
(b) Improvements to dry-land crop production:
The project would improve production of maize, cotton
and groundnuts on about 7,800 acres, involving about 1,750
farmers already farming in the area, through the provision



-7-
of extension services and of seasonal inputs (seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides) and other inputs such as
implements and work oxen.
(c)  Livestock development:
The project would assist small cattle owners in
two ways: first, by improving animal health and in-
creasing productivity by constructing 22 new dipping
tanks, enlarging field veterinary services and provid-
ing drugs; second, by improving marketing conditions
by establishing four new cattle markets, improving
stock routes, and developing 18,000 acres of holding
ground.
(d) Seasonal and medium-term credit:
Seasonal credit would include seed, fertilizer
and pesticides. Medium-term credit would include
implements and work oxen. Farmers who received proj-
ect credit would be required to register with the
nearest ADMARC market where they would be obliged to
sell their produce. Project credit officers in attend-
ance would collect repayments from each sale.
(e)  Rehabilitation of the freight service on Lake Malawi:
In order to increase the speed, capacity, and re-
liability of the freight service, the project would
construct berthing facilities and associated structures
at two ports on Lake Malawi, provide cargo handling
equipment at the two ports and provide a 200-ton self-
propelled vessel for the Lake Service. The detailed
plan for lake transportation is being elaborated by
consultants and the submission by the Borrower of a
plan satisfactory to IDA for improvement of the Lake
Service would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Credit Agreement.
(f)  Improvements to health facilities in the project area:
The project would construct five rural health out-
posts, improve Karonga district and Chilumba Rural
Hospitals, and provide staff and drugs for bilharzia
control within the rice schemes. This component of the
project, which would absorb only about 4 percent of
project funds, would make an essential contribution to
increasing agricultural productivity through the reduc-
tion of debilitating disease and the protection of
health particularly in the areas of irrigated cultiva-
tion.



-8-
(g)  Further studies:
Studies would be made on such subjects as improved
rice varieties, alternative crops to rice, the scope
for irrigation from Lake Malawi or unexploited rivers,
drainage problems and cotton and groundnuts fertiliza-
tion. If justified by these studies, consultants would
be engaged to prepare a feasibility study for a second-
phase project.
26.       A Project Unit within the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR) would carry out the agricultural and health components
of the project, the latter in consultation with the Ministry of Health.
A Project Manager with headquarters in the Karonga district and repolt-
ing directly to the Permanent Secretary of MANR, would be in charge of
day-to-day operations.  His appointment would be a condition of effect-
iveness of the Credit Ageement. Malawi Railways Ltd., under the Minis-
try of Transport and Communications, would be responsible for the
rehabilitation of the Lake Service. As several Ministries have
responsibilities concerning the Project, a Karonga Rural Development
Project Liaison Committee would be established, whose members would be
senior officials from MANR (Chairman), the Office of the President and
Cabinet, the Treasury, the Ministries of Works and Supplies, Transport
and Communications, Health and Community De7elopment and Local Govern-
ment, and the Project Manager, who would be Executive Secretary to the
Committee. The Liaison Committee's primary function would be to co-
ordinate inter-Governmental project activities. The establishment of
such a Committee would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit
Agreement.
27.       Total project costs are estimated at US $7.8 million net of
taxes. The estimate of foreign exchange component is US $h.1 million.
The proposed credit of US $6.6 million would finance 85 percent of the
total cost of the project, that is, the whole of the foreign exchange
costs and US $2.5 million, which is about 69 percent of the local cur-
rency costs estimated at US $3.7 million. The balance of US $1.2
million of local costs would be provided by Malawi in the form of
annual budgetary allocations by the Government over 5 years. The
Government would recover part of its contribution from participants in
the project by way of charges for services in preparing land for irri-
gation and cattle dipping and grazing fees. The Government's net con-
tribution to project costs would consequently be about 10 percent and
that of the participating farmers about 5 percent. Malawi's depend-
ence on external budgetary support and the justification for financing
part of the local cost under the IDA credit have been set out in para-
graph 9 above.
28.       Procurement of vehicles, machinery, equipment, fuel, fertil-
izers, pesticides, drugs, construction of ports, access roads and
barges, totalling about US $2.7 million in value, would be by inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA procurement



guidelines. Items of equipment costing less than US $25,000 equivalent
in any year would be purchased subject to local tender. The program of
staff housing, workshop and office development, estimated at about
US $1.2 million, would be too small and widely scattered to attract in-
ternational competition to this remote and inaccessible area, and local
competitive tenders would therefore be invited. It is expected that the
jetty for Chilumba port may be constructed under an extension to an
existing road contract awarded as a result of international tender. All
farm inputs procured by international competitive bidding would be
handled through ADMARC, which follows procedures satisfactory to IDA.
All tenders would be processed by the Central Tender Board, whose proce-
dures are satisfactory to IDA. Boreholes, irrigation works, cattle
bridges, feeder roads, firebreaks, dipping tanks and their approaches
would be built by MANR forces.
29.       The agricultural component of the project would directly bene-
fit 4,600 farmers, including some 2,800 who would be newly settled, and
many small cattle farmers. Most of the labor required for the imple-
mentation of the project will be provided by the farm families themselves.
The small amount of extra labor required will come from other families
living within the area of each scheme, and will be paid for in kind.
Generally, the farm families in the project area presently live at sub-
sistence level and are underemployed, and there is almost no opportunity
for employment for cash wages in the area. By providing employment
opportunities under the guidance of the project's technical personnel,
the project would make an important contribution to the area's further
development.
30.       Based on the Bank's price forecasts for the main agricultural
commodities to be produced, the overall return to the economy on the
total investment in the project is estimated to be not less than 12 per-
cent. In terms of the cash income expected to accrue to the participat-
ing farmers, the impact of the project will be considerable. Average
annual net cash incomes per farm family would increase from about
US $8 to about US $200 per annum on double-cropped irrigated rice
schemes, to about US $190 per annum on rainfed rice schemes and to about
US $110 per annum for farmers with dry-land crops. The project will also
have a broader significance; it will introduce to a hitherto largely
isolated area of the country the benefits of integrated development en-
joyed thus far only by the more favorably located regions, and it will
provide invaluable practical experience to guide further development.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
31.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Republic of Malawi, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article VI Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and the text of a resolution approving the proposed credit
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 10 -
32.       The draft Agreement conforms substantially to the pattern of
the earlier credits for agricultural projects in Malawi.
33.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECQMMENDATION
34.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D. C.
January 6, 1972



Annex 1
Statement of IDA Credits to Malawi as of November 30, 1971
Credit No.        Year        Purpose                          Amount        (US$ million
IDA          Undisbursed)
S-2 MAI           1967        Highway Engineering               0.49
102-.MAI          1967        Education                         6.30             1.40
112-MAI           1968        Highways                         11.50             1.52
113-MAI           1968        Agriculture - Lilongwe I          6.oo             1.64
114-IMAI          1968        Agriculture - Shire Valley        3.70             1.59
178-MAI           1970        Power                             5.25             2.89
244 -MAI          1971        Agriculture - Lilongwe II         7.25             7.25
Total                             404.9            16.29
of which has been refinanced       0.49
Total now outstanding             4o.00
Total undisbursed                                  16.29






Annex II
COUNTRY DATA
Area                                                119,000 square kilometerrs
Population (estimate 1970)
Total                                         4.4 million
Rate of Growth                                Around 2.5 percent per year
Density                                        37 per square kilometer
Political Status                                   Independent Republic
(Independence on July 6, 1964)
Gross National Product (1970)
at market price                                K 266 million
per capita                                     K 60
$ 72
Average annual growth rate (1964-1970)
at current prices                              10.2 percent
at constant prices                             5.3 percent
Gross Domestic Investment (1970)                    K 54.6
Industrial Origin of GDP (1970) in Percent of Total
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing              50.0
Mining and Quarrying                             .1
Manufacturing                                  12.5
Building and Construction                       4.8
Water and Electricity                           1.1
Transport and Communication                    5.0
Distribution                                   9.6
Banking, Finance & Insurance                    .2
Community Se rvices                           10.5
Other Services                                  5.2
Gross Domestic Product                       lOOoO
(non-monetary sector)                       (Lho.O)
Financing of Public Development Expenditures (K Million)
1964     1967    1970/71
Development Expenditures & Other
Public Sector Investments                    8.8    13.1       42.9
Public Savings 1/                            -12.3   -10.2       -3.L
Current Budget Support (for Central Government)144   11.9        6.9
Development Domestic Loans                      .1     2.8        5.2
Development External Loans & Grants            306     6.o       33-5
Changes in Balances of Govemnment Funds       -3.0    -2.6       - .
1/ Of Central Government, Local authorities and public entities



-2-
Balance of Payments (K Million)
1964     1967      1970
Exports                                          24.4     40.4     47.5
Iriports                                        28.6      50.].    68.h
Trade Balance                             (-4.2)   (-9.7)   (-20.9)
Services (net)                                 -13.0     -18.9    -20.5
Transfers                                       18.1     17.7      13.].
Current Account Balance                      .      -10.9     283
Private Long-term Capital                        1.1       3.5     -3.5
Public Long-term Capital                         1.0      9.1      29.1
Others including Errors & Omissions                14     -2.3      7.9
Capital Account Balance                     2.5     1().3     D _i
SDR                                                -        -       1.6
Overall Balance                                 +3.4       -.6     +6.8
Official Foreign Exchange Reserves,
end of period ($ million)                      22        22       30
External Public Debt (1970)
Total outstanding as of December 31, 1970:
Disbursed                  $117.4 million
Including Undisbursed      $152.1 million
Debt Service Ratio
(percentage)               9
IMF Position
Quota                           $15.00 million
Drawings as of December 31,
1970      $0.95 million
Initial allocation of SDR's     $1.89 million units
Currency Equivalent
US $ 1.0 = 1.3 Kwacha (since December, 1971)
US $ 1.0 = 1.2 Kwacha (prior to that)



Annex III
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                                    The Government of Malawi
Amount:                                      US $6.6 million equivalent
Terms and Conditions:                        Payable in semi-annual installments
commencing July 1, 1982 and ending
January 1, 2022 with a service charge
of 3/4 of 1 percent per annum
Project:                                      THE KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
An integrated rural development project
consisting of (a) construction of irrigation
and drainage works for rice schemes;
(b) improvements to dry cultivation of
maize, cotton and groundnuts; (c) live-
stock development; (d) seasonal and
medium-term credit to project farmers;
(e) further studies on crops and hydrology
and a feasibility study for a possible
second phase; (f) improvements to health
facilities and (g) rehabilitation of the
freight service on Lake Malawi.
'pecial Project Features:                    The improvement of health facilities in
the area would make a contribution in
increasing agricultural productivity.
The measures to be taken are bilharzia
control, the construction and operation
of rural health outposts and improvements
to rural hospitals.
Cost of Project:
(US$ Million)
Local           Foreign          Total
Component
Rice Schemes                              lol              0.7            1.9
Dryland Crops                             0.1              0.1            0.2
Livestock Development                    0.3               0.3            o.6
Incremental Farm Inputs                  0.1               0.2            0.3
Health Facilities                        0.2               0.1            0.3
Transportation                           0.3               1.0            1.2
Project Administration                   0.9               0.9            1.7
Further Studies                          0.3               0.4            0.7
Contingencies                            0.4               0.4            0.8
Total                        3.7               4.1            7Q8



-2-
Financing:                                 (US$ Million)        (Percentage)
IDA Credit                      6.6                 85
Government                      0.8                  10
Project Participants            0.b                  5
7.8                100
Procurement Arrangements:        Goods and services with a total value of about
US$2.7 million would be procured by international
competitive bidding. Items of equipment costing
less than US$25,000 equivalent in any year would
be purchased subject to local tender. Other
small and widely scattered items amounting to about
US$1.2 million would be subject to local
competitive bidding. It is expected that the
jetty for Chilumba Port may be constnrcted under
an extension to an existing contract awarded as a
result of international tender.
Estimated Disbursements:
1971/72      1972/73      1973/74      197h/75       1975/76     1976/77     1977/78
0.1          1.2          1.5          1.5          1.3         o.8          0.2
Consultants:                     The Borrower would be assisted in carrying out
studies on hydrology and preparing a feasibility
study for a second phase project.
Rate of Return:                  Economic rate estimated at 12 percent.
Appraisal Report:                Report No. PA-106a;December 30, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



DEM. REPUBLIC
jO of the 
1<amoronrJDo                       5        1 CONGO  TANZANIA
N      R.,., * evelopm                               ?      i
1                            A NUOLA  ~~~~~~~~~  ~~  '-~~~~  r Ai
{Ch!tip  \                               A NGOLA rZAMBIA _\t 3
0UTH  IREPUBLIC\.Jn
T BOTSWANA          A
AF ICAI
HI/M                         j REPUBLIC   AILAN
hi.eta               ~ ~~~~~~~AFRICA  LES, II
KHATA                                 .0~~~. -.
N />\$ t j [ t ~~A KE
/  . /   ,,, ,, \  \   MALAWI 
Nkhoto Kot7
10~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mchrnp~ ~ ~ ~~~~IPK
j  Krv5ungu   -                    Kos%pe
RAS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
-.  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR
-            \         <s f         ~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~For,) 
REG~ 7\\ %s; hht°IK TO NALT                                CALA
MILES~ ~ ~~    \   hkowzt        Irir 
SEOADSBER 1971                                                       IBRO I5940
ROADS UNDER CNSTRUOT10N   *'.  3 9  IWONDE
REIOALA         l        TOUDR Tg 
ROAS UNONGDER  ARCONSTRURARJCTIO                            .) 10nj
RAILWAYS
D    20   40   Sp   ep   100\                  f
MILES                     To BetR\
SEPTEMBER 1971                                                                IBRD 3594F






5m-
~~~~~ .        '  i  If        <j   .  
--J<^<'=-!< . -- ;,lo, 
3,
S :   t 7 ;  ik  i   '   '  0m  0
m



