RESTIICTED
Report No. PA-106a
TM$ repor is for official u only by te BDn Group ad spedfally authorized oranizations
or peron  It nay not be pubihed, quoted of cited without Bank Group authorIation. The
Daa Group does not accept repontiblitY foc the cracY or completenes of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCnION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL
OF
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALAWI
December 30, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALMffS
Currency Unit - Malawi Kwacha - 100 Tambala (t)
IMK 1.0             -    US$1.30
US$1.0              -    MK 0.769
WEIGHTS AND HEASURES
1 acre (ac)                   -            0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                   -             1.61 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)         -            639.5 acre - 259 ha
1 pound (lb)                  -            0.455 kilogram (kg)
1 short ton (sh ton)          -            2,000 lb - 911 kg
i bag                         -              200 lb - 91.1 kg
1 hundredweight (cwt)         -              112 lb - 51.02 kg
1 inch (in)                   -            25.64 millimeters (mm)
1 liter (1)                                0.264 gallons (U.S.)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC    a   Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
IDA       -    International Development Association
MANR      -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MYP       -    Malavi Young Pioneers
NOIL      a   National Oil Industry Ltd.
ODA       -    British Overseas Development Administration
PMEA      -    Permanent Mission Eastern Africa
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE O' CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................  i-iu
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........................................    1
II.   BACKGROUND          ...............           ,                .       2
A.   General              ....................................        2
B.   Agricultural Sector ..... ..............                         2
C.   Health ...........................................    4
II.   THE PROJECT AREA ......................................    4
IV.   THE PROJECT  ...........................................               7
A.   General Description ..............................    7
B.   Detailed Features ................................    8
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ....            .........   13
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................   17
A.   Organization ..................           ...................   17
B.   Management and Staffing ..........................   18
C.    Settlement .......................................   19
D.   Credit Facilities ..............       ..     ................   20
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FARMERS' AND
GOVERNMENT'S BENEFITS ..............       ..     .................   21
A.   Production        ...................    ....................   21
B.   Markets and Prices  ...............................    22
C.   Farmers' Benefits ............. ..           .................   23
D.   Government Benefits ................................   23
VIII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..................           .   24
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .....            ...........   25
This report is based upon the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Malawi in April 1971, composed of Messrs. J. Gregor, J-J. Schul (IDA),
D. Bickers (PMEA), R. Henderson and Dr. E. de Winter (consultants).



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Health
2.   The Project Area, Crops and Hydrology
3.   Livestock
4.   Further Studies
5.   Marketing, Prices and Exports
6.   Transportation
7.   Project Costs
8.   Disbursements
9.   Organization Chart
10.   Farmers' Budgets and Credit
11.   Cash Flows
12.   Rate of Return Calculation
PIAPS
1.   Malawi
2.  Karonga Development Project Area
3.   Health and Transport Facilities



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a first-phase project for agricultural devel-
opment of the Karonga area in northern Malawi. The Government's strategy for
the development of agriculture by integrated regional development has high
priority. This would be the fourth IDA Credit for such development. Credit
113-MAI (1968) for US$6 million helped finance the Lilongwe Agricultural De-
velopment Project in central Malawi followed by Credit 244-MAI (May 1971)
for US$7.25 million for its second phase. Credit 114-MAI (1968) provided
US$3.7 million for the Lower Shire Valley Development Project in southern
Malawi, for which a second phase is now also under preparation.
if.       Karonga has considerable potential -- a fertile lakeshore plain
with cheap water for irrigation and a sparsely populated scarp and plateau
suitable for beef cattle. However, overland transport to the rest of Malawi
is made difficult by a high escarpment (first Map), and the area has to rely
on Lake Malawi for freight movements with a Lake Service in need of rehabil-
itation. The health situation, which is unsatisfactory in the country as a
whole, requires improved services in the project area.
iii.      The Karonga Rural Development Project comprises agricultural devel-i
opment supported by improvements to health facilities and transportation.
7he agricultural component would involve a total   fabout 446Q0 farmers on
15,3_10_acres, including development of 1,500 acres of irrigated and 6,000
acres of rainfed rice schemes, together with the settlement of some 2,800
farmers; improvement of 7,800 acres of cotton, groundnuts, and maize farmed
by about 1,800 farmersz provision of extension services and farm credit;
drilling of 11 boreholes; constru'ction of buildings such as staff housing,
offices and workshops; and upgrading of 77 miles of feeder roads. For
livestock, 22 dipping tanks and four cattle markets would be constructed
and an 18,000-acre holding ground developed with improvements to the stock
routes. Health would be improved through a bilharzia control program on
irrigation schemes, construction and operation of five rural outposts and
improvem-e'nts to the-su'p''porting services at the Chilumba Rural Hospital and
the Karonga District Hospital. The transportation component would markedly
improve the Lake Service by providing improved terminal facilities for
Karonga and at the southern end of the Lake, as well as additional shipping
capacity. The project would also provide for studies of high value crops
and hydrology, and research on use of inputs, leading to preparation of a
second-phase project.
iv.       The agriculture and health components of the project would be
managed by a Project Unit, a section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR), headed by a Project Manager with headquarters in Karonga,
reporting directly to the Permanent Secretary. Malawi Railways Limited, a
Government-owned body, which owns and operates the Lake Service, would be in



- ii -
charge of the improvements to the Lake Service under the responsibility of
the Ministry of Transport and Communications. A liaison committee would be
set up to ensure coordination between the Project Unit and ministries con-
cerned.
v.        Total project costs are estimated at US$7.8 million.  The proposed
credit of US$6.6 million would finance 85% of project costs, covering
foreign exchange costs estimated at US$4.1 million and 69% of local currency
costs. The balance of US$1.2 million local costs would be provided by Govern-
ment by annual budgetary allocations over 5 years. However, Government's net
contribution would be only about US$0.8 million, as the project would con-
tribute to Government revenue by about US$0.4 million over the same period
by way of scheme service charges and livestock dipping and grazing fees.
Funds for agricultural development and health facilities would be disbursed
by the Project Unit, while funds for transportation would be disbursed by the
Government on behalf of Malawi Railways Limited. Goods and services to be
procured by international competitive bidding would have a total value of about
US$2.7 million. Other goods and services, amounting to about US$1.2 million,
which by nature of their small size and scattered distribution would be
unsuitable for international tendering, would be subject to local competitive
bidding.
vi.       Average annual net cash incomes per farm family would increase from
about US$8 to about US$204/annum on double cropped irrigated rice schemes,
US$184/annum on rainfed rice schemes, and to about US$108/annum for farmers
with dry-land crops. Based on the Bank's Economics Department's price fore-
casts for rice, cotton, groundnuts and maize, the economic return is esti-
mated at about 12%. This return varies between 16 and 12%, according to
high or low price estimates of rice and cotton, which are the major project
production.
vii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.6 million pro-
vided assurances are obtained and steps taken as set out in the recommenda-
t:Lons.



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malawi has requested an IDA credit to help
finance an integrated rural development project consisting of investments in
agriculture, livestock, transportation and health facilities in the Karonga
region of northern Malawi. The project is intended to be the first phase
of a broader development program in the region; this would be the fourth IDA
Credit for an integrated rural development project in Malawi.
1.02      The region has high development potential as it has high although
poorly distributed rainfall and large areas of good soils and is inhabited
by industrious people who have shown their interest in development by their
willingness to participate in Government-sponsored pilot projects. But the
area severely lacks infrastructure -- it is almost cut off from the rest of
Malawi by a high mountain range that is impassable to commercial transport
(see Escarpment, first Map) and must rely on the Lake Service on Lake Malawi,
which needs rehabilitation and additional investment. Health facilities are
inadequate to cope with the problems in the area.
1.03      The project, prepared and submitted by Government, included con-
struction of irrigation and drainage works on about 9,000 acres, new port
facilities, the purchase of additional vessels and construction of a new
district hospital. Although appraisal confirmed that potential exists for
intensive rice production on larger areas than proposed in the Government
submission, the mission, because of inadequate hydrological data, is recom-
mending that an initial 7,500 ac of rice only be developed. Appraisal also
showed that new port facilities would much improve the quality of service,
lower operating costs and, by cutting down the turnaround time of existing
vessels, reduce the need for additional shipping capacity. Finally, it was
concluded that project-related health problems could be met satisfactorily
by improvements to the existing district hospital.
1.04      To date, IDA has financed three agricultural projects in Malawi:
Credit 113-MAI (1968) for US$6 million for the Lilongwe Agricultural Develop-
ment Project, Credit 244-MAI  (May 1971)  for US$7.25 million for the second
phase of that project, and Credit 114-MAI (1968) for US$3.7 million for the
Lower Shire Valley Development Project. Progress on Credits 113-MAI and
114-MAI has been good.
1.05      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
to Malawi in April 1971 consisting of Messrs. J. Gregor and J-J. Schul (IDA),
D. Bickers (PMEA), and R. Henderson and Dr. E. de Winter (Consultants).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Malawi is a landlocked country of about 36,000 sq mi.  Its
population is estimated at 4.4 million and is growing at about 2.5% a
year; average population density is 122 per sq mi. Over the past four
years, GNP has increased by 8% to 9% annually. Agriculture, which contributes
about 35% of GNP and absorbs 7% of current Government expenditures, has
grown at about the same rate. The average income per capita is K 60.
B. Agricultural Sector
Crops
2.02      Malawi is divided into three regions:  Southern, Central and
Northern (first Map). Maize, cotton, pulses and groundnuts are grown
throughout the country. Cotton and tea are produced mainly in the south;
tobacco, groundnuts and pulses in the Central region; and rice in the north.
2.03      Maize is the principal subsistence crop and production is
estimated at 1.0 to 1.3 million tons 1/ per year. Surplus quantities are
marketed, some directly to shopkeepers and the rest to the Agricultural
Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) 2/. Except in years of
national deficit, most of ADMARC's purchases are exported to neighboring
countries.
2.04      The importance of rice has increased considerably.  During the
last five years, local consumption of milled rice has gone up by 50%, rice
exports have climbed from 1 to 3% of total exports, and further growth is
expected. Malawi continues to be somewhat sheltered from the decline in
world market prices through her ability to sell high quality rice to
privileged markets in Southern Africa. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (MANR) expects to increase marketed rice production from
9,600 tons in 1970 to 32,000 tons by 1975, with the Karonga area maintaining
its present share of 35%.  These forecasts are based on the implementation
of irrigated schemes on the plains along Lake Malawi. Several such schemes
have been started in the Central and Southern regions under bilateral aid
programs 3/, mainly British.
2.05      Cattle population in Malawi is estimated at about 510,000 head
and is increasing annually by about 3%. Most animals are in small privately
owned herds. Beef consumption has more than doubled since 1965, and pre-
sently stands at 57,700 head per annum. Beef fattening is carried out
1/   All tonnages in this report are metric unless otherwise specified.
2/   Formerly the Farmers' Marketing Board.
3/   Fifteen pilot schemes totalling 2,552 ac.



- 3 -
mainly in the Southern and Central regions near the main consumption centers
but there is a severe shortage of feeder cattle and projections emphasize
the future importance of the north as a major area for production. The
project would initiate this development.
Agricultural Institutions
2.06      The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) is divided
into 10 Departments, of which five would be involved in the proposed project:
Extension and Training, Research, Technical Services (including irrigation
and land use), Animal Health, and Hydrology. Marketing and supply of farm
inputs is the responsibility of ADMARC (para 2.03), a parastatal body whose
executive chairman is answerable to the Minister of Agriculture and Natural
Resources.
2.07      While there are now shortages in all categories of staff in the Ag-
ricultural Services in Malawi, training facilities will eliminate only those
in some categories by 1972. The Bunda College of Agriculture--a part of the
University of Malawi -- will produce, from 1972 on, about 12 graduates in ag-
riculture per year, so that most of the senior professional posts will con-
tinue to be held by expatriates during the next few years. Technical Assis-
tants are trained in the Colby College of Agriculture, which has an annual
output of about 125. This is inadequate and Government is considering the
creation of a National Resources College to fill the need. In the meantime,
projects will have to provide their own training facilities to fill vacant
Technical Assistant posts.
2.08      The Extension and Training Department is in charge of farmers'
training settlements and management of pilot schemes. In particular, it
gives technical advice to the Malawi Young Pioneer (MYP) movement at centers
that train young men and women volunteers in basic discipline, civics, agri-
culture and community development.
2.09      A Chief Research Officer directs policy from the main Research
Station at Chitedze near Lilongwe in the Central region. Here work is done
on main crops (tobacco, groundnuts, and maize) and animal husbandry, while
special crops are catered for in substations such as Makanga (near Chiromo
in the Southern region) for cotton and Dwangwa (near Khota Khota) for rice.
Regional and district trial work is the responsibility of field research
officers stationed in the relevant areas.
2.10      ADMARC has statutory monopoly rights to purchase all major crops
grown on smallholdings at prices it fixes itself; however, it has so far
chosen to exercise this right only for cotton, groundnuts and tobacco. Most
rice and maize is sold to ADMARC, but some is bartered or sold directly by
farmers to shopkeepers. ADMARC bulks purchases of farm inputs for small-
holders throughout the country and distributes them through its depots.
ADMARC has been successful in its operations.



- 4 -
C. Health
2.11      The health situation in Malawi gives cause for concern, not because
the diseases are more serious than those in surrounding countries, but be-
cause the expenditure Malawi could in the past afford on public health has
been inadequate. The country spends an average US$0.94 equivalent per cap-
ita annually on health services, which is one of the lowest rates in
Africa 1/. This rate is even lower in rural areas such as Karonga where, in
1970, expenditures for health were only about US$0.73 equivalent per capita,
despite the considerable impact there of water-borne diseases (mainly bil-
harzia) in addition to the usual diseases found elsewhere. Health services
are generally poor and understaffed. Recent surveys showed that an average
of about 9% of farmers' time was lost through illness and this percentage
could go up in irrigated areas where water-borne diseases are likely to in-
crease. Further details are in Annex 1.
2.12      The improvement of health facilities is an integral part of the
project, particularly in view of the likely increase in the incidence of
water-borne diseases caused by the proposed irrigation schemes. Because of
financial constraints, Government health services have been very poor, es-
pecially in the Karonga area, and this project therefore aims at improving
the health facilities in the project area.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area (second and third Maps) would be within the
Karonga and Chitipa administrative districts, which form the northern part of
Malawi. The two districts together cover about 2 million acres (3,100 sq mi)
divided into an alluvial plain, lying at an altitude of 1,500 ft on the shores
of Lake Malawi; a broken escarpment; and a higher plateau, with an average
altitude of 3,500 feet, which forms the catchment area for the many rivers
flowing to the plain.
Soils, Climate and Hydrology
3.02      The lakeshore plain covers about 249,000 acres, of which about
1.57,000 acres (63%) of fertile alluvial soils are suitable for intensive ag-
r:iculture. The plateau and scarp covering the remaining 1.7 million acres
are mainly ferrisols of poor or medium fertility 2/. Average temperatures on
1,   Sample figures drawn from various World Health Organization Reports
(1968-1971, converted to US$): Ghana 2.44, Kenya 1.76, Lesotho 1.21,
Rwanda 0.32, Uganda 1.52, Zambia 9.40. Compare with Netherlands 88.31,
United Kingdom 95.16, USA 105.20 (not including expenditure on water
supply, sewage, refuse disposal, etc. and private health expenditure).
2/   A ferrisol is a soil with an iron-cemented hardpan caused under tropical
conditions by rain washing iron through the soil and packing it hard
below the surface.



the lakeshore range from 66°F in July to 85'F in November and are about 6°
lower on the plateau. Annual rainfall, almost all of which falls from Decem-
ber to June, varies within the project area from over 120 inches in the north
to just under 40 inches in the center and rising again to 50 inches in the
south. Most of the rivers are perennial and, despite their variability in
flow and high silt loads, due to marked seasonal rainfall variations and the
erodibility of the catchment area, many are suitable for irrigation. This
combination of factors makes it possible to grow a large variety of crops in
the Karonga area, including high value cash crops that could be produced on
a double-cropping basis with flood controls and irrigation works. Further
details are at Annex 2.
Population and Land Tenure
3.03      Population density varies from a low of five per square mile in
the hilly areas to an average of 200 on the plain. Estimated annual popu-
lation increase is about 2.5%. In the Karonga district there are about
90,000 inhabitants in 18,000 families; the average family has five members
and farms about four acres of crops. With the exception of seven settlement
schemes (para 3.04), which have been declared public lands, land is cultivated
under customary rights of usufruct, and, unlike the Lilongwe area, succession
is patrilineal.
crops
3.04      Rice, both irrigated and rainfed, is grown in the Karonga area.  Ir-
..4gated rice is of the Blue Bonnet variety (an American long-grained indica
type) and is produced in double-crop irrigation schemes. Pilot schemes in the
Karonga area, totalling about 930 acres 1/, have given encouraging yields of
around 1.4 tons/ac per crop and their contribution to Karonga's total produc-
tion increased from zero to 18% in three years. Single crop rainfed rice of
the Faya variety (a long grain of the indica type) is grown mostly by indi-
vidual farmers, using few if any water control measures as well as by a Gov-
ernment-sponsored pilot project of 30 settlers on sixty acres. Yields of
about 1.1 tons/ac are being obtained with some use of fertilizers. Yields
higher than that are being obtained where better soils and higher fertilizer
inputs are used.
3.05      The nationally grown variety of cotton, Albar 637, a medium staple
length type, is grown on residual moisture at the end of the rains. Confec-
tionery groundnuts of the small Malimba type are also grown as a cash crop
in the Karonga area. Maize is the main food crop. Purchases of maize by
ADMARC have declined steadily over the last four years, partly due to adverse
weather conditions, but also because of farmers' increased interest in the
profitable cash crops.  Therefore, MANR anticipates that, with the development
of rice schemes, the Northern region may become deficient in maize without the
project, which would provide the necessary services to increase maize produc-
tion. Other food crops are cassava, and finger-millet in Chitipa district.
1/   Hara, 630 ac; Wovwe, 200 ac; Kaporo, 100 ac (see Second Map).



-6-
Livestock
3.06      Cattle in the Karonga and Chitipa districts total about 52,000 head,
distributed in individually owned herds of about 20. Animals are kept mainly
for milk for the family, ceremonial slaughters, social purposes, sale to local
butchers, and as work oxen.  Few are sold outside the region since the Cold
Sitorage Company, the Government-owned national buying agency, has limited
purchases because of high transportation costs. Over the past 20 years,
the herd has increased by less than 1%. Offtake over the past 10 years
averaged about 10% annually (8% when related to the past 20 years).  The area
iS infested with the usual diseases and animal health is a problem. Calf
death rate is high as a result of liver fluke, intestinal parasites and
tiick-borne diseases. A dipping program has been in operation since 1931,
but only about a third of the animals receive regular treatment because of
insufficient numbers of tanks and inadequate veterinary services which would
be increased by the project. Because of its low population density compared
with the rest of Malawi, the Chitipa district would be particularly suitable
for extensive ranching, if transportation of cattle from this area to the
south is improved as proposed under the project. Further details of the
livestock situation are given in Annex 3.
3.07      Agricultural Services.  Agricultural services in the Karonga and
Chitipa districts come under the Ministry of Agriculture's Regional office
at Mzuzu (first Map) in which all main departments are headed by expatriate
senior staff. The Northern Region Research Officer stationed in Mzuzu is
responsible for four substations, two of which are near Karonga town, one for
dry-land crops and one for irrigated crops. Some fertilizer trials are orga-
nized with farmers, e.g., for cotton, or on pilot rice schemes. This research
effort is insufficient, considering the potential of the area, and would be
expanded under the project (Annex 4). In-service training facilities for
extension staff are to be provided by the project (para 6.08).
3.08      ADMARC operates in Karonga in the same way as in the rest of the
country (para 2.10 and Annex 5, Appendix A). In the project area it has 33
markets (5 main markets are shown on second Map) and depots, and 280 staff,
mainly for paddy purchases. National Oil Industries Limited (NOIL), owned
50% by Government, is constructing a rice mill in Chilumba, with an annual
capacity of 9,000 tons and equipped with a parboiling unit 1/. Details of
NOIL are at Annex 5, Appendix B.
3.09      Movement overland from the project area southwards is restricted
by the severe escarpment, which is crossed by a track that is unsuitable
fcr commercial vehicles and cannot be improved on its present alignment.
An alternative road to the south passes through Chitipa to Mzuzu, but the
length of this route, which runs through Zambia for over 60 miles, makes
it impractical for traffic from the Karonga Rural Development Project.
1/   Used to partially boil rice in the husk before milling to improve its
keeping qualities and decrease breakage in milling.



3.10      The Government proposes that a new road being built southwards
from Chilumba to Chiweta (see first Map), at the foot of the escarpment,
should be extended over the escarpment to standards suitable for commercial
traffic. Such an investment, however, is not likely to be economically
justified in the foreseeable future: freight to or from the railheads and
markets in the south could still be shipped more cheaply by the Lake
Service on Lake Malawi, which is the route already used for both freight
and passengers. Although the present operating costs of the Lake Service
are high, and the service to shippers is poor, its problems are soluble and
it could become a satisfactory and viable enterprise (Annex 6).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project, which would be the first phase of larger development
efforts, would be a five-year program of agricultural development in the
Karonga area, supported by improvement to health services and transportation.
The project would:
(a) Construct eight rice schemes: two irrigated on about
1,500 acres to produce double-cropped rice, involving
the settlement of about 830 farmers; and six organized
rainfed schemes on about 6,000 acres to produce single-
crop rice, involving the settlement of about 2,000
farmers;
(b) Introduce improvements to the dry-land crop production
of maize, cotton and groundnuts on about 7,800 acres,
involving about 1,750 farmers, through extension services
and provision of inputs;
(c) Initiate a livestock development program by constructing
dipping tanks, markets, and a holding ground, and improving
existing stock routes;
(d) Provide seasonal and medium-term credit to project farmers;
(e) Conduct further studies on crops and hydrology, including
a feasibility study for a second-phase project;
(f) Improve health facilities by constructing five rural health
outposts, improving Karonga District and Chilumba Hospitals,
and providing staff and drugs for bilharzia control within
the rice schemes; and
(g) construct terminals for the Lake Service comprising berthing
facilities and associated structures at two sites to be
selected at Chilumba, and either Monkey Bay or
Chipoka, provide cargo handling equipment at the two



- 8 -
selected Lake terminals and provide a 200-ton self-
propelled vessel for the Lake Service.
A Project Unit would be established within MANR to carry out and manage
the agricultural and health components of the project until Central Covern-
ment agencies and local councils are able to take over, estimated1 to be in
11981.  Malawi Railways Limited, whichi owns and operates the Lake Service,
would carry out its rehabilitation.
B. Detailed Features
RLce Schemes
4.02      Two types of rice schemes would be constructed -- irrigated and
rainfed -- in accordance with the schedule shown in Annex 2, Table 2. Irri-
gation schemes, with intake and water control structures, would control floods
during the rainy season and irrigate the land during the dry season with
water diverted from rivers, thus allowing for two crops of rice per year.
The organized rainfed schemes would consist of simple earth structures to
control variable water conditions in inundated flood plains during the rainy
seasons. Only one crop of rainfed rice would be grown per year.
4.03      The design and detailed plans for rice schemes would be the respon-
sibility of the Northern Regional Government Administrative 11eadquarters,
whlich is adequately staffed for this purpose. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the plans to be drawn up would be submitted to the
Project Manager six months before implementation of each scheme. Surveys,
maps and physical layout of the schemes would be prepared by the project
survey unit.
4.04      Equipment required for irrigation is given at Annex 7, Tables 3 and
5. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a Government dragline
would be made available to the project for a period of a year following the
effective date of the credit in case of possible delays in procurement of
project machinery.
4.05      Double-Cropped Irrigated Rice.  Double-cropped irrigated schemes
would be on the Lufira and on the Wovwe rivers. The Lufira scheme would cover
1,000 acres on the left bank. Hydrological data, recorded over seven years,
show 10 days' average flows (see Annex 2, para 13) that would be sufficient
to allow double-cropped irrigation on about 1,300 acres. The period of
recording, however, is too short to establish a reliable pattern and the
acreage has therefore been limited, although the design would permit future
extension. The Wovwe scheme would cover 500 acres on the right bank down-
stream of an existing 200 ac scheme. Although water potential of this river
is conservatively estimated aS being able to supply 1,500 acres, information
on soils is not adequate to warrant greater coverage (Annex 2, para 15).
4.06      These schemes would be constructed with the necessary diversion
headworks and silt ejectors. They would be laid out along contours and allow



for subdivision into plots of 1-1/2 acres. Per acre construction costs, ex-
clusive of contingencies, are estimated at K 363 (US$472) including overheads
(Annex 7, Table 3). Farmers would be required to pay K 14 annually per acre
(Annex 10, Tables 1-3) as a scheme service development charge, and K 0.20 per
160 lb bag of paddy sold to ADMARC. Assurances were obtained from Government
during negotiations that these charges would be the minimum and that they
would be enforced during the project period subject to the Project Manager's
discretionary power to cancel part or all of either charges in cases of crop
failure arising out of circumstances beyond participants' control.
4.07      Rice varieties of the American long grained indica type would be
planted in double-cropped schemes. A crop planting calendar related to the
growth cycle of the variety involved would be enforced to control pests (Annex
2, para 6).  Diring negotiations, assurances were obtained that the neces-
sary measures would be taken to ensure that scheme members adhere to the
planting dates prescribed. Sprayers and pesticides would be provided under
the project (para 4.16).
4.09      Organized Rainfed Rice.  Organized schemes for rainfed rice would
involve the following areas:  Lufira right bank, 750 ac; Lufira left bank,
2,500 ac; T,perere, 1,000 ac; Kaporo, 1,000 ac; Songwe, 550 ac; and Wovwe,
200 ac (second Map).
4.09      Poads 16 ft wide would be built along ridges to follow natural land
contours, about 1 mile apart, and, from them, 2-1/2 ft high bunds or earth
terraces would extend along contours at about 60-ft intervals. These bunds
"ould lead to natural drainage lines, wliich would be improved. Protective
Levees would be built to divert flooding where necessary and farmers would
construLct cross btnds 1-1/2 ft high. Individual plots would be of 3 acres.
Per acre construction costs, exclusive of contingencies, would be K 75 (U',$97),
including overheads (Annex 7, Table 5). Farmers would pay K 7 annually per
acre as scheme service development charge (Annex 10, Table 4) and K 0.20 per
160 lb bag of paddy sold to ADMARC. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that these charges would be the minimum and that they would be enforced
during the project period subject to the Project Manager's discretionary
power to cancel part or all of either charges in cases of crop failure
arising out of circumstances beyond participants' control.
4.10      The Faya rice variety, which is well adapted to the area, would be
grown. Pests have been inconsequential in the past but the project would
make available a limited number of sprayers and pesticides for use by farmers
as needed. Schemes would be operated in a manner similar to that used for
double--cropped irrigation schemes.
I)ry-l.and Crops Development
4.11      The areas where improvements to the growing of cotton, maize and
groundnuts would be introduced are shown on the second Map. In order to de-
velop cotton over a total of about 3,500 acres, the project would provide
sprayers and pesticides, which would allow cotton growing during the rains.
Maize would be grown in rotation with cotton, and synthetic maize seeds and



- 10 -
nitrogenous fertilizers would be distributed to farmers. Production of the
Malimba-type confectionery groundnut would be developed on about 8f0 acres.
Farmers would sell groundnuts to ADMARC in the shell for mechanical shelling
within the project area. Seeds would be stored in the shell to increase ger-
mination capacity, which is presently only 507, due mainly to unshelled stor-
age. Cotton and groundnut yields are presently satisfactory without ferti-
lizers and until trials show that fertilizers are justified, no fertilizers
would be used.
4.12      Most farmers who would participate in this dry-land crops
program presently live in villages on the lakeshore because of inadequate
water availability inland. Therefore, 11 boreholes would be drilled and
equipped in fertile inland areas (see second Map). About 30 miles of feeder
roads in areas producing dry-land crops would be rehabilitated and about 7
miles of new roads would be built to permit crop extraction from the Wovwe
river area. Project crop extraction roads would be a maximum width of 24 ft
from ditch to ditch where they form part of the area's planned main road
system, and 16 ft elsewhere. While these widths do not meet the 36-ft
minimum required by the Ministry of Works, they would be adequate to serve
project purposes. Furthermore, they can easily be widened if future traffic
justifies such action. During negotiations, assurances were therefore
obtained that Government would permit project feeder roads to be built to
t'he lesser widths, and that the Ministry of Works would maintain all project
roads satisfactorily.
Extension, Scheme Mana ement and Farmers' Training
4.13      The number of project farmers served by one Development Assistant
would increase over the years as follows:
Years     Years      Years
1-2       3-5       6-10
Double-Cropped Irrigation         30        30         60
Organized Rainfed                 50       100        130
Dry-Land Crops                    75        75        120
Only a limited number of settlers would be entrusted to each developnment
assistant on double-cropped irrigation schemes because of the settlers'
lack of experience with double-cropping and with the rice growing and water
control techniques required. Each technical assistant would supervise
f:lve development assistants. Schemes would be managed by Scheme Managers,
assisted by foremen, waterguards and laborers for the maintenance of main
scheme structures. Scheme Managers would operate in liaison with Farmers'
Committees made up of representatives of members who, in turn, would be
responsible for maintenance of field bunds and canals and field roads. After
year 10 the extension staff would gradually be reduced to normal establishment
levels; according to Government projections there would be around 40 field
staff required in the Karonga area. The project would establish its own
'farmers' training program costing K 15,000 (US$19,500) for training material
and K 2,000 (US$2,600) annual operating costs for visual aids and field
visits by project's extension personnel.



- 11 -
Livestock Development
4.14      The project would assist small cattle owners in two ways:  first,
it would improve the health of their animals and increase their produc-
tivity by constructing 22 (including 1 in the holding ground) new dipping
tanks, enlarging field veterinary services and providing sufficient drugs;
second, it would improve marketing conditions by establishing four new
cattle markets, improving stock routes, and developing 18,000 acres of
holding ground, where cattle purchased by the state-owned Cold Storage
Company (Annex 3, para 5) for resale in the South, would be held on
payment of grazing fees of K 0.50 per head per month during the first project
year and K 1.00 thereafter. In addition, the Project Manager shall charge
normal commercial rates for any supplementary feed supplied to the cattle in
the holding ground. No difficulty is expected with the resettlement of a
few families presently cultivating in the holding ground area. New dipping
tanks would be similar to those already existinTg in the area but with improved
crushes 1/. At present all cattle owners pay a dipping fee of K 0.10 (US$0.13)
annually per head of cattle, whether dipped or not. An increase to help off-
set the recurrent costs of the various improvements is at present under
consideration by the Minister of Agriculture. Assurances were obtained from
Government during negotiations that the minimum grazing fees mentioned above
and a dipping fee, satisfactory to IDA, would be charged during the project
period. At full development, 40 veterinary and 33 development assistants
would supervise the total of 41 dipping tanks (para 6.08 and Annex 9, Table 1).
1;.15     The holding ground would be about 30 miles west of Karonga (second
Map) along the Lufira, where water is adequate and topography suitable
Annex 3, para 9). The present natural stocking capacity is low because most
of the available grass is destroyed by bush fires during the dry season.
Firebreaks would therefore be installed to limit these fires and thus improve
the stocking rate from one animal to 30 acres to 1 animal to 20 acres. To
compensate for the inadequacy of fodder during the dry season, the project
would provide supplementary feed (para 4.14). A nucleus ranch, with 200 head
of females of Improved Malawi Zebu strain, would be established on a portion
of the holding ground to obtain management and performance data for a possible
future commercial ranch. The animals would be supplied by the Veterinary
Department from its herd within 6 months of the credit's becoming effective.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Incremental Farm Inyuts
4.16      For the five project years, seasonal credits would be provided by
the project to cover the purchase by project participants of seeds, about
3,200 tons of fertilizers, and 110,000 liters of fungicide and insecticides.
Medium-term credit would be provided by the project for purchase of work oxen,
implements and sprayers. Participants are expected to purchase 57 pairs of
oxen and sets of implements, including a plow, and 1,750 sprayers for cotton.
A first-year settlement credit would also be extended to 165 MYP's settled
on double-cropped irrigation schemes (para 2.08). Further details of the
credit arrangements are in paragraphs 6.12 through 6.15 and Annex 7, Table 8.
1/   Fencing so arranged as to lead cattle into the dipping tank.



- 12 -
Further Studies
4.17      Studies would be made on such subjects as improved rice varieties,
alternative crops to rice, irrigation from the lake or unexploited rivers,
drainage of the Songwe valley and cotton and groundnuts fertilization. The
required soil surveys, hydrological measurements and research trials would be
conducted by an Agricultural Research Officer and a Hydrologist under the
guidance of a visiting consultant. If justified, by project year 4, consult-
ants would also prepare a feasibility study for a second-phase project. Dur-
ing negotiations, assurances were obtained that the feasibility study would
'be carried out by qualified consultants under terms of reference and contracts
satisfactory to IDA. Further details are in Annex 4 and Annex 7, Table 9.
'Health Services
4.18      Five rural outposts would be constructed in the project area
(third Map), with a resident homecraft worker (Annex 1, para 4) in attendance
at each to provide education on bilharzia, hookworm. gastroenteritis and
other health problems. Each outpost would be visited at least once a week by
a mobile unit that would dispense basic medicines and identify cases requir-
ing more specific attention. The visiting team would also check the local
water supply, sanitation, refuse disposal, vermin infestation and other mat-
ters to be referred to the project management for action. A bilharzia con-
trol unit under the supervision of the project's Senior Settlement and Ex-
tension Officer would be set up for the rice schemes to perform regular tests
and treat water with suitable chemicals. To prevent contamination from the
existing Government projects within the project area, which are outside the
control of the proposed project, similar control measures would be established
there. In order to ensure adequate follow-up for the rural outposts, the
project would also improve existing facilities, including those at Karonga
District Hospital and Chilumba Rural Hospital. The health care visiting
service proposed would deliver reasonably comprehensive medical care at a
cost the country can afford. For most people, care will be extremely simple,
'but provision has been made for those who need more skilled care and more
elaborate facilities.
Transportation
4.19      The rehabilitation and the expansion of the capacity of the Lake
Service is essential if the increased traffic from the project is to be ac-
commodated alongside existing traffic demands (Annex 6). The construction of
a jetty and associated structures at Chilumba, in the Karonga Direct, and
similar facilities at a southern terminal, either Monkey Bav or Chipoka, would
tLImlinate the present need for lightering operations, and, by reducing the time
mpent lyv a vessels at tenrinals, would expand their effective capacity.  It is
still not certain that Monkey Bay should replace the existing southern termi-
nal of Chipoka, the future of which depends on whether the Government can
secure funds for rehabilitating the railway line serving the port ( first Map).
In October 1971 Government commissioned consultants to prepare engineering
design and cost estimates for all three terminals. The final report of the
consultants is expected in April 1972. The project has therefore included
the cost of developing a southern terminal in general terms only, and



- 13 -
provided a physical contingency allowing appropriate flexibility. The final
decision is tied into the overall Lake Service rehabilitation plan (see para
4.21 below).
4.20      In spite of the increased shipping capacity achieved by construc-
ting the jetties, freight traffic demands on the Lake Service are expected
to expand fast enough to require one additional 200-ton capacity vessel by
1975. To meet this requirement, a self-propelled barge has also been included
in the project.
4.21      The Government and Malawi Railways Limited, which owns and operates
the Lake Service, are preparing proposals for the rehabilitation of the Lake
Service, which will include a review of its finances and freight rate
structure as well as the choice of the southern terminal. This review, how-
ever, cannot be completed until April/May 1972, because of the ongoing
engineering studies (para 4.19). It was agreed during negotiations that the
submission by Government to IDA of a plan satisfactory to the Association,
for improvement of the Lake Service, would be a condition of effectiveness of
the credit.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Project Costs
5.01      Project costs are estimated at K 6.0 million (US$7.8 million), of
whlich the foreign exchange component is K 3.2 million (US$4.1) million, or
52% of total costs. Estimates are based on recent quotations from suppliers,
contractors and ADMARC for farm inputs exclusive of import duties and sales
taxes. Physical contingencies allowed amount to 4% for vehicles, machinery,
health facilities, project administration, and maintenance and operation
costs- 14% for transportation costs; and 10% for irrigation works. Price
contingencies, increasing annually by 6%, have been allowed on all costs ex-
cept salaries. Salaries and wages have been estimated at a rate high enough
to provide adequate incentive to qualified staff to work in Karonga, and
allowance has been made for annual salary increases for all project staff.
Only incremental farm input costs are provided. Project costs for the
agricultural development include salaries, wages, staff training, administra-
tive expenses and maintenance during the construction period as they are
essential to establish a standard of land cultivation that would continue to
have the desired impact after the five-year period and hopefully create a firm
base for a broader second phase project. Similarly, project costs for the
health component covering recurrent costs of staffing and drugs are included
during the first two years of setting up and training after which they become
the Government's responsibility. No recurrent costs of transportation were
included. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Govern-
ment would meet subsequent recurrent costs required to adequately staff, main-
tain and operate project facilities at the end of the above mentioned periods.
The breakdown of costs is given in Annex 7 and summarized in the following
table:



- 14 -
Summary of Projec.tCost Estimates
…      (MK '000)-----   -------(US$'000)-----  Foreign
Local  Forei&n  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Rice Schemes
Vehicles and Machinery   23    209       232       30      272    302        90
Irrigation Construction
Works                  144      83     227      187      108    295         37
Buildings                131      66     197      170       86    256         34
Operating and Mainte-
nance                  232    209      441      302      272    574        47
Staff Costs              330      -      330      429       -      429       -
Subtotal            860    567   1,427   1,118        738  1,856        40
Dry-Land Crops            77      46     123      100       60    160         38
Livestock
Vehicles and Machinery    1       14      15        1       18      19       90
Buildings                110      79     189      143      103    246         42
Operating and
Maintenance             27      92     119       35      120    155        77
Staff Costs               99      23     122      129       30    159         19
Subtotal            237    208      445     308       271    579        47
Incremental Farm IX!kuts  72    182      254       93      237    330        73
Further Studies          217    345      562      282      448    730        61
Project Administration
Vehicles and Equipment    7       66      73        9       86      95       30
Buildings                142      96     238      185      125    310        41
Operating and
Maintenance            152    233      385      197      303    500        61
Staff Costs              367    274      641      477      356    833        42
Subtotal            668    669   1,337      868       870  1,738        50
Health Facilities
Buildings                130      90     220      169      117    286         41
Operating and
Maintenance              3       7      10        4        9      13       -
Staff Costs                6       -       6        8       -        8       -
Subtotal            139     97      236     181       T26    307        41
Transportation
Port Construction,
Equipment and
Access Road            184    487      671      239      633    872        72
Barge                     23    262      285       30      340    370        92
Subtotal            207    749      956     269       973  1,242        80
Contingencies
Physical                 108      90     198      140      117    257         51
Price                    225    207      432      293      269    562         48
Subtotal            333    297      630     433       386    819        49
TOTAL             2,810  3,160   5,970   3,652    4,1 79 ,761           52



- 15 -
Financin&
5.02      An IDA credit of US$6.6 million would be made to cover 85% of project
costs. US$4.1 million or 62% of the credit, would cover the estimated foreign
exchange costs of the project. The balance of US$2.5 million or 38% of the
credit, would finance 69% of local currency costs. The remaining 15% of
project costs would come from Government. However, Government's net contribu-
tion would in fact amount to only about 10% or US$0.8 million over this
period as the project would contribute to Government revenue the remaining
5% or US$0.4 million by way of annual scheme service charges (paras 4.06
and 4.09) and livestock dipping and grazing fees (para 4.14). Project funds
would be channelled through two ministries: funds concerned with transport-
ation (paras 4.19 through 4.21) through the Ministry of Transport and
Communications; all other funds, including health, through the MANR. The
Project Manager would be authorized to maintain two separate revolving funds
(paras 6.13 - 6.15) financed initially from the credit, for the procurement
of farm inputs for credit sales to farmers. The project would thus be financed
as follows:
K Million                 US$ Million _
Government              0.6                          .8             10
Farmers                 0.3                          .4              5
0.9                         1.2             15
-rDA                    5.1                         6.6             85
6.0                         7.8            100
5.03      In addition to its contribution to the project, Government would
provide the ongoing Government irrigation schemes in the Karonga district
and which are outside the project, with bilharzia control (para 4.18) and,
insofar as possible, with health facilities, equivalent to those provided
on the project rice schemes. Assurances to this effect were obtained from
Government during negotiations.
5.04      As the project would finance only the first two years' costs of
health services, an estimated K 45,000 (US$58,000) (Annex 7, Table 12) would
be provided by Government during the remainder of the disbursement period
for this purpose (para 5.01), and thereafter funds, consistent with the level
of health facilities built up, would be maintained by regular budgetary
allocations. The K 45,000 would be recurrent expenditure not included in
project costs, and would therefore be additional to the 15% Government con-
tribution under para 5.02.
Procurement
5.05      Procurement of vehicles, machinery, equipment, fuel, fertilizers,
pesticides, drugs, construction of a jetty, associated structures and a barge,
totalling about US$2.7 million in value, would be by international competitive
bidding. Items of equipment costing less than US$25,000 equivale'it in any year
would be purchased subject to local tender.  The project's program of staff



- 16 -
'housing, workshop and office development, estimated at about US$1.2 million,
would be too small and widely scattered to attract international competition to
this remote and inaccessible area and local competitive tenders would tlherefore
be invited. Finance for the construction of the 3.6 mile access road, ori-
ginally proposed for inclusion under the project, has meantime been arranged
from other sources. It is expected that the jetty for Chilumba Port may be
constructed under an extension to an existing road contract awarded as a
result of international tender. All farm inputs procured by international
competitive bidding would be handled through ADMARC, which follows procedures
satisfactory to IDA. All tenders would be processed by the Central Tender
Board, whose procedures are satisfactory to IDA. Boreholes would be constructed
under force account by the MANR, while irrigation works, cattle bridges,
f'eeder roads, firebreaks, dipping tanks and constructions on the holding
ground would be built by the project.
5.06       Procurement of small items costing less than K 1500 (Us$2,000) could
be by local purchase. At present such purchases are subject to Government
regulations that require prior approval by MANR of all expenditure over K 1,500
(US$2,000) and that such purchases be made in Government-controlled stores.
These procedures result in unnecessary delays and higher unit costs and would
be more cumbersome than usual because of the lack of communications between
Karonga and MANR headquarters. Government explained during negotiations
that the Project Manager would be able to purchase goods up to the value of
K 1,500 (US$2,000) from sources other than Government controlled stores
subject to prior clearance with the Stores Controller. This is to ensure
that the specifications and origin of the goods to be purchased are consistent
with Government requirements and the prices economical. This procedure
operates satisfactorily at the Lilongwe project (IDA Credit 244-MAI).
Disbursement
5.07       Disbursement of the IDA credit would be against 85% of the cost
of all goods and services. US$0.9 million would remain unallocated. Payments
would be made against contracts, shipping documents and certified records of
expenditures. Estimated disbursements of the credit over the five-year project
period are shown in Annex 8, Tables 1 and 2.
Accounts and Audit
5.08       During the life of the project accounts would be maintained by
project headquarters in Karonga, except for accounts relating to the transporta-
t;Lon component which would be maintained by the Malawi Railways Limited under
tlhe Lake Service accounting entity. Accounting systems and procedures would be
designed and implemented by the Project's Financial Controller (para 6.04 and
6.05), whose responsibilities would also include conducting a clerical staff
training program. Modern commercial account:ing principles would be used, with
ernphasis on management information and cost control.
5.09      Accounts prepared by the project and also those of the Malawi Lake
Service, identifying, however, the project transportation component, would
be audited by auditors acceptable to the Association, and an assurance was
obtained during negotiations that the audited annual accounts would be



- 17 -
submitted to the Association within six months of the close of the Malawi
financial year (March 31).
Monitoring of _r2rs ss
5.10      As early as possible during the project's first year the Project
Manager would set up a "Monitoring Committee", consisting of himself as chair-
man, a representative of the planning unit of MANR, the Senior Settlement
and Extension Officer, the Senior Veterinary and Livestock Officer, and the
Financial Controller as secretary to the Committee. The object of the
Committee would be to make assessments of the project's progress and to this
end the Committee would initially draw up and then regularly review a plan
of physical and financial records to be kept by the project administration.
On this basis the Committee would evaluate progress every three months and
compare the results achieved by farmers under the various components of the
project. Liaison would be maintained with the statistical section of the
MANR in order to coordinate the fact finding objectives of the Committee with
the routine Karonga and Chitipa districts' statistics without, however,
limiting the Committee's scope regarding the information to be processed.
This will facilitate monitoring being carried out by MANR in the project
area after the development period when the project administration is handed
back to it. During negotiations assurances were obtained that such a
Committee would be set up at an early stage of the project's first year and
thereafter maintained until the completion of the project.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
6.01      A Project Unit within the MANR would be responsible for carrying
out the agricultural and health components of the project, the latter in
close liaison with the Ministry of Health, while the Ministry of Transport
and Communications would assume responsibility for the transportation
component. MANR would make all policy decisions on such matters as
management, staffing, procurement, administrative and accounting systems
and procedures for the agricultural and health components, leaving day-to-day
operations and implementation of policies in the hands of a Project Manager,
who would report directly to the Permanent Secretary of MANR. The project
headquarters would be in Karonga district. The Project Manager would liaise
closely with the local health authorities as regards the implementation of
the health component. Malawi Railways Limited which is under control of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications, would be in charge of day-to-day
rehabilitation operations for the Lake Service. This body is considered to
have adequate strength and experience for the purpose, though its level of
competence will be subject to further investigation when its detailed
proposals for the rehabilitation are fully appraised (para 4.21).
6.02      Because of the broad scope of the project, a Karonga Rural
Development Project Liaison Committee would be established, whose members
would be a senior official from MANR (Chairman), one senior official



- 18 -
representing the Office of the President and Cabinet, one senior official
Erom each of the following ministries, Treasury, Works and Supplies,
Transport and Communications, Health and Community Development, and Local
Government and the Project Manager, who would act as Executive Secretary.
The Liaison Committee's primary function would be to coordinate intergovern-
mental project activities. The establishment of the Committee would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
6.03      The Project Manager would establish close coordination and coopera-
t:ion with ADMARC, which would undertake to buy project crops. ADMARC and
NOIL would handle exports (see paras 2.06, 2.10 and 3.08).
B. Management and Staffing
6.04      The Project Unit would have four operational divisions -- Field
Development; Vehicles, Plant and Machinery (Workshop); Settlement and
Extension; and Livestock; two administrative divisions -- Credit and
Purchasing, and Finance; and two investigative divisions -- Hydrology and
Research. The breakdown of functions is given in an Organization Chart in
Annex 9.
6.05      The Project Manager would be supported by ten senior staff:
Deputy Manager - Operations; Senior Field Development Engineer; Field
Development Engineer; Vehicle, Plant and Machinery Superintendent; Senior
Settlement and Extension Officer; Senior Veterinary/Livestock Officer;
Senior Credit and Purchasing Officer; Financial Controller; Recording
Hydrologist; and Senior Research Officer. Since it is unlikely that Malawian
staff of the requisite experience and qualifications would be available,
expatriate personnel would be required for varying periods, mainly for up
to five years. The Deputy Manager -Operations would be appointed for two
y-ears and then be replaced by a Malawian counterpart, while the IHydrologist
would be required for three years. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that appointments to any of the above-mentioned posts during the
five-year disbursement period would be of persons acceptable to Government
and IDA and on terms and conditions mutually acceptable to Government and
IDA. During the following 5 years the appointments would be made in
consultation with IDA.
6.06      The Project Manager would be selected and appointed with IDA's
approval as soon as possible. His appointment would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit.
6.07      In previous IDA-financed projects, difficulties have been encoun-
tered in recruiting qualified expatriate staff to work in Malawi because the
proposed salaries, based on Government scales, were inadequate. However,
recent adjustments of the pay scales at Lilongwe (IDA Credit 244-MAI) have
resolved this problem. The expatriate and local salary scales used in this
report were in force at the time of negotiations.
6.08      District staff assigned to the project would comprise two technical
officers, thirteen technical assistants and 18 development assistants for



- 19 -
general extension work: for livestock, one technical officer, the senior
technical assistant and 26 veterinary assistants and 18 development assistants.
The personnel required for the health program, consisting of 5 homecraft
workers (Annex 1, para 4), a health inspector, a medical assistant, and a
driver (Annex 7, table 12), would be responsible to the Project Manager through
the Senior Settlement and Extension Officer who would direct their activities
in consultation with the regional health authorities. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the district staff assigned to the project,
including the health personnel, would be placed under the authority of the
Project Manager. The cost of regular staff already in Karonga, who would be
seconded to the Project Unit, has not been included in the project. In
addition, 22 technical officers, 10 senior technical assistants, 36 technical
assistants and 73 development assistants would be required (further details
are in Annex 9, Table 1). Malawian training centers could supply all
technical officer and development assistant level personnel needed but
shortages are expected at the technical assistant level for both agricultural
and veterinary services (para 2.07). Therefore, six development assistants
would be employed annually as trainees for promotion to technical assistants
after one or two years. Training would include courses at the existing
training centers in the project area 1/ as well as in-service training on
the Project.
C. Settlement
6.09      Project rice schemes would be settled mainly with farmers from
neighboring areas. There are lists of applicants for existing double-cropped
rice schemes and no shortage of settlers is anticipated. MYP graduates
(para 2.08) would also be included since those sent from the MYP school in
Kaporo to the ongoing scheme of Wovwe have been working out well. All
settlers would be selected by a local Land Allocation Committee, composed
primarily of local authorities from surrounding villages. Applicants would
be selected in the following order of priorities: from (i) applicants
already farming on land within the scheme; (ii) applicants farming on land
elsewhere within the project area; and (iii) applicants not falling within
the two preceding categories. All participants would be required to have,
in the opinion of the Project Manager, adequate experience or training in
farming. Assurances to this effect were obtained from Government during
negotiations. A settlers' contract would specify the rights and duties of
both the settler and the Scheme Manager. Settlers would be allowed to
produce their basic subsistence requirements in fields outside the irrigation
schemes. Such procedures have proved satisfactory in the past.
6.10      Since most farmers would come from surrounding areas, no settlement
allowance would be required for them. MYP settlers, however, would receive
K 80 for food, equipment and housing during the first year. Repayments of
this allowance would be over five years under existing terms applicable through-
out Malawi (Annex 7, Table 8, footnote 4).
1/   Baka, near Karonga, and Vinthukutu, near Chilumba.



- 20 -
6.11      Under existing rules, only the local Land Allocation Committee has
the power to exclude participants who failed to abide by the scheme rules
concerning water distribution, planting dates or credit repayments. Since
this has proved cumbersome and inefficient mainly due to relatives' pressures,
assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that Government
would, upon the recommendation of the Project Manager, evict from project
schemes settlers who do not abide by the scheme rules concerning water
distribution, planting dates or credit repayments.
D. Credit Facilities
6.12      All project seasonal input requirements (para 4.16) are expected to
be made available on credit in kind through the Project Unit. The incremental
seasonal credit would reach a peak of about K 40,000 in year 4, and the
medium-term credit's peak of about K 24,000 would probably be reached also in
year 4 (See Annex 7, Table 8). A revolving seasonal credit fund and a
medium-term credit fund would be established and administered by the Project
Unit.
Seasonal Credit
6.13      Farmers' seasonal inputs, such as fertilizers and insecticides,
1 would be supplied to the project farmers on credit at a selling price equal
I to the cost (including all handling, transportation and other direct charges),
plus a minimum mark-up of 10% to cover project overheads. A service charge
of 10% per crop on the amount of credit would be charged to help cover the
costs of credit administration. Security for seasonal credit would be the
farmer's crop, from which it would be recovered in full. If for any reason
this were not possible, a further 10% charge on the amount outstanding would
be levied and the overall total would become a charge on the following crop.
No additional charge would be required on seeds, which would be sold at
the price paid to the farmer. The 10% mark-up charge would be allocated to
overall project costs, not to the credit fund.
Medium-Term Credit
6.14      Work oxen, plows and accessories and sprayers would be supplied on
medium-term credit, with a 10% mark-up. Repayment would be over periods of
up to five years, beginning with the first crop and would be by annuity,
with interest at 8%; in the case of double-cropped irrigated rice, however,
payments would be semi-annual. The items financed and the farmer's crop
would constitute the security.
6.15      Project credit officers would maintain credit records, authorize
credit sales and collect bad debts, while extension staff would provide
technical supervision. Farmers obtaining input supplies would register at
the ADMIARC warehouse and market, to which, if he received project credit,
he would be obligated, under the terms of his loan agreement, to sell his
produce. Credit repayments would be collected at ADMARC markets by attending
project credit staff and paid into the credit funds at project headquarters.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the above arrangements
would be implemented and would not be changed without prior agreement between
Government and IDA.



- 21 -
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND
FARMERS' AND GOVERNMENT'S BENEFITS
A. Production
7.01      On the basis of results obtained in ongoing irrigation schemes
in the Karonga Area and field trials for crops other than rice, the
following yields have been forecast:
Under the       Karonga Area
_mmo_ndity                    niroect                       Average
Rice on Double-Cropped
Irrigation                 lb/ac         3,300 per crop   3,014
Organized Rainfed Rice       lb/ac          2,750 per annum  1,760/1
Seed Cotton                  lb/ac          1,000 per annum    300
Groundnuts (shelled)         lb/ac            800 per annum    500
Maize                        lb/ac          2,000 per annum  1,000
/1   Using traditional methods.  In the pilot scheme of Mwenitete, near
Karonga, the average yield is 2,640 lb/ac.
These yields have been estimated on the basis of the improved farming
methods and reinforced extension services to be provided under the project.
For rice, these yields are less than 10% higher than those obtained in
existing schemes under less favorable conditions.  Current cotton yields in
the Lower Shire Valley Project are estimated at 1,000 lb/ac.  Under the
Lilongwe Project Phase I, yields of maize have increased to between 2,000
and 3,000 lb/ac. For groundnuts, no comparable data is available, but at
the Chitedze Research Station near Lilongwe, yields of about 2,000 lb/ac have
been obtained.  Since the Karonga plain is as fertile and has a better
rainfall pattern than the rest of Malawi, the yield levels forecast are
realistic.
7.02      The first project harvest would be in 1973.  Incremental
production would increase progressively up to project year 5, as described
in Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4. Because of the tight planting schedule on double-
cropped irrigation schemes, rice production forecasts are based on only 90%
of the irrigable acreage being planted for the summer crop.
7.03      Because of the improved animal husbandry methods and reinforced
veterinary services provided under the project, it is estimated that the
herd would increase 3% annually during the project's life of 25 years.
Additional markets would allow farmers to sell more cattle, and the
offtake would likely increase from about 10% to 12%. Thus, annual sales
would increase by about 1,700-1,800 animals in project year 5 and by 5,000
animals in project year 20. Average body weight would increase by about 10%,
and the proportion of saleable hides would rise from the current 40% to the
75% of slaughtered animals, an average reached in other areas of Malawi.



- 22 -
B. Markets and Prices
Local Marketing Arrangements
7.04      ADMARC (paras 2.06, 2.10, 3.08, 6.03 and Annex 5) would purchase
all project crops for distribution in Malawi and for export, except for rice
which it would buy from project farmers for resale to NOIL (para 3.08 and
Annex 5) for processing and export. ADMARC has adequate marketing facilities
in the project area (Annex 5, Appendix A para 5) and would add further
facilities as required. NOIL's currently constructed rice mill in Chilumba
(para 3.08) will have sufficient capacity to handle all project rice. Al-
though farmers can and occasionally do barter or sell small quantities of
their produce to local shopkeepers, the Project Management would have no
difficulty in controlling the handling of the bulk of the crops and credit
retpayment (paras 6.13 and 6.15), due to the intensive supervision by both
thae extension and credit divisions of the Project Unit. In view of ADMARC's
important function in the project, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that Government would, through the MANR, cause ADMARC to continue to perform
its functions of marketing and supply of farm inputs in the project area,
including the determination and maintenance of prices, in a manner satisfactory
to Government and IDA.
7.05      The Government-owned Cold Storage Company (para 4.14 and Annex 3),
run by the Veterinary Department, would continue to buy cattle by weight
and grade, mainly for sale in the Southern region or stall-fattening in the
Central region. The Company would use the four new cattle markets to be
constructed by the project, the project holding ground and improved stock
routes for more efficient cattle movement southwards. The Company's fixed
price would act as floor support price against which local butchers would
need to compete.
Export Marketing Arrangements
7.06      All projections in paras 7.06 through 7.09 are those of the Bank's
Economics Department. International organizations have not been consulted
as project production is not considered to be significant in terms of world
trade. Malawi rice has in the past been exported mainly to neighboring
countries(Annex 5), but because these countries have themselves increased
production, the Republic of South Africa, which is expected to remain an
importer of 80,000 tons of rice annually (Annex 5, para 7), would become
the major export outlet.  Under an agreement with South Africa 1/, South Africans
importing from Malawi receive an import duty rebate of US$5.50/ton equivalent
of parboiled rice. It is assumed that the South African importer would con-
tinue to retain 15% of the preferential rebate on import duties, while the
remaining 85% would benefit the Malawian producer. On this basis, prices
f.o.r. Malawi border 2/ would decline from an estimated K 163 per
1/   Agreement No. 306 of February 1, 1971, modifying the previous Agreement
of March 13, 1967.
2/   In the report, Malawi Border is considered to be f.o.r. or c.i.f.
Liwonde.



- 23 -
ton in 1970 to a price ranging from K 127 to K 146 per ton in 1980 (Annex 5,
para 9).
7.07      Malawi cotton lint, which is of medium staple length (1-3/32 in),
is exported mainly to the United Kingdom and prices would be determined
by world supply and demand. By 1975, cotton lint prices c.i.f. Malawi bor-
der would range between K 386.0 per ton and K 457.4/ton. Cotton seed prices
c.i.f. European port are expected to average by 1975 about K 52.7/ton f.o.r.
Malawi.
7.08      A sample lot of the small confectionery groundnut produced in
the Karonga area was exported in 1970 at an average price of K 293/ton f.o.r.
Malawi (or 46% above the average price for 1970 exports) due to exceptional
market conditions. As larger quantities will be exported, the price has been
estimated to decline to 5% below the average price of the larger Chalimba
groundnuts. Thus, the long-term groundnut price projection is K 154.1/ton
f.o.r. Malawi.
7.09      Maize would be sold within the Northern region.  Based on long-term
projections, the farm-gate price of maize would remain at K 20.0/ton.
7.10      With a minimum 2.5% population growth rate and an annual GNP growth
rate of 7% over the next six years, project beef would be consumed within
Malawi and the minimum long-term real price would remain at the 1971 level,
which for the Karonga area was K 6.1/100 lb liveweight.
C. Farmers' Benefits
7.11      Budgets for farmers engaged in the various project activities are
shown in Annex 10. Additional labor for farm operations is available within
the scheme by the participants. Fertilizers have been assumed to be unsubsidized.
Annual cash incomes would vary from about K 83 (US$108) for a farmer's
family of five on a 4.5-acre farm producing cotton, maize and groundnuts to
a high of about K 279 (US$363) for a settler's family of five on a double-
cropped rice scheme, cultivating 3 acres with oxen. These incomes compare
with the present estimated average farm family cash income in the Karonga
area of K 6 (US$8). The ongoing pilot schemes in the project area have
already shown that these increased incomes can be achieved and will undoubtedly
be a satisfactory incentive to attract the expected number of participants
to the project.
D.  Government's Benefits
7.12       The effect of the project on Government revenues over the 25 years
1972-1997 is shown in Annex 11.  The total Government revenue generated by
the project would cover the project costs over the same period.  Over the
first 5 years of the project, the Government would show a net deficit of
about K 0.5 million (US$0.6 million), which would be offset by regular annual
surpluses during the following 20 years.



- 24 -
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      Primary benefits from the proposed project would be increased
production of rice, cotton, maize, groundnuts and beef and the improvement
of the Lake Service, with consequent net foreign exchange earnings and
slavings at full development of about US$1.0 million annually. Other benefits
would be improved health conditions in the project area and those generated
ty the construction and upgrading of about 77 miles of road and 11 boreholes.
F'inally, the project would provide experience for the further development of
this remote part of Malawi.
8.02      In the calculation of the rate of return to the economy, family
labor cost was taken as zero because there is almost no opportunity for
e!mployment for cash wages. What little extra labor beyond the family's own
labor that is required, would come from other families within each scheme and
would be paid for in kind. In the farm budgets this was expressed on the
basis of Karonga district minimum wage rate of K 0.233 per man day(Annex 10,
Tables 1-5). Generally, the farm families in the project area live at sub-
sistence level and are underemployed. By providing employment opportunities
tnder the guidance of the project's technical personnel, the project would
miake an important contribution to the area's further development.
8,.03     On the basis of cost estimates, yields given in paragraph 7.01,
the average commodity prices assumed in paragraphs 7.06 to 7.10, and taken
cver 25 years, the return to the economy from investments in the project
including project related transportation and health service costs would be
about 12%. The rate of return for each agricultural component, exclusive of
health investments which would be difficult to allocate, but inclusive of
overhead costs, are as follows: double-cropped irrigated rice, 9%; organized
rainfed rice, 16% dry-land crops, 21%; livestock, 10%. The return from
the double-cropped irrigated rice reflects the relatively high initial in-
vestment with built-in spare capacity for extension under phase 2 of the
project; the rainfed rice return shows the potential of relatively simple
f'lood control measures on rice production; the dry-land crops reflect the
potential for increasing farmers' incomes by nonlabor inputs such as
fertilizers; and the livestock return shows that a relatively small input should
bring the area to the national average with capacity for further growth created
by basic improvements in animal health, marketing and holding ground develop-
ment. The first phase of the project would thus set the pattern for further
development, for which the project would establish firm data based on prac-
tical experience.
8.04      The overall rate of return has been tested for sensitivity at
various cost (contingencies) and revenue (acreage, yield, price) levels.
I'he return is most sensitive to variations in rice and cotton revenue since
incremental rice and cotton production makes the greatest contribution to
project benefits. The rate of return for the overall project varies between
16 and 12% according to high or low price estimates for rice and cotton
(Annex 12). Sensitivity to changes in the program estimates is summarized
lielow:



- 25 -
As Percentage of Program Estimates
Irrigated Rice Yields    100   90   80   80  100   100   100   100  100
Organized Rainfed
Rice Yields              100   90   80  100   80   100   100   100  100
Dry-Land Crop Yields       100   90   80  100  100    80   100   100  100
Livestock Development    100  100  100  100  100   100    80   100  100
Project Costs              100  100  100  100  100   100   100   110  120
Rate of Return              11.7  9.5  7.3 10.3  9.8  10.6  10.9   9.4  7.4
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01       During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) Initial Development: Preparation and timing of rice scheme
design and detailed plans; provision of dragline; widths of
project feeder roads; supply of 200 cows to nucleus ranch
(paras 4.03, 4.04, 4.12, and 4.15);
(b) Project Personnel: Employment of senior project staff;
assignment of Government personnel (paras 6.05 and 6.08);
(c) Project Rules:
(i)  Physical Control:  Planting calendar; rice scheme
participant selection; eviction of unsatisfactory
participants (paras 4.07, 6.09 and 6.11);
(ii) Financial: Rice scheme charges payable by participants,
holding ground grazing fees, cattle dipping fees,
credit administration (paras 4.06, 4.09, 4.14, 6.12,
6.13, 6.14 and 6.15);
(iii)  Administrative:  Accounts and audit, monitoring
committe (paras 5.09 and 5.10); and
(d)  Other:  Feasibility study for second phase, future recurrent
costs, bilharzia control within project area, ADMARC parti-
cipation (paras 4.17, 5.01, 5.03, 5.04 and 7.04).
9.02       Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) submission by Government to the Association of a plan, satis-
factory to the Association, for improvement of the Lake
Service (para 4.21);
(h) Project Liaison Committee has been established (para 6.02); and
(c) Project Manager has been appointed (para 6.06).
9.03       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$6.6 million on standard IDA terms.
December 29, 1971






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health
General
1.        The general health situation in Malawi gives cause for concern.
This is not because the diseases there are different or more serious
than those found in the surrounding countries but because, as shown in the
following table, the expenditure Malawi could afford on public health has
been largely limited to maintaining existing facilities, which are inade-
quate, and little has been spent on development.
Recurrent Expenditure            Development Account
Total            Health                Total         Health
Year           Budget   Amount      Increase (%)       Budget
------------------------------- K '000 -------------------------------
1964           32.0      1.8              -            5.4              -
1965           32.3      2.1             16.6          9.4            0.2
1966          35.5       2.5            19.0          13.8            0.2
1967           38.9      2.7              8.0         10.1            0.2
1968          40.3       2.7             0.0           14.0           0.2
1969           42.5      2.9              7.4          18.0           0.2
1970/71 (15   47.8       3.1             6.9          38.5            0.2
montlhs )i
1971/72 -     51.5       3.4             9.7          30.4             1.0
/1   Malawi:  Fiscal year from April 1 to March 31.
2.        In 1969, Government invited Dr. Maurice King, Professor of
Social Medicine, Lusaka, Zambia, to draw up a 15-year health development
program (1970-1985). It is now awaiting recommendations from a World
Health Organization (WHO) expert mission before adopting the plan officially
but in the meantime follows it in principle.
3.        Dr. King's basic plan is to increase the ratio of one health
unit (of any type) per 20,000 people to one unit per 10,000 people.
This would be achieved by having one district hospital in each adminis-
trative district, one health center per 50,000 people, one health subcenter
per 10,000 people, and one rural outpost (or mobile clinic post) per
2,000 people. The prevalent emphasis on curative measures would be
balanced witlh equal emphasis on preventive medicine. Thus, instead of
waiting for patients, the health staff would go out to the public with a
program of basic health services, consisting of health education, communi-



ANNEX 1
Page 2
cable disease control, environmental sanitation, maternal and child
health, and public health nursing, as well as curative medicine.
4.        A vital role in this system of bringing health education to
thte community at village level would be played by the "homecraft worker",
matle or female, who would man the rural outpost and deliver a full range
of community health services, excluding curative medicine, except for
some elementary first aid and oral malaria treatment. The rural outpost
wculd be visited weekly by a mobile team from a nearby hospital.
Morbidity and Mortality
5.        Very few scientifically conducted surveys have been carried out
in, Malawi and those have been concerned mainly with children, the most
vulnerable group. Because of this lack of general data, hospital statis-
tics have to be used as a substitute. These are misleading, however,
because only the principal illness is recorded with no account taken of
other diseases that the patient may also be suffering from. It is
common for a pneumonia patient to also have malaria, hookworm and
gastroenteritis 1/. Further, the records are kept by nonprofessional
staff and are seldom adequately processed.
6.        It is thought that about 50% of Malawi children die before they
are 17 and those who do survive are often debilitated by bilharzia,
malaria and other diseases. Malnutrition, particularly in children under
5, is a serious problem. This is due to insufficient intake, rather
than scarcity, of protein and calories, caused by wrong feeding practices.
A recent survey carried out in a typical district showed that 30% of
children under 6 were suffering from moderate or severe malnutrition.
Between the ages of 12 and 18 months, the figure was 62%.
The Present Situation
7.        Ninety-two percent of Malawi's population lives in traditional
villages under unhygienic conditions. Very few people have access to
reliable drinking water and only towns provide sewage systems. Refuse
collection is nonexistent. Health expenditures when related to Malawi's
population of some 4.4 million show that only K 0.73 (US$0.94) is spent per
capita per annum, which is one of the lowest rates in Africa. There are
80 doctors in Malawi, or about one to 57,000 people. Table 1 shows Malawi's
situation compared to that of other countries.
8.        Medical care in Government institutions is free except for a
small charge for deliveries. There is only one hospital with a specialist
staff (Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Blantyre), three large hospitals (Zomba,
Lilongwe and Likuni), and three other hospitals that have more than one
doctor. There are 250 other units, ranging from a single-room dispensary
to a few larger but inadequately staffed hospitals. Seventy percent of
1/   See Table 1, Part B, for incidence of other diseases.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
these units have no doctor and one of Malawi's 600 "Medical Assistants"
(Technical Assistant grade) takes care of some 100 to 300 patients daily.
There are 50 "Clinical Officers" with qualifications below the medical
practitioner grade. In the preventive branch, there are 30 "Health
Inspectors" and 100 "Health Assistants", concerned mainly with environmental
health (including bilharzia control), communicable disease control, and
health education (ratio 1:38,000 people). Other staff, including regis-
tered nurses, are being trained in Malawi, and the number of trainees
could be increased if sufficient vacancies were available. To significantly
increase the number of Clinical Officers and Medical Assistants, a new
training school would be required. This is estimated to involve a capital
expenditure of about K 300,000 and the Government is now negotiating with
the Danish Government for assistance in this respect.
Karonga
9.        There are no separate medical statistics for the Karonga area.
However, there is no reason to believe that conditions there vary signifi-
cantly from the rest of Malawi. The main diseases are bilharzia, malaria
and gastroenteritis, respiratory infections, measles, leprosy and tuberculo-
sis. Water-borne diseases have a considerable impact because farmers spend
prolonged periods of time in rice fields or swamps.
10.       In 1970, the Government spent about K 51,000 (or 1.5% of the
national total) on recurrent expenditures for health in the Karonga district,
tiing K 0.57 or US$0.73 equivalent per capita. The existing facilities are
as follows (See third Map):
(a) Government health facilities:
(i)  Karonga District Hospital, built in 1931 and
in poor condition. It has 105 beds, operating
and X-ray facilities and has its own electricity
generator. A Senior Clinical Officer is in
charge (a grade below registered medical practi-
tioner). The hospital supplies drugs and medicines
to other units;
(ii) Chilumba Rural Hospital, old and in poor condi-
tion. It has 16 beds, no electricity; water is
carried from the lake. A Medical Assistant is
in charge;
(iii) Kaporo Rural Hospital is new and well designed.
It has 20 beds. A Medical Assistant is in
charge. It has no electricity;
(iv) Mwakawoko Dispensary, a small but busy unit,
run by a single Medical Assistant. Has no
electricity; and



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(v) Mpata Dispensary, a small, old dispensary to be
replaced by a new one in the near future.
(b) Mission hospitals and dispensaries supported and administered
by a religious order:
(i) St. Mary's Hospital in Karonga. It has 20 beds,
mainly for maternity cases, but it is not equipped
to deal with complications. It is in good condition.
A registered nurse is in charge;
(ii) St. Anne's Hospital in Vinthukutu (near Chilumba),
which has 7 beds and caters mainly for maternity
cases. It is in good condition. A registered
nurse is in charge; and
(iii) Sangilo Dispensary, which is south of Chilumba.
This is a small building in poor condition, staffed
by one Medical Assistant only. Water is carried
from the lake. Has no electricity.
11.       In view of the project proposals to introduce additional irriga-
tion and water management to the area, preventive measures would be
required to control bilharzia (also called schistosomiasis). The disease is
caused by a microorganism living in the blood vessels of the bladder
(urinary type) or of the intestines (intestinal type); the former type
comprises some 80% of the cases in Karonga. The damage caused is greatly
dependent on the severity of the infection but may debilitate its suf-
ferer considerably and can eventually affect the bladder, ureters and
kidney. Once established, further progress of the disease can be stopped
by treatment but any damages are irreversible and sometimes fatal. Pos-
sibly half of the people in Karonga are affected.
12.       Transmission occurs as follows:  the parasites in the bladder
or intestines produce eggs that leave the human body in urine or stools.
If these are deposited in water (as often happens, directly or indirectly),
the parasite will look for certain types of snails in which to develop
further. These snails are found in fresh, stagnant water, especially
if reeds and grasses are growing in it. After five to six weeks, the
bilharzia parasite leaves the snail and floats freely through the water
looking for a human body, which it penetrates through the intact skin on
its way to the blood vessels of bladder or intestines.
Bilharzia Control
13.       The project would introduce bilharzia control based on the
killing of the intermediate host of the parasite, the snail. Procedures
would be as follows:
(a) It is uneconomical to start treating the water before
the human bilharzia carrier snail is present, and



ANNEX 1
Page 5
some skill is required to recognize it. A search should
be made in the irrigated areas, the nonirrigated areas,
and in the streams running through the latter. Experience
shows that even if no snails are present at the time of
the first examination, they are bound to appear sooner
or later;
(b) Water can be treated in various ways. If it flows at a
reasonable speed, a chemical molluscicide can be drip-fed
in the main canals. If the water is standing, the chemi-
cals should be sprayed onto the water;
(c) Two main chemicals are available as molluscides: "Frescon"
and "Bayluscide." Frescon is easy to spray and is given
in a low dosage, thus facilitating transportation. The
drug is safe to use, but it does not kill the snails'
eggs. Treatment therefore has to be repeated. Bayluscide
does kill the eggs but until recently was harder to
dispense. However, Bayluscide has now become available
in an easy-to-dispense form. Costs of the two treatments
are about the same, and which chemical to use depends on
many local circumstances; the dosage depends on the
amount of water and the flow rate;
(d) About every two weeks, the water has to be examined for
snails again and if the population has increased, re-
treatment is required. The rate of increase of snails
determines how soon another examination will have to
be carried out; and
(e) Certain strains of snails are resistant to desiccation,
others are not. The irrigated areas will be dry once
a year for one month and the nonirrigated areas will
be dry from June to November. It will be necessary
to investigate the effect this period of drought in
the nonirrigated areas has on the snails. The short
dry periods in the double-cropped irrigation schemes
will probably not be detrimental to them.
14.       To control bilharzia properly in the project area, the following
staff is needed:
(a) Two laborers for an area of about 1,500 acres on average,
varying with the geographical spread of the schemes;
(b) One "snailranger", i.e., a man who is able to check
the waters and recognize the snails. This could be
the same person who controls the waterflow. He
would require about one month of training;



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(c) One person trained in snail-control techniques who
decides, on the basis of the snailranger's findings,
on further steps. This could be a Health Inspector,
who would require additional training of at least
three months;
(d) One professional officer, resident in the area (e.g.,
the irrigation engineer, an agriculturalist, or a
medical officer) to give some supervision to the snail-
control officer. He too needs to familiarize himself
with snail identification and control procedures; and
(e)  One bilharzia consultant in a nearby country who is
able to visit the area occasionally and advise the
supervising professional officer.
15.       Bilharzia control program in Kenya costs a maximum of K 0.50/ac
an,d in Rhodesia K 0.56/ac annually. The latter unit cost has conservatively
beien used for the Karonga project. Recurrent costs for the 1,500-acre double-
c*ropped irrigation schemes would amount to K 840/yr. Full treatment for
seven months on 6,000 acres of organized rainfed rice schemes within the proj-
ect would amount to K 1,960/yr. Capital costs are negligible.
December 29, 1971



M4ALAWI
KAWONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Existing HIealth Facilities  in Malawi and Other Countries
Tanga-             Bots-
Malawi   Kenya    nrika    Zambia   wana        Cameroon   Eiger    U.S.A. Europe
Below   Below
Inhabitants per doctor                     57,000   10,200   33,000   11,500   17,000   26,000    56,00C    1,000   1,000
Not
Hospital beds per 1,000 inhabitants            1.L      l.h       1.9       2.2       2.5      2.0        0.7    Avail.    9.1
B. Morbidity and Mbrtality in Malawi
Children weighing less than 80  of normal weight (, of children)                        35-L5
Fercentage of children with moderate or severe malnutrition                             15-30
Percentage of children with malaria                                                     50-60
Percentage of children with hookworm                                                     h-15
Average haemoglobin in children (as a - of nDrmal level)                                60-65
Percentage of population with bilharzia (Karonga)                                       50-60
Deaths from pulmonary diseases (as a d of all hospital deaths)                          ca.50
Tuberculosis: a. number affected per 100,000 inhabitants                                l,LOO
b. number new cases yearly treated per 100,000 inhhbitants                65.2 (p3.6 in T{enya, 15.8 in Nigeria,
21.3 in Colombie, 19.8 in Europe)
Leprosy: Percentage of population affected                                                1-2
Blindness: Percentage of population affected                                              0.7
Measles: mortality as , of all cases                                                    ca.10
Stillbirth rate (5) 5-6 (2.5 in Chile and Colombia, 1.2 in
Europe)
Infant mortality rate (i.e. under 1 year) (O)                                              15 (1 in Ivory Coast and 10 in Chile,
1.5 in Europe)
Child mortality rate (i.e. 1-L years) (8) 8.3 (7.0 in Nigeria, 0.1 in Eirope)
Ma~ternal death rate (%)                                                                    1 (0.2- in Chile and Colombia, 0.02
in Europe)
Deeember 29, 1971.                                                                                                             |






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Area, Crops and Hydrology
A. Project Area
General
1.        As a whole, the project area is sparsely populated - some 5/sq. mi.
in the extensive hilly areas, rising to 200/sq. mi. in the plains area.
The hills, slopes and the less fertile areas are characterized by the shift-
ing cultivation of food grains, sweet potatoes and bananas, and some live-
stock to provide milk. The fertile plains are used at different degrees of
intensity, the highest being on the ongoing irrigation schemes at Hara,
Wovwe and Kaporo (second Map), which cover some 930 acres of double-cropped
rice, with tenants holding leases on 2 acres. There is also a single-crop
rainfed rice scheme at Mwenitete (second Map), covering 60 acres provided
with organized drainage.
2.        Traditional peasant cultivation on a relatively intensive scale
covers a large area, particularly in the north. This includes rainfed
rice on flood basins, large "dambo" 1/ floors and swamp edges. Some
shifting cultivation takes place, with exhausted plots being left to
recuperate while others are opened up. With the exception of Malawi
Young Pioneers 2/, who have land only in the scheme areas, farmers often
combine rice growing with the production of food crops on adjacent, better
drained areas. Elsewhere, intensive cultivation produces maize, cotton,
sorghum and cassava crops. On the sandier, drier soils, groundnuts tend
to replace cotton as a caslh crop.
3.        Land tenure is governed by the customary right of usufruct with
patrilineal succession, allowing farmers to work any land that is unoccu-
pied and uncultivated. When abandoned, such land reverts to common
ownership. Holdings average 3 to 4 acres per family, with one in four
farmers owning an average of 20 head of cattle. The table below sum-
marizes the land use in the Karonga district:
1/   "Dambo" is a local term denoting a flat, poorly drained valley.
2/  Mlalawi Young Pioneers (MYP) movement has been set up by Government to
train young men and women in need of employment in basic disciplines,
civics, agriculture and community development. About 2,000 MYP's are
trained annually. Some enter settlement schemes and some return to
their own communities to stimulate agricultural production.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Used        Unused           Total
----------- acres --------------
Escarpment and Plateau                    -            -             578,000/1
Lakeshore Plain
Intensive farming with some                             /2
livestock                          43,000       50,000-=         93,000
Extensive farming, shifting
cultivation and livestock         64,000           -             64,000
Unsuitable land, hills,
sand and marsh                        -         92,000           92,000
Total                                                     827,000
/1   Parts are usable for future large-scale ranching.
/2   Possible extension area for further development.
4.        Cultivation is by hand with some use of oxen, particularly in the
north. Increasing the use of oxen will depend on intensifying the present
training of oxen and providing medium-term loans for their purchiase. The
extension services have a small unit in the area that turns out 15 to 20
trained oxen annually, but this could be expanded to 50 with little diffi-
culty. Some farmers train their own animals and, during 1970, some steel
mouldboard plows were purchased in the area, indicating improved culti-
vation methods are being introduced.
B. Crops
Ge.eral
5.        The major crops in the area are maize, cassava, finger millet,
sweet potatoes and bananas for food, and rice, cotton and groundnuts mainly
for cash.
Rice
6.        Double-cropped irrigated rice production is based on the use of
Anxrican varieties, mainly Bluebonnet and Bluestar, both with a 140-day
growth period from sowing. An efficient central program of rice
variety importation, selection and trial is carried out by the research
services and two IRRI varieties, IRRI 20 and 21, suitable for thie local
market, and an indica variety, Neelor, from Salvador, with a 120-day growth
period, will be available for distribution within two years. In Karonga,
irrigated rice is transplanted from seed beds, while the organized rainfed
rice and the present peasant cultivated rice, the Faya variety, is direct
seeded. These short-growing varieties will be particularly important
as they will give the farmer more time for his cultivation and ensure a



ANNEX 2
Page 3
period of dry ground for one month each year, after the wet season harvest,
to permit control of eel-worm, the major pest found in the area (Table 1).
The 1970 summer crop was seriously infested by a stem eel-worm called
Ufra (Dityleuchus angustus) in most of the double-cropped rice schemes in
Malawi. A planting calendar, allowing for a cLosed season of one month,
during which the land is allowed to dry out, was strictly enforced on the
scheme members before the 1970-71 winter crop and no serious Ufra infestation
was found on the two subsequent crops. MANR has a competent pathologist
who is following the problem closely and believes the disease can be con-
trolled satisfactorily. The strict planting calendar, however, has reduced
the time allowed for transplanting, and it has been assumed that 10% of the
acreage would remain unplanted during the summer crop.
7.        The current schemes are obtaining yields of 1.4 tons of paddy/ac/crop,
using fertilizers at the rate of 200 lb sulphate of ammonia and 100 lb of a
composite mixture at 20:20:0 ratio of N,P,K. This yield should be surpassed
with better water control and new varieties. Because difficulties are being
encountered, however, in obtaining full plantings for both crops when hand
cultivation is practised, future schemes would reduce the acreage per family \
frem--2 to 1-1/2. Some farmers, however, would be encouraged to use work oxen\
and cultivate 3-acre holdings. Table 1 gives details of the labor require-
ments and shows a shortfall of five man-days during the transplanting period;
this would be met by obtaining help from the family or hiring labor to be
paid in kind.
8.        The Faya variety used in the rainfed single-crop areas easily
gives a yield of 1.1 t/ac with fertilizers. Higher yields are being obtained
in the Mwenitete scheme as well as by individual farmers outside the schemes
when they use fertilizer and farm on better soils. Although lower yielding
than the irrigated rice varieties, Faya is more adaptable to fluctuating
water situations and other adverse conditions. Although eel-worm is not a
problem with single-crop rice, birds, rats and mice cause losses and their
control requires constant attention by the grower. Blast, although it is
present, does not constitute a major problem. The normal grower outside the
existing schemes, without fertilizer or flood protection, averages around
800 lb/ac p.a. Acreages of project schemes are shown in Table 2, and the
total and incremental production in Table 3.
Cotton
9.        Cotton is grown on residual moisture at the end of the rains.
Fresh seed of the nationally grown variety, Albar 637, is supplied annually
by ADMARC, but yields for seed cotton are low at 300 lb/ac where no inputs
of fertilizer and insecticides are used. More advanced farmers, farming a
total of about 60 ac, are obtaining yields in excess of 1,200 lb/ac. It
is expected that the 1,750 project farmers would average about 1,000 lb. It
is proposed to advance the planting date for phytosanitary reasons and for
better growing conditions so that cotton would be grown as a normal rain crop,
probably planted after the food crops, i.e., from the end of December until
February, and having the advantage of the protection afforded by sprays. No
fertilizers are used at present and their use in the future would depend on



ANNEX 2
Page 4
research results. Acreages of project cotton development are shown in Table
2 and total and incremental production in Table 4.
Groundnuts
10.       For many years, small acreages of the small Malimba variety
have been grown for food and local sale, but recently a confectionery
export outlet has been found in Europe. These nuts can be machine-shelled,
eliminating the constraint found in growing the groundnuts currently produced
under the Lilongwe Agricultural Development Project, which have to be hand-
shelled. Farmers are showing great interest, but progress is slow because
of inefficient arrangements for seed supply and lack of extension services.
PTresent yields of 300 lb/ac can be increased to 800 lb with improved
husbandry methods and proper seed storage. Research at Chitedze has slhown
that probably 20 lb of sulphur/ac would increase yields economically.
Further research in the project area is required, however, (see Annex 4,
para 4) before these results can be extended to project farmers. Acreages of
project groundnuts development are shown in Table 2, and total and incremental
productions in Table 4.
Maize and Other Food Crops
11.       Maize yields in the district average 600 to 1,000 lb/ac but small
quantities of seed of improved synthetic varieties have been issued and
tested in the district which, with fertilizer, have achieved increases of
up to 4,000 lb/ac. Farmers participating in the improved crops extension
drive, involving cotton and groundnuts would be provided with credit to
enable them to grow improved synthetic varieties with fertilizers. This
would fill a local demand and hopefully lead to exports at a later date,
either across the border into Zambia or through ADMARC. Acreages of project
maize development are shown in Table 2 and total and incremental productions
in Table 4.
C. Ilydrology of the Lufira, Wovwe and Songwe Rivers
Lufira River
12.       The proposed irrigation scheme on the left bank of the Lufira River
(second Map) is in a favorable location; the irrigable area is large and cur-
rently grows good rainfed rice. The proposed intake point is in a gorge
where the river is unable to change its course; intake structures would be
cut into a rock cliff that would support the intake canal; a silt ejector
would discharge silt back into the river before the intake canal leaves the
river.
13.       Flow data for the Lufira River are available for seven years
only, which is not adequate to establish a reliable pattern. Ten-day
averages, however, show an 800 probability of 29 cusecs being available
in October/November at the time of maximum water requirement. Using



ANNEX 2
Page 5
the figure of 45 ac/cusec, the scheme could command some 1,300 acres but,
in view of the inadequacy of the data, the proposed project would provide
for construction of a double cropped irrigated scheme on 1,000 acres only,
with provision for future expansion. In the meantime, the project would
simultaneously develop 2,500 acres of single crop rainfed rice within this
area for which adequate water resources are available and which could be
converted to full irrigation later on.
Wovwe River
14.       The Wovwe River is a strongly flowing river in the southern
half of the Karonga plain. Its low dry-weather flow recording stands
at around 30 cusecs for eight years out of 10, which makes it capable
of irrigating some 1,500 acres of double-cropped rice. Stage one of its
development covers some 280 acres on the left bank, with 200 acres already
in production and 80 acres to be implemented by the Government by year 1
of the project. First results are encouraging, with yields at the
expected 1.5 short t/ac/crop.
15.       The proposed development would be on about 500 acres on the right
bank and downstream of an existing pilot scheme (second Map). Reconnaissance
soil surveys show that some 230 acres, already cultivated with rice,
have heavy alluvial clays. About 100 acres have complex alluvium fine
textured soils with a minimum depth of 18 inches that would be suitable
for irrigation. The balance of 170 acres would probably be located on
lighter alluvial soils surrounding the above-mentioned areas, but this
would depend on detailed soil surveys to be carried out. The survey also
shows that additional suitable soils, likely to be found farther downstream,
could be utilized for further development or organized rainfed schemes.
Songwe River
16.       The Songwe River forms the northern boundary between Malawi and
Tanzania (second Map). A large basin between the river and Kaporo town catches
water from the Songwe and from small rivers flowing into the Songwe from
the surrounding hill catchment area, and drains into Lake Malawi. The
Songwe overflows its banks at several locations and, during the rainy season,
large areas of the basin are under water. Nevertheless, this area produces
30% of the Karonga district rice crop, one-third of the Malawian total of
about 10,000 t at present. On the flood plain, the rice is grown on a mix-
ture of flood and rain water, depending on the situation of the plot and its
relation to the drainage system. The farmer has no control over the
water level in his field except through small handmade field boundaries.
Around the floor of the plain are slightly elevated areas through which
small streams flow from the lower catchment hills and where some of the
rice is irrigated on an ad hoc basis.
17.       The project would start collecting data through the recording
hydrologist and his team so that a land use plan could be prepared. The
plan would define (a) the areas suitable for irrigation (b) the areas
suitable for the controlled growth of rain or flood grown rice, and (c)



ANNEX 2
Page 6
grazing regions and drainage areas. An overall plan of development would
also be produced, detailing necessary overall flood protection works, such
as river bank levees and positive drainage work where feasible, to permit
the fullest development of the irrigable and nonirrigable controlled areas
for rice growing. Without such a plan, no large-scale development would be
possible. However, the project would include funds to develop 550 acres of
organized rainfed rice in an area not requiring overall protection. All of
these activities would provide necessary information on design and drainage
performance for the development of an estimated total of 2,000 acres in the
Songwe basin.
December 29, 1971



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LABOR DEMAND AND SUPPLY PATrERN FOR DOUBLE CROP RICE
60-                                                                                                                                60
AVERAGE FAMILY LABOR SUPPLY
S ----------- I/  CLOSED
SEASON
40-                                                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
E              ____-------,          r~~~~~~~--------------;;75//       
< 30-                 12                                                                    
/P        12                                      30----
E5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NUR0                    2-                                                NUR  3NUR.                  -20
30
5  4  cu 1.  |  CULI t   >  >   0 HARV 0 |:      ?         4  0 CULT.  }  CULT. ,              HARV.     
DEC.     JAN.        FEB.      MAR.       APR.      MAY       JUN.        JUL.      AUG.       SEP.       OCT.      NOV.
20 1       25j 1~  I4  1                          15                                         - - I- I             RV./  I
z      ,               .              ,     F    ,        ,        ,                   .         1.~ARV. 
NUR5ERY i ~~~~~~CLOSED   g     NURSERY J
SCHEDULE              TAN5PLAN                         FINISH HARVESTING  ,, TA5LN
LABOR REQUIREMENT FOR 1 .0 ACRETP                                         -TANPNIG
NURP    -  NRASERYNWORK
CU  LABOR REQUIREMENT FOR 1.5 ACRES                                   CULT.   -  PLNUGHE WOP
I.---.,                                            ~~~~~~~~W/F  -  WEEDING&8 ERTILIZING             t 
HARV./                   HARV
SOURCE: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES,                THRESH- -  HARVESTING & THRESHING               -x
ZOMBA, MALAWI
IBRD 5887(R)






ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Schedule
Irrigation             1972      1973      1974      1975     1976        Total
Lufira                  500       500        -         -        -         1,000
Wovwe                     -        -        500        -         -          500
Total Acreage            500      500       500        -         -        1,500
No. of Farmers
1.5 ac                220       220       220       -         -           660
3.0 ac                 57        57        57       -         -           171
Organized Rainfed Rice
Lufira Right Bank        750       -         -         -        -           750
Lufira Left Bank         -      1,500    1,000         -        -         2,500
Mperere                   -        -        500       500        -         1,000
Kaporo                    -        -         -        900       100       1,000
Songwe                    -        -         -        350       200         550
Wovwe                     -        -         -         -        200          200
Total Acreage            750    1,500    1,500    1,750         500       6,000
No. of Farmers           250      500       500       585       165       2,000
Cotton, Maize, Groundnuts
Cotton                   120      480       600    1,200      1,100       3,500
Maize                    120      480       600    1,200       1,100      3,500
Groundnuts                20      180       200       200        200        800
Total Acreage            260    1,140    1,400    2,600       2,400       7,800
No. of Farmers            60      240       300       600        550      1,750
December 29), )l('






ANNEX 2
Table 3
MULAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Rice Production in Mletric Tons
1977 and
1973 1974 1975 1976 thereafter
I. PADDY
A. DOUBLE CROP IRRIGATED RICE SCHEMES
Acreage/  (ac)                       475   950 1,425 1,425        1,425
Total Production
at 3 tons/ac                     1,350 2,850 4,275 4,275        4,275
Subsistence (10%)    /2              135   285   428   428          428
Preproject Production--         91    91   182   272   272          272
Incremental Production             1,124 2,383 3,575 3,575        3,575
B. ORGANIZED RAINFED RICE
Acreage (ac)                         750 2,250 3,750 5,500        6,000
Total Production
at 1.250 tons/ac                   938 2,812 4,688 6,875        7,500
Subsistence (10%)    /2               94   281   469   688          750
Preproject Production/-              136   408   681   998        1,089
Incremental Production               708 2,123 3,538 5,189        5,661
Subtotal Incremental
Paddy Production                 1,832 4,506 7,113 8,764        9,236
II. MILLED RICE AT 66.75%                     1,223 3,008 4,748 5,850        6,165
Bran                                  59   146   231   285          300
Total                              1,282 3,154 4,979 6,135        6,465
/1   Project acreage is reduced by 5% to account for a 10% reduction in the
planted acreage during the summer crop due to the light planting
schedule.
/2   Currently about 50% of the project area is cropped with estimated
yields of 800 lb/ac.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 2
Table 4
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production of Cotton, Groundnuts and Maize in Metric Tons
1977 and
1973  1974  1975  1976   thereafter
I.,  SEED COTTON
Acreage (ac)                           120   600 1,200 2,400       3,500
Total Production at 1,000 lb/ac        55   273   546 1,092        1,592
Preproject Production /1               19    45    90   181           264
Incremental production                 36   227   456   911        1,328
II.  COTTON LINT  33%                          12    75   150   300          438
/2
III. COTTON SEED-  66%                         19   128   257   537          813
IV. GROUNDNUTS, SHELLED EQUIVALENT
Acreage (ac)                           20   200   400   600           800
Total Production at 500 lb/ac            7    73   145   21,          290
Preproject Production /3    /4           1     7    15    22           29
Additional seed requirements-           6    12    18    24            24
Incremental Production                  0    54   112   172          237
V.   MAIZE
Acreage (ac)                           120   600 1,200 2,400       3,500
Marketed Production  /5                55   273   546 1,092         1,592
Preproject Production-                 24   120   240   479           699
Incremental Production                 31   153   306   612          893
/1   Currently 55% of the project area is cropped with estimated yields of
300 lb/ac.
/2   After deduction of planting seed requirements of 40 lbs/ac.
/3   Currently 25% of the project area is cropped with estimated yields of
300 lb/ac.
/4   At the rate of 30 kgs of groundnut seed shelled equivalent/ac.
/5   Currently 55% of the project area is cropped with estimated yields of
800 lb/ac.
December 31, 197)



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock
General
1.        Cattle in the project area total some 52,000 head and are the
Malawian Zebu type, with some Ankole long-horns and an infusion of the East
African Zebu. Animals are distributed mainly in small individually owned
herds of around 20 animals each, which are grazed in groups of up to 100
on communal grounds, with access to crop residues after harvest. About one
farming family in four owns stock, which is kept to provide milk for the
family, to sell, to use for traditional ceremonial purposes, and to serve
as work oxen. The offtake has averaged 8% over the past 20 years, rising to
10% over the last 10 years. The Chitipa area has a present stocking rate of
one beast to 30 acres, and the more fertile plains below, one to 9 acres.
With more use of crop residues, this could be doubled.
Animal Health
1.       The present herd has some well-grown animals in good condition
but most calves show the usual signs of milk starvation, worms and tick-
borne diseases. Animals on the border of Tanzania are occasionally attacked
by foot and mouth disease, but inoculation and quarantine provide sufficient
control so that little damage is done. No rinderpest and bovine pleuro-
pneumonia have been experienced during the last few years, and there is
little tuberculosis. Tripanosomiasis is present in one area to the north
but only slightly, as is East Coast Fever, Red-Water, and Anaplasmosis. The
main constraints to production are a high calf death rate, liver fluke, in-
testinal parasites and tick-borne diseases.
3.        A dipping program to reduce tick-borne diseases has been in
operation since 1931, but there are not enough dipping tanks to give the
area full coverage. Furthermore, mainly because of inefficient extension
work, not all the cattle are presented even when they are adjacent to the
dips. Only 50 to 60% of the cattle within a 5-mile radius of a dip are
regularly treated, with the overall figure as low as about 33%.
Marketing
4.        Besides the animal health problems he must face, the stock
owner in the Karonga region also suffers from the low prices he obtains
for his stock due to the lack of outside outlets and the long distances
his stock must trek to be exported. Some 12 butchers operate out of
Karonga, buying stock on a private trading basis but many cattle cre
slaughtered on the farm or at a village market, on the payment of a 0.75



ANNEX 3
Page 2
kwacha market fee. The price paid to the farmer is low enough to ensure a
profit for the meat buyer who operates on a fixed maximum price of K 0.15 per
pound for all grades. As a result, the Karonga district price is 3 to 6
kwacha/beast below that paid in other districts.
5.        Throughout the rest of Malawi (and at the Market established at
Chitipa in 1968), a Purchasing Authority, run by the Veterinary Department
and financed by the Government-owned Cold Storage Company, buys cattle
by weiglht and grade at fixed prices. Besides obtaining meat for sale in
Blantyre and the surrounding districts, the Company also buys feeder
cattle for fattening by stall feeding farmers in the Central and Southern
districts of Malawi. The prices it pays to farmers in Chitipa allows a
margin for expenses and losses incurred on the stock route, but they are
st:ill higher than the prices it pays to farmers in areas without markets.
Once a market starts operating, the fixed prices form a floor support
priLce against which local butchers must bid, thus raising the profit to
the farmers.
6.        Although the total demand for medium to high grade meat il
iMalawi is modest when compared with other countries, it is rising at a
faster rate than can be satisfied by local production. A good market
therefore exists for animals that could be exported from Karonga region
for slaughter or for fattening elsewhere.
Project Proposals
7.        Under the project, the number of dipping tanks would be increased
from 19 to 41 (second Map) to give a coverage of approximately one for every
10-mile radius. This would put most of the cattle within reasonable range of
a tank and improve disease control through regular inspection and treatment.
Any necessary preventive campaign against epidemics such as foot and
mouth would also have a greater effect, with consequent improved protec-
tion against breakthrough to the rest of Malawi.
8.        The project would also set up four markets (second Map), complete
with weighing scales, so that farmers could sell their stock to the Veteri-
nary Purchasing Authority at the overall Malawian floor price.
9.        A holding groun(d of about 18,000 acres (second Map) would also be
established to hold purchiased stock, especially during the dry months wilen
cattle travelling down the stock routes lose condition and body weight. This
area would be large enough and sufficiently developed to allow a small
nucleus demonstration ranch herd of somc 200 head of females of Improved
Malawi-Zebu strain. Thue animals would be supplied by the Veterinary Depart-
ment. The holding ground would be on the plateau inland from the Lake at the
edge of the Karonga-Chitipa district line and on the connecting road. It is
well served with water, mainly by the Lufira River, and it would have a
carrying capacity of one beast to 20 acres when developed. A dipping tank,
cati:le handling yards, farm buildings, and houses would be constructed, as
wouLd firebreaks, access tracks, and grazing control fencing so that, using
the purchased cattle and the nucleus herd, proper commercial beef produc-



ANNEX 3
Page 3
tion practices could be demonstrated, and management and performance
data could be obtained for a possible future commercial ranch. The Senior
Livestock and Veterinary Officer of the project would be responsible for
overall operations, assisted by a resident Technical Officer (TO) who
would carry out the day-to-day management. The TO would also liaise with
the Veterinary Purchasing Authority regarding the holding and movement
of cattle for the stock route and be responsible for the nucleus herd and
any training program connected with it.
10.       In conjunction with the holding ground, the present stock route
south would be improved by adding more night paddocks, adjacent dips,
water points and cattle bridges.
Benefits
11.       The individual farmer would benefit by being able to dip his
cattle within a reasonable distance, by obtaining advice and treatment for
his cattle, and by having access to organized markets and standard prices
for his surplus. To define the precise extent of his benefits, however,
is difficult in a project involving a composite traditional herd of
cattle with many small owners. Herd projections can vary greatly, depending
on assumptions of reduction in death rates, improvements in percentage
offtakes, and the like.  Furthermore, in a largely subsistence area,
cattle form a reserve supply of food in drought years, capital for mar-
riages and other traditional commitments. An animal about to die from a
disease can be slaughtered and give a false statistical picture. There-
fore, past overall district herd data are the best indications of future
performance.
12.       The Veterinary Department has maintained cattle registers in
all districts of Malawi for many years and the herd statistics in Table 1
have been obtained from this source. It can be seen that in Karonga and
Chitipa districts the total cattle population in 1970 is virtually the same
as it was in 1958, the depletion of the small increase in the herd size hav-
ing been caused by a severe drought in 1968.
11.       Tn the southprn and rentral RegRons, because of more extension
staff and dinning tnnks, the growth rate of 17 n.a. in the size of the
herd, ia enviqsPid hv the nrojerit, has been achieved and the Veterinary
nenartment nredicts a rise to 4t' n.a.  Tn the project area a three-year moving
averase hptwpen 1ln1 and 1W  has been about 1/9w r.a. only.
14.       The average off-take of the last 10 years of around 10% is below
that of the consistent 12% generally achieved in the Southern and Central
Regions and also below the present national average of 11-1/2%. However,
the opening of a new market in Chitipa in 1969 and two new markets in Karonga
District in 1970 have led to a small, but expected initial increase.
15.       ThIus, with the provision of markets, a holding ground and improve-
ments to the stock route, the nroject would encourage the export of suitable
animals and raise the price of locally slaughtered stock for the farmers.



ANNJIEX 3
Page 4
It is estimated that the increase of extension staff, the building of dips
andi the provision of suitable drugs would increase the productlon of the
district cattle herd by raising the annual growth rate from 1/2% to 3%, thie
average body weight by 60 lb over 20 years, and the offtake from 10% to 12%.
Once the proiect Is fullv operational it is expected that about a third
of the off-take, some 3,600 head annually, would go to Southern and Central
Regions for finishing and help meet the demands of these areas.
16.       To calculate the incremental benefit resulting from the project a
conmparison is set out in Tahle l(a) and 3(b). Table 3(a) was based on the
current average of 10% annual off-take and an annual herd growth of 1/2%.
Table 3(b) shows the anticipated results: an annual offtake at 12% from the
start (because of new markets) and an annual herd growth of 3%.
December 29, 1971



IIALAWI
ANOnI 3
KRONGA  URDAL SDVELOPW NT PROJECT                                                                                              Table 1
National and District Herds-Past Petfor-anre
----------------------------------…National H-d  --------------------------            -----------K-oga and Chitipa District Herd--------n----------   __-__S-uther-  Region id-                         -------Central and Southern Nerd_-----
Totol Cattle    'Total Retorded          %           3 Year Running       AortaS       Cattle        Off-Tako        7         3 Year Running      Annual       Cattle        Total             7,        Cattle        Total Re-orded         7.
Year         Pupulation       Slaughterings 2/    Off-Take        Average Cattle         %        Population                  off-Take     Average Cattle        7.         Populatiun   Slaughtering   Off-Take   Populatio-        Slaughterings      Off-Take
P.pulation        Increase       _           _                           Poptulation      Increase
1951          280,669           19.342               6.9
1952          279,436           19,866               7.1
1953          273,348           16,584               6.1                                            51,002         2,397       4.7                                           27,327        5.917           21.7        163,000          13,707            8.4
1954          292,381           23,146               7.9                                            50,842         3,159       6.2            50,714              -          27,513        i,376           23.2        174,484          19,489           11.2
1955          307,026           24,l40               7,9                                            50,290         2,187       4.4            51,216            1.0          27,165        6,617           23.5        189,417          20,269           10.7
1956          318,449           26,660               8.4             317,701            3.8         52,517         3,556        6.8           51,909            1.4          29,996        7,045           23.4        186,364          22,281           11.9
1957           327,629          28.749               8.8             329,712            3.8         52,920         4,071        7.7           52,799             1.7         29,984        8,100           27.0        197.676          22,573           11.4
1958          343,059           29,149               8.5             342,400            2.8         52,959         3,520        6.6           52,472            0.6          34,024        8,115           23.8        218,218          24,268           11.2
1959          356,514           26,240               7.4             352,083            3.0         51,538         3,247       6.3            52,672            0.4          41,887        6,496           15.6        232,203          21,086            9.1
1960          356,677           29,440               8.3             362,651            2.2         53,519         4,177        7.8           53,188            1.0          45,702        7,789           17.0        238,925          23,025            9.6
1961          374,762           32,766               8.5             370,608            3.5         54.508         3,832       7.0            53,557            0.7          49,787        9,103           18.3        248,220          24,518            9.9
1962          380,387           35,853               9.4             383,764            3.2         52,644         4,275        8.1           53,572              -          52,656       10,471           19.9        253,060          27,274           10.8
1963          396,145           40,350              10.2             395,983            4.4         53,564         4,304        8.0           53,471              -          59,003       13,921           22.7        263,511          31,082           11.8
1954          411,419           39,613               9.6             413,285            4.4         54,204         3,820        7.1           54.249            1.5          62,989       12,456           19.8        275,910          29,676           10.8
1965          432,293           39,676               9.2             431,280            4.1         54,978         4,206        7.7           55,134             1.6         66,509       13,586           20.0        286,177          29,978           10.5
1966          450,128           42,459               9.4             448,809            3.5         56,221         4,975        8.9           56,032            1.6          71,999       13.757           19.1        300,136          32,649           10.9
1967          464,006           51,190              11.0             464,683            3.5         56,898         5,708       10.0           56,106              -          78,998       15,283           19.3        308,157          39,227           12.7
1968          479,916           54,372              11.3             478.460            3.0         55,198  0l 6,221           11.3           54,931             -           91,147       10,545           18.2        327,446          38,103           11.6
1969          491,459           55,638              11.3             487,757            2.0         52,696         7,971       15.1           53,569              -           na.           n.a.           n.a.           n.             na.             n.a.
1970          491,895           56,353              11.5                                            52.812         7,172       13.6             -                             n.a.          n.a.           0.0.           n.             no.             n.
Th. S-uthero Region is the  oust advanced with greater iup,,ts of credit, dips, rackets and e-tr-sion cervices and where the bulk of feeder fattening is carried out with stock eupplied largely by the Ce-tral sod, to sore eotent, the
Nnrthern Regiton, but only 700 heads in the last 3 yrace cane from Chitipa District.
1/ The National herd include- so.rs comercially-owned tattle in large herds.  Of about 8,000 head in 1953 rising to 10,000 in 1968 all but 1,000 ware in the Socthern Region.  This  -b- hbrdly affects the figures with
the Soothe-c Region .ff-take red-ed by appro-i-ately 174
2/ Mbis does tot ilul,.de fouily sla,Ightericgs shich are annowp but night -ai-e ell off-take figures by 17. or no.
3/ The S1uthern herd has a high off-take d-e to the inflnx of feeder tattle fion the Ce-tral Region
4/  1968 was a drought year with a higb off-take following in Karonga.  This probebly explains the decrease in number it 1969 and 1970.






ANNEX 3
Table 2
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Herd
Average Liveweight of Cattle Sold at Government Cattle Markets
Average        Average Price
Liveweight         Realized
No. Sold          lb                 K
1960              2,304          546               28.90
1961              3,138          553               29.50
1962              4,423          550               29.60
1963              4,888          548               29.07
1964              4,879          559               29.04
1965              7,297          598               31.60
1966              8,022          585               34.60
1967              8,734          595               36.95
1968             13,539          617               38.28
1969             12,260          622               38.23
The increase in average weight of cattle presented for
sale is approximately 19% of the period of 10 years.
This is attributed partly to the establishment of new
markets in areas where the animals are generally larger,
i.e., Mponda and Ilyrumba areas, in the Central and
Northern Regions, respectively.
Source: Veterinary Department, Zomba, Malawi.
December 29, 1971






MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION IN KARONGA (without Project)
Total Cattle              Benefits @                       Sale of Hide            Total K 'OOO's
Population                K 30 Per Head                    at 1 K Each
Increasing at             and 10% Take-Off                 at 40% Off
_%                     _                      +    Take-Off                          _
K                            K'OOO's
1969                    53,569                      160,707               +         2.1             =        162.1
1970                    53,837                      161,511               +         2.1            =         163.6
1971                    54,106                      162,309               +         2.2             =        164.5
1972                    54,376                      163,128               +         2.2            =         165.3
1973                    54,648                      163,944               +         2.2            =         166.1
1974                    54,910                      164,730               +         2.2            =         166.9
1975                    55,186                      165,558               +         2.2            -         167.7
1976                    55,452                      166,356               +         2.2            =         168.5
1977                    55,729                      167,187               +         2.2            =         169.4
1978                    56,oo8                      168.024               +         2.2            =         170.2
1979                    56,288                      168,864               +         2.3            =         171.1
1980                    56,569                      169,707               +         2.2            =         172.0
1981                    56,852                      170,556               +         2.3            =         172.8
1982                    57,136                      171,408               +         2.3            =         173.7
1983                    57,422                      172,266               +         2.3             =        174.5
198h                    57,709                      173,172               +         2.3             =        175.4
1985                    58,098                      174,294               +         2.3            =         176.6
1986                    58,388                      175,164               +         2.3             =        177.4
1987                    58,680                      176,040               +         2.3             =        178.3
1988                    58,973                      176,919               +         2.4             =        179.3
1989                    59,268                      177,804               +         2.4             =        180.2
1990                    59,564                      178,692               +         2.4             =        180.8
1991                    59,662                      178,986               +         2.4             =        181.4



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T.IVF.STO1.K PRODTTCTTON TN KARONGA (with Pro njert
Total Cattle           Off-Take        Price per IHead         Income From            Totals in
Population               at           Base J K 30             Off-Take in             '000
at 3% Increase            12D           Increasing by           K t000 + Hides at       Kwachas
p.a.                   __            l  to lo        75% Off-Take @ Kl each
1972      (0.55)      5),376                  6,525              30                 195.7 + hI.9             200.6
1973     (1.0%)       51¾,920                 6,5)               30.3               199.7 + 4.9              204.6
197M     (2.0%)       56,018                  6,722             30.6                205.7 + 5.r      =       210.7
1975      (3.0')      57,698                  6,924             30.9                214.0 - 5.2              219.2
1976                  59,429                  7,131             31.2                222.5 + 5.3    =         227.8
1977                  61,212                  7,345             31.5                231.lt + 5.5             236.9
1973                  63,048                  7,566              31.8               240.6 + 5.7    =         246.3
1979                  6h,939                  7,793              32.2               250.9 - 5.8              256.7
1980                - 66,886                  8,026S             32.5               260.8 + 6.0              266.8
1981                  68,893                  8,267             32.8                271.2 + 6.2    =         277.4
1982                  70,960                  8,515             33.0                281.0 + 6.4    =         287.I4
1983                  73,089                  8,771             33.0                289.4 + 6.6              296.0
1984                  75,282                  9,034              33.0               298.1 + 6.8    =         30L.9
1985                  77,540                  9,305             33.0                307.1 + 7.0    =         314.1
1986                  79,866                  9,584             33.0                316.3 + 7.2    =         323.5
1987                  82,262                  9,871             33.0                325.7 + 7.4    =         333.1
1988                  84,730                 10,871             33.0                335.5 + 7.6              34L3.1
1989                  87,272                 10,L7-3             33.0               3L6.6 + 7.8    =         353-L
1990                  89,890                 10,771              33.(               356.0 + 9.1    =         360.1
1991                  92,587                 11,110             33.7 366.6 _ 8.3                             3?1.9
CD
5 ,



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Further Studies
A. General
1.        Although the acreages for rice schemes in the proposed project
were fixed conservatively because of the uncertainty of the data available,
such data does indicate that possibilities for expansion exist. Moreover,
the overall potential of the area with its high rainfall and fertile soils,
and opportunities for irrigation in the plain and industrial ranching on the
scarp and plateau, give good grounds for investigating a second-phase project.
A continuing program would further increase the area's production and give
a higher return on the investments in infrastructure required for the first
phase.  However, further studies would be necessary because, although the
present research program in the Karonga is good, it is not adequately
staffed and equipped to examine the problems that would likely arise if the
area were to be more fully exploited.
B. Research Fields
Soil Survey
2.        A detailed soil survey is required because of the patchy
distribution of soils in the Karonga plain. Aerial photographs exist and
would probably be adequate for use. A semi-detailed map of an estimated
100,000 ac of the plain and on about 20,000 ac of irrigable land would be
drawn.
Hydrology Study
3.        Day-to-day flows are known for only a limited number of rivers and
for only a few years (usually less than 10). Although recordings were made
over longer periods, most of the information is of no direct use because of
the poor location of the gauges prior to 1964. Rainfall varies widely
within the project area and differences between specific locations are
likely to be substantial. Rainfall would therefore be recorded on existing
and potential irrigation areas, particularly along the Songwe plain. Detailed
investigations of the water levels in that area are also required so that
its drainage problem can be solved and the construction of organized rainfed
scheme over an estimated 2,000 acres can be carried out. The area's



ANNEX 4
Page 2
largest development potential lies in irrigation from Lake Malawi. Perform-
ance would therefore be studied on a 50-ac pilot scheme in order to facili-
tate field construction works.
Fertilizer Trials
4.        Because the project area lacks adequate facilities, appropriate
fertilizer trials have not been conducted, particularly for dry-land crops,
which are presently grown without fertilizers. Favorable results were
recently obtained in other parts of Malawi and trials would be carried out
to determine if such results are also applicable in the project area. To
conduct such a program, existing facilities would have to be expanded.
Special Crops
5.        Soils and rainfall in the Karonga area are suitable for growing
high value crops such as robusta coffee, for instance. Research is necessary,
however, to determine if these could be grown, not only in rice schemes but
also on unused lands of high fertility, both irrigable and nonirrigable.
Direct seeding trials of rice on double-cropped irrigation schemes have
been initiated and would be accelerated.
C. Project Proposals
6.        A Senior Research Officer, with the necessary clerical and field
staff, would coordinate all research programs undertaken under the project
and be particularly responsible for the lake irrigation scheme, fertilizer
'trials, and the special crops research program. Under the guidance of a
visiting consultant and the Senior Irrigation Engineer of the Regional
Office, a hydrologist would equip and train additional recording teams to
situdy especially drainage in the Songwe plain and lake irrigation problems.
The reports of the visiting consultant and the hydrologist and results obtained
under the present project would form the basis for a feasibility study for a
second-phase project to be conducted by a consulting firm. This study would
carry out the soil surveys mentioned in paragraph 2 and would complete a
project preparation report. Tentative terms of reference are in Appendix A.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Proposed Feasibility Study
1.        A feasibility study should be prepared for a second stage project
for the area which includes the haronga and Chitipa Districts.
2.        The project would be intended to:
(a) develop the Karonga plain, with double cropped irrigation,
and rainfed rice schemes, drainage and intensification of
dry-land crops production; and
(b) develop the scarp and plateau with a view to the possibility
of industrial ranching with lake transportation of feeder
and slaughter cattle.
3.        Preliminary investigations, essential to the preparation of the
feasibility study, would include:
(a) Topographic mapping of the Karonga plain:
(i) At semi detailed standards, map at scale 1/25.000 on
100,000 ac of areas suitable for intensive agriculture;
(ii) the area selected for the possible irrigation and
drainages schemes (within the area defined under (i))
scale 1:10,000, with contour vertical intervals of 1.0
metre. Coverage estimated at 20,000 ac.
(b) An irrigation land classification survey to United States
Bureau of Reclamation Reconnaissance standard, of the gross
area covered by the preliminary investigations. The survey
should be undertaken, with the object of identifying different
classes of land in relation to their capacity to repay by
agricultural production, investment in drainage and irrigation,
dry-land crops, and livestock.
4.        Using the information obtained from the preliminary investigations,
an appropriate project area should then be identified and a feasibility
study for its irrigation, drainage, agricultural and livestock development
prepared.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 2
5.        The study should establish the engineering, agronomic, management,
financial and economic feasibility of the project. It should pay particular
attention to proposals for operation and maintenance staffing, equipment and
facilities, the provision and training of agricultural extension staff and
the provision of the supporting services they will require. It should also
include proposals for the supply of farm inputs, including fertilizers,
improved seeds, plant protection chemicals, production credit and tractive
power (preferably oxen) for improved cultivation. The study should include
proposals for the recovery from beneficiaries of the operation and main-
tenance costs as well as the capital costs of the project, to the extent
feasible.
6.        The crops which would be considered for the project would probably
include cotton, rice, groundnuts, maize and such other crops as preliminary
studies would have indicated to be technically feasible. The choice of
crop would depend upon the outcome of marketing studies (to be carried out
as part of the feasibility study) to assess the current and likely future
domestic market requirements for agricultural crops. Requirements for
processing and storage should be taken into consideration in the study.
7.        The project should be designed so as to allow the introduction of
mechanization on organized rainfed schemes at a later date.
IB.       In the preparation of the feasibility study, due attention should
be paid to the place of the project in a coordinated development of the
whole Karonga and Chitipa District.
9.        Probable specialist requirements:
Soil specialist : 3 months in field - 2 months mapping         5 months
Hydrology        :  1 surface water Hydrologist -  4 months
1 Drainage Engineer          -  4 months
1 Irrigation Engineer        -  4 months
Subtotal                 12 months
Agriculturalist : 2 for 2 months                    4 months
Economist, Marketing 1 for 2 months              =  2 months
Livestock:          1 for 2 months               -  2 months
General Organization:  1 for 2 months            =  2 months
Subtotal                 10 months
Total                    27 months
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Marketing, Prices and Exports-/
1.        At full development, the project would increase the production of
paddy rice by 9,236 tons 2/, seed cotton by 1,251 tons, confectionery ground-
nuts by 237 tons and of maize by 893 tons (Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4). Rice,
cotton and groundnuts would be exported, while maize would remain in the
Northern region to make the area self-sufficient in that product.
2.        The Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC -
the former Farmers' Marketing Board) is responsible for the purchase of these
crops from the farmer and for processing and disposing of cotton, groundnuts
and surplus maize (Appendix A). Rice processing and export is the responsi-
bility of National Oil Industries Ltd. (NOIL) (Appendix B).
Rice
3.        Quantities.  During the past five years, the marketed production
of paddy handled by ADMARC has ranged between 2,061 and 9,593 tons:
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
Total Malawi       4,064   4,646   2,061   8,505   9,503
of which
Karonga District  1,749   1,507       767   3,126   4,045
Recent surveys have indicated, however that there is a substantial internal
market in rice, that has not been channeled through ADMARC. In 1968, this
may have been equivalent to about 3,000 tons of paddy consumed in urban
areas, without taking into account barter and local exchange in rural areas
of approximately another 1,500 tons. In 1968, ADMARC purchased only 2,061
tons of paddy, but, helped by higher prices, 1970 purchases reached an all-
time high of 9,503 tons. Until 1968, all rice purchased was produced under
rainfed conditions; in 1970, 1,670 tons, or 18% of total purchases, came
from irrigated rice schemes. The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources estimates that paddy purchases will increase to 35,000 sh tons
(31,920 m tons) by 1975 (Table 1), mainly as a result of the development of
irrigated rice schemes throughout the country. Malawi rainfed rice - the
1/   The exchange rate used in this annex is K 1.00 - US$1.20.
2/   All tonnages in this annex are metric unless otherwise specified.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Faya variety - and the American varieties introduced on irrigated rice
schemes are of the long grained "indica" type suitable for export to the
world markets, provided the quality is satisfactory.
4.        Over the past five years, the Karonga District has supplied, on
average, 35% of the purchases of paddy in Malawi. In 1970, ADMARC pur-
chased 4,045 tons in Karonga District, of which 606 tons, or 15% were from
irrrigated rice schemes (Hara, Wovwe and Kaporo). In 1976, at full develop-
mient of the proposed project, purchases in the Karonga district as a whole
would increase to about 11,920 tons, or 36% of total Malawian purchases
projected for that year.
5.        Milling of rice and sale abroad are the responsibility of NOIL
while the National Wholesale Company handles internal marketing. At present,
NOIL has three mills in operation, with a total capacity of 21,000 tonslyear.
Because of the development of rice production in Karonga, a mill with an
annual capacity of 9,000 tons is being constructed now by NOIL in Chilumba
(estimated cost K 135,000). The recent establishment of a mill in Blantyre
urith a parboiling 1/ plant has proved successful, and, in the light of
experience gained there, it is likely that a parboiling unit (cost K 70,000)
will be added to the Chilumba mill. NOIL has plans and financial means to
introduce additional milling capacity in Chilumba by 1975, provided rice
production increases in that area according to expectations.
6.        Exports of husked rice have doubled during the last five years, as
shown in the following table:
Country                1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
------tons-----------------
Zambia                     310     240       71     105      333
United Kingdom             179       -       -       -        -
Neighboring Countries      906   1,033      547   1,482   2,349
Total               1,395   1,273      618   1,587   2,682
Average price f.o.r.
Liwonde for husked
rice only in K per ton  101.6   119.0    112.4  167.8   195.0
Details of the outlets for the increased production of paddy are given in
Table 1. Local sales are expected to increase by 50% as a result of popula-
tion increase and increased per capita income (surveys indicate that rice
consumption is considered a luxury product and has a high income elasticity
1/   The benefits accruing from parboiling are chiefly improved nutritiotal
value of milled rice and reduced breakage during processing and transit
to final market.



ANNEX 5
coefficient).  Although exports to neighboring countries are expected to
decline after 1978 because of increased produ6tion within these countries,
the Republic of South Africa will require greater amounts and will become
the major export outlet.
7.        South African rice imports have steadily increased at an average
rate of 2.5%/year since 1965 and by 1970 had reached 76,500 tons, 61,000 tons
of which were parboiled husked rice and the remainder in paddy, unpacked and
packed polished rice. The husked parboiled rice is polished in four plants
that have a combined total capacity of 100,000 tons/vear. Annual production
in the South African Custom Union 1/ is 8,000 tons of paddy and is expected
to increase to a maximum of 15,000 tons, after which cheap water sources and
suitable soils will be fully utilized. Therefore, South Africa is likely to
remain a net importer of a minimum of 80,000 tons of rice per year. Previous
imports came mainly from the U.S.A. (80%) and the remainder from Brazil and
Uruguay with small quantities from Thailand. The South African market demands
long grain indica rice of the type produced in the United States. Attempts
to import large quantities from Asia have failed because the processing
procedures used give a particular taste to the rice, which was disliked by
the majority of the South African consumers.
8.        In order to protect local producers and millers, rice imports in
South Africa are subject to the following import duties: Ra 2.50/100 lb
(US$76.8/m ton) for paddy, husked and unpacked polished rice, and Ra 3.50/100
lb (US$107.6/m ton) for packed polished rice. Because of the good relations
ailawi maintains with South Africa, it has been granted special conditions
for rice imports under a Trade Agreement 2/, subject to review after three
years:
(a) a quota of 2,000 tons of polished rice per annum with
a 50% rebate on the tariff (equivalent to a concession
of US$38.5/m ton); and
(b) a quota of 8,000 tons of paddy or husked rice at a pre-
ferential rebate of Ra 0.20/100 lb (equivalent to a
concession of US$6.2/m ton); parboiled rice comes under
this category.
Until the end of 1970, only a sample lot of Malawian parboiled rice had
been tested in South Africa and it was considered satisfactory. The South
African Government and rice importers are willing to promote rice imports
from Malawi because of its geographical situation, the desire to maintain
balanced commercial exchanges and the problems which have arisen from
1/   Includes the Republic of South Africa, Swaziland, Lesotho and Botswana.
2/   Agreement No. 306 of February 1, 1971, modifying the previous Agreement
of March 13, 1967.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
strikes in U.S. ports. Although furtlher rebates are unlikely because of
the authorities' desire to protect the South African farmers and millers,
quotas would very likely be extended if Malawian export requirements would
justify such a measure.
9.        Prices.  Export prices for Malawian rice have steadily increased
since 1966 (para 6), thus reflecting improvements in marketing and the
acceptance of Malawi as a regular rice exporter. Future world market prices,
hIwever, are expected to decline as a result of the growing world surplus.
S:Lnce South Africa is likely to become the major outlet for increased exports
of American indica-type rice produced in Malawi, the U.S. market hias been
chosen as a basis on which to estimate future average prices for Malawian ex-
ports 1/.  The Dank's Economics Department estimates that American rices will
maintain a premium over Asian rices, but that their prices will have to fol-
low world market trends to remain South Africa's main supply. On the basis
of these assumptions, the c.i.f. American port price of US$188/ton in 1970 is
expected to decline to a price in terms of 1970 dollars, ranging between
US$145 and US$167 in 1980. Assuming that the South African importer will
continue to retain 15% of the duty rebate currently allowed on Malawi imports,
tihe price f.o.b. Malawian border would decline according to the following
table (in K/m ton):
1980 and
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979 thereafter
Average  163   160   157   154   151   148   145   142   139   136            134
Low      163   159   156   152   149   145   141   138   136   131            127
High      163   161   159   158   156   154   152   151   149   147           146
Price estimates for 1970 made on this basis are about 16% lower than the
actual average export price for that year (para 6), during wlhich Faya rice
was a major component.  Only limited quantities of Faya-type rice would be
exported to South Africa, the bulk going to traditional importers of Malawi
rice. For the purpose of this project, the price of Faya rice has conser-
vatively been assumed to decline to the level of the projected price for
exports to South Africa.
10.       Considering a conversion ratio of 70% for milled rice and bran
to paddy, ADMARC's marketing and transportation costs within Malawi are
estimated at K 13.54/r  ton of milled rice; NOIL's administrative,
milling, selling and transportation costs from Chilumba to the Malawian
border would amount to K 43.0 ton of milled rice. The allocation sale
proceeds is shown in Table 2.
1/   See para 3.  Exports are expected to accrue only from the increased
production from irrigated rice schemes that would produce varieties
acceptable to the South African market.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Cotton
11.       Malawi produces cotton 1/ of medium staple of about 1-3/32 inch
with a high lustre, which has a good reputation. ADMARC's purchases of seed
cotton have evolved during the last five years as follows:
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
… _--------in '000 tons------------
Total Malawi         13.3    12.0    11.7    18.4    21.4
of which
Karonga Area           .3       .5      .4       .3      .2
At full development, the project would increase production in the Karonga
area to about 1,632 tons.
12.       The purchase and ginning of cotton is ADMARC's responsibility.
There are three ginneries in Malawi with a total capacity of 55,000 tons.
The cotton produced in Karonga is processed under contract at a privately
owned ginnery located at N'Gara (see maps). Ginning and storage capacities
are of 600 tons, which would be adequate for project needs 2/. An increase
in capacity would require an investment of about US$7,200 over five years,
which the proprietor of the mill intends to finance if he is assured of the
increased output. The average production ratios are 40% lints and 60% seed.
The present contract allows for a payment of K 0.0282 per pound of lint
produced.
13.       Exports of cotton lint in tons over the last five years are as
follows:
1/   The variety grown in Malawi is ALBAR 637.
2/   Two sawgins at 200 lb/hour, bought in 1968, and one hydraulic press
powered by a 25-hp diesel engine. At full capacity, the mill employs
25 workers and would work for six months.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Countries            1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
Republic of South
Africa                     46     290      841     188      462
Federal Republic of
Germany                     9      80      -       -         97
France                      349     188      208     119      -
United Kingdom           3,624   2,148   1,241   2,873   3,681
Netherlands                 227     -        -
Italy                        50     -        -       -        -
Others                      552     456      210     650      712
Total          4,857   3,162   2,500   3,830   4,952
Average price
K/ton Malawi             446.3   500.4   509.8   451.4   453.3
14.       The protected local weaving industry 1/ utilizes annually the
equivalent of about 3,000 tons of cotton lint, only 2,000 tons of which
are provided by the lower grades of Malawian cotton, which is spun in
neighboring countries; the remainder is imported as yarn from the same
countries. The Malawi cotton is of higher quality than that required by the
local market and cotton is brought in from other countries (e.g. Brazil) to
provide lint of a lower quality in order to increase net export earnings.
115.      Until 1969, all the cotton seed remaining after meeting planting
requirements was processed by NOIL 2/ (Appendix B) whose crushing capacity
is of 12,000 tons undelinted cotton seed. In 1970, ADMARC exported 1,500
tons of cotton seed to Japan at K 48/ton f.o.b. ginnery and about 7,000
tons will probably be exported in 1971.
1/   David Whitehead Associates produced 16 million yards of cloth in 1970
(forecast for 1971: 20 million yards); turnover of K 3.8 million p.a.
Estimated benefits in 1971: K 900,000.
2/   Sale price of undelinted cotton seed c.i.f. NOIL factory average of
two grades, K 24 sh/ton; crushing, administration and selling costs;
K 12.24 sh/ton. Product sales in K sh/ton: 9% refined oil, 151.2;
4% soap stock, 14.4; 45% cotton cake, 48.8; the remaining is husk, of
which 60% is sold at K 1.8 as cattle feed. This operation results
in a benefit of K 0.53 per ton of cotton seed.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
16.       Consistent quotations for Malawi cotton c.i.f. London are not
available, but price f.o.b. Malawi, including shippinig costs from Malawi
to London, are compared with prices for Mexico strict middling 1-1/6 in. and
Uganda 1-1/8 in. in Table 3. The price for Malawi cotton remained higher
than Mexico strict middling and lower than Uganda cotton. According to
IBRD projections, prices for Malawi cotton should remain within the range
of expected declines of 16% for Mexico strict middling and 10% for Uganda
cotton. For project purposes, the average price for Malawi cotton is assumed
to decline by 13% until 1975 and stablize at the level of US026.5/lb there-
after.
17.       According to the Bank's Economics Department the price of cotton
seed c.i.f. European port is expected to decrease from the 1960 average
price of US$106/ton of similar Sudanese cotton seed to between US$95
and liS tons in 1Q75 and stabilize at that level thereafter. It has been
assumed that the c.i.f. Japan prices will follow the same trend.
18.       The allocation of sales proceeds is shown in Table 4.  With an
average producer price of K 0.048/lb seed cotton (US$128/ton) the present
gain to ADMARC of K 8.6/ton would decline to K 5.8/ton by 1975.
Groundnuts
19.       Groundnuts grown in Malawi are in demand for confectionery
purposes. The Chalimba variety, grown in the Southern and Central regions,
is a large nut that sells well on certain markets but because of its
irregular shape requires shelling by hand. The confectionery nut grown
in the Karonga area is of the Malimba variety, which is smaller and of a
regular shape which allows mechanical shelling. ADMARC purchases during the
last five years have been:
1966     1967      1968     1969      1970
Total Malawi        42,400   43,400   22,900   37,300   26,500
of which
Karonga Area            77        86        93      292       167
Up to 1970, production of Malimba confectionery nut was not promoted because
the mechanical sheller now available in Malawi splits over 20% of the nuts.
ADMARC, however, has ordered a 4-ton/hour sheller, which splits only 7.5%
and production can now be increased.
20.       Exports of Chalimba groundnuts doubled between 1964 and 1969
(from 15.8 to 34.4 tons) but decreased to 20.4 tons in 1970 because unfavor-
able weather conditions reduced the crop. In 1970, a 121 ton lot of Malimba
groundnuts was sold in the United Kingdom for K 293.0 (US$351.7)/ton,
or 46% more than the average price obtained for Chalimba nut. When larger
lots are exported, however, prices are expected to decline to about 5% of
the price of the larger Chalimba nut. Prices for Malawi groundnuts varied
during the last six years from K 133.8 to K 200.2/ton f.o.b. Malawi border,
as shown below:



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Year            K
1964          140.5
1965          172.1
1966          172.6
1967          133.9
1968          142.2
1969          162.5
1970         200.2
21.       The Bank's Economics Department's price projection for Chalimba
groundnuts c.i.f. London in 1975 is K 187.0 (US$224.5)/ton; a 5% reduction
would result in a price of K 177.6 (US$213.2)/ton. Assuming a K 23.5
(1JS$28.2)/ton shipping cost from Malawi to Europe, the f.o.b. M'.alawi border
price/ton would be K 154.1 (US$184.9). Marketing and internal transportation
costs amount to K 35.7 (US$42.8/m ton) (Table 5). Assuming a shelling and
grading cost of K 19.0 (US$22.8/m ton), a farmer price of K 87.8 (US$105.4/m
ton) and a 10% split, ADMARC's profit would be K 1.9 (US$2.3/m ton).
Maize
22.       Maize production in Malawi is estimated by ADMARC, the Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources and the Economic Planning Division at
1.0 to 1.3 million tons/year. The following table shows the evolution
of' ADMARC's purchases of maize over the last five years:
1966     1967      1968      1969      1970
Total Malawi        57,100   91,100   83,800   53,000   21,700
of which
Karonga Area             14      151        27         5     -
23.       Most of the maize produced in Malawi is consumed within the country.
A small proportion has been exported in the last six years (see table below),
but because of last year's unfavorable climatic conditions, Malawi had to
import 36,400 tons, about 293 tons goings to the Karonga area.
Country             1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
Consignment             -         -        -        -     5,102      -
Zambia                   -        -        -        -    31,688      -
Congo                   -      18,220      -        -       -        -
Japan                    -        -      1,020      -       -        -
Netherlands              -        -    18,875  10,200       -
United Kingdom          1,020  26,324  71,932  77,136  10,713        -
Total           1,02  44,544  91,827  87,336  47,503  (36,400)
Average price in
K/sh ton f.o.b.
Malawian border        33.4    35.2    35.7    34.4    44.9         65.9



ANNEX 5
Page 9
24.       In thle Karonga area, ADWIARC's purchases are generally resold locally
sitice tr;LrsporLtation costs from this remote location would be prohibitive
hi vlew of tli low value of tLle commodity.  Since more farmers are concent-
raLtig on rice production - and this trend would be accelerated by the
project - the demand for maize will probably grow and it will be necessary
to increase outputs from the remaining farmers to supply those on rice schemes.
At project full development, it is estimated that ADMARC purchases of maize
in the project area would increase to 893/tons, all of which would be sold
in the Northern Region.
25.       Consistent quotations for Malawi maize c.i.f. London are not avail-
able, but averabe export prices are projected by the Bank's Economics Depart-
ment at about K 53.1 (US$63.7)/ton. On the basis of the above assumptions,
it is expected that the farmgate price of maize would be about K 20.0/ton.
The difference is made up by K 23.7/ton for slhipping costs from Malawi to
Europe and K 9.4 for internal marketing at Karonga. This last mentioned
farmgate price has been used to calculate project benefits.
Decemnber 29, 1971






MAIATAII
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Long-Term Sales and Production of Rice in Malaw-l/
(Sh Tons)
1971     1972     1973      1974     1975    1976       1977      1978     1979     1980
Local consumption          3,500    3,750    h,000    L,250    5,000    5,500    6,000    7,000    7,500    8,000
Exports to neighboring
countries                4,500    5,000    5,550    6,05o    6,600    6,600    6,650    5,650    5,700    4,700
Eouth Africa             10,000   10,000   10,000   15,000   15,000   15,000   20,000   20,000   20,000   25,000
Mauritius                    200      200       250      250      300       300      350       350      350       boo
Botswana                     100      100       100      150      150       150      200       200      200       250
Congo Kinshasa               100      100       100      150      150       150      200       200      200       250
Total estimated snles
in sh tons             18,00   19,150   20,000   25,850   27,200   27,700   33,400   33,400   33,950   38,600
Converted into paddy
(at about 758 con-
version rate)           23,920   24,895   26,000   33,605   35,360   36,010   3,420   43,L20  4h,135   50,180
Estimated paddy
production              15,000   20,000   26,000   33,000   35,000   37,250   40,000   45,000   50,000   50,000
Production excess or
shortfall               -8,920   -4,895      -      -  605   -  360   +1,240   -3,h20   +1,580   +5,865   -  180
CD An
1/  According to tUhe liationa]- Dil Indiistries Ltd. - IMsrch, 1971.






ANNEX 5
Table 2
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation of Sales Proceeds for Parboiled Rice in 1980
(M-Kwacha per metric ton)
---    K/ton--
Price f.o.b. U.S. port:  US$153/m ton/l                       127.5
From f.o.b. to c.i.f. South African port                       24.4
Import duty on husked rice not packed SA4 250/100 lb           64.3
Sub-total                                                      216.2
Deduct
/2
From f.o.r. Malawi to c.i.f. South African port-               22.5
Preferential Import duty on husked rice from Malawi
SAl 230/100 lb                                               58.9
Margin of South African importer (15% of the
difference between import duties)                             0.8
Sub-total                                                       82.2
Rice at Malawi border                                                134.0
Allocation of Sales Proceeds
Paddy                             In K/lb
Price to farmer                        0.0246
Marketing costs                        0.0023
Transportation                         0.0020
Cost of paddy delivered mill:               0.0289             63.7
Milling, parboiling, selling, miller's
administration                                               19.9
Sub-total for paddy                                             83.6
From paddy to rice at 70% conversion rate                                 119.4
Transportation from Chilumba to Malawi border                              14.6
Total costs                                                    134.0
/1   According to the Bank's Economic Department projections, the f.o.b. price
of U.S. parboiled rice is expected to decline from US$188 in 1970 to
US$145-167 per metric ton in 1980.
/2   Via Liwonde and Nacala.
December 29, 1971






ANNEX 5
Table 3
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Actual and Projected Sales Prices for Cotton Lint and Seed
Mexico                Uganda               Malawi
Strict Middling 1-1/16 in      1-1/8 in       1-3/32 in ALBAR 637-
Cotton Lint c.i.f. Liverpool (USe per pound)
Actual
1967                  28.39                  32.0                28.84
1968                  29.46                  36.7                29.38
1969                  31.23                  36.1                34.41
1970                  28.52                  32.0                29.22
1971                  29.92                  n.a.                30.31
Projected
1972                  26.81                  30.8                29.5
1973                  26.24                  30.2                28.7
1974                  25.67                  29.6                27.8
1975 and thereafter  25.10                   29.0                26.5
Cotton Seed c.i.f. Europe (US$/m ton)
1969                                                            106.0
1970                                                            105.0
1971                                                            104.0
1972                                                            103.0
1973                                                            102.0
1974                                                            101.0
1975 and thereafter                                             100.0
/1   Estimated from f.o.r. Malawi prices to which transportation costs from
f.o.r. to c.i.f., estimated at USe4/lb, were added.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 5
Table 4
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation of Sales Proceeds for Cotton in 1975
(M Kwacha per metric ton)
---- K/ton----
Cotton lint price c.i.f. United Kingdom (USd26.5/lb)              484.8
Costs /1 from f.o.r. Malawi border to c.i.f. United Kingdom         73.2
411.6
Cotton seed price c.i.f. Japan                                      83.3
Costs from f.o.r. Malawi border to Japan /2                         30.6
52.7
Seed cotton price f.o.r. Malawi border /3                                   170.6
Allocation of Sales Proceeds
Seed cotton up to ginnery           In K/lb
Producer price                0.0486
Marketing                     0.0023
Transportation                0.0020
Sub-total                0.0529                        116.6
Ginning and bagging /4                                              20.4
Transportation from ginnery to border                               14.7
AIIARC overheads /5                                                 10.1
Seed and seed distribution /6                                        4.1
Sub-total                                                          49.3
Total cost delivered border                                       165.9
ADMARC benefit                                                      4.7
170.6
Li  4 pence/lb equivalent.
/2   Via Liwonde and Nacala.
/T3   33% of lint; 66% of seed; 1% invisible losses.
/4   At the Maxwell mill in the Project Area L.S. 2.820 Tambala/lb of lint.
T5   Includes insurance, fumigation, research fee, selling and administration
costs estimated by ADMARC at K 30.6/m ton of cotton lint of K 10.10/m
ton of seed cotton.
/6   Seed:  40 lb/ac and 0.13 Tambala/lb for distribution.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 5
Table 5
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRDJECT
Allocation of Sales Proceeds for Groundnuts in 1975
(M-Kwacha per metric ton)
K/Ton
Price c.i.f. London                                                         177.6
From c.i.f. to f.o.r. Malawi border                                         154.1
Allocation of Sales Proceeds in Malawi
In K/lb        In K/ton
Price to farmer            0.0390
Marketing                  0.0029
Transportation             0.0020
0.0439   or   96.7
Mechanical shelling                        4-4
Sub-total                           101.1
Adjustment for losses of 10% brokens                                        112.3
Grading and packing                                                          14.1
Transportation from Chilumba to Malawi border                                14.7
ADMARC administrative expenses                                               13.0
154.1
Ll   Via Liwonde and Nacala.
December 29 , 1971






ANNEX 5
Appendix A
Page 1
MALAtWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC)
1.        ADMARC 1/ is a large parastatal body, fully owned by the state,
established in 1962 under the name of Farmers' Marketing Board. This Board's
statutory responsibility was to purchase, process and dispose of the agri-
cultural produce grown by the many hundreds of thousands of small farmers on
Malawi's customary land. The change of name to ADMARC took place on April 1,
1971 2/ by Act of Parliament.
2.        ADMARC's Board of Directors consists of a Chairman and four to
eight Directors, all appointed for two years by the Minister of Agriculture
and Natural Resources (MANR). Responsibility for overall administration is
delegated to an expatriate manager, and a divisional supervisor is responsible
for the Karonga and Chitipa Districts.
3.        According to the Farmers' Marketing (Amendment) Act 3/, ADMARC's
objectives are to increase the volume of economic exportable crops, supply
the agricultural requirements of farmers on customary land, and market the
agricultural produce for export and promote the consumption of such produce
abroad. It also maintains a price stabilization fund, keeps up food reserves
to meet possible local shortages, provides seasonal credit to farmers, and
markets petroleum.
Marketing
4.        ADMARC's 600 markets handle mainly maize, groundnuts, seed cotton,
tobacco and rice. ADMARC either purchases these crops through its own per-
manent and bush (temporary) markets or licenses traders to buy maize and
deliver it to its main depots. Permanent markets have proper facilities for
grading, storage, weighing and buying commodities, while bush markets consist
of only a temporary buying shed, an enclosure, a cash register and spring scale.
Purchases must be moved promptly from the bush markets to more permanent
storage. Currently ADMARC pays licensed traders K 0.8/bag (200 lb) more
than it pays to farmers who deliver maize to its local markets.
1/   To avoid confusion, the name of ADMARC has been used throughout the
text, although activities before March 1971 were the Farmers Marketing
Board's responsibility.
2/   By promulgation of the Farmers' Marketing (Amendment) Act, 1971, pub-
lished in the Malawi Gazette Supplement, dated March 9, 1971.
3/   Articles 8 of the Act amending Article 5 of the Farmers' Marketing Act
of 1964.



ANNEX 5
Appendix A
Page 2
5.        ADMARC's marketing and storage facilities in thie Karonga area con-
sist of six permanent markets and depots and 27 bush markets.  In May 1971,
the staff in the Karonga Division was increased to 40 relatively senior
staff and about 240 junior staff and laborers, mainly to handle marketing of
paddy.
Financial Situation
During 1966, ADMARC made a small profit but its commodity stocks
more than doubled, rising from K 3.0 million to K 6.2 million.  Thereafter,
AkDMARC's situation deteriornted, paitly because it accumulated and carried
over from one year to the next, large commodity stocks.  Efficiency improved,
l:hough, when experienced managemenc staff was appointed in 1968.
7.        Accounts for the year 1970/71 were not availadle at the time of
appraisal, but current estimates indicate a net surplus of K 400,000, a
considerable fall from the K 3.9 million surplus achieved in 1969/70. In
1970/71, the advantageous market conditions for most export commodities were
offset by the need to subsidize domestic sales of sonme 40,000 tons of im-
ported maize at the rate of K 18/ton.
8.        ADMARC's commodity price stabilization fund, K 3.7 million on
March 31, 1970, is held in cash and liquid assets. This figure will have
dleclined, however, over the past vear because of losses incurred on imports
of maize and on a large-scale farling- venture. Management estimates that
the fund should be maintained at vK 5 3million.
Si.       The ADMARC trading account shows research contributions, seed
distribution costs and lesses on the Toleza Farm  (seed production) of
K 245,690 for the year ending Marct 31, 1970 (Table 1).  Of this total,
losses on the Toleza Farm alone ar.4ounted to Mv 41,436.  ADMARC intends to
improve the management of this farr. and is now trying to engage a management
consultant.
10.       The substantial profit achieved in 1969/70 (para 7) was reflected
in an improved working capital position at the end of that year.
Conclusions
11.       ADMIORC has shown itself to be an efficient organization when it
is operated by suitably qualified and experienced nanagers.  It generates
sufficient funds to finance expans..'on of the marketing and storage facili-
ties required by the growing agricultural production in project areas, and
profits are also adequate to contribute a reasonable amount to the stabiliza-
tion fund. Efficient management is essential for the continuing success of
the organization and present management levels must be maintained if viable
operations are to be carried out.
December 29, 1971



MALAWI
KIRONriA RURAL DEMELOPMENT PROJFCT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND MARRETING CORPORATION'S TRADING
AND PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 1970
in NK
GENERAL     PETROLEUM                      15 MONTHS TO
COTTON      GROUNDNUTS      TOBACCO        MAIZE          RICE       COFFEE     PRODUCE       PRODUCTS        TOTAL       31ST MARCH 1969
BUYING AND DIRECT EXPENSES:
Marketing                                         158,220        245,170        266,052       40,844       70,134        7,144        42,348        8,000      843,912
Depot and Storage                                  32,846         10,948         8,212       131,386        8,212        2,738        35,584         -         229,926      )     594,740
Bags, Twine and Hessian                            26,860        218,430         10,224       12,520        12,758         512         16,678        -         297,982            158,160
Grading, Ginning and Baling                       247,784         98,972        279,308         -             -            -             -           -         626,064            672,018
Transport of Crops                                 78,750        389,730         90,218      108,786       71,612        5,874         35,672        -         780,642            994,696
Fumigation                                              18        18,854          1,758       25,194          -            -           18,270        -          64,094            149,574
Insurance - Cash and Crop                           4,484          9,310         2,018         6,076        1,576          228         3,656         -          27,348             37,054
Seed Distribution                                 124,232            264        37,512           216          508          -               82        -         162,814            151,890
Research Contributions and Subsidies               25.222         10,436         26,312       10,236          -            -           5,234         -          77,440             42,428
698,416     1,002,114        727,614      335,258       164,800      16,496        157,524       8,000    3,110,222          2,800,560
PURCHASE OF CROP:                                 1,793,576      3,559,650      1,155,236    1,577,316      526,814       66,458     1,139,838      255,638   10,074,526          7,565,296
Add:   Stock on Hand at Ist April 1969            341,114        100,080       239.326       244,384        2.800       33,600        46.684       13,434    1,021,422          6,393.014
2,833,106     4,661,844      2,122,176    2,156,958      694,414      116,554      1,344,046     277,072   14,206,170         16,758,870
Less:  Stock on Hand at 31st March 1970           505.018         70,860          -           41.384        8,808       15.600        75,120       16,300      733.090          1,021,422
2,328,088     4,590,984      2,122,176    2,115,574       685,606     100,954      1,268,926     260,772   13,473,080         15,737,448
SELLING EXPENSES:
Auction Floor ''harges and Cess                     -              -            62,834          -            -            -              -           -          62,834             70,960
Commission                                          3,596          9,724          -              420         -           6,378             26        -          20,144            108,240
Insurance                                          12,792         48,526         -              -            -             228            174        -          61,720             55,002
Railage, Freight and Port Charges                  198.226       393.802         12,332       84.204         -           5,602          8,180        -         702,346          1,239.972
214,614       452,052         75,166       84,624          -         12,208          8,380        -         847,044          1,474,174
TOTAL PURCHASES AND EXPENSES:                     2,542,702      5,043,036      2,197,342    2,200,198       685,606     113,162      1,277,306     260,772   14,320,124         17,211,622
SALES:                                            2,911,830      6.890.452     4,118,492    2,633,028       665,062      123.986     1.554,264      278,342   19,175.456         19,127,304
GROSS PROFIT:                                       369,128      1,847,416      1,921,150      432,830       (20,544)     10,824        276,958      17,570    4,855,332          1,915,682
ADMINISTRATION AND INDIRECT EXPENSES: (NET)          196,084       281,432        204,316       94,100       46,270        6,000        44.276        6,000      878,478          1,763,398
173.044     1.565.984      1,716.834      338,730        66,814       4,824        232,682      11.570    3,976,854            152,284
P            P              P             P             L            P             P            P
LOSS ON TOLEZA FARM                                                                                                                                               41,436
NET PROFIT                                                                                                                                                      3,935,418            152.284






ANNEX 5
Appendix B
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
National Oil Industries Ltd. (NOIL)
General
1.        National Oil Industries limited (NOIL) was incorporated in 1956 as
a limited liability company, with a K 200,000 share capital divided into
100,000 shares of K 2 each, issued and fully paid up. In 1964, the entire
share capital was acquired by the Malawi Development Corporation. At pres-
ent there are three shareholders: the Malawi Development Corporation, the
Standard Bank Finance and Development Corporation and Malawi Press (1966)
Ltd., holding 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively.
2.        Until 1967, the company engaged solely in the production, from
cotton seed, of edible oil, cotton oil cake, cotton linters and soapstock.
Rice milling was introduced that year to avoid dependence on a single crop
and at the same time to give support to the Government policy of increasing
paddy production, inter alia, by introducing new methods and by developing
various irrigation schemes. Recently, cassava handling was added to NOIL's
responsibilities.  NOIL's milling capacity is as follows:
Product             Location       Annual Capacity             Remarks
----Sh Tons----
Cotton seed         Blantyre           12,000
Paddy rice          Blantyre           15,000             Also parboiling.
Paddy rice          Borkala             4,000
Paddy rice          Nkhota-Khota        4,000
Paddy rice          Chilumba           10,000       Under construction.  Par-
boiling unit to be added
in the near future.
Paddy and Cassava  Nkota-Khota           ?          Planned for the near future.
Resources
3.        The company's principal resource has been its share capital of
K 200,000, and accumulated reserves, which by December 31, 1970, stood at
K 106,000.  In 1965 NOIL received a loan negotiated by the Government with
the German Kreditanstalt (DM 1.1 million, or K 72,000, of which K 62,000
was outstanding on the above date). The loan was for a term of 15 years,
including five years' grace, with interest at 6-1/2% p.a. NOIL obtained a
general purpose loan of K 100,000 from the Standard Bank Finance and De-
velopment Corporation in 1968 for a term of 12 years, including two years
of grace, at a rate of 8% p.a. Finally, NOIL has access to temporary funds



ANNLX 5
Appendix B
Page 2
by way of overdraft with the Standard Bank, the present limit being K 600,000,
at 10-1/2% p.a. secured by stocks.
Use of Resources
4.        According to the annual accounts as of December 31, 1970, NOIL's
fixed assets, after depreciation, stood at K 450,000, roughly equivalent to
its capital, reserves and the two loans. Its current assets were K 828,000
(stocks, K 552,000 and debtors, K 276,000), offset by current liabilities of
K 780,000 (mainly overdraft, K 270,000, and creditors, K 428,000), leaving
its net current assets at K 48,000.
]?rofitability
5.        NOIL's net profit for 1968, 1969 and 1970 was K 44,000, K 134,000,
and K 98,000, respectively, before providing for taxation at 40%. Dividend
payments were 12% in 1968 and 25% in 1969 but are proposed at 15% in 1970
because of the reduced profits and planned expansion. The return on average
equity after taxation has been:
1968   1969   1970
------ K     000 --- -
Average equity                253    282    317
Net profit after taxation    13        40     29
Percent                         5      14      9
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transportation
A. Freight Routes Between Karonga District and the South
1.        Existing freight traffic to and from the Karonga District is
shipped by the Lake Service of Malawi Railways through terminals at Kambwe
(near Karonga town) or Chilumba, and the southern port and railhead at
Chipoka, which is 257 miles from Chilumba, and 297 miles from Kambwe.
2.        At present there is no road link from Karonga District offering
a practical alternative to the Lake Service. However, the Federal German
Republic is financing an extension of the Karonga-Chilumba road southwards
for a further 20 miles to Chiweta, the essential purpose of which is to
serve as the first section of a new road to the south, continuing over the
difficult escarpment where the existing track is unsuitable for normal
commercial traffic. West Germany is not providing funds for the section
over the escarpment, but has received an undertaking from the Government of
Malawi that this will be built. The design engineers of the Ministry of
Works and Supplies are proposing a 44-mile section over the escarpment which
would continue on a new alignment to a point south of Rumpi. The preliminary
cost estimate given to the mission is as high as K 7.9 million (US$10.3
million), or US$233,000/mile.
3.        An all-weather road suitable for trucks and buses could no doubt
be built to much more modest standards than those proposed. However, it is
unlikely that the traffic potential in the foreseeable future will be
sufficient to justify any such link across the escarpment on economic grounds.
Even if the road is built for other reasons, the alternative for freight
traffic of shipment by the Lake Service on Lake Malawi offers scope for
lower operating costs than movement by road transport (see paras 18 to 20).
4.        With the rehabilitation of the Lake Service proposed for financing
under the project, Karonga district freight traffic would be concentrated on
a new port at Chilumba and shipped about 260 miles south to a terminal to be
agreed on between the Government aid IDA when detailed engineering studies
by consultants have been completed. Two locations are possible: one at
Monkey Bay and the other at Chipoka.
B. The Lake Service
General
5.        The Lake Service on Lake Malawi is owned and operated by Malawi
Railways, which in turn is wholly owned by the Government. The Service
operates the following vessels:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Capacity
Bulk
Petroleum
Dry Cargo         Products
Vessel       (short tons)       (gallons)       Passengers
Nkwazi           200                -
Mpasa             60              28,000            -
Ilala            100                -              500
Chauncy Maples         16                               206
Small tugs and barges are also employed, but these are too small for general
purpose transport on the Lake. Passenger services are provided to more than
twenty points along the Nalawi shore, but freight traffic is heavily concen-
trated on the terminals at Chipoka, Nkhata Bay and Chilumba/Kambwe in the
Karonga District.
6.        The Service has been operating continually in financial deficit.
For recent years the working results are summarized as follows:
1968       1969        1970
…_-…---…K'--
Revenue
Passengers and Parcels    88.7        102.0       108.4
Freight                     75.1      149.3       187.3
Charters                    5.4         2.8         2.4
Other                        4.5        8.9        12.8
173.7      263.0       310.9
Expenditure
Depreciation               61.3        62.0        60.0
Other                     395.4       414.0       416.9
456.7      476.0       476.9
Deficit                   283.0       213.0       166.0
Operating Ratio           263%        181%        153%
The improvements shown in the results from 1969 are due principally to
conversion of the Mpasa for service as a bulk fuel carrier at the end of
1968, which has proved a commercial success; and secondly, to increased
passenger fares and freight rates in August 1969.
7.        The financial picture, however, remains unsatisfactory.  Tariff
increases are essential if the Lake Service is to be financially self-
suplporting, and other major steps are also necessary to rationalize the
services offered and to reduce the unduly high costs of operation.  On
the passenger side, sharp reductions in traffic can be expected in future
as continued improvements are made to the Lakeshore road, and fast bus



ANNEX 6
Page 3
services are introduced between points such as Nkhata Bay, Nkhota Kota
and the south. The Government and Malawi Railways are considering the
scope for withdrawing from service one of the passenger vessels, now
operating at a substantial deficit, once the Lakeside communities can
be served with a more viable means of transport.
O.        For dry cargo traffic, operating costs are inflated by the poor
turn-around times of the vessels, due principally to delays at the terminals,
where lack of proper facilities makes handling operations slow and inefficient.
In the Karonga District freight traffic is handled at Kambwe Lagoon, near
Karonga, or at Chilumba, neither of which has tie-up jetties, and where
the traffic is loaded or unloaded by using small boats and handling gangs
travelling on the ships themselves. The situation is little better at
Chipoka, the southern terminal, where the deteriorated condition of the
jetty, restricted space, and considerable silting alongside are causing
serious operating problems. As a result, the Nkwasi, the only ship carrying
solely dry cargo, is spending more than 70% of its operational time at
the terminals. This means that during an equivalent round trip between
Chilumba and Chipoka (257 miles) taking about 8.5 days, about 6 days are
spent at the terminals and only 2.5 days in actual movement.
PRy Cargo Traffic and Shipping Capacity
9.        The Lake Service carried 25,600 short tons of freight traffic in
1970, compared with 23,100 tons the previous year and 19,100 tons in 1967.
Most of the increase in the last three years was confined to bulk petroleum
products. Dry cargo, which amounted to 19,900 tons in 1970, increased by
little more than 2% p.a. on average over the last three years. Apart from
a small flow of traffic (200 tons) between Chipoka and Monkey Bay, all the
dry cargo moved between terminals situated from Chipoka northwards, and by
far the most important flows were between the railhead at Chipoka on the
one hand, and Nkhata Bay and the Karonga District terminals on the other
(Table 1). In summary, these movements were broadly defined as follows:
Tonnage in 1970
Northbound
- from Chipoka                 13,800
- from points north of
Chipoka                     400
14,200
Southbound
- to Chipoka                    4,000
- to points north of
Chipoka                    1,500
5,500
The traffic pattern is thus dominated by the railhead at Chipoka, which
dispatches more than three times as much traffic northwards on the Lake
as it receives in the reverse direction.



ANNIK;X 6
PI    4
10.       The imbalance of traffic may suggest at first sight tLhat therc is
spare shipping capacity to accommodate virtually all thie increased southbound
tonnage expected from the Karonga Rural Development Ilroject. This is not
so, because the additional tonnage would substantially increase average
round trip times between Chipoka and the north, especially in view of the
time required for loading and unloading with existing terminal facilities.
This would in turn reduce effective shipping capacity of the present fleet,
which is already insufficient to provide a regular and reliable service.
Congestion and delays at the terminals are an everyday feature of the Lake
operations, and help to explain why traffic has not been increasing at a
faster rate. The Karonga Rural Development Project would also generate north-
bound as well as southbound traffic, and so add directly to the demand in
this direction.
11.       The vessels are most heavily loaded on the first section of the
northbound run from Chipoka, which is consequently of first importance in
determining the dry cargo shipping capacity required. It is estimated that
in 1970 the load factor on this section was about 94%, which is too high as
an annual average to ensure a regular and reliable service to stippers.
If the capacity constraint is eased sufficiently, substantial increases in
traffic can be expected within the next few years. These will be generated
by the Karonga development (in the northbound as well as southbound direction)
and by similar planned development in the Nkhata Bay area, while the more
reliable service offered if more capacity is available is in itself likely
to attract additional traffic.
Rehabilitation Proposals
12.       The project proposes to improve the Lake Service by speeding up
the turn-around time of the lake vessels by providing adequate port facilities
at Chilumba and one southern terminal (para 4 above) and by providing an
additional 200 ton barge.
13.       The items included in the project for the Lake Service are as
follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(a)  Estimated Cost of Terminals:        Chilumba        Southern Terminal
KO000               K'000
Construction of a jetty,
storage facilities, buildings
and associated works /1             264.0                322.0
Cargo handling equipment              42.8                 42.8
306.8               364.8
(b)  Estimated Total Costs                K'000               US$'000
Thilumba terminal       306.8                 398
Southern terminal       364.8                 474
671.6                872
Self-propelled 200-ton
barge                               285.0                370
956.6 /2          1,242   /2
/1   Approximately 6% engineering and 10% contingencies on
civil works included in above figures. Southern
terminal figure includes access road.
/2   Preliminary engineering study by consultants is due to
be completed by the end of December, 1971. In the absence
of engineering data and final selection of the southern
terminal, an additional contingency of US$100,000 has been
included in the overall project costs.
14.       Traffic generated by the Karonga Rural Development Project would
be collected by an independent trucker and transferred to the Lake Service at
Chilumba. If Monkey Bay is chosen as the southern terminal, another inde-
pendent trucker would provide transportation to the railhead at Liwonde.
If Chipoka is chosen instead, railway transport would be available from
Chipoka.
Commercial Costs of the Lake Service
15.       Operating costs of the 200-ton barge and terminal facilities are
estimated in Table 2. These amount to a cost per ton of traffic between
Chilumba and the Southern terminal of K 12.66/metric ton in 1975, declining
to K 9.27/ton by 1980, when a higher level of traffic will allow better
utilization of the Lake Service facilities. The estimates allow for full
coverage of direct costs, plus a contribution to overheads and a return of
12% on the capital investment.
16.       Revenue of, say, K 11.00/metric ton would be equivalent to a rate
per ton-mile some 23% higher than the present average from dry cargo
traffic as a whole. Lake Service users, however, have already indicated
that their prime concern was with the poor quality of the present service,



ANNEX 6
Page 6
and that tariff increases associated with the proposed rehabilitation would
be acceptable within the limits of alternative costs of transport by road.
For the Chilumba traffic, a rate of K 11.00/ton would not be vulnerable
to road competition as long as the quality of service is adequate.
17.       In practice, charges per ton-mile should, of course, be varied
for specific traffics in accordance with cost and demand considerations.
In the case of the southbound traffic generated by the Karonga Rural Develop-
menit Project, there may well be grounds for offering a preferential rate
below the required average in view of its nature as a pilot scheme. However,
in estimating the allocation of sales proceeds from the project's output
(Annex 5), transportation charges include a full allocation of K 11.00/metric
ton in respect of the Lake Service.
Economic Justification for Rehabilitating the Lake Service
18.       The economic return from the total investment in the Lake Service
rehabilitation has been calculated by comparison with the alternative of
using road transport throughout for the traffic expected to use the Lake
Serivce.
19.       By 1975 the Lakeshore road should be completed to all-weather
standards between Nkhata Bay and the south, while Nkhata Bay may be linked
to the Karonga district by a new road via Rumpi and Chiweta (paras 2 and 3).
The road distance from Chilumba to Chipoka would be about 355 miles, compared
with only 257 miles by Lake Service. If the Southern terminal is situated
at MoDnkey Bay the savings in distance offered by the Lake Service would be
even greater.
20.       The economic operating costs of road vehicles are estimated at
aboult K 0.035/ton-mile. The heavy investments needed to provide a satisfac-
tory road route to Nkhata Bay and Chilumba can be ignored, on the assumption
that this will be completed whether the Lake Service is rehabilitated or
not. Even so, comparison with the economic costs of the Lake Service
suggests that conveyance by the Lake offers savings equivalent to an economic
return of about 20% on the proposed K 956,600 investment in Lake Service
rehabilitation.
December 29, 1971



MALAWI
KAdONGA RURAL DEVELOPMtNT PROJECT
Estimated Total Dry Cargo Traffic on the Monkey Bay/
Nkhata Bay/Chilumba Lake Service
(short tons)
Distance         1970        1975       1977        1980
Northbound                                     (Miles)
From Chipoka (or Mvlonkey Bay    to-
Nkhota Kota                               93          1,043          -           -          -
Nkhata Bay                               176           8,244      9,650      10,610      12,308
Karonga District                         259          3,470       7,160       8,920      10,347
Other                                     -           1,002          -           -          -
Other Northbound                             _              441        500          550        640
Total Northbound                                  14,200      17,310       20,080     23,295
(Northbound traffic resulting from Project,
and included above)                                            -       (3,100)      (4,450)    (4,450)
Southbound
To Chipoka (or Monkey Bay -/) from-
Nkhota Kota                               93             595         -           -          -
Nkhata Bay                               176          1,231       1,440        1,580      1,833
Karonga District                         259           2,139      8,700       11,650     13,514
Other                                     -               56         -           -          -
Other Southbound                             -            1,465        100          110        130
Total Southbound                                   5,486      10,240      13,340      15,477
(Southbound traffic resulting from Project,
and included above)                                            -        (6,100)     (8,600)    (8,600)
Total both directions                                19,686      27,550       33,420     38,772         u|s
H QN
NOTE
1/ It is assumed that all traffic now transferred between rail and lake transport at Chipoka
will transfer to Monkey Bay, if the new port is opened there.
Source:  Malawi Railways and Mlission Estimates.






ANNEX 6
Table 2
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Commercial Costs of Freight Traffic
on the Chilumba/Monkey Bay Route
A. Annual Operating Costs of a 200-ton Self-Propelled Barge
K'000
First cost of barge (K285,000) t 25 years                   11.4
Interest on first cost (12% x 0.5)                          17.1
Fuel 14 gal/hour at 8 knots
*1.5 gal/mile x 518 miles round trip
x K 0.44/gallon x 62 trips p.a.                           21.2
Lubricants                                                   0.2
Maintenance 4% of cost of barge                             11.4
Stores                                                       1.0
Crew                                                         4.8
67.1
Add administration and other overheads at 20%         13.4
80.5
Cost per round trip at 62 trips p.a.   K 1,298
Year 1975       Year 1980
Estimated net ton-miles per
round trip                           66,300          88,000
Costs per net ton-mile                 0.020           0.015
Cost per short ton, Chilumba/
Southern terminal (259 miles)         5.07            3.82



ANNEX 6
Table 2
Page 2
B.   Port Terminal Costs
Chilumba     Southern Terminal
(K'000)           (K'000)
First Costs                                306.8              364.8
(K'000 p.a.)    (K'000 p.a.)
First Costs (excluding crane, tractors
and trailers) * 25 years                     10.6              12.9
First costs of crane, tractors, and
trailers 4 10 years                          4.3                4.3
Interest on first costs (12% x 0.5)          18.4              21.9
Maintenance at 2-1/2%                         7.7               9.1
Staff (Harbormaster, clerks and
wireless operator)                            5.0               5.0
46.0              53.2
Add administration and all other
overheads at 20%                        9.2              10.6
55.2              63.8
Year 1975                Year 1980
Southern                  Southern
Chilumba  Terminal      Chilumba    Terminal
Est. tons through Port        17,000    28,000        25,000       40,000
Cost per ton, loaded
or unloaded                  K3.25      K2.28         K2.21        K1.60
Add handling costs per
ton (excluding capi-
tal costs of cranes,
tractors and trailers)       KO.53      KO.36         KO.41        KO.37
Port terminal costs per
short ton                         K 6.42                   K 4.59
C.  Total Costs, Chilumba/Southern Terminal
1975                   1980
(K per short ton)       (K per short ton)
Movement                 5.07                       3.82
Terminals                6.42                       4.59
11.49                      8.41
per metric ton -        12.66                       9.27
Source:  Mission estimates.



MAiLAWI
KIRONGA RURAL DEVEIPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT OJSTS - Total Costs
K Kwacha
Year         Year         Year         Year          Year        Total                FE       Local Costs
1            2            3            4             5                    %FE    Component   Component
Rioe Schemes
Vehicles, machinery, equipment             170,688        6,250       30,710       21,164         3,280      232,092    90       208,883       23,209
Irrigation Construction Works             184,160        30,660        6,000        3,000         3,000      226,820    37       83,165       143,655
Buildings                                   56,120       46,980       62,680       30,060         1,060      196,900    34        66,067      130,833
Operating and Maintenance                   81,970      102,915      151,568       66,410        37,597      440,460    47       208,586      231,874
Staff Costs                                46 722        62X709       76,583       71317         72 997      33 2                   - _       330 328
Sub-total                                  0       249,514      327,541      191,951     t113         1,426;600    5        566,701
Dry Land Crops
Vehicles                                     1,400         -           1,900          500          _           3,800    90         3,420          380
Buildings, infrastructure                  10,960        14,700       40,900         -             _          66,560    48        31,992       34,568
Operating and maintenance                    1,284        1,954        5,562        7,530         4,530       20,860    52        10,827       10,033
Staff Costs                                  2,500        3 985        8 064         8 467        8 890       31,906    -           -          31,906
Sub-total                             161           2 63         5                                      13,        3W        16,239       7
Livestock Development
Vehicles, machinery, equipment               9,338        3,798        1,938          -                       15,074    90        13,566        1,508
Buildings                                   93,860       46,070       41,290        7,600          -         188,820    42        78,918      109,902
Operating and maintenance                  15,355        20,401       25,153       28,435        29,525      118,869    77        91,760       27,109
Staff Costs                                16,680        21,454       26 126       28,93         29,811      122 464    19        23 ,484      98 980
Sub-total                            135,233        91,723      7             64,42M        59,7336                 1
Incremental Farm Inputs                      30,398        51,735       56,882       64,410        50,930      254,355    72       182,593       71,762
Further Studies                              97,580        39,048       40,610      359,507        25,144      561,889    61       344,786      217,103
Project Administration
Vehicles, equipment                        46,4150       12,200       10,100         4,600         -          73,350    90        66,105        7,335
Buildings                                 217,480        20,200         -             -            -         237,680    40        96,194      141,486
Operating and maintenance                  64,300        81,737       79,542       79,542        79,542      384,663    61       233,028      151,635
Staff Costs                               128 040       135 682      119 888      12-5882       132,177      641669    4          74320        67,349
Sub-total                                 4     5      6    ,                2l070249,819 211,719  1,337,362                6695 570
Health Facilities
Vehicles and equipment                       1,700         _           1,700          -            -            3,400    90        3,060          340
Buildings                                  19,480        30,600       39,100      129,600         1,500      220,280    41        89,652      130,628
Operating and maintenance                    1,885        3,942         -             -            -            5,827    74        4,312        1,515
Staff Costs                                  2 020        4, 481        -             -            -           6 501    -           -           6,501
Sub-total                39,0                           4 O9,6 0 0 1,0,800    12 9,6007                                                  139,161
Transportation
Port Buildings and Access Roads            153,400      226,400      291,800          -            _          671,600    72      487,200      184,400
Barges                                        -         190 000       95  00                                  285,000    92      262,200        22,800
Sub-total                            153,400 4                                               -          956,600                  0       207,200
Contingencies - Physical                      25,297       32,976       41,040        11,707        3,991       115,011    38       43,847        71,164         d
Physical irrigation          42,250       12,913        17,037        7,147         3,091       82,438    55        45,341       37,097
Price                        66,256        59,034      102,284      149 432        54 882      431,888    48       207,.30   224 
Sub-total                            133,803      l01,3          160,361     168,286   7    i 7619       29,3 7    1       2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        1,587,573    1,262,824    1,373,457    1,204,703       541,947    5,970,504    53    3,160,345    2,810,159



-^HiGN(A RUT,lL  DEV'ELJPMENT PRuJECT
PPOJPCT COSTS I -  RICE SCRE!ES  - SURVEY UNIT
Year          Year          Year          Year          Year                                                       FE              Local
Unit Costs       1             2             3             4             5                Total Costs           % FE         Component            Costs
1.  Personnel - Salaries
- Technical Officer  and Cartographer                       1,200        2,400 (2)   2?520 (2)    2,646 (2)    2,778 (2)    2,917 (2)                  13,261                -                                13,261
- Technical Assistants (3)                                  1,120        3,360 (3)    3,528 (3)    3,704 (3)    2,594 (2)    1,362 (1)                 i4,548                _               _                14,548
- Field Assistants and Drivers(5/team)                        4Bo        7,200 (15)   7,660 (16)   7,938 (15)   5,557 (10)   2,917 (5)                 31,172                -               _                31,172
- Clerks                                                      480           960 (2)    1,008 (2)    1,058 (2)         555 (1)       583 (1)              4,164                                                 L i 4 164
- Field Allowances                                            550        1,650 (3)    1,733 (3)    1,820 (3)    1,273 (2)           669 (1)              7'745                                                 7,145
Sub-Total 1                                              15,570        16,349        17,166        12,757         8,448                 70,290                -              _                 70,290
2. Housing Construction
- Class I houses   (T.O.)                                   8,600       17,200 (2)        -             -             -             -                  17,200                33          5,676                11 524
- Class II houses  (S.T.A.)                                 3,800       11,400 (3)       -              -            _              -                  11,400                33          3,762                 7,638
- Class Illhouses  (T.A.)                                   2,800        5,600 (2)    8,400 (3)         -             --                                114,000              33          4,620                 9,380
- Temporary houses                                            280        4,2001-(15)      -                                                             _4 200               33          1,386                 2,814
Sub-Total 2                                              38,400         8,400           -             --                                1.6,800               33         15,444               31,356
3.  Vehicles & Equipment - Purchases
- Four Wheel Drive                                          2,900        5,800 (2)                      -          2,900 (1)        -                   8,700                90          7,830                   870
- Small car                                                 11400        1,400 (1)       -           1,400 (1)        -             -                   2,800                90          2,520                   280
- Surveying equiprent                                       7,480        7,470 ',)        -             -             -             -                    7,430               90          6,732                   748
- Camping equipment                                         2,628        2,628 (l)       -             -           1,314 (½         -                    3,942               90          3,548                   39Y
- Drawing equipment                                         5,000        5,000 (1)    1,250 (04)    1       NO            1,250  ( '4)    12SO  LI-)   10,000                90          9,000                 1,000
Sub-Total 3                                              22,308         1,250         2,650         5,464         1,250                 32,922                90         29,630                 3,292
L.  Housing Maintenance:  2.5% of Sub-Total 2                                   -             960         1,170         1,170         1,170                  4,070                20            394                3,576
5. Vehicles - operating Costs
-Four Wheel Drive K0.06 x 24,000 miles prr annum            1,440        2,880 (2)    2,880 (2)    2,380 (2)    2,880 (2)    1,440 (1)                  12,970               50          6,480                 6,480
_35a11  car KO.04 x 24,000 miles per annum                    960          960 (I)        960 (1)       960 (l)       960 (1)       960 (1)             14800                50          2,400                 2,00
Sub-Total 5                                               3,8.0         3,9.Lo        3,8L40         ,340          2,140                 17,?60               60          8,880                 8,880
TOT.AL SJRVY                                                          2%JJ1         30,799          2            23,231        13,263                172,212                32        54,848



MALA.:I
K Ito i;A HIJGAL D0VELLPMETO PRvJECT
PROJE T COSTS!  T[, .  0DOULE CROP1D IP1RIIoATED %iTt
rC EOCiIA. A011
Year           betr           year       1 Year         rear                                                    Ft             Local
A.  C000080C'T000 07ERNEADS                                 Osat Costs           1              2              3            4            5                Total Costs          t FE        Coeponcot          Costs
1,  Ihtrsosnnl - Salaries
- Irrigation Engineer Assitant                            1,200           1,200 (I)       1,263 (1)    1,323                        _                    3, 783                            _              3, 783
- Foresee - Fitter                                        1,200           600 0 (5)      6,300 (5)    6,615            -            _                   18 915              _              _             18,915
- Irrigation Assistants, Clsr-s                             480           3,360 (7)      3,523 (7)    3,704            _           _                   10,592               _              _             10,592
- Drivers                                                   480           1,920 (C)      2,017 (4)    2.118          -              -                    6.055              -              -              6,055
Sob-Total 1                                            12,400          13,105       13,763           _            -                   39,345              -              -             39,345
2. Nousing - Osoctroctlss
- Class I house   (T.O.)                                  8,600           8,600 (1)         -            _             _                                  ,600              33         2,838             5,762
- Close II hbosse  (S.T.A.)                               3,800          19,000 (5)         -                                                           I   -  19 ,000      33         6 270             12,730
- Clasa ITI hases (T.A.)                                  2,800          19,600)))         -             -             - 7                              19,600              33         6,468            13,132
- Temporary hosses                                          280           1.120 (4)         -            -             _            -                   1,120               33            370               750
- Sits Offie-e                                            3,00O           3.00O (1)         -          3,000 (1)                                        6 6,.00             33         1.980             4,020
Sob-Total 2                                            51,220             -          3,000           -           _                    54,320              33         17,926           36,394
3. Vshiclce, Plant, M0hieneey, Purcioses
- i       -eatar                                        22,000          28,000 (1)                       -                                             2d,000               90        25,200             2,800
- Dragline                                              18,000          18,000 (1)         -             -             -           -                    18,ooo              90         16,200            1,800
- Tippe-r 5 T                                             3,600          10,800 (3)        -           3,600 (1)       _           -                    14,400              90         12,96o            1,440
-      Tractor  hth pl..                                  3,600          3,600 (1)         -             -             -           -                    3,600               90         3,240               360
- Peer Wheel Drhee                                        2 500          2,500 (1)         -             -             _           _                    2,500               90         2,250               250
- Dosper                                                 2,000           2,000 (1)         -             -             -           -                    2,000               90         1,800               200
_ Cesereic siers                                         2,000           4,000 (2)         -             -             -           _                    4,080               90         3,600               400
- Small car                                               1,400          1,400 (I)          -            -             -           -                     l,400              90          4,260               140
- Constructicn pumps                                        662          1,320 (2)        -              -             -           -                     1,320              90        1.188                 132
Sob-Total 3                                            71,620             -          3,600           -            -                   75,220              90         67,698             7,522
4.  lousirg laiseaane, 2.5% ot Scb-tct.1 2.
Sob-Total 4                                               -            1,283         1,283        1,358       1,358                    5,282              20          1,056            4,226
1' 2/
5.  Vahihles -  Opr-atic  Caste -  -
- er '.fheel Drive hO.06/mile; 24,200 miles p-r aron     1,412 0L,440                    l,44o         1,440       1,L40        1,440                    7,200              50          3,600            3,600
- Smal.  car 0O.04/ilo, 24,000  iloss per -annu             963            960             760           960          960         960                    L.800              60          2.400            2,40d
3ub-Tota  5                                             2,400           2,130         2,400       2,L00        2,400                   12,O9               50          6,000            6,OOs
--OaL A                                              137              168 700       20            3, 758      3.758                  1    167 55                     92 6'o            93,S
B.  Field Cnontrootion
_, 1.  Lufira  - Stroctoree
-     Intake stroctare, gate osir, oilt eJc-tor         23,J30          20,000                                         -            -                   20,000              33         6,600            13,400
- Hcad  -o1ole, rook catting '002 c. ydA.                 3,030          8,L00  2.9)        -            _             -            -                    2,400              33          2,772            5,628
- Head cane1,, rook cotting lioing .300 -c. ft.           2,000         32,000 (16)         -            -             -            -                   32,000              33         10,560           21,440
- Wait total  cr.ontrols                                    692           3,000 (')       7,301 (S!      -             -            -                    6,000              33          1,980            4,020
- iranch canals cantocle                                    500           1,500 (3)      1,500 (3)                                                       3,000              33            990            2,010
- POo,i3c.anoe ontsorcls                                    c6            1,800 (30)     1,800 (30)      -             -            -                    3,600              33          I,188            2,412
- Field Lraioca.crole                                        60          1,300 (30)      1,800 (30)      -             -           -                     3,600              33          1,188            2,412
- Ic-d Bridtps                                           2,00            B,000 (4)       0,00o  '4)      -             -                                16,000              70         11,200            4,800
- a-t 3Bridges                                               LO          1,OcOC (5'      1,0002          _            _2                                                    33            660            1.340
Sab- Ictol                                -            77,500          17,100          -             -            -                   94,630              39         37,138            57,462
- Head  canals and 001  0coi-s  000 cu.yds.                 500         20,000 (LO'   20,003 ('40)       -             _            -                   ho000               50         20,000           20,000
- blio  and Brooch coas.s  000 ou.yds.                      LOO           8,000 (20)      7,003 20'      -             -            _                   16,000              50          8,000            8,000
- fitid  Orrigatio- Jhaaoelc and Drai '-000 cuyd.          300           3,202 (1f )     3,09n (lO       -            _            -                    6,000              50          3,000            3,000
Rood c-ostroction(2  aJ0 nile,                            300           2,410 C         2,403  (8)     -             _            -                     800               S           2,400            2,400
_ Rood  -arfacing (24 ft.(,ailcs                          1,500          12,030  I' 12,033 (3)           _             _            _                   24.,030             50         12,200            12,000
- Fiold B9nds (by foesere)  000 00,                       1,500            075  (.5)        75D '.'      _             _            _                    1,500              50            750              750
- Field le-loig and pl.sio, '000 0c                      2,500           1,250 '.F       1,25o (.;      -             -            -                    2,500              57          1,250             1,250
- Fetrc1of, mices                                           200           1h00   -' 1,00  (                                                              2.000              90          1800               200
Sob-Total                                              43,40             ,0             -            -            -                   96,30               51         49,200            47,600
lSb-Total for 1,000 00.0t lofira                                      126                              -             -            -                  114,L3o              45         06,330          105.062
2. dooss            500 ae. -   (an  r  1afira(               iot.t           -                -           95,790 (IC,    -             -                   '.lo                45         43,05             53,637
3. TOTAL Field  Bone',n5tio  - lb-ictal                                                                                                                    2812,0  65,O  970704           229,14            157,90c
T L E A  , ," k 7SE  3,758      H73.262              L7        221,875           251,392
1' Kacara-or and tippers olco osed for roods cakiog   Oo of the than' and cr  .600  ra :.,ccc0:0cr000nctso-  (156'
2,  Ot- r -,hiCrs cod 000Li1-a0  tprataeg toots re iriciad.  1,. mold ltxconC  .O
3f  After .so'etion of  .esebead. tbe  -coter,etise COSts antk cOU  no T3oo/ac.



24511A:iI
K.lHONGA RURAL D)EVELui,, HNT POLJE(.T
PROJ7CT,s COSTS II. - DOUBLE CROP DHRIGATED RIC6
B. SETTIElENT, EXIENSION AND SCHEPE SERVICiS
Year           Year           Yar            Year           Year                                                   FE          Losal
LDit Costs                     1              2              3              14             5                    Total Costs       t FE       Component       Costs
1   personnel-Salaries
A.  Settler.nt - Esteansiso
- Senior Offioor   - Coust-rpart                           2,000                         -              -              -            2,000 (1)      2,100 (1)                4,100                          _00
- Technical Officer                                        1,200                       1,200 (1)      1,260 (1)      1,323 (1)      1,389 (1)      1,459 (1)                6,631             _           _           6,631
- T-ohniIalAssiStantS.                                       460                         960 (2)      1,968 (4)      2,546 (5)      2,673 (5)      2,807 (5)               10, 954                        -          10,954
_ Developoment Assistants                                   3A0                        3,400 (10)    6,290 (18)    8,305 (23)    8,721 (23)    9,157 (23)                  35.873             -           _          35,873
Sub-Total A                                                        5,560           9,518        12,174         14,783          15,523                  57,558              _           _         57,558
U. Sehsene Servicesr
_ Sohes  Managers                                          2,000                         -              -            2,000 (1)      4,100 (2)      4,305 (2)               10,405             -           -          10,405
Clerks and Drivers                                        140                          480 (1)        984 (2)      1,513 (3)      1,588  3)      1,667 (3)               6,232              -           -           6,232
- Foreman (irying)                                          300                         300 (1)        315 (1)        631 (2)        663 (2)        696 (2)                2,605             -           -           2,605
_ Waterguards                                                240                         240 (1)        492 (2)        757 (3)        795 (3)        835 (3)                3,119             -           -           3,119
- Storemen                                                   150                         300 (2)        315 (2)        631 (4)        662 (4)        695 (4)                2,603                   -                 2,603
- Laborers - 250 days at K.24/day                             60                       1,302 (22)    1,866 (30)    1,959 (30)    2.057 (30)    2.160 (30)                   9,3414                                   _ -  9.344
Sub-Total B                                                        2,622          3,972          7,491          9,865         10,358                   34,308              -           -         34,308
Sub-Total 1                                                        8,182         13,490         19,665         24,648         25,881                   91,866              -                     91,866
1/
2.  Housing Construction -
_ Class Ilhouses  (T.O.)                                  3,800                          -              -           3,800 (0)      3,800 (l)         -                      7,600             33        2,508         5,092
_  Class IV house  CD.A.)                                 1,800                       5,400 (4)    14,400 (3)    10,800 (6)           -              -                     30,600             33       10,098       20,502
Schec ebilding _-                                       15,000                      15,000 (1)        -          15,00C (1)         -              -                       '30,00           33        9,900       20,100
- Tenporary hoasos                                           280                      1,680 (6)         840 (3)     1,120 (4)         -              -                      3,640             33        1,201         2,439
L Laborers houses                                            100                         400 (4)        100 (1)        400 (4)        -              _                        900             -           -             900
Sub-Total 2                                                       22,1480         15,340        31,120          3,800             _                     72,740             32      23,707         49,033
3. Vehicles, Plant, Mlchinery - Purchases
- Pick-sp                                                 1, 700                      2,700 (1)         -              -            1, 700 (1)       -                      3,400             90        3,060           340
- Xotor cycles                    2/                         500                      1, OO  (2)     1,000 (2)      1,500 (3)       1,000 (2)      1,000 (2)                5,500             90        4,950           550
- Eqsipneot for sclrme building -                          3,000                       3,000 (1)        -                   l (1)                   -                       6                 90 5og400                 600
Sub-Total 3                                                        5,700          1,000          J,soO           2,700         1,000                    114,900            90       13,410        1,490
4.  Rousing; XajinUenan^c 2.5% of Sub-Total 2                                                -              637          1,020          1,873          1,968                    5,498             20        1,loo        4,398
5.  Vehicles, Plant, Pisshinery;  Maintanance and
Operatinlg Costs
- Tipper (For purohase see III A) KO.09/150 siles p.o. 1,350                             -              -              -            1,352 (1)      1,350 (1)                2, 700            50        1,350         1,350
- Pricup KO.Ol for 214,000 miles per acm              .a.    963                         960 (1)        960 (l)        960 (1)        960 (l)        960 (2)               148 30             50        24 00         21 400
- iotorcycles 111.02 for 19,0o3 r ,ls per anross            200                         400 (2)        80o (4)      1,00 (5)       1,000 (5)      1,000 (5)                4,200             50        2,100         2,100
- Oaiotenance of Scheme equiprent                            300                         -   (l)        300 (1)        300 (1)          600  (2)       60 (2)               18                50          900           900
Sob-Total 5                                                        1,360          2,.60          2,260           3,910          3,910                   13,500             50        6,750         6,750
TOTAL                                                             37,722          32,527        58,565          36,931         32,759                 198,504              23       4L,967       153,537
1/  It, dditics, to houses available from construction team bee I51  A. )Staff housed is temnporar  houses in -,he .  -tinv.
2/  ',omprisrs store, drying floors, stighbridgeo,Serocig,g
3/  comprisoo scales, moistUre o eter, saok barros, tSrpaulins, tosls Snd miscellaneous.



10ALAW0
M=OEC 60023 III.  00- -21  II01,05 81
2   AEO.000la  at                                                                         1             2            3                                            6s   at           31 s%0a1                  0,'01
I IOgaEr topras  CaE.a,t(0.)                                      120             1,000 (~1)    1,260 (11    1.32'3 (l     1,31'33.3     1,058 (1)             6,3                                           6,630
-,lod-o                                                             LBO          3,5,,0 (03    '5715 1   0,762 (15)   8,15  (153           5.I6               3,0                             -3,
- t.aro-                                                             6t             lEo (3)       309 (6)      32,  (3)      3611 (03      038 ()01                                                          
tsl-srasl 0                                    ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~5,0    7.  365  0,939  17,3,5  1O,r57       (.6,695                                          9  r,  5
- russ, 0 Crass   (0.0.3                         8,~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~600  0.6,0(3,-                                                      ,7              33          2,633           5,062
- tdaas 020 hatra  (0.1.)  2,500       0,890 (01      ..            -             -             -                   2,607            53            o04           1,871~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_3  187
- tat,  0001cr,                               3,030          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,9  (1  3.907 (II 3,000(1  3,900 (0)    3,20   (95I,2                      03         a  lCa1,050
T-OaP,,aroas200                                                                   2.240 (6)    1,560(7         -      -                    -                   4,000            L0370                          0
-  .trss  I,atss                                                 100             (00 333       207 (2)       -                                                  003                         6              335
OtC-Oat,0 2                                   ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~       ~~~~16,040  5,160  5, 000 0,0  3,000              31,100            L1         12.637          18,443
3 .           -sdlasd ROos,-Oa7ss
- r,,aadss,o                                 20, 000         00,000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o'    31)                                              2                                0  1,3  a  EC  2,0OX
2      21,0      1,0(1           -            -             -             -                  02,30             98         10,70            2,100
-72 -2t,,.67                                                                     tIrO  (1         -          4.,060 (53      -             -0320                                (0          8,380             931
-St                                                               3 trosos0,600   ,100 ()         -          36800           -)            -                   7,2000           70          6,41              720
- titaslat Orlaltas sad Iqalprarr                ~~~~~~        ~~~3,607  10,900 133  -.       :600 (13    3,633 (53I1,70                                         3         18,000           2,20
-Osaoo2o,5100t5r                              0,800           0~~~~~~~~~            ~     ~           ~~~~~~~~,30(d   - - 2,510(0  -       300               70         4,000(0
- arab  tao                                       0,400           2,800  1)                   1,3  (13    1,400 (03        -                   5,600            tO,5,00                       560
S.b-T-afl 3                                                   65,360            -         13,2r0         0,500           -                   6,120            93         07,808           3,612
a.  Ss,d,a  Ottst-t 2.53 ad sa-.tr             2                         -                            - 02          -53,          000           703                 0308              2 0          L 62          C.16a
- oalr  Co0., 1 0.00.   a (o hoa-s                               7,200           o,a 3,60   1)    7,207 (20200 (111.6.0 ~(1.2)  2,400O 303                   25)o4O            500        l4.520          1l,5O0
t,.2.r   EVCtto 02003 lot.,        16,700           0,000 (½)   16,000 )1(   18,700 (11   lt,270  (1.2)  (,050  10/33           66.550            60350      32,205,50       32,205,7
- r.aladr,sa   6C'tOar 0 000 rats,                3~~~~~~~L'so,50  2.rOO  Is 100(1           4,5  ()       5,)  (1.2)  1,690  W33             10,,,60           60          9,50            9,630
- Lao,~~~~o     t~o a 16,000 00ss90  oa. I,Ot                               05I  (1        ,30(1        ,0      l    109   t       1,500~ 30)             7,00            175         3,030           3,,
-01000rs   r o 15,90 midas po a,d,tO1.057                     3,00 15)    .10  (33    2 00 (3,    4,334(3)02,00)(23                        2,700200                     945o            0,4(
- lasolar.   drtl,sao a 1,070 to,,,      0,070           0.600         5,000 (33~~~~~~~~I   6:,001 23'    j:60   30    1 000 (0      12,100        -   50          6,St            86,0502
I sr  0 ,_ ros O.06 Kr200str00O.a                            ,407           1,r  h3(      0.4  (0       .30(5         ,4  (0        ,440 (1)             0,0               0          3,50            360
tador0.0.,O   2,.,00 oda  pr-1-    ta                        060           (3 23    1,027 (23    3,2 (2)    1,0   2)              E t 310( 2J2                           87          3.000            ,0
2,.a-Talol                                     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~           ~ ~~~24,,10  3,,I'0  39,910  013 17,tlo18,20                          10 5       03,,125         84,123
082616  15                                                     1210          7600          66,662        6             36(  2,50033,05                         6         104,852         189,821
D. ~TT00d35,107d102N - 0. ,0 210000-
- lroSaar,1 0000,,,                                       1,200 ~d1,3001                1,2605 (1)l  6,303~315)   71.30   2L)   7,1,459 ()            2,634                                        25 ,5640
- 0,r5a8ra3. tssasoaos,                        (00              .~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~60  0) o,.9 12,    0,013 (3  tt  4 ,102  Z30,1                     --7,2
-Dor,i , ,oo 32,r    Otsa80                                                         96   2       .1()        151(1         0Sd(3         03 3 .3               03714-7 0
Ao-ra   -4 ,340                                                        7,017         9,7517       12,43o        13,066               3,6,706                                       4 -.67a6
- otas  320-0                                                     1,277             -           121(.,3033o,1   (43   C630  (C                                1705              - 7                        15,075
- trok                                                              aId0                         4(0 .01       010  I3 90,75  34,    2,603 363                 6,030            -                              3rtJ
-  ooa   OLoar)                                                 006             307 313      815  21    1,217(3        1,0   6       lG    8               0759             -                            .(
- Otoosaro                                      100            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~150 (53  300 303  623 14)  0,  6  ,0811      C3                                            ,3
-Doo,,i-0                                                                                         300 ,13     904 (2)    .,51 31 dl       ,69 363              5,046            --5.0OIL
00-Total -0                                                      .6          3.303         6.297        110,0(         .L,ot5               35,546            -                          3,630
Orat-Tot  I                                                    4,707        10,300        l,(           33,407        oo7,7 al               2,332            -                           2.332
2.  0o1  osoo,os
- Olsss I Otaso  30.0.3                          3,603           0,500 (13        -            -             -             -                   8~~6  ,600       30          2,330            ,1
-Clas  dIa,a.-   (BTOO~.)                                         3,0                            ,0   1      3.600I (1)    0,600 (2                           1,0                33         5,016             Id,1.
- tiasa 100 baa.,, (2.0.3                    2,000             -           2,800 (01    2.000  (0)2,800313-                      8~O       2,600            33         2,0 l,03
- Oclisra ltOlTho.ds  -                  15,000          10.003 313   16.000~~~~~~~~~oo  (03   15,000  15) (.00   (13  -0,307                            33         19,000         40,200
- 0,0200,10. to,.s,,                           290 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  131  MO, ~333   6, (Cd   I   563 (21I      360  2              3,365           tO           3,003,            300
- lobasras' Soars,                                 ~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~107  000 323  20  303~    000 (al  300 (33  50703I,600                        -             -             1,600
0t6-Tttso                                     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~33,440  31,t40  31.56,,  25,203       1,030               123.160            34         32,360          71,200
-Ptok-sp                                     1,000           0,10030~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m()  -  1,710 (1,  -           -3...0                              90         3,060              A6
- Eao,0oyolra                                                  (0t_-'.3"     1,too (2    o700  303    2,000 (03    2,63  35)    1,00  32)                 7,800            30          6.750             050
- E03lp,ssat Oar Sohr,r ltflddr,os  -            3,003           3.200 30~~~M   3 3,000(13I 3.070 (11    111  3,13                            12,.              90         10,000          172o9
OtI-Osoal                                       1~~~~ ~ ~~~~          ~ ~~~~~~         ~ ~~~,700  L0, - 6,720  5,500  1,000  72,900           0          20,010           6,007,
4. 2rarot,l,rroa  2.63 of  --6-00  0                                                     -             341         1,832        2,621         0.070                 7.972            20 ,        1.630           6,329
- Poap 0,04 It 24,000                                               960             980 313      380 (13       -                                               5,0               0            90o             160
-  0so:ds   ,3 5  000300                                                     60  (13      ,207 0       1,90 M(63    21010 (0)    2,.00(93                9,00             805c       41      4,60     .5
OtO-Tatal                                      1.~~~ ~ ~~~~~~            ~~~~~~ ~ ~~540  2,100  0,806 2,700  27,00          10,920            50         5,600            5,460
-  0024--6-                                                      4960-301                     270          031 75                             .9r9               1         000o1-.6
0.TaOP 10501  doIo120                                                               0,0          E,0           2  41        1301ils5280-0                                                    2,.d             0,1            1






MALAW I
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPFURT PROJECT
PROfJECT CSTS nV - COTTON. MATZF GROUNDNlTS SEVELOPMENT
M - TiACHA
Year         Year          yaar         Year          Year                                                 iA
Unit Costs               1            2             3            4             5                  Total Costs         % FE    Om" nt          Lanai Costs
1.  Personnel-Salaries
- Technical Officer    1/  2/                             1,200                 1,200 (1)   1,260 (1)    1,323 (1)    1,389 (1)    1,458 (l)                  6,630 o                        _           6,630
- Technical Assistants -i -                                  80                   -            -            480 (1)      505 (1)       529 (1)                1,513             -            -1,513
_ Development Assistants    / 21                            340                   340 (2)   1,717 (5)    5,203 (15)   5,463 (15)   5,736 (15)                18,459             -                       18,559
- Clerical Officer and Driver                               480                   960 (2)   1,008 (2)    1,058 (2)    1,111 (2)    1.167 (2)                  5.304             -             -          5,30L
Sub-Total 1                                                  2,500       3,985         8,o64        8,467         8,890                   31,906             -             -         31,906
2. Housing - Construction
- Class I house   (T.O.)                                  8,600                 8,600 (1)     -             -            -             -                      8,600             33         2,838         5,762
- Class III house (T.A.)                                  2,800                   -            -          2,800 (1)      -             -                      2,800             33           924         1,876
- Class IV houses(D.A.)                                   1,800                 1,800 (1)   7,200 (4)   18,000 (10)      -             _                     27,000             33         8,910        18,090
- Te-nporaryhouses                                          280                   560 (2)     -                                                                 560             -            -             560
Sub-Total 2                                                 10,960        7,200       20,800          _             _                     38,960             33         12,672       26,288
3. Vehicles- Purchases
- Pick-up                                                 1,400                 1,400 (1)                 1 ,LOO (1)    _             _                      2,800             90         2,520           280
- Notorcycles                                               500                  '                          500 (1)      500 (1)       _                      1,000             90           900           100
Saub-Total 3                                                 1,400          _          1,900           500          -                      3,800             90          3,420          380
4.  InLrastructurs- Consiructio-
- New Roads 2                                             l,800                               -          12,600 (7)      -             _                     12,600             70         8,820         3,780
- Boreholes                                               1,500                   _         7,500 (5)    7,500 (5)                                           15,000             70        10,500         4,500
Sub-Total 4                                                    _          7,500       20,100           -            -                     27,600             70         195,320       8,280
5. Housing:  Maintenance 2.5% of subtotal 2                                           -            274          454           974          974                    2,676             70            535        2,141
6.  Vehicles: Maintenance  and operati.g  Osts
- Pick-up                                                   960                   960 (1)     960 (1)       960 (1)      960 (1)       960 (1)                4,800             50         2,400         2,400
- Motorcycles                                               300                   300 (1)     600 (2)       600 (2)      600 (2)       600 (2)                2,700             50         1,350         i,350
- BcceAlan                                                   24                    25 (1)      120 (5)      360 (15)     360 (15)      360 (15)               1,224             50           612           612
- Roads upgrading -                                         200                   _           _           3,000 (15)   3,000 (15)      -                      6 o00             70         4,200         1.800
3ub-Total 6                                                  1,284        1,680        4,920        4,920         1,920                    14,724            58          8,562        6,162
7. Maintenance  of Infrastructure
- Roads 1lO  of costs                                                                                                  1,260         1,260                    2,520             50          1,260        1,260
- Boreholes: 2.5%  of cots                                                        _           _             188          376           376                      940             50           470           270
Sub-Total 7                                                    _                         188         1,636        1,636                     3,460            50          1,730        1,730
TOTAL                                                       16,4         20,639       56L26         197           3,520                   123,126            38         56,239        76,887
1/ Three Technical Assistants and 3 Field Assistant3 already available and housed in Kaonga District.
2/ One Technical Assistant for 6 Developmnst Assistants, one Devolopetnt Assistant for 75 farrers,
3/ Some tracks upgraded with equipment bought under irrigation prmgram  (See TIT A. and 77).






1- Y2031-
i. isrannsisnianos,                                       2             2                  3               4                 3                    TotalOnoto           221           Janotots (~~~~2.
Seniorfotno22f3.Aiosinckifiif-               8,302                i,335 (         8.925 (1)         9,321 (3)        t,.o(i            232  2                   c  s6e             5              23, 46ff          235W
OstOrlan,o. Aioooofs                    ~~~~               ~~~~323  1,920 (.3  3,936 (9)      6,573 (12)       7,315 (1i)        7,681 CL)                26,9o57                                             26,903
62rnlnp,ooi 0,s2,,ants 12 it 2 dIps)     342                2,392  (7)       3,i5f'23f        5, 072  (2.)     5,365  ff41       1,322 (214               22,228             -9,2
480                  623 (28         124 (2)           02  (f           (S   2)           5821)8i3 
10200   lli   0 224003a  Io, 210 ~no          63 o3,                              88(4            2,91 (218        2,62   (1i)    .3233 (2ff                   f,96539f
'a)(,I           49  24         _____   25        16,63 .71 2
'tf-70061                                                             2,46            18,273            22,106           246,15            25,898                   134,672             22             23,484            22,182
Senior 22222 ff200  27,402           17,423 (2)        -                 -                 -                -                       ff423              33              5,1,8            21,632~~~~~~~ 17,00  3  5142  1,65
2f.o,s 80 tones ~' I   20.)             3,22                21,20 38.)      15,222  (.43      ff220  (6;        7.822 f2)          -                                          3 3            17.556            36,224
lonpororn-hotone                    338                2~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                              ~~~.228) 12 (3)  ,  3) -4,2  2  .8  22
0392n202s honso,               122                  323 (3)    232332 (14)          2.523  (21)                                                  3.333             -                -               .220~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1))  '5   (5    9
2t2-Tno.1  26   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~'o, 14 7,722                                  8,6542           8.623                                      72,222             34             270,7d            Sf8 22
2tpp2w  tns2,-2                                                          24,08   17)    66,222  (7)        24,52 0(2)          -                -                       52c,23             30             12,600            21,423
on23oet yarn.                            ~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~722  2,223  (4)  -                           -                                         202 
4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                    223
Onooinlno                              2,122                3,023 (2)       3,223  (230-2-                                                                 6,30              7               o,22              1,2
2tnks  nOes                        222                2,803 ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~(1.)    4,2230 (22)  4,110  (2f                                        83,2               27,2                             ,4
-2n80s b.agts                                          2-                 I6,62   (if     nIno  if           ,62   S                                                      ,2               32              2,942M            32,6
csttls bridges an ston  rants  2,232           6,223 (4)      6,223 ),,f         2,582 (3)          --                                      20,232             72              7,232             3,00
Ftosnorskssnss                   72                                  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0 52) o0)                    -                           02             70              3;008               312 
mi-Vnte   22                                                   29,623          Oi,333            22,5052             --7,2 ~5                                                                    30, O3           42,27
3t6-Tnts.   2                                                  14,7420          ,3                f20               .2  L6,3,232                                                 .1             11.105            919027
6E3ip000, p-op, ..t,  -1010  -                         -.                     70          3,3               103                 .                                        372 7)                                                 7
Os-ltnp                                                              193              .7324               3-                                                       33.               92              6,206                76
O,isi 2322s32 Pro8,-,.,                   05,269                            07,384~~~~168   )  15  1772       33,3                        677               48            279,70            ff,39
2.     88,2,667402  
Trtlni22,2                                                 3122                    11 ,2618  2)                2,227()           3,83 1         1,8.57 (52663                                                 -3               6,630
l6,rIop,o~~~~2   oesi-,o 2t  339f       34n  (3)       3Sf  (if          571   42)        39.  111         sf3   12)                1  270            -                -                1,927 4,B O  - 4oo  2 M
027202                                           737sf2 (4,                           52  (2)~         L~29)43)          5      46 (1     82   1                    .5
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~,5
Ofs  f So -n (26                                ,2                  7,630 (2)        120~)             133(1-  -          -                -                       3,632              339            2,842 ~,632
-i--0'6000                                       AO0                  23. (      3   -15  1  -64 -                                       -~                         32              3                 24 
066-705429.                                fS.i02            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~73  77            -                                          7,3               3               ,1               20,338
262pnog  -ink                         2,883~~~~~~~~~~0      2MO932(2)         -                                                   -     7                    230883,
2002mg                               223               4~~~~~~~~~~      ~        ~        ~        ~      ~         ~      ~~,78221   3-813-2  -        ,22 39,6738
So,tn   -T.t~                                     1235300()                            -                                                                              523             93                2.4               570
P. n2223                                                           ,31(f            --                                                                            ,02 9O3                          2,612            w098
Sqnp,rni-                                            2o.7                 2,70   (2-        ---                                                                          170               90              2638                28
Sf   o t-loin.... 8         tl   .'              ,-                  73930-0                                              -                                         723:              906,6                               74
213900 02322  -062251225n  2.3   of 0o6.Tosni2  -0 ,4                          72                 20              75                3                       2,33,3            15l             3,4(              6,25
ioppLnss 52o2 vonin2ns - 7232n2028~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                   6
7225222.2 58,03  022  83~  0205      123                   2,03  31        1,70 (3            ,23  Ii         2000(i           2,23  1)                    ,23        6625627,2
2trlsoio  -nd/2   fsd                             o                  203 14)          403,12)0063613,00                                                                                                               1700
096.-tlOn.0-2-6,85 5                                                                                                                                                   OD72  53  3336   P.          f2,2                533 
0,    321 t-         7555                                                 25,23           2,0                 83'            0,0               036o32?o                                                     2765 0.f2'i0
6/   0102  nnl 220  n,. .0022200 on0100200  os 55n 2,7"05000 t  06 70'l0f  208 of7n`uo91 t4o37002,
footnnooftlo  20001 Ooibls Oo,o Sooso  ItIO-l7,8,
o.   23,-toOl, p04320 A                                                  70 20002022-0213-l4 7o0  ,2 . P7'47057n6 262,200






KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJeCT
PRoJeCT COSTS VS - ORPFAkM COSTS (SEA30NAL, ODD NdDDVli TORSH INPUTS)
M - KWACHA
Unit             Year           Year          Year          Yeer          Year               Total                        FE             Local
Costs              1             2             3             4             5                 Cet-           7 FE       Co.-ee.t          Ctsts
SEASONAL INPUTS
1.  WDDULE CROPPED RICE
- Deed 72 lbs/ar/tree at 3.3 3Tmbala/lb                                                2 376          4,752         7,128         7128          7,120               28,512           -            -              28,512
- Fertll es  1/ 20  20  0 - 100 ibs/ar/trap at 4.10 Toabalo/lb                         4 070          8,151        12,227        12,227        12,227               48,908          90         44,017             4,891
- SDlphate af A-enra 2/    700 los/ar/-rop at 2 5  raabala/lb                          5,000         10,000        15o,00        15,000        05,000                0 000          90         54,000             6 000
-  otserillde aId FP-ageide  2 K/ac                                                    1,000          2,000         3Q000         3,000         3,000               12J 000         90         10,800              0 200
SRb-Total                                                            12,452        24,903         37,355       37,355        37,355               149,420         73         108,817           40,603
1--res -ItaD Depot                                                                    12,452         12,451        12,452           -             -                  37,355         73         27,269            10,086
2.  ORCGNIZED RAINFED RICE
- Seed:  100 lbs/ar at 3.3 Tawbala/lO                                                  2,475          7,425        12,375        18,150        19,800               60,225                       -               60,225
F- Pectllier: 20: 20: 0 100 lbs/a  at 4.10 Taobala/lb                                  3,075          93225        152375       227550         24.600               74.825          90         67 343             7.402
Sob-Total                                                             5,550        16,650         27,750       40,700        44,400               135,050          50         67,343            67,707
1- -erreental TIpot                                                                    5,550         11,100        11,100        12,950         3,700               44,400          50         22,200            22,200
3.  COTTON, MAIZE, CROUNDNUTS
- M1i-e seed 30 lba/ar st 5 Tambla/lb                                                     180           900         1,800         3,600         5,250               11,730           -            -              11,730
- Groundeut s..d 70 lbs so at 5. 0 TI  bala/lb                                             70           700         1,400         2 100         2,800                 7,070          -           -                7 070
- liaise tsrtili-er 200 1bs/ar at 3.8 Tasbala/lb                                          912         4,560         9,120        00,240        26,600               59,432          90         53,489             5,943
-  ..a.ttitids 13020 K/ac                                                              1,584          7,920        15,840        31,680        46,200              103,224          90         92902             10322
lob-Total                                                             2,746        14,080         28,160       55,620         80,850              181,456          81        146,391           35,065
- leerser na1 eIpot                                                                    2,746         11,334        14,080        27,460        25,230               80,850          81         65,489            15,361
TOTAL  Ierremoetal IDpot (Seasonal)                                                        20,748        34,885         37,632       40,410         28,930              162,605          71        114,958            47,647
MEDIUM TERM INPUTS
1.  101BLE CROPPED RICE
- O-eo (pair)                      3/                                    100           1,900 (19)   1,900 (19)   1,900 (19)   -                  -                    5,700          -            -               5,700
- Eqnipasut (YTke, rhbia, plow) 3/                                        50             950 (19)       950 (19)       950 (19)   -                                   2 E50         70          1.995               855
Slb-Total                                                             2,850         2,850          2,850         -              -                   8,550          23          1,995             6,555
- MUP  -eteleesut Supplies 4/                                             80           4.400 (55)   4.400 (55)   4,400 (55)   -                   -                  13 200         20           2,640           10,560
7,250         7,250          7,250         -              -                  21,750          21          4,635            17,115
2.  COTTON, MAIZE, GROUNDNTIS
- Sprayer-    I per fata  3/                                              40            2.400 (60)   9 600r240)  12.000(300) 24.000(600)  22.000(550)                70.000         90          63,000            7 000
TOTAL MSediu  Toer Ipots                                                                   9,650         16,850        19,250        24,000        22,000               91,750          74         67,635            24,115
TOTAL OuCInE    Costs                                                                      30,398         51,735        54,882        64,410        50,930               254,355         72        182,593            71,762
REPAYMENTSm
- O.eu ard Eqoip-eoe   Ž/                                                                -            1,260          2,520        3,780          2,520               10,080         35           3,522             6,552        q,
-MYP                 4/                                                                  -              330          1,210        2,530          3,520                7,590         20           1,518             6,072
- sprayers 5/                                                                            -            1024           5,101       10j223         19i443               35_791         90          32,212          3.579
TOTAL Medit- Tera Repery--ts                                                                               2,614         8,831        16,533        25,483                53,461         68          37,228           16,203
1/  . i.f  Li-oude C75/   too aud tIreeportat- i-   K15 from Litonde be Choilomba
2/   . f . L-wIode R40/m boo and trarspurtstOo: 015 frue lsi-nde to Chil-lba
3/ 10  earl-up ard 8% p.a. iO -erest, repayable by 3 e-oated attoal loetalleets
4/ 207 of fOesera on doubla 'rapped  Ortioatadriie- eqip-eeu   tnd teatspurt K22, hoositi  K30, cool  K4, foad KZ4, to-Il1g K80,
repayable ouder etaederd .o.n.ry-ejde tetms  year I K6, year 2 K16, years 3-5 K24, toeaing K94
5/ b,sed or 107  .s.b-op a           .d iterese at 87. p."  repayable by 3 esoatod adn-al iratallmeote   Table -sssee  lOOT, repaymeso  a, doe dairo
It i011:strstesehater mbedo- toer  toed to be adai-itta_eed by tbe Project Unit e                      il reqoire a  suebateealletarnmLt
thE- the foll cost af the mediLm  -etm oup-ts






MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DE'ELOP?ENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS - VII FY ER SrUDIES
M - Kwacha
Year      Year       Year         Year       tear
Unit Costs           1          2           3          4           5          Total         % FE           FE       Local
A. GENERkL                                                                                                             Costs                    Comoonent   Costs
1.  Personnel - Salaries
Senior Research Officer               12,000         12,000(1)  12,600(1)  13,230(1)  13,892(1)  14,587(1)    66,309              50        33,155      33,154
Recording Hydrologist                  8,500          8,500(1)   8,925(1)   9,371(1)         -          -       26,796            50        13,398     13,396
Visiting Consulta t/month              4,200          4,200(1)   4,41o(l)   4,631(1)        -           -        13,2h1           70         9,269       3,972
Technical Officers                     1,200          2,400(2)   2,520(2)   2,646(2)   2,778(2)   2,917(1)    13,261               -             -     13,261
Technical Assistants                     480            960(2)   1,008(2)   1,058 2)   1,111(2)   1,167(1)       5,304             -             -      5,304
Drivers and Clerical Staff               480          1,440(3)   1,512(3)   1,588(3)   1,667(3)   1,750(j)       7,957             -                    7,957
Laborers                                  60            240(4)     252(4)      265(4)     278(4)      32(1l)    1,                                      1.377
Sub-Total 1                                     2740       31,227      32,789     19,726      20,763      lth9hV              42       55,822      78,423
2. Housing - Construction
Senior Staff houses                   17,400         34,800(2)                              -           -       34,80o            33        11,484     23,316
Class I bouses                         8,600         17,200(2) 2                 -          -           -       17,200            33         5,676     11,524
Class III houses                       1,800          3,600(2)      -            -          -           -         3,600           33         1,188      2,412
Temporary houses                         280            840(3)      --                                  -          840            33           277        563
Laborers houses                          100            40O(4)      _            -          -           -           400            33          132         268
Sub-TotJal Z                                                                -                      - 7;                                 LO, 777    38,03
3. Vehicles - Parchases
Four Wheel Drive                       2,900          2,900(1)      _                        -          -         2,9C2)          90         2,610         290
Other Car                              1,700          1,700(1)       _           _     1,700(1)         _         3,400            90        3,060         oI,,
Equipment                              4,000          4 000(1)   4 000(l)  4 000(1)   4,oo0(i)        ,(1)    18 000               70       12.60.
Sub-Total 3                                      8           l                     5,700        2,000       20                75        18,272      6,030
4. Housing Maintenance
- 2.5S of Subtotal 2                                      -      1,421      1,421      1,421        1,421         5,684            20         1,137      4,547
5. Vehicle Maintenance andOperating Costs
Four Wheel Drive K.06 x 2h,000 niies pa. 1,440        1,440(1)   1,440(1)  1,440(1)          _                    4,320            50          2,160     2,160
Other Car K  .04 x 24,000 miles p.a.   960              960o1)     960(1)    960(1)      960(1)       960(1)      4,800            50         2 400      2,40O
Sub-Total 5                                                  2,400      2,40         960          9      )   9,120            52          b,560 4,560
Sub-Total A                                      97,580     3,048    40,610       2/,807       25,144)      230,1//           43         98,546   131,643
B. FEASIBIlITY STU19Y
Personnel - Experts 27 months          4,000              -           _         -    108,000            -       108,000            70        75,600    32,400
Ialawian                       -              --                          40,000            -       40,000             -              -    40,000
Vehicles purchase and maintenance           _             -           _         -      15,400            -       15,400            89        13,090      2,310
Equipment locally purchased                 -             -           -         -     10,000            -        10,000            90         9,000      1,000
Housing allowance and camping equip-
ment (lO'bof salaries)                   _-            1_,000                                         -        15,000            35          5,250     9,750
Report writing, office costs               _              _           _         -    100,000            -       100,000           100       100,000          -
Overheads (1SS of total)                   -              _           _         -     43 300                     43'300           100        43,300          -
Sub-Total B                                          -           -         -    33,703 331,700                                74       246,240    85,460
Total Further Studies                                    97,980      39,048    40,610    350,507       25,144       561,8f9            t1        344,786   217,103



M
KARONGA RURAL DEVEIOPI4E8T PROJECT
PROJECT C03TS VIII A EEA0D0SRTUd
H - KWACRA
Unit Costs      Year            Year           Year          Year             Year          Total Costs      6 FE           FE             local
1              2              3              4               5                                        GoVent            Cast.
1. Personnel - L. EVpatriates
- Project  Manger                                           25,000       25,000 (1)     26,250 (1)      27,563 (1)     28,941 (1)     30,388 (1)        138,142          50          69,071          69,0o7
- Deputy  enager                                            20,000       20,000 (1)     21,000 (1)         -              -               -              41,ooo          So          20,500          20,500
_ Seior Field Development Engineer                           9.920        9,920 (1)     l0,416 (1)     10,937 (1)      11,484 (1)     12,058 (1)         54,815          50          27,407          27,408
F Field Development Engineer                                 8,610 (1)   8,610 (1)       9,040 (1)       9,492 (1)      9,967 (1)     10,465 (1)         47,574          5o          23,787          23,787
- Senior Settlanant .d0 Kotaninon Officer                    9,920        9,920 (1)     10,416 (1)      10,937 (1)     11,484 (1)      12,058 (1)        54,815          50          27,407          27,b40
_ Senior Credit  nd Porbahsing officer                       9,920        9,920 (1)     10,416 (1)      10,937 (1)     11,484 (1)     12,058 (1)         54,815          50          27,408          27,407
- Financial Cortroller                                      20,000       20,000 (1)     21,000         22.050 (1)      23.152 (1)     24,310 (1)        110.512          50          55 256          55 256
Sob-Total A                                                103,370         108,538         91,916          96,512        101,337            501,673          50         250,836        250,837
- Senior  cccunta-t                                          2,000        2,000 (1)      2,100 (1)       2,205 (1)      2,315 (1)      2,431 (1)         11,051           -                          11,051
- Credit dsinietratios Officer                               1,200        1,200 (1)      1,260 (1)       1,323 (1)      1,389 (1)       1,459 (1)         6,631           -             -             6,631
- Secret riee                                                1,200        2,1400 (2)     2,520 (2)       2,646 (2)      2,778 (2)       2,918 (2)        13,262           -             -            13,262
- Clerical Staff                                               480        4,320 (9)      4,536 (9)       4,762 (9)      5,000 (9)      5,250 (9)         23,868           -             -           23,868
Store"n - Watchm    (2)                                       150          300 (2)        315 (2)         331 (2)        348 (2)         365 (2)         1,659           -                          1,659
- Drivrers                                                     480        1,920 (4)      2,016 (4)       1.588 (3)      1.667 (3)      1.750 (3)          8.941           -                           894
Sob-Total B                                                 12,140          12,747         12,855          13,497         14,173             65,412           -             -           65,412
Sob-Total 1 - Total Salaries                               115,510         121,285        104,771         110,009        115,510            567,085          44         250,836        316,249
2. Eoou,g - Cotrarction
- ProJeot Manager' C boug-                                  26,o0o       26,000 (1)        -               --                             -              26,000          33           8,580         17,420
-     Senior staff hbosen  6/                               17,400      69,600 (l)      17,400 (1)         -              -              _               87,000          33          28,710         58,290
Clas  I howsen (T.O.)                                       8,600      17,200 (2)         -               -              -               -              17,200          33           5,676         11,524
- Class II houses (S.T.A.)                                   2, 80        7,600 (2)        -               -              -               -               7,600          33           2,508          5,092
- Class II hboses (T.A.)                                     2,800      22,400 (8)       2,800 (1)         -              -                              25,200          33           8,316         16,884
- Teworary ho-see                                              280        i,68o (6)        -               -              -               -               1,680          33             554           1,126
- Office                                                    25,000      25,000 (1)       --                                                              25,000          33           8,250         16.750
Stb-Total 2                                                169,480          20,200            -               -              -              189,680         33           62,594        127,086
3.  Vehicles - Office Eqoipe..t
- Statlongon                                                 2,200        2,200 (1)        -             2,200 (1)        -               -               14,400         90           3,960             440
Pickbup                                                    1,700        6,800 (L)                      3,4oo (2)      1,700 (1)                        11,900          90          10,710          1,190
- Bsi oa                                                    1,1400       2,800 (2)        -2,800 (2)                     -               -5,600                         g0           5,0140           560
- Office Eqsipment                                          14,400        7,200 (lnJ     7,200 (3)         -              -               -               14,400         90          12 960          1,440
- Training Eqouipent, Visoal Aids                           10,000       10,000 (1)      5,ooo ()          -              -               -              15,Oo0          90          13,500          1,500
- Geserator                                                  9,000        9 000 (1)        -                                                                000          90           8.100            goo
Sob-Total 3                                                 38,000          12,200          8,400           1,700            _               60,300         90           54,270          6,030
14. !E7iZg and office  Ihint.o-     2.5% of nub-total 
pbs existing Senior starr houes .etisated
at X 10,000
Sob-Total 4                                                    250           4,487          4,992           4,992          4,992             19,713         20            3,9143        15,770
5. Vehicles -d crfic          ent,  Maintenance and
- Care 0.06 K/20,000 .ils, per anw                           1,200        8,400 (7)      8,400 (7)       7,200 (6)      7,200 (6)       7,200 (6)        38,400          50          19,200         19,200
- office Enpanes                                             7,000          -            7,000 (1)       7,000 (1)      7,000 (1)      7, OOo (1)        28,000          50          14,000         i.4,000
- Generator: K. 1,875A,oor fre  24 hoors/day                 i,650        1.650 (1)      1.650 (1)       1.650 (1)      1.650 (1)       1.650 (1)         8.250          50          41125          41125
Stb-Total 5                                                 10,050          17,050         15,850          15,850         15,650             74,650         50           37,325         37,325
6. Other Recurrent Caste
Office rented in Blantyrc                                  1,500        1,5oo (2)      1,500 (1)         -              -               -               3,000          50           1,5oo          1,500
- iirTickts K  09 2x bb  tripr/p-r emmem              48,05o      4,S   1 48,05o         (1)     48oS (1)        48,050 (1)     48,05o (1)        2ho,250          70         168,175         7,7
- Trdining                                                   5,000         S- ooo (1)                    5.00c (1)      5.ooo (1)    5.OOO (1)           20,000          SO          10.000          10,000
Sub-Totel 6                                                 49,55o          54,550         53,050          53,o0o         53,050            263,250         68          179,675         83,575
TOTiL.                                                     382,840         229,772        187,063         185,601        189,402          1,174,678         So          588,643        586,035
V/ One Senior Stff b  .on  already  xsit  in Karosga end scald ba nado  va-illble to the Project



.'ALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRlJXCT CCOTS - VIII 8 WOR YO1
M - INACHA
Year          Year          Year           Year         Year
FS               Local
Unit Costs         1             2             3             4             5                Total Costs          % FE       Component           Costs
1.  Personnel - Salaries
- Vehicle, Plant and Machinery Superintendent                  8,500        8,500 (1)    8,925 (1)    9,371 (1)    9,840 (1)    10,332 (1)                  46,968              50         23,486            23,484
_ Technlical Officer                                           1,200        1,200 (1)    1,260 (1)    1,323 (l)    1,389 (1)          1,459 (1)              6,631              -            -                6 631
- Mchanic, Welder                                                 760          760 (1)    1,558 (2)    1,636 (2)    1,718 (2)         1,80L (2)               7,476             -            -                ?7476
- Assistant nechanics                                            480          480 (1)        984 (2)    1,033 (2)    1,085 (2)        1,139 (2)              4,721              -            -                4,721
- Clerks and Driver                                              480        1,440 (3)    1,512 (3)    1,588 (3)    1,667 (3)          1,750 (3)               7,957             -            -                 7,957
- Watchman                                                        150         150 (1)        158 (1)       166 (1)       174 (1)        183 (1)                 831             -            _                   831
Sbb-Total 1                                                  12,530        14,397        15,117        15,873          16,667                 74,586              31         23,484            51,100
2.  Housing - Construction
_ Senior  Staff house                                         17,400       17,400 (1)       -              -             -             -                    17 400              70         12,180             5,220
- Class I house (T.O.)                                         8,600        8,600 (1)       -              -             -             -                     8,600              70          6,o20             2,580
- Class III houseB ,Cr.A.)                                     2,800        5,600 (2)        -             -             -             -                      5,600             70          3,920             1,680
- Class IV houset(D.A.)                                        1,800        9,000 (5)        -             -             -             -                      9,000             70          6,300             2,700
- Workshop                                                     7,600        7.600 (1)        -             -             _             -                      7.400             70          5,180             2.220
Sub-Total 2                                                  68,000            -             _             _             -                    48,000              70         33,600            14,400
3. Vehicles and Equipment Purchases
- Workshop Equipment                                           2,850        2,850 (1)        -             -             -             -                      2,850             90          2,565               285
- Four Wheel Drive                                             2,900        2,900 (1)        -             -          2,9G0  (1)       -                     5,800              90          5,220               580
- Pick-up                                                      1,700        1,700 (1)        -           1,700 (1)       -             -                      3,400             90          3,060               340
- Servicing trpiler                                            1,000        1,0m  'l)        _             _ -                         -                      l,O00             90            900                100
Sub-Tot-' 1                                                   1,451            -          1,700          2,900           -                     13,C '1            0')        11,745             1,305
4.  Building- '"i tenance:  2.5% of sub-total 2                                                1,200         1,200         1,200          1,200                   4,800              2r            260             3,840
5. Vehicle-  '" iquipzmer  - _per'tlng co- 
- Uorkshop                                                     2,450        2,450 (1)    2,650 (1)    2,550 (1)    2,450 (1)          2,450 (1)              12,250             50          6,125             6,125
-Four Wheel Drive KO.06 x 20,000 miles per annum               1,200        1,200 (1)    1,200 (1)    1,200 (1)    1,900 (1)          l. "fl (1)              6,000             50          3,000             3,000
- Pick-up  K 0. 16 x 20,000 miles per anuim                        0o0         800 (1)       800 (1)       800 (1)       800 (1)        800 (1)               4,000             50          2.000             2,000
Sub-Total 5                                                   4,45o         t,150         4,450          6,50o          6,65)                 0?,?50              50         11,125            11,125
TOTA  '.ORKBUCF                                                           73,630        20022,4     7       2672                   22,317                                     50              S



MALAI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
fOOJ!IvT CCT T   1 - HSAL-f FCUTLTTTES
M - XW1C5iA
Year         Year         Ye-r          Year        Ye-r                                        FS          Local           Garenoment Re-u.rent
lnit Costs             1             2            3             4_           5             Total      % FE         Component    Costs             Costs in Year 6
1.  Personnel - Salaries
- Clinical Officers                                       1,200                 -           1,200 (1)   2,460 (2)   2,583 (2)   2,712 (2)          8,955        -             -             8,955               2,712
- Health Inspector                                        1,200               1,200 (1)    1,260 (1)   1,323 (1)   1,389 (1)   1,459 (1)           6,631        -                           6,631               1,459
_ U*dical Assistant                                          480                -             480 (1)      504 (1)     529 (1)      556 (l)        2,069        -             -             2,o69                 556
- HRom  craft workers                                        340                340 (1)    1,037 (3)   1,429 (4)   1,810 (5)   1,932 (5)           6,578        -             -             6,578               1,932
- Driver                                                    4180                480 (1)       504 (1)      529 (1)     556 (1)      584 (1)        2.653        _             _             2.653                 584
Sub-Total I                                                  2,020        4,481        6,245        6,897        7,243           26,886        -                          26,886               7,243
Project Costs                                                2,020        4,481          -            -            -              6,501        -                           6,501                 -
2.  Buildings - Constructin
- Karonga Hospital inclusive of houses for personnel          -                 -            -         22,000      118,000          -            140,000        33          46,200         93,800
- HResing  Class I houses  (T.O.)                         8,600               0,600 (1)    5,600 (1)       -           _                          17,200        33           5,676         11,521                 -
Class III hbuse-(T.A.)                         2,800                -           2,800 (I)      -            -            -              2,800        33            924           1,876                -
Rural Outposts                                 5,600              5,600 (1)   11,200 (2)   5,600 (1)   5,600 (i)         -             28,000        33           9,240         18,760                -
_ Chilumb.a Rural Clinic, Upgrading                       2, 000                -             -         2,000 (1)      -            -              2,000        33             660          1,340                 -
- Temporary houses                                          280                 280 (1)       -            -           -            -                 280       90             252             28                 -
- Borehole                                                1,500                 -             -         1,500 (1)      -            _              1,500        70           1,050            450                -
_ Sanitation                                                100              5,000 (50)   8,000 (80)  8,0o0  (80)  6,000 (60)  1.500 (15)         28.500        90          25,650          2,850
Sub-Total 2                                                 19,480       30,600       39,100      129,600        1,500          220,280        41          89,652        130,628                -
3. Vehicles - Purchases
- Small cur - Sub-Total 3                                  1,700              1,700 (1)       -          1,700 (1)      -            -              3,400        20          3,060            340                 -
4. Buildings - Maintenance 2.5%                                                     -             487        1,252       2,230        5,469             9,138        20          1,888          7,550              5,507
Prejeet Goats                                                      -             487          -            -             -               487       20              97            390                 -
5. 7ehicl3 operating costs: KO.64 a 24,000 milea                 960                960 (1)       960 (1)      960 (a)      960 (1)      960 (1)        1,800       So           2,400          2,400                 960
pe r annu m
Project Costs                                                      960           960          -            -            -              1,920        50             960            960
6. Drugs and )ilh-rzie control
- Drugs K 100/outpost                                       400                 .00 (1)    1,200 (3)   1,600 (4)   2,O00 (5)   2,000 (5)           7,200        90           6,480            720
- Bilharzia K 56 for 100 ac s/                                56                525 (12)   1,295 (32)  2,065 (52)  2,637 (75)  2,800 (75)          9,322        90           8.390            932
Sub-Total 6                                                    925        2,495        3,665        4,637        4,800           16,522        90          14,87)          1,652              4,boo
Project Costa                                                  925        2,495          -            -             -             3,430        90           3,078            342
TOTAL                                                      25,085        39,023       52,922      144,324       19,972          281,326        40         111,870        169,456                 -
TOTAL -  Proect Costa                                       25,085        39,023      40,80o      129,600        1,>00          236,u06        41          96.847        13Y 161
Full treatment o double cropped irrigated schemes end during the 7 months rainy season on the srgmnized rainfed rico schemes.



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS -- Transportation
Investments Costs 'OOOK
Year    Year     Year   Year        Year                           FE       Local
1       2        3       4          5       Total      %FE     Component  Costs
1.  Chilumba Port           153.4  153.4       -        -         -       306.8       72       220.9      85.9
2. Southern Terminal and
Access Road             -      73-0    291.8      -         -       364.8       73       266.3      98.5
3.  Barge                     _     190.0     95.0      -         -       285.0       92       262.2      22.8
TOTAL                  153.4   416.4    386.8      -          -       956.6      78        749.4    207.2
CD-






MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED FINANCING FROM IDA CREDIT
~ ~ U5$ t000           -
Year Ending March 31                                         1973     1974     1975     1976      1977        Total
A. IDA Financing - 85% of expanditaures in each category
I.     Vehicles, Machinery, Equipment                        263       28       56       37        16          400
II.    Construction of (a) Buildings, housing, offices,
infrastructure, irrigation,
and livestock facilities         685       190      187       69       19         1,150
(b) Hsalth facilities                 21       34        43     1144        8          250
Sub-total                                             706      224      230      213        27        1,1400
III.   Personnel Costs                                       251      286      290       280      293        1,400
IV.   Seasonal and Medium-Term Loans                          33       49       54       61        53          250
V.    Second-Phase Feasibility Study                          -        -        -        350       -           350
VI.   Operating and Maintenance Costs                        183      225      276       179      137        1,000
VII.  Transportation                                         147      401      352        -        -           900
VIII.  Unallocated                                           170      184      242       196      108          900
Total IDA Credit                                    1,753    1,397    1,500    1,316      634         6,600
B. Government Contribution                                       309      246       267      234      105        1,161
TOTAL COSTS                                        2.062              10                   7          7,761






ANNEX 8
Table 2
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year              Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                      at end of Quarter
US$ '000
1971/72
March 31, 1972
June 30, 1972                            88
1972/73
September 30, 1972                      263
December 31, 1972                       526
March 31, 1973                          876
June 30, 1973                         1,314
1973/74
September 30, 1973                    1,753
December 31, 1973                     2,101
March 31, 1974                        2,451
June 30, 1974                         2,800
1974/75
September 30, 1974                    3,149
December 31, 1974                     3,524
March 31, 1975                        3,899
June 30, 1975                         4,274
1975/76
September 30, 1975                    4,649
December 31, 1975                     4,978
March 31, 1976                        5,307
June 30, 1976                         5,636
1976/77
September 30, 1976                    5,965
December 31, 1976                     6,116
March 31, 1977                        6,266
June 30, 1977                         6,419
1977/78
September 30, 1977                    6,519
December 31, 1977                     6,600
December 29, 1971






ANNEX 9
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
LIAISON COMMITTEE.                    PINllilEllllll            ERMANENT SECRETARY        |||allllllllR| ETRA   UI 
LIAISON ____COMMITTEE:         ____MIN. OF AGRI C. A. NAT. RES.                                                EXTERNAL AUDIT
SENIOR REPRESENTATIVES OP
NORTHERN REGIONA  AGRI              VITING CONSULTANT                   N. O  AGRIOC. & NAT. RES. (CH.;-.A.)                                                                 IIIIIIIIEIIIIIIIIIIEIEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEII     HAUHOT
CU.TUTA~~ OFF,CE, MAUZA   DESIGNING IRRIGATION               CAEINET                                                                                                                                             HAT
ENGINEER                    TREASURY
REGIONAL LAND USE PLANNER                     _                       TRANSPORT U COMMUN CATIONSK
-                ~~~~~HEALTH-
REGIONAL IRRIGATIONI ENG NEER                  =                        LOCAL AMINIATION                                              PROJECT  ANAGER   IIE1EEIEIIIEIIIIIII11       D       MANA
-                       PROJECT MANAGER    -   --)                                                                                     OP TIN
SEN. FIED                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VEHICLES, PL.ANT                                                                                                            SEN.     SE   CRED TA                                                          TEN.
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII&  ANDMACHINERY                        AND EXTENSION                                                                    '~~~~~~~VEERINRV/  URCHASING  FINANCIAL          RECORDING              REEARCH
111E1  DEVELOPMENT   IIIIIIIIIIIIIEIIEIIIIEIE  ANDUMACINTERYDIVETOC                                                                                                                                  OFFICER             CONTROLLER           HYDROLOGIST              OFFICER
DEVELOFMENT
ENGINEER
Tb            OR~~~~~GANIZED                                   T/                                                                            /O                  TOHLIG              TG   E.ASN   CONSTC
S3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C EII                                                                                                             RAINFEDX                                                                                                X                        
CONSTRUCT GEL    ~RAINFEDCRIEADMCNRYOG IZDIE                                                                                                OTHER CROPS               SOKRUE                 XESO                            LRCLSAFSAITC
CRGTO     ONS~TRUCTIO N                                                                                                                                                                                                   15
RESEARCH:
RICE VARIETIES
A"RTS ATID DEZA           FR-I .TAUDS      AALA AL'S                                                                                                                           RICE DISEASES
ZTVZ.LEAU ,I J    -UVUL   .TIATE   AFi Lu'U   -,CAALA   UTATATACRDITADIR.R                                                                                                    IRRIGATION TRIALS
________________ _____   _________ _______________ _______________ ______   ________ _____________   S OREKEEPER                    FERTI IZER AAPPLICATIO
LOCATI  AC7R.E.5    CROPS    ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ CLRIALSTFF(APETCIDE APPLICATION
LOCATION      ACRES      LUFIRA RIGHT EANK                O           ACRES      RURAL OUTPOSTS                                                                                SOIL UTILIZATION
L -      UUFRA LEPT RANK, I            '.'COTON        D,DD0     MOBILE CLIENIC                                                                                ELON- PRODECT AREAS SOIL SUITABILITE
LUFIRA          U00D     LUPIRA LEFT RANK I  1 D         AIZC         3D500D    El LHARZIA CONTROL                                                                             ALTERNATIVE CROP DEVELOPMENT
TAO    -         Te5hnic5l                                                                           WOWicer  +Ad    T00      MPERERE             .DAT      GROUNDNUTS    RE0
-/ Ts..,-,                                                                                       (AI.-A.(ce               KAPORO              I TO
T/A 0             Ts I                                                                                 T R.e.d Ri..)   (  U00)    SONGWE PILOT     '550    T.eI            7EAT0
S.V.   - MA.1 A_.,  OfAe-                                                                                                                         SHT 8-0   LTTI.d -    K.-,eE.,
I,E00     -d WOVWLE             2DD     KAX-e - Chil-.bo
W6,0  T,Ld , - 5802(3R)






ANNEX 9
'1'ableI
I'MLAWI
IKARON(;A RURAL DEVE LOPMENT IR().lICr
Malawian Project Staff Requirements -
Year
1     2     3     4      5
Administrative
Senior Accountant                                 1      1     1     1      1
Credit Administration Officers                    3      3     3     3      3
Clerical Staff                                   16    17    19    20    22
Drivers                                          28    35    34    28    20
Workshop
Mechanical Technical Officer                       1     1     1      1     1
Mechanic, Welder                                   1     2     2      2     2
Assistant Mechanics                               1      2     2     2      2
Survey Unit and Irrigation Construction Works
Irrigation Engineering Assistants                 2      2     2      1     1
Surveying Technical Officers                      2      2     2      2     2
Foremen - Fitters, Cartographers                  8      8     8     2      1
Irrigation and Technical Assistants               7      7     7      1     1
Extension, Settlement
Scheme Managers and Technical Officers            3      4     6    10    11
Settlement Assistants                             4      7    10    11    11
Development Assistants                           16    33    53    58    58
Livestock
Technical Officer                                  1     1     1      1     1
Veterinary Assistants                             4      8    12    14    14
Development Assistants                            8    12    15    15    15
Health
Clinical Officers and Health Inspectors           1      2     3     3      3
Medical Assistants                                -      1     1      1     1
Homecraft Workers                                  1     3     4      5     5
Further Studies
Technical Officers                                2      2     2      2     1
Technical Assistants                               2     2     2      2     1
/1   Exclusive of lherdsmen, watchmen and laborers.
Jec,>rntur ,"), 19'(1






ANNEX 10
Table 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Farm Budgets
Doubled Cropped Rice - Farmer on 1.5 acres
Income                                                     M-Kwacha 1.5 acres p.a.
Sale of paddy:  3,293 lb/ac/crop at K 0.0246/l1 lb:                      243.0
Expenditures
Farm Inputs
Seed Blue Bonnet 72 lb/ac/crop at K 0.033/lb                  7.1
Fertilizer:  20:20:0;  100 lbs/ac/crop at K 0.0410/lb    12.3
Sulphate of amonia: 200 lbs/ac/crop
at K 0.025/lbs         15.0
Insecticides;  Fungicides L.S.:  K2/ac                        6.0
Field bagging, transportation and storage at K 0.1
for 160 lbs for the marketed crop             5.1
Subtotal               45.5
Debt service
Scheme charges:  (a)  K 14/ac p.a.          21.0
(b) K 0.20 per 160
lb bag (60 bags)   12.0              33.0
Interest on seasonal loan (21% /2
on seasonal inputs)                       7.5
Subtotal               40.5
Total expenditures                                       86.0
Net income                                                              157.0
/1   Projected price for paddy, see Annex 5, Table 2.
/2   Mark up 10% and 10% service charge on all inputs except seed.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 10
Table 2
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aanual Farm Budgets
Double Cropped Rice - Farmer with oxen on 3 acres
Income                                                     M-Kwacha   3 ac p.a.
/1
Sales of paddy:      3,293 lb/ac/crop at K 0.0246  /lb        486.0
Custom work:         Ploughing 3ac/crop at K 4.5/ac            27.0
Puddling 6ac/crop at K 1.8/ac             21.6
Subtotal income               534.6
Expenditures
Farm inputs
Seed Blue Bonnet: 72 lb/ac/crop at K 0.033/lb                  14.3
Fertilizer:  20:20:0 100 lb/ac/crop at K 0.041/lb              24.6
Sulphate of amonia: 200 lbs/ac/crop at
K 0.025/lb                                     30.0
Insecticides; Fungicides: L.S.  K2/ac                          12.0
Hired labor for transplanting and weeding 90 days at
KG.233/manday                                                 21.0
Field bagging, transportation and storage at K 0.1/bag
of 160 lbs                                                    11.2
Subtotal                      113.1
Debt Service
Scheme service charges:  (a)  K 14 ac p.a.          42.0       66.2
(b) K 0.2 per 160 lb
bag (121 bags)      24.2
66.2
Interest on seasonal loan:  (21% on seasonal inputs)/2         19.6
Interest and repayment on oxen and implements (10% markup
an,l 8% annual interest rate)                                  56.9
Subtotal                      142.7
Total expenditures                                 255.8
Nell income                                                              278.8
/1 and /2 See corresponding notes, Annex 10, Table 1.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 10
Table 3
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Annual Farm Budgets
Double cropped rice - Farmer without oxen on 3 acres
Income                                                     M-Kwacha   3 ac p.a.
/1
Sales of paddy:  3,293 lb/ac/crop at K 0.0246  /lb                       486.0
Expenditures
Farm inputs
Seed 72 lb/ac/crop at K 0.033/lb                              14.3
Fertilizer: 20:20:0; 100 lb/ac/crop at K 0.041/lb             24.6
Sulphate of amonia; 200 lb/ac/crop at
K 0.025/lb                                    30.0
Insecticides;  Fungicides:  L. S. K2/ac                       12.0
Ploughing:  1-1/2 ac crop at K 4.5/ac                         13.5
Puddling:  3ac/crop at K 1.8/ac                               21.6
Hired labor for transplanting, weeding 90 days at
K 0.233/manday                                21.0
Field bagging, transportation and storage at K 0.1/bag
of 160 lbs                                    11.2
Subtotal                     148.2
Debt service
Scheme service charges:  (a)  K 14/ac p.a.         K 42.0    66.2
(b) K 0.20 per 160 lb
bag (121 bags)      24.2
/2                      K 66.2
Interest on seasonal loan-                                    27.0
Subtotal                      93.2
Total expenditures                             241.4
Net Income:                                                               244.6
/1 and /2 See corresponding notes, Annex 10, Table 1.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 10
Table  4
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Farm Budgets
Organized Rainfed Rice - Farmer without oxen and 3.0 acres
Income                                                    M-Kwacha  3 ac   a.
/1
Sales of paddy:   2,744 lb/ac or 3 ac at K 0.0246t  flb                 202.5
Expenditures
Farm inputs
Seed Faya  100 lb/ac at K 0.033/lb                           9.9
Fertilizers 20:20:0  100 lb/ac at K 0.041/lb                12.3
Field bagging:  K 0.1/bag of 160 lbs                         4.6
Subtotal                          26.8
De1bt service
Scheme service charge:  (a)  7 K/ac p.a.         K 21.0    31.2
(b) K 0.2 per 160
bag (51 bags)       10.2
K 31.2
Incerest on seasonal loan /2                                 3.0
Subtotal                          34.2
Total expenditures                                  61.0
Nei; Income:                                                            141.5
/1 and /2 See corresponding notes, Annex 10, Table 1.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 10
Table 5
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Farm Budgets
Cotton, maize and groundnuts development - Farmer with 4.5 acres
Income                                                         M-Kwacha 4.5 ac p.a.
Cotton 2 ac at 1,000 lb/ac at K 0.0486-'/lb                        97.2
Maize 2 ac at 2,000 lb/ac at K 0.01/lb                             40.0
Groundnuts 1/2 ac at 800 lbs/ac at K 0.04/lb                       16.0
Gross income                                         153.2
Expenditures
Farm Inputs
Insecticides K 12/ac                                               24.0
Fertilizer for maize Sulphate of amonia 200 lb/ac at
K 0.038/lb                                                    15.2
Maize seed 30 lb/ac at K 0.05/lb                                    3.0
Groundnut seeds 70 lb/ac in shell at K 0.05/lb                      1.8
Miscellaneous, sprayer maintenance                                  2.0
Subtotal                     46.0
Debt service
Sprayer at K 40/each                                               17.1
Interest on seasonal loan                                           7.1
Subtotal                      24.2
Total expenditure                     70.2
Net income                            83.0
/1   Average of 3 grades based on past sales to ADMARC.
December 29, 1971






MALAWI                                                                                        ANNEX 11
KARONGA RURAL DEVELPMENT PROJECT
EFFECT OF PROJECT ON GOVERNMENT REVENUES
M-Kwacha '000
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year b      Year 5         Years 1-5      Year 6     Year 7      Year 8     Year 9      Year 10    Years 11-25
1972/73     1973/74      1974/75     1975/76      1976/77        Subtotal       1977/78    1979/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82        1982/1997      Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS
IDA Credit                                                      1,350        1,073        1,167       1,024          461          5,075            -         -           -          -           -             -          5,075
- Farmers' Repayments
_ Seasonal Credits                                            -             24           64         108          155            351          189        189        189         189         189          2,835        4,131
-Medium Term Credits                                          -              3            9          17           25             5b           30         22         11          -           -             -            117
- Scheme Service Charges                                        -             i8           43          68           85            214            90        90          90         90          90          1,350        2,014
- Livestock Dipping Fee                                          11           11           11          12           12             57           13         13          14         14          15            296           422
_Nolding Ground Grasing Fees                                       1           3            4            5           5             18             5         5           5          5           5             75           118
12          59          131          210         282            694           327       319         309        298         299          4,556         6,802
Incremental Government Revenues,
- 40% Income Tax on Building Contractors' Profits               -             51           15          15           i6             96           -         -           -          -                                         96
- Lake Service revenues                                          -           -            -           174          206            380           226       231         231        231         231          3,465         4,995
- AL2ARC Surplus on Cotton and Groundnuts  1                     -             1            5          10           20             36            29        29          29         29          29            435           616
- Elimination of loss making maize imports to Karonga              3           5            8          14           18             48            18        18          18         18          la            270           508
u.    51          ~~~27      2l            260            560          273        278          25. If                278          4.170        6.nS5
TOTAL Sources                                               ¶7365i       I'l          1, 7327      EE          i7W3           6,329                                           +7           5 777        8,72        17,992
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
_ Farmers' Inputs                                                  30           82          139         203          254            708          163        163         163        163         163          2,445         3,968
_ Administration Costs                                          1,148          612          688         483          402          3,333          169        158        146         129         119          1,785         5,839
- Further Studies                                                   98          39           41         359           25            562            -        -           -          -            -             -             562
- health                                                           25           39           53        14            20            281            20        20          20         20          20            300           681
- Transportation                                                  153          4i6          387         113          115          1,184          117        114         112        111         110          1,650         3,398
- Contingencies                                                   134          105          160         168           62            629         _           _           _          -            1             -             629
1,588       1,293        1,468        1,470         878          6,697 L/        469       455         441         423        412          6,180        15,077
Debt Service,
- Service Charge                                                   5          14           22          31           37            109            38        38          38         38          38            514), yrs    813)u yrs
- Repayments                                                     -                                                                -                                                                       1,267)26-50  1,267)26-50
TOTAL Applications                                          1,593        1,307        1,490       1,501          915          6,806           507       493         479         461        450          7,961        17,157
Surplus or (Deficiency)                                          (228)       (118)        (165)         (55)          88          (477)            93       104         108        115         127            765           835
Cum.lative Surplus or (Deficiency)                               (228)       (346)        (511)        (565)       (477)           -            (384)     (280)       (172)        (57)         70            835          -
1/ NOIL will generate inerental profits of about K5,000 annually at full development.  This is not shown here as Government's revonues would only benefit indirectly in any additional dividend paid by NOIL to the fully Government owned
Malawi Development Corporation, holding 50% of NOIL's shares. The amount would, therefore, not be possible to determine and would, in any case, not be significant.
V  This figure represents project costs (text para 5.01 K 5970) less Government's health contributions - years 3 - 5 (K45) farmers' inputs less amounts revolved (1(554) and transportation operating costs - years 4 - 5 (K228).






ANNEX 12
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculation
1.        Table 1 shows annual costs and returns used in calculating the
economic rate of return from investments in the Rice schemes, Dry land
crops, Livestock development, Health and Transportation, and the overall
project. The result of sensitivity analysis testing several rice and
cotton price and yield levels is given in the tables of para 8.04 of the
main text.
2.        The following assumptions have been used in the calculations:
(a)  Project life.  The economic life of the project is
assumed to be 25 years from Project Year 1.
The benefits from individual farms range from 19 to
24 years:
(b) Costs:
(i) Taxes and Contingencies. Taxes have been excluded
where identifiable. There are no taxes or import
duties or agricultural production factors. A 40%
tax on the 25% benefit margin taken by contractors
on housing construction has been deducted. Since
benefits have been based on projections in terms
of constant prices, no price contingency is allowed
for in the calculations. Only physical contingencies
averaging 3% of total costs have been included;
(ii) Project Administration. Since project activities
would progressively be taken over by the existing
services between project years 6 and 10, project
headquarters costs have been reduced during that
period and eliminated thereafter. Extension staff has
been maintained at the rates included in para 4.13
of the main text. Project headquarters and workshop
costs have been allocated to the various components
as follows: 40% each to irrigated and organized rainfed
rice, and 10% each to dry land crops and livestock
development:
(iii) Farm Labor. Farmers on the project are subsistence
farmers and will continue their subsistence farming.
Almost all of the labor used for the project will be
family labor and there is little opportunity for
employment for cash wages. Therefore, farm labor is
costed at zero:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(iv) Health and Transportation. Costs of health
facilities have been included at 100% since
they would mainly cope with water-borne diseases
in the project areas. Transportation costs were
accounted for as one of the cost components in
arriving at the net benefit. Details are shown
in tables 2 through 5, Annex 5. The transportation
rates are shown in detail in Annex 6.
(c) Benefits:
(i)  Acreages and Yields.  The acreages and yields have
been taken from Annex 2, Tables 2, 3 and 4, and
Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3.  Acreage of irrigated
rice has been reduced by 5% to account for the
farmers' difficulties to keep up with the tight
planting schedule during the summer crop (Annex 2,
Table 3);
(ii) Output. Existing production has been estimated
on the basis of statistics, aerial photographies
and experience with past and ongoing projects in
the area. Thus, it has been assumed that 50% of
the area to be covered by project rice schemes was
producing rice at the average yield of the area; for
dry land crops, that 55% of project farmers engaged
in the dry land crops program was previously
producing these crops, and that livestock production
would progress without the project at the same
rate as in the past.
(iii) Prices. Returns have been calculated by using
the allocation of price proceeds in Annex 5,
para 25, and Tables 2, 4 and 5. These prices
have been adjusted to take into account world
price variations given in Ann,iex 5, paras 9 and
21, and Table 3. 85% of the preferential rebate
on price granted by South Africa to Malawi has
been included in the project rice prices, but
sensitivity analysis gives also the rate of
return without the rebate.
December 29, 1971



MALAWI                                                                                                        ANNEX 12
SAROkDA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PR0JECT
RATE OF 90TDRN CALCULATIONS
Metric T-cs and M9--acha '003
Year -eding an March 31                                     1973       1974      1975      1976    1977  1978   1979   1980  1981  1982  1993   1984   1985  10a6   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993  1994  1995   1996   1997
A. COSTS
1. Overheads -                                             440.6      251.1    212.7    213.0  21.O  05.6  55.6   6           5.6   99.6  _   _      _      _      _      _      _
2. Irrigated Rice Schetes-
Ccaairucticn and Operating Ce.tc                    321,.6     12C.3    184.8       49.6   41.9  30.7  30.7  30.7  30.7  30.7  30.7  30.7  30.7  39.7  30,7   3D.7  30.7  30.7   30.7   30.7  30.7  30.7  30.7   30.7  30.7
0n fie  c-ate  2/                                    1593       27.7     200.       37.3    37.3  37.3  37.1   37,  37.3  37.3   37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3   37.3   37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3  37*3   9.3
lCnttngenclee                                       16.3         6.9      20.8       0.7     0.9   1.6   i.6    1.6   1.6    1.6   1.6  -i.6    1.6   1.6    1.6   1.-6   0.6    1.6    1.6    1.6   i.6    1.6   1.6    1.6   i.6
S.b-tital                               356.2      159.9    215.0       87.6   79.6  69.6  69.6  69.6  69.6  69.6  69.6  69.6  69.6  69.6   69.6  69.6  69.6  69.6  69.6  69.6   69.6  69.6  69.6   69.6  69.6
3. OrganIzed Rainfed RIce:
CO.ntac-tiic  and Operating C-te                    198.8      118.2     135.8    139.0   75.7  42.9  42.9  42.9  12.9  42.9   4.2.9  42.9  4P.9   42.9  42.9  42.9  42.9   42.9  42.9  42.9  42.9  42.9  42.9   42.9   42.9
On far  caste                                         8.5       16.6      27.8      40.7   44.1  14.4  44.4  44.4   44.4   44.4  44.4   44.1  44.4  44.4  4h.4  44.8  44.4   44.4  44.4  44.4  44.4  44.4  44.4   44.4  44.4
Cantingeacies                                       18.9         8.4      11.2      11.14    4.0   2.2    2.2    2.2    0.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2   2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2   2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2
Sub-t.tal                               223.2      143.2    174.8    191.1  124.1   99.5    89.5  69.5  09.5  89.5  89.5  89.9  09.5   89.9   89.95           9. 89.   5   89.5   89.5    89.8   89.5  89.5  89.5   89.5  89.5
4. Dry Land Crops:
C-nstruc-tin and Oper-tiag Coste                     19.0       16.9      54.3      i6.5   13.8  13.4  13.4  13.4  13.4   7.3   7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3   7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3   7.3    7.3   7.3    7.3    7.3
on farm costs                                         8.1       23.7      40.2      79.6   87.4   87.4  87.4  87.8 87.1.  87.8  B7.1   87.4  87.4  87.4  87.4  87.4  87.41  87.1   87.4  87.41  87.1   87.4  87.4   87.4   87.4
Ocatingencies                                        0.1        Oh        1,1        0.      0.9  2.5  ffS    2 5  2           Si    2.5   2.5          2.5     2.5     2    2.5    2.5    2.5    2 S   2 5    2.5    2.5   2.5    2,S  2.5
Sab-ttal                                20.2       4110      95.6      96.4  101.0  103.3  103.3  103.3  103.3  97.2  97.2  97.2  97.2  97.2   97.2  97.2  97.2   97.2  97.2  97.2  97.2   97.2  97.2   97.2   97.2
5. Li-t-ki
Cc-atr-ctics and Operating Casts                     77.8       51.4      56.8      35.2   29.8  29.8  ?9.8   29.8  29.9   29.8  29.8  29.8  29.8  29.8   29.8  29.8  29.8   29.8  29.8  29.8  29.8  29.8  29.8  29.8   29.8
Drugs and Dipping Coste                              52.4       38.5      35.8      28.4   29,5  30.2   30.9  31.6  32.3   33.0  33.7   38.5  35.3  36.1  36.9  37.7  38.5  39.3  40.1  40.9   40.9  40.9  40.9   40.9  4o.9
Cctecg-ncie-                                          2.1       1,S        1.4       1.1    1.2    l       1.5   1.S   1.6    1.6    1.6    1. 6   1.6   1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1,6    1.6
Sub-tatal                               132.3       91.4      94.0      64.7   60.5  61.5  62.2  62.9  63.7  64.4  65.1  65.9  66.7  67.5  68.3  69.1  69.9  70.7   71.5  72.3  72.3   72,3   72.3   72.3   72.3
6. Health Facilities,
C-nstractihn and Operating CTsts                     23.1       36.0      49,0    131.4   19.8  18.8  18.8  16.9  18.8  18.6  18.8   18.8  18.0  18.8  18.8  18.8  18.8  18.8   18.8  18.8  18.8  18.8  18.8   18.8  18.8
Csstingenciss                                         .1         .2        .3        .3      .4    _        .5    .S    .S    .5         5     .5    .S    .5    .5    .5          S      5      .5     5      5      5      5      .5    .S
Sub-tEtn1                                23.2       36.2      49.3    131.7   20.2  19.3  1.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3   19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3   19.3   19.3
ctial Caste                                         1,195.7       722.8     871.4    784.5   599,4  398.8  399.5  400.2  001.0  340.0 340.7  341.5  342.3  343.1  343.9  344.7  345.5 346.3  347,1  347.9  347.9  347.9 347.9  347.9  347.9
B. BENEFITS
1. Irrigated Rice Schemes:
in-remeatal Pr-dgetias                                -        1,192     2,383     3.575   3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,579  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575  3,575 3,575  3,575  3,575
Price                                                 -        0.061     0.060     0.059   0.056  0.055  o 054  0 o04  D,054  05984o 0 .0 54 o~fl jj  oS461  0.054  0.054  0.    0.054  0.054  o.081  0,0S14   09.0   0.051i 0.054  0.054  °-°54
Sub.total                                 -         72.7    143.0    207.4  200.2  196.9  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1  193.1
2. Organised Rainfed Rice:
Iacrementgl Frcd,cctlen                               -        7,008     2,123     3.538   9,18095,661  6,661  9,661   5,661   6,661  5,661  5,661  5,661  5,661  5,661  5,661  5,661  5,661   5,661  5,661   5,661  5,661   5,661  5,661  5,661
Prhcs -                                                        0.061     o.o60     0.059   0.053 0.056  0.3 9      0.05  0    0.05    0.054  0.054  0.051  0.098  °.° 5   0.5   0.051.  ..°  0.1.°54    0 05g  051  005  0.051  3051  0.05
fcb_-ttal                                           4 83.2    127.4    208.7  301.0  317.0  311.4  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7  305.7
3. Dry Lad Craps:
Incr.ent.l Bsnefiti                                 _           6.4      36.1      68.6  131.8  190.9  190.9  197.9  190.9  190.9  190.9  190.9  190.9  190.9  190.9  190.9  190.9  197.9  190.9  190.9  190.9  190.9 190.9  190.9  190.9
4.. Li-etack:
Project Bafite                                      200.6      204.6    210.7    219.2  227.8  236.9  246.3  256.7  266.8  277.4  287.4  296.0  304.9  314.1  323.5  333.1  343.1  353.4  368.1  378.9  374.9  374.9 378.9  374.9  374.9
Without Prajet                                      1065.3     166.1    166.9    167.7  168.5 169.8  170.2  171.1  072.0  172.8  173,7  174.5  175.1  176.6  177.4  179.3  179.3  180.2  180.8  11..4 181.1. 181.4  181.4  181.8  181.4
Sab-tatal                                35.3       38.5      43.8      51.5   59.3  67.5  76.1  85.6  9%8  104.6  113.7  121.5  129.5  137.5  146.1  154.8  163.8  173.2  183.3  193.5  193.5 193.5  193.5  193.5  193.5
5. Tctal Benefits                                          3593       160 8    350 3      539.7   699 5  77586  775.0  770.3  784.5  794.3  803.8  811.2  819.2  827.2  835.8  84n5  853.5  862.9  873.0  883.2  883.2  883.2  883.2  883.2  883.2
NET BENEFITS                                        (1,160.4)   (562.0)   (521.1)   (24488)  100.1  376.8  375.5  375.1  383.5  854.3  462.7  469.7  476.9  884.1  491.9  h99.8  508.0  516.6  525.9  535.3  5353  535.3  535.3  535.3  535.3
/ Orerhende hare been allacated  as foll.a..  40% to ISrlgnted Rice, 408 ta Organteed Rainfed Rice, 105 ta Dry L-ad Cr-pa and 105 to Livestace Devslap-ent






ANNEX 12
Table 2
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculation
Sensitivity Analysis
/I            /1            /2
Irrigated-   Organized-   Dry-land--    Total
Rice         Rainfed        Crops      Project
A.  Including preferential
rebate on Exports to
South Africa
(1)  Average price            8.43           16.31       21.18        13.58
(2)  High projection          9.94           18.09       24.76        15.57
(3)  Low projection           7.47           15.24       16.49        12.02
B.  Excluding the preferential
rebate and
(1)  with average           export prices to
South Africa only      7.49           15.11       21.18        12.67
(2) with average export
prices declining
from the current
average to the average
South African price
in 1980                7.90          15.64        21.18        13.07
/1   Inclusive of 40% of project administration costs but exclusive of
health and transportation costs and benefits.
/2   Inclusive of 10% of project administration costs.
December 29, 1971






OEM. REPUBLIC\
/7 of theo        ZN
Korongo                                                         CONGO       TANZANIA
Rural Developm n                                             >        1
chmpa RONGANGOLA  f                                                          '          ALA\ I
ZAME,A
Kb .                                                         . -.HweS THO
Io                H ILIL MBA1                             l'/ KE
.A/ /S2D%   wid27l
-                       Rol                                         -q /o
N    2x j    t   s~~~~~~~~A jz  Z
/  * |/ \}                      -      {\t     W 
/                      ~~~~~~MA IWI
S                         ,/tNkho*a Kotoa                         -V
{   Kasongo
Mchin"                AOG 
CHIP0)KA
To NACALA
-- -z zfZ ROADSV UNE COSTUCIO
INTENATONA  ¢BOUNDARY                                               q
REGIONAL BOUNDARYt  
ONGOING IDA AGRICUlTURAL PROJECTS                               .)      soj
0      20     40      60     00    100\\G
SEPTEMBER  1971                                                                                                IR   54






K             Ii         r<
-  < 1 \ x-     Co_
, t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1v <F3  
~~)r sj A   C     W     c // 0 t~~~~~>r
U t   X  t          //~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i






KARONGAABL DRURA                                                                  ' ,VELOPMET  PRO
HEALTH ANDTANPRT TAOULT1
'..-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~M-.d
4f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/                               2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
7~~~~~~~~~~~>
N! ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~O
=- MALAW.-                                                                                      o                      '
d''= 'd" ;0i; V-2; uS i   X          a   f \           y          XC'-              _                         \X>,;Ie          5
_ 0 0 \ EP«XIThO ANTVFC~LIT                                                                                                .4   ;   ) \ _KARONC.A
- *    AsHqpio      lh 'AD                     /         \/                                s          
SET.BE    197                                                                                                                                                        IB    3476R IJ/'     ' ' 
*;~~ *     NT is=dwclACA t  :4  A /4                                                                                               -oi 
z _,   -   j   S          I    f    :':::  >                                       '.                    f   '. it ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A  CAA'
AK~~~          ~       ~                                                                      '-    -             .   9.hu>9[
L [, 3 ~~lA                                                               ...   .   . CN  t                           ' r ..........     f 'ovs1taz
* a1 50ta _t   _    wt   t   |   0                                                        ,-    * ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _a0vJL
I  a*  isonEis                f                            _ "                 )                                    -  A'N  .
SEPTEM5ER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1971N



