Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2252 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit V 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);General finance sector 
(20%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(10%);General education sector (10%);Health (10%) 
Project ID 
P086361 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
THE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
Vietnam 
The State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Ly Thai To 
Vietnam 
Tel: 84 4 9343 361 
Fax: 84 4 8250612 
fdsbv@fpt.vn 
Date PID Prepared 
February 28, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 2, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 22, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The period 2001-2005 was characterized by strong economic 
growth in Vietnam, with GDP rising by an average of 7.6 percent per 
year in real terms.  In per capita terms, this corresponds to an annual 
growth rate of 6.1 percent. Growth has been broad based and has 
been accompanied by a continuation of Vietnam’s remarkable record in 
poverty reduction. Data collected through the Vietnam Household 
Living Standard Survey (VHLSS) shows that general poverty rate has 
fallen from 58.1 percent in 1993 to 19.5 percent in 2004, implying an 
average decline of 3.5 percentage points per year. Vietnam continues 
to make impressive improvement in access at education of all levels.  
Net enrolment rates reached 94 percent for primary, 80 percent for 
lower secondary and 45 percent for upper secondary in the school 
year 2003-04. Vietnam has also made considerable gains towards 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals on health, especially 
those related to infant and child mortality.
 
Vietnam’s transition to a 
market economy has become linked closely with its efforts towards 
WTO accession.  Substantial progress has been achieved on this front 
Page  2
2
with accession likely in 2006. The share of state owned enterprises 
(SOEs) in economic activity has been declining, being taken up by a 
fast growing private sector.  
 
In spite of this impressive progress, Vietnam is still a low income 
country and poverty in some regions and among ethnic minorities has 
been difficult to address. Private sector is dominated by small 
enterprises and its development is hampered by constraints such as 
access to land and finance. Financial sector development lags that of 
the region, infrastructure requirements are large, and rapid growth is 
putting pressure on natural resources. Mechanisms to address the 
health needs of the poor and the social protection system need to be 
strengthened, and the quality of education needs to be upgraded. The 
governance institutions to support a modern market economy require 
further development. 
 
The government’s reform agenda aimed at addressing nearly all 
these areas has been articulated in the Comprehensive Poverty 
Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS), and more recently in its 
draft Socioeconomic Development Plan (2006-10). The Bank has been 
engaged in a wide ranging policy dialogue with the government of 
Vietnam for a number of years. The government has viewed the 
analytical strength of the Bank as a key factor in helping it refine and 
put into operation the main elements of its reform agenda as spelled 
out in the CPRGS. The Bank’s PRSCs are instruments that are very 
well suited to assist the government in successfully carrying out the 
strategic reforms articulated in the CPRGS.  Many of the reforms call 
for additional budgetary resources, and the PRSCs directly add 
resources to the government’s budget. The reform agenda embodied 
in the CPRGS is broad, encompassing a number of sectors. 
Implementation of these reforms requires the interaction of a large 
number of government ministries and agencies.  The PRSC process 
provides a platform for such co-operative interaction, much more so 
than any sector level instrument. The breadth of the reform program 
also implies the involvement of a large number of donors. The PRSCs 
have proved to be a very useful tool for donor co-ordination across an 
Page  3
3
agreed set of policy actions, thereby significantly reducing transaction 
costs in the delivery of development assistance
.
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
PRSC 5 will
 support the implementation of Vietnam’s reform agenda 
embodied in the CPRGS. Broadly this reform agenda rests on three 
pillars (a) the transition to a market economy, including through greater 
international economic integration (b) socially inclusive and 
environmentally sustainable development and (c) building modern 
governance systems. The CPRGS was approved in May 2002 and 
expanded to cover infrastructure development in December 2003. The 
CPRGS was the outcome of broad based consultation, and 
represented a breakthrough in developing an evidence based, 
outcome focused, and monitorable policy approach. The Government 
has produced annual CPRGS Progress Reports in 2003, 2004, and 
2005. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed operation is the fifth in a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs).  It 
builds on the strong performance of Vietnam over the last decade, and its commitment to reforms to 
further economic and social development. The policy actions it endorses are all firmly rooted in the 
CPRGS and cover the following areas:  (i) enhancing the integration with the world economy through 
concrete actions on trade liberalization and facilitation measures to meet the WTO requirements; (ii) 
continuing SOE reforms aimed to place them on a sounder financial footing for better competition, 
including through equitization; (iii) deepening financial sector reforms to strengthen banking sector 
operations and its supervision, equitization of state owned commercial banks, develop capital markets, 
facilitate international integration; (iv) private sector development by providing it a more level playing 
field with the state owned sector; (v) infrastructure regulation and better selection of large-scale 
infrastructure projects; (vi) improvement in education for children with disabilities and upgrading 
schools in poor areas; (vii) strengthening the financing of health care for the poor; (viii) continuing land 
administration reforms; (ix) developing tools for environmental management, and piloting strategic 
environmental assessments (x) strengthening public financial management; (xi) simplification of public 
administration procedures and improvements in public service delivery and (xii) anticorruption 
activities. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Supporting analytical work by the Bank, including the ongoing Country Environmental Assessment, 
as well as analyses of Poverty-Environment Nexus and biodiversity, will help in identifying gaps in the 
existing institutional arrangements and incentives necessary for improved environmental governance.  
The Government has developed a regulatory framework for environmental assessment, standards and 
compliance monitoring with the overall responsibility now under MONRE.  But additional work is still 
Page  4
4
needed to improve this framework.  Though its present field level capacity is limited, the Government of 
Vietnam is committed to undertaking a substantive program of environmental capacity building, 
institutional strengthening, environmental and land use planning as well as physical investment projects 
addressing environmental issues.  Donor support for national environmental programs is strong and 
covers a diverse range of initiatives across many sectors. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
The proposed credit amount would be a US$ 100 million equivalent.  The credit would be disbursed in 
one tranche at effectiveness subject to the fulfillment of the conditions listed in the Policy Matrix. 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Vivek Suri 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (84 4) 934 6600 
Fax: (84 4) 934 6597 
Email: vsuri@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD)
 
