Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
FINANCING NUMBER 4202-VN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Financing) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated    September 5, 2006  
 
Page  2
FINANCING NUMBER 4202 -VN 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 5, 2006, entered into between SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
 (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the 
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Financing Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General 
Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
FINANCING 
 
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount 
equivalent to sixty-eight million four hundred twenty-eight thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 68,428,000
)
(“Credit”).  
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of 
the Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum. 
 
Page  3
2
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit 
Balance shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its 
implementation.  To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the 
Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE 
ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  4
3
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI –
 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of 
State Bank of Vietnam. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Ly Thai To 
Hanoi, Vietnam 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 412248  (84-4) 
825 
0612 
 Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423(MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
/s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the 
following:
 
1. 
An Intellectual Property Law consistent with the requirements of the 
World Trade Organization has been enacted. 
 
2. 
State-owned enterprises have been classified on the basis of their 
performance, in accordance with Decision 271/2003/QD-TTg.  
 
3. 
A comprehensive roadmap to reform the banking sector has been adopted. 
 
4. 
A unified Enterprise Law has been enacted providing for equal treatment 
of all enterprises irrespective of ownership. 
 
5. 
Regulations on inclusive education for children with disabilities have been 
issued to ensure their access to education services.  
 
6. 
Health insurance has been made compulsory for the poor, with expanded 
coverage to include a larger number of persons, and supported by increased 
budget allocation.    
 
7. 
The design, components and procedures of Program 135 to support the 
development of communes facing extreme hardship in mountainous and ethnic 
minorities areas have been revised. 
 
8. 
Provincial land registration offices have been established in compliance 
with the requirements of the 2003 Land Law. 
 
9. 
Institutional responsibilities for the implementation of the national 
targeted program for rural water and sanitation have been assigned among line 
agencies and departments under the National Targeted Program, Phase II for 
2006-2010 which has been submitted for approval by the Prime Minister.  
 
10. 
Economic tools have been developed and strategic environmental 
assessments piloted to promote environmental protection.   
Page  7
6
11. 
The Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010 formulated under 
broad consultation with stakeholders and with a focus on poverty has been 
submitted to the National Assembly, and monitoring tools are being developed. 
 
12. 
All ministries and provinces have been required to prepare multi-year 
budget estimates in support of the SEDP. 
 
13. 
In respect of public services delivery entities, the monitoring of service 
quality and user feedback mechanisms have been strengthened, and their salary 
bill capped. 
 
14. 
Action plans for the simplification and increased transparency of 
administrative procedures have been adopted.  
 
15. 
An Anti-corruption Law has been enacted with provisions regarding 
denunciations of corrupt actions and monitoring of assets.   
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional 
instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in 
a
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this 
end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing  
Allocated 
 
Single Tranche 
        SDR 68,428,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
SDR 68,428,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may 
otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into a deposit account in Dollars designated by the 
Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and 
Page  8
7
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of 
the Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted 
for in the Recipient
’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Association.
 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of 
the Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the 
Association determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to 
make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2006. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing December 15, 2016 to and 
including June 15, 2026 
 
1% 
commencing December 15, 2026 to and 
including June 15, 2046 
 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to 
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 
3.03(b) of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the 
Association or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Association or the Bank has financed or agreed to 
finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, 
Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups 
or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  11
10
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or 
import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or 
international agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines 
that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of 
the Financing proceeds during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation. 
 
2. 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section II, paragraph 
C.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Financings”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“National Targeted Program, Phase II for 2006-2010” means the program 
of policies, actions and procedures to be implemented by responsible line 
agencies and local authorities, for the development of rural water supply 
and sanitation during the period 2006-2010. 
 
5. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty, set forth 
in the Recipient’s Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy 
(CPRGS) adopted in May 2002 by Decision of the Recipient’s Prime 
Minister, and updated in its annual progress reports; the Recipient having 
expressed its continued commitment to the execution of said Program, and 
requested assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during its execution in a letter to the Association, dated May 24, 2006. 
 
Page  12
11
6. 
“Program 135” means the program of policies, actions and procedures to 
be carried out by the Committee for Ethnic Minority Affairs together with 
line agencies and local authorities, to support the development of poor 
communes in the mountainous and ethnic minorities areas of Vietnam, as 
revised by Decision 07/2006/QD-TTg of January 10, 2006. 
 
7. 
“SEDP” means the Recipient’s Socio-economic Development Plan for the 
period 2006-2010. 
 
8. 
“Public service delivery entities” means entities subject to the provisions 
of Government Decree 43/2006/ND-CP of April 25, 2006, established by 
central government line agencies or by the People’s committees of 
provinces or of cities under the jurisdiction of the central government, 
which are funded in part from government budget, are responsible for 
providing certain services to the public and are authorized to collect fees 
therefor. 
 
9. 
“State Bank of Vietnam” means the Recipient’s central bank, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows: 
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications 
for Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are 
deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are 
renumbered accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial 
Management; Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, 
and the remaining Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its 
entirety. 
 
Page  13
12
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
expenditures under the Financing until two years after the Closing 
Date. The Recipient shall enable the Association’s representatives 
to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c) 
 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be 
prepared, and furnish to the Association not later than six months 
after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified 
or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are 
added in alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms 
being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is 
modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the 
Financing is put in support of the Program, other than to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Financing 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set 
forth in the Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
Page  14
13
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing 
Agreement in support of which the Financing is made.”  
All references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
