Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6795-AM
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 2.6 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
January 31, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dram
EXCHANGE RATE
US$1.0 = 403 Dram
(as of December 1, 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACMC                     -      Aid Coordination and Management Center
ANM                      -      Armenian National Movement
CAS                      -      Country Assistance Strategy
CBA                      -      Central Bank of Armenia
CG                       -      Consultative Group
ESAF                     -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                       -      European Union
EU TACIS                 -      EU Technical Assistance to the CIS
FSU                      -      Former Soviet Union
GDP                      -      Gross Domestic Product
ICB                      -      International Competitive Bidding
IS                       -      International Shopping
LRU                      -      Loan Restructuring Unit
SAC                      -      Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC                    -      Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance
Credit
STF                      -      Systemic Transformation Facility
USAID                    -      U.S.Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency:        Ministry of Economy
Beneficiaries:              Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Economy; Central Bank of Armenia;
participating banks and private enterprises; Customs Department
Poverty Category:           N/A
Amount:                     SDR 2.6 million (US$3.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Payable over 35 years, including 10 years of grace, on standard IDA
terms
Commitment Fee:             0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:             See Schedule A
Net Present Value:          N/A
Staff Appraisal Report:     N/A
Objectives and Description:   The primary objective of the proposed credit is to support the
Government's reform program to stabilize the economy and create the
conditions for a resumption of growth and an improvement in living
standards. This will be achieved through financing technical
assistance necessary for the implementation of the Government's
reform program.
The project includes technical assistance in support of privatization
and post-privatization, strengthening of the financial sector, civil
service reform, and resource mobilization.
Benefits:                   The technical assistance financed by the project will facilitate the
implementation of the structural reforms supported by the proposed
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). The implementation of these
reforms will promote reorientation of the Armenian state away from
direct intervention in the economy. Enterprises will be stimulated to
adjustment to the new incentive framework and the conditions will be
created for the private sector to become the engine of growth. Fiscal
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
off icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
adjustment and financial discipline of enterprises will increase both
public and private savings, thereby promoting price stability,
investment and growth.
Risks:                    Implementation capacity to undertake technical assistance programs is
strong in Armenia as demonstrated by the good performance of the
Institution Building Loan (3585-AM). Therefore, the main risks
associated with the project are risks to the overall reform program,
identical to those of the proposed SAC. There is a risk of stabilization
and structural reform being undermined by sociopolitical opposition if
economic recovery does not proceed fast enough to satisfy rising
expectations. However, this will be mitigated by improved targeting
of social assistance and by continued humanitarian assistance from
donors and the Armenian diaspora. The implementation of the reform
program could be undermined by institutional deficiencies, although
the ongoing reorganization of the public administration and the
provision of technical assistance by the World Bank Group and by
other donors will help to counteract this risk. A further risk is the
resumption of hostilities over Nagorno-Karabakh, and the consequent
continuation of Armenia's economic isolation. However, the current
peace negotiations continue to move in a positive direction and
economic recovery is increasing popular support for peace.
Project ID Number:         AM-PA-44387
This report is based on missions which visited Armenia between June and November 1995,
comprising Messrs./Mmes. Jonathan Walters (country economist, mission leader), Jeanine Braithwaite
(social sectors), Stephen Lister (civil service reform), Alexandre Marc (social sectors), Cyril Muller
(trade), Alan Roe (banking), Melinda Roth Alexandrowicz (enterprise reform), Onno Ruhl (technical
assistance, economic management), and Salman Zaheer (energy). Una Raymond provided secretarial
support. Documents were reviewed by Andrew Ewing and Alan Gelb. Basil Kavalsky and Wafik
Grais are, respectively, the Director of the Country Department, and Division Chief of the Country
Operations Division, responsible for Armenia in the Europe and Central Asia region.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Armenia for SDR 2.6 million (the equivalent of US$3.8 million) to
finance technical assistance in support of the Government's economic reform program. The
credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period
of 10 years. The proposed credit has been prepared in parallel to a proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC)(SDR 40.4 million), and an Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) (SDR 101 million) from the IMF.
2.    Armenia became a member of IBRD in September 1992, and became eligible for IDA
terms in August 1993. The country joined IFC in March 1995 and MIGA in December
1995.
Background
3.    Armenia is a small, landlocked country of 3.7 million people situated on a crossroads
between Europe, the former Soviet Union, and the Middle East. Turkey lies to the west,
Georgia to the north, Iran to the south, and Azerbaijan to the east and south-west. With few
natural resources and stony land, Armenia has relied on a strong human resource
development and entrepreneurship traditions. Armnenia declared independence formally on
September 23, 1991. The President, Levon Ter-Petrossian, was elected to a five-year term
in October 1991, and parliamentary elections in July 1995 returned a majority support of the
President. Political continuity means that most economic decision makers have accumulated
considerable post-independence experience.
4.    Until recently, the structure of government was largely that inherited from the Soviet
Union: a multiplicity of ministries organized to manage the productive sectors of the
economy. Nevertheless, a strong commitment to a reorientation of the role of government
away from direct intervention in production has been established, particularly in the core
economic management agencies: the Prime Minister's office, the Ministries of Finance and
Economy, and the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA). Furthermore, the adoption of the new
Constitution in July 1995 has initiated a radical restructuring of government agencies.
Recent Econoniic Developments
5.    Inflation is declining. Beginning in the second quarter of 1994, the authorities took
vigorous measures to bring inflation under control. Public expenditures were limited tQ
priority items (entailing a sharp reduction in fiscal transfers to enterprises) and revenue
collection was increased. In consequence, central bank financing of the fiscal deficit was
curtailed. At the same time, interest rates on central bank refinancing of commercial bank
credit were allowed to become highly positive in real terms to further restrain monetary



2
growth. Beginning end-1994 the authorities' anti-inflationary stance was greatly reinforced
by inflows of external financing from the IMF and the World Bank .
6.    GDP is growing and external adjustment is beginning. After an estimated 60
percent decline in GDP in 1991-93, growth of 5.4 percent was recorded in 1994. Much of
this growth comes from the services sector (particularly trading), but enterprise survey data
show that industry has begun restructuring and diversifying into new markets. Preliminary
data suggest that GDP growth was 5 percent in 1995. Investment is beginning to revive
from near-zero levels, although most investment is still in the public sector (largely financed
by donor resources).
7.    Living standards have yet to recover. Poverty has become pervasive in Armenia
since 1991, particularly in urban areas, where people have limited access to agricultural land.
Average monthly wages in the state sector were about US$17 in July 1995 (in the budgetary
sector they were only about US$8) and average old age pensions about US$5. Although
wages are often supplemented by informal sector income, social assistance, remittances from
abroad, and humanitarian aid, survey data reveal consumption levels barely above subsistence
for large parts of the population. Recorded unemployment is 5 percent of the labor force
(high by FSU standards) but a further 15 to 30 percent are estimated to be on involuntary
unpaid leave or reduced pay for shortened working hours.
Structural Reform - Challenges and the Agenda Ahead
8.    The challenge facing Armenia is to achieve an increase in living standards and a
reduction in poverty through a sustained recovery in economic growth and employment.
This recovery will be sustainable only if it is accompanied by significant investment in
productive capacity, infrastructure and human resource development. At the same time,
increases in investment and consumption levels must be consistent with balance of payments
viability and with low inflation. To achieve external and internal balance will require
substantial increases in savings.
9.    The primary objective of the next phase of structural reform, to be supported by the
proposed Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC) and SAC, is to -
continue reorienting the state away from direct management of the economy. The emphasis
of government policy will be on creating the conditions for the private sector to be the engine
of growth in Armenia, while providing adequate provision of social services and protection
for the most vulnerable groups in society.
10.   The reform strategy rests on two pillars. The first is greater financial discipline for
enterprises, to stimulate their adjustment to new market conditions thereby promoting
competitiveness and efficiency in the economy. As a first step the Government initially cut
direct subsidies to the enterprise sector. However, enterprises responded to this hardening of
their budget constraints through the accumulation of arrears (primarily to the energy sector).
Clearing trade with Turkmenistan and a weak credit appraisal ability of the financial sector
further undermined the efforts to establish financial discipline.  At this stage the
Government's goal is to eliminate these sources of financial indiscipline, by reforming the
energy sector, strengthening the banking system and accelerating ownership change.



3
11.   The second pillar of the reform strategy is improved efficiency of public spending, to
allow for higher public savings and a more effective delivery of key government services.
This will require a profound fiscal restructuring, most importantly a reorientation of
expenditures toward essential public functions. In 1996, the Government's program in this
area will focus on three issues: improving the targeting of social assistance; initiating
reforms in health and education; and reforming public administration.
12.   The Government's structural reform program is outlined in the Letter of Development
Policy presented with the proposed SAC. Preparation of the program has involved
considerable public information and consultation, particularly in the areas of electricity tariff
reform and payments discipline, social safety net targeting, and privatization.
13.   The institutional capacity of the Government has been significantly strengthened
through the support provided under the Institution Building Loan (3585-AM). The
Government has received assistance in economic management, specifically donor
coordination, macroeconomic management and public investment programming from UNDP,
USAID and the Bank. Assistance with the implementation of the privatization program is
being provided by the EU Technical Assistance to the CIS (EU TACIS) and the Bank, while
support on social safety net and employment issues is being provided by the Bank and EU
TACIS. Finally, extensive support for resource mobilization is being provided by the IMF
and the Bank.
The Proposed Project
14.   Credit amount and borrower. The proposed SATAC of SDR 2.6 million (equivalent
of US$3.8 million) would be made to the Republic of Annenia represented by the Ministry
of Finance. The credit would be on standard IDA terms, including a 35 year maturity and a
10 year grace period.
15.   The proposed SATAC.  Successful implementation of the measures supported by the
proposed SAC requires further technical assistance in a number of areas. At the request of
the Government, this will be financed from the proposed SATAC (and would be
complemented by technical assistance under other IDA credits in preparation, for instance the
proposed Enterprise Development Project). A detailed description of the activities to be
financed from SATAC is provided in Annex 1 to this report. Terms of Reference and
detailed budgets for all activities have been agreed with the Government, and are available in
the Project Files. The technical assistance program would be divided in the following
components:
Privatization and post-privatization. This component will focus on continued
support for the implementation of the privatization program, and on establishing the
framework for implementing bankruptcy and liquidation. The specific sub-
components would be: (i) preparation of enterprises for privatization (US$ 550,000).
As strong and extremely cost-effective local capacity has been developed in this'area,
local consultants will be used for this work; (ii) liquidation advisory assistance
(US$250,000) The privatization program mandates liquidation of enterprises which
are not sold after a specific period of time. Assistance will be provided to help



4
establish a framework for such liquidation and create the local capacity to replicate
liquidations; and (iii) training in bankruptcy procedures (US$200,000) and practices
will be provided to judges (and possibly other practitioners).
Financial sector. This component aims at strengthening the capacity of banks to deal
with their bad debt problems and of the CBA in managing bank crises. The Central
Bank of Armenia (CBA) is conducting portfolio reviews and audits of all the banks
to establish the extent of the bad debt problem. A pilot work out program in two
commercial banks (US$500,000) will be set up in order to assess the practicability of
doing loan-recovery work inside the major banks. In addition, a long term adviser
will assist the Bank Resolution Unit (US$200,000) in the CBA.
Civil Service Reform. Technical assistance will be provided to accelerate the process
of civil service reform. In particular, a public service review and functional reviews
of key ministries (US$350,000) will be undertaken.
Resource mobilization. Improving revenues collection is crucial for the success of
the reform program in Annenia. This component will focus on improving the revenue
collection performance of the Customs Department. This Department is expected to
collect approximately 6 billion drams in 1996, an estimated increase of 100% over
1995. In addition the responsibility for the collection of VAT on import and export
will be transferred to the Customs Department, making efficient functioning of the
Department even more crucial for revenues. The assistance program (US$1,500,000)
will comprise four sub-components: (i) establishment of a National Training Center;
(ii) anti-smuggling/anti-fraud program; (iii) computerization; and (iv) review of
customs procedures.
16.   Project management. Overall coordination of project activities and general loan
administration will be the responsibility of a project manager employed by the Ministry of
Economy within the Aid Coordination and Management Center (ACMC). The project
manager (who is Executive Director of the ACMC and is currently managing implementation
of the Rehabilitation Credit and Institution Building Loan) will be responsible for undertaking
procurement, preparing applications for disbursement, maintaining project accounts and
arranging for their timely audit, and monitoring overall loan implementation. The operating
costs of implementing the project will be funded from the proposed credit. On the basis of
the information from the various agencies involved in the implementation of this loan, the
project manager will prepare the Borrower's contribution to the Project Completion Report
within six months of the closing date.
17.   Procurement. All procurement under the proposed SATAC project will be according
to Bank guidelines on procurement and on use of consultants. Schedule B of Annex 3
summarizes the procurement arrangements. Consultant services and training of an estimated
value of US$3.05 million would be procured under the project (6-10 contracts are involved).
For consultant contracts, terms of reference for the activities to be financed under the
proposed Credit have already been prepared by the Government and agreed to by IDA, and
are available in the Project Files. The Bank's standard forms of consultant contract would be



5
utilized. Prior review would be mandatory for consultants' contracts above US$100,000 for
firms and US$50,000 for individuals. Goods to be procured under the credit include an
estimated US$750,000 in office, computer and customs-related equipment for the Customs
Department (to be procured in only one or two packages). These will be procured as
follows: (i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for contracts valued at more than
US$250,000, using Bank standard bidding documents; (ii) International Shopping (IS) for
contracts valued at less than US$250,000 (not exceeding US$300,000 in the aggregate),
Prior review will be mandatory for all ICB procurement as well as for the first contract
procured through IS.
18.   Disbursement. Statements of expenditure will be used for disbursements against
contracts of up to US$150,000 with firms and up to US$50,000 with individuals in the case
of consulting services and training; and contracts up to US$300,000 for goods and operating
expenditures of ACMC. As detailed in Schedule C, disbursements would be made against
100 percent of the costs of local and foreign consultants; 100 percent of training expenses;
100 percent of the CIF cost of imported goods; and 85 percent of the cost of locally-
procured goods. To facilitate implementation of the technical assistance component a Special
Account will be established by the Borrower in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The Authorized Allocation
will be US$1 million representing about four months of average expenditures made through
the Special Account. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the
standard Bank procedure as described in the Disbursement Handbook Chapter 6. Monthly
bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower will
accompany all replenishment requests.
19.   Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing. The project manager will maintain all pyoject
accounts, which will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the World
Bank in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on auditing and financial reporting. Audit
reports will be submitted to the World Bank not later than six months after the close of each
year or the date of final disbursement. The project manager will also prepare monthly
progress reports detailing the status of all disbursement requests. In addition to this financial
reporting, a full progress report will be prepared and submitted to IDA every six months.
This report will detail all project and related activities, report on progress in relation to
agreed schedules, and identify any problems which may have been encountered and which
could adversely affect the overall impact of the project.
20.   Closing date. The technical assistance activities are expected to be completed by
mid-1997. The closing date of the proposed credit will therefore be December 31, 1997.
21.   Environmental category. The proposed credit will have no direct impact on the
environment. For the purposes of OD 4.01, the proposed credit has been placed in
Category C which does not require an environmental assessment.
22.   Povert Category. N.A.



6
23.   Lessons from previous Bank experience. The implementation of the Institution
Building Loan was initially slow, due to lack of experience with projects of this nature in the
implementing agencies; also, the difficult circumstances in the country dimmed the interest of
potential suppliers of technical assistance. However, since late 1994, implementation has
been considerably stronger, reflecting the improved physical and political circumstances,
experience gained in project management, and renewed momentum in the reform effort;
indeed, the availability of Institution Building Loan funds has proved critical for the
implementation of certain elements of the reform program supported by the Rehabilitation
Credit. The parallel presentation of the proposed SATAC and SAC reflects this experience.
24.   Participatory approach. The main stakeholders in the institution building efforts are
the implementing agencies responsible for the various project activities. To build ownership
at that level, the activities to be financed from the proposed SATAC are based on written
proposals submitted by the implementing agencies at the time of pre-appraisal.
Subsequently, all proposals were developed into terms of reference through a process of
close consultation.
Rationale for Bank involvement
25.   A limited country assistance strategy for Armenia was presented to the Board on
February 28, 1995 as part of the President's Report of the Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2683
AM). The key objectives of the strategy are to deepen structural reforms to accelerate the
transition to a market economy and to alleviate the large pockets of poverty that have
emerged over the last few years. In terms of structural reforms, emphasis is placed on
promoting private sector development and establishing a targeted system of social protection.
Continued tight macroeconomic policies and more profound structural reforms should lead to
the resumption of economic growth and higher overall living standards. Sector specific
interventions, to complement the economy-wide efforts, focus on the delivery of social
services, on energy efficiency, financial sector strengthening, and on the rehabilitation of
other critical infrastructure. The proposed SATAC is consistent with that strategy. A full
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) will be prepared in FY97.
Benefits and Risks
26.   Benefits. The technical assistance financed by the project would facilitate the
implementation of the structural reforms supported by the proposed SAC. These reforms
will reorient the Armenian state away from a heavy reliance on subsidies and direct
management of the economy. Enterprises will be stimulated to adjustment to the new
incentive framework and the conditions will be created for the private sector to become the
engine of growth. At the same time, efficiency gains in social service provision and
improved targeting of protection for the most vulnerable groups in society will promote
human resource development and poverty alleviation. Fiscal adjustment and financial
discipline of enterprises will increase both public and private savings, thereby promoting
price stability, investment and growth.
27.   Risks. As implementation capacity in Armenia is strong, the main risks associated
with the project are risks to the overall reform program, identical to those of the proposed



7
SAC. There is a risk of stabilization and structural reform being undermined by
sociopolitical opposition if economic recovery does not proceed fast enough to satisfy rising
expectations. However, this will be mitigated by improved targeting of social assistance and
by continued humanitarian assistance from donors and the Armenian diaspora. The
implementation of the reform program could be undermined by institutional deficiencies,
although the ongoing reorganization of the public administration and the provision of
technical assistance by the World Bank Group and by other donors will help to counteract
this risk. There is a risk of the international community providing insufficient balance of
payments financing in support of stabilization and structural reform, which would entail an
unsustainable level of poverty. However, the Consultative Group process is designed to
mitigate this risk. A further risk is the resumption of hostilities over Nagorno-Karabakh, and
the consequent continuation of Armenia's economic isolation. However, the current peace
negotiations continue to move in a positive direction and economic recovery is increasing
popular support for peace.
Recommendation
28.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 31, 1996






8
Schedule A
Republic of Armenia
Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs                             Local       Foreian          Total
Privatization and Post-Privatization
Preparation of Enterprises for Privatization  $550,000        --      $550,000
Liquidation Advisory Assistance           $25,000      $225,000       $250,000
Training in Bankruptcy Procedures         $20,000      $180,000       $200,000
Financial Sector
Pilot Bank Work-Out Project               $25,000      $475,000       $500,000
Bank Resolution Unit                      $20,000      $180,000       $200,000
Civil Service Reform
Public Sector and Functional Reviews      $50,000      $300,000       $350,000
Resource Mobilization
TA to the Customs Department             $200,000    $1,300,000     $1,500,000
Operating Costs for ACMC                  $30,000       $25,000        $55,000
Total Base Costs                         $920,000    $2,685,000     $3,605,000
Price & Physical Contingencies                         $500,000       $500,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       $920,000    $3.185.000     $4.105.000
FINANCING PLAN
Government                               $305,000                     $305,000
IDA                                      $615,000    $3,185,000     $3,800,000






9
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Annenia
Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit
Procurement Method'
Category                                           ICB          Other        Total
-----------------------------------------------------------------(US$ million)----------------------
Technical Assistance (Consultants,                             2.65             2.65
Advisors, Studies)
Equipment (incl. logistical support                0.5         0.25             0.75
and operating costs)
Training                                                         0.4              0.4
Total                                              0.5           3.3              3.8
1 For presentational purposes the contingencies have been divided proportionally over the Bank-
financed activities.



10
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Republic of Armenia
Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit
IDA Disbursements
Category                             Amount   % of Expenditures to be Financed
(US$,000)
Consultants' services and training  3,050       100% of expenditures
Equipment and Operating Costs         750       100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs)
85 % of other local costs
Total                               3,800
Estimated IDA Disbursements
- ----------(US$'000)-
FY96         FY97         FY98
Annual                          400         2,400        1,000
Cumulative                      400         2,800        3,800



11
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Tirne taken to prepare:                       6 months
(b)   Prepared by:                                  Government with the assistance of
IBRD staff
(c)   Preparation Missions:                         September 22-30, 1995
October 13-November 11, 1995
(d)   Negotiations:                                 January 19-22, 1996
(e)   Planned date of effectiveness:                March 8, 1996
(f)    List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:             Not applicable






12
Schedule D
ARMENIA
Status Of Bank Group Operations In ARMENIA
PFDBR25 - Summary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 12/31/95 - MIS data as of 01/31/96)
By Country
Country:    ARMENIA
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Loan or        Fiscal                                                                                         Undis-  Closing
Credit No.       Year   Borrower                          Purpose                       Bank          IDA      bursed   Date
Credits
1 Credits(s) closed                                                                                 60.00
C25620-AM       1994    ARMENIA                           EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRU                      28.00       10.67  06/30/96
C26660-AM       1995    ARMENIA                           POWER MAINTENANCE                         13.70       12.50  07/31/98
C26670-AM       1995    ARMENIA                            IRRIGATION REHAB.                        43.00       35.13  06/30/99
*   C27760-AM       1996    ARMENIA                            HIGHWAY                                  16.00       15.31  12/31/99
C27840-AM       1996    ARMENIA                           SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                       12.00       12.04  06/30/00
TOTAL number Credits =    5                                                                          112.70       85.66
Loans
0 Loans(s) cLosed
L35850-AM       1993    ARMENIA                           INSTITUTION BUILDING         12.00                     7.13  11/30/96
TOTAL number Loans =    1                                                                12.00                     7.13
TOTAL***                                                               12.00       172.70
of which repaid
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                               12.00       172.70
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                               92.78
Notes:
* Not yet effective
** Not yet signed
*** Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.






13
Annex 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The institutional capacity of the Government has been significantly strengthened
through the support provided by the Bank under the Institution Building Loan (3585-AM),
and by other donors, especially USAID and the European Union (Tacis). The
implementation of the measures supported by the proposed SAC, however, requires further
technical assistance in a number of areas. At the request of the Government, this technical
assistance will be financed from the proposed SATAC. Terms of Reference and detailed
budgets for all activities have been agreed with the Government, and are available in the
Project Files. The following activities will be financed:
I. Privatization and Post-Privatization
Preparation of Enterprises for Privatization
Objective: The privatization program requires that enterprises be prepared for
privatization, specifically in order to gather the information on individual enterprises that is
being provided to prospective bidders. The vast majority of enterprises does not have the
capacity to do this work without assistance. The technical assistance will provide for
preparation of enterprises in accordance with the information requirements specified in the
privatization law.
Scope of work: Teams of consultants will provide standardized assistance to
enterprises before they are announced for privatization. In this manner, the information
requirements for the auction procedures will be provided for in an orderly manner, without
risk of holding up the privatization process. This approach has been followed successfully in
the second half of 1995 using local consulting firms which have thereby built up the capacity
to do this work in a very cost-effective manner.
Amount: US$ 550,000 for an estimated 700 enterprises
Liquidation Advisory Support
Objective: The privatization program mandates liquidation of enterprises which are
not sold after a specific period of time. Liquidation is announced within four weeks after an
enterprise fails to be sold during its final attempt at privatization. However, the liquidation
process has not yet started in Armenia and there is no established framework for how -
liquidations will actually occur. The liquidation advisory assistance will therefore help to
establish this framework and create the local capacity to replicate liquidations.



14
Scope of Work: The liquidation advisory support will consist of a brief review of
the existing legal framework and of assistance in developing procedures for liquidation of
enterprises which fail privatization. This work will have an immediate impact as the
consultants will work with the Privatization Board on the first liquidations. The consultants
are expected to develop a manual and a step-by-step instruction guide on how to carry out
liquidation to enable replication of the process as more enterprises fail privatization.
Procedures for sales of assets, factoring of receivables, sales of raw materials and unfinished
products will be developed.
Amount: US$250,000
Bankruptcy Training
Objective: The Government plans to revise the Bankruptcy Law. In the interim,
focus will be on building the necessary infrastructure for administering bankruptcy. Training
in bankruptcy procedures and practices as well as basic business principles will be provided
to judges.
Scope of Work: Approximately 20 bankruptcy judges and possibly other
practitioners will participate in an in-depth 6 week training program. The consultants are
expected to develop an appropriate curriculum, which will include basic business principles
and bankruptcy case studies, and deliver the course in cooperation with a local institution,
possibly the American University of Armenia.
Amount: US$200,000
II. Financial Sector
Pilot Bank Work-Out Project
Objective: The purpose of this component is to help establish and operate a Loan
Restructuring Unit (LRU) in two of the four large former state banks in Armenia. This is
one element in a wider program to strengthen and restructure Armenian banks. The Central
Bank of Armenia (CBA) is conducting portfolio reviews and audits of all the banks to
establish an initial indication of the size of the bad debt problem. The pilot work out program
will be set up in order to assess the feasibility of doing loan-recovery work inside the major
banks. The pre-conditions for a successful pilot are being strengthened by the adoption of
improved Bankruptcy and Collateral laws.
The banks chosen to participate in the pilot will need to meet the following qualifying
conditions:
o   to cooperate fully with the CBA in an audit of the bank;



15
o   to establish and staff a work out unit in the bank with clearly defined lines of
authority and reporting channels;
o   to compile in conjunction with bank supervisors a basic data set on its non-
performing loan portfolio from which problem loans can be selected;
o   to revise ongoing loan analysis and loan approval procedures as necessary to
improve the quality of its new loan portfolio; and
o   to commit to an intensive training program for credit analysis, loan approval, and
loan workout staff.
Scope of work: The team will comprise three foreign advisers who will each need to be
available in Armenia full-time for a period of six months. One adviser in each bank (the
work-out adviser) would be the initial manager of the LRU and would also be expected to
identify and train an Armenian counterpart to take over the senior role. This adviser would
manage the Unit throughout the pilot stage which is expected to last for six months. The
third adviser (the credit adviser) would be responsible for working with the two bank's
credit department and credit committee to strengthen the bank's procedures for analyzing,
approving and monitoring new loans. This adviser would also be responsible for an intensive
training program for credit department and LRU staff in close co-ordination with the work-
out advisers.
Amount: US$ 500,000
Assistance to Bank Resolution Unit
Objective: The enactment of the new law on bankruptcy of banks, and the enforcement
of loan-loss provisioning rules increase the likelihood of a banking crisis in Armenia. In
order to give the CBA the capacity to handle this situation, a Bank Resolution Unit will be
established in the CBA. The technical assistance would aim to support the establishment of
this unit.
Scope of work: A long term adviser will reside in Armenia for a period of about ten
months. During this period, the adviser will provide advice to the CBA on all aspects of
conservatorship, and, where necessary, liquidation of banks in accordance with the
provisions laid down in the law on bankruptcy of banks.
Amount: US$ 200,000
III. Civil Service Reform
Support for Public Service Review and Functional Reviews
Objective: The public service review will adopt a five to ten year perspective for the
development of public administration in Armenia, and:



16
*      consider sustainable levels of public expenditure and their implications for
the size of the public service;
*      consider appropriate salary levels and an appropriate salary structure for an
effective professional public service;
*      provide an overview of the appropriate functions and structure of the
government, considering the scope for further streamlining and
consolidation, and mechanisms for coordination among government
agencies;
*      consider the requirements for the development of an integrated professional
civil service for Armenia, in terms of staff recruitment, training and
management policies and procedures;
*      consider appropriate personnel management and information systems for
the public service; and
*      propose strategies for managing the continuing process of public sector
reform.
The functional reviews for the Ministries of Industry, Trade and Agriculture will
consider:
*      the appropriate role of Government in the sector and hence the functions
the ministry should perform;
*      how these functions can be most efficiently and effectively performed;
*      how the ministry should therefore be organized;
*      skill requirements and training needs for ministry staff; and
*      budget projections for the ministry and target number of employees.
Scope of work: On the public service review, the consultants will work jointly with an
Armenian task force, drawn from the Office of the Government, the Ministries of Economy
and Finance, the School of Public Administration and the Institute for the Management of
Economic Reforms. Overall direction of the work will be provided by the inter-agency
committee for public administration reform. The public service review will be conducted in
a way that ensures broad consultation and raises awareness of the relevant issues. Thus it is
expected that high level seminars will be held at the commencement of the work and at
intervals during the study. A series of short papers identifying the main issues and setting
out options will be prepared during the course of the consultancy, and overall findings will
be presented to a seminar at the end of the study and before the report is finalized.
Similarly, for the functional reviews that will be the focus of the second phase of the
assignment, the consultants will act as facilitators for Armenian teams, drawn from the
Ministries concerned and the agencies involved in the public service review.
Amount: US$ 350,000



17
IV. Resource Mobilization
Technical Assistance to the Customs Department
Objective: Improving revenue collection is crucial for the success of the reform program
in Armenia. This component will focus on improving the revenue performance of the
Customs Department. This Department is expected to collect approximately 6 billion drams
in 1996, an estimated increase of 100% over 1995. In addition the responsibility for the
collection of VAT on import and export is being transferred to the Customs Department,
making efficient functioning of the Department even more crucial in terms of revenue
performance. The purpose of the technical assistance is to ensure that the Customs
Department maintains and develops core competencies and is adequately equipped to meet
current and future requirements. The assistance will focus strongly on increasing revenues.
Scope of work: The assistance will consist of:
*   The establishment of a National Training Center. This will assist the Department
in developing a comprehensive training system comprising vocational, management,
and continuing education programs;
*   Anti-smuggling/anti-fraud program . This component will assist the Department
in enforcement work through introduction of four flexible mobile customs
investigation units and in the introduction of a risk analysis system enabling these
units to target their efforts on routes and transporters posing the highest risk for
revenue evasion;
*   Computerization. This component will finance a continuation of the
computerization program financed under the Institution Building Loan (3585-AM)
and implemented in cooperation with UNCTAD.
*   Review of customs procedures. Assistance will be provided to develop detailed
implementation procedures for existing and new regulations pertaining to the
customs function. This would include assistance in the introduction of a unique
Trader Identification Number (TIN) and in VAT administration on imports and
exports.
Amount: US$ 1,500,000



Annex 2
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Main Objectives             | Project Component Activities  J Expected Output            | Timing Targets
Maintain momentum in         Preparation of Enterprises for  Timely information as required by   Start: Second Quarter 1996
implementation of the        Privatization                the Privatization Law on
Privatization Program                                     enterprises slated for privatization   Completion: Mid 1997
Establish effective mechanisms   Liquidation Advisory     Establish framework for         Start: Second Quarter 1996
for liquidation and bankruptcy    Assistance              liquidations
Completion: Fourth Quarter 1996
Training in Bankruptcy      20 judges trained in bankruptcy  Start: Third Quarter 1996
Procedures                  proceedings
Completion: Fourth Quarter 1996
Initiate loan recovery in    Pilot Bank Work-Out Project   Establish work-out unit in two  Start: Second Quarter 1996
commercial banks                                          commercial banks and strengthen
the procedures for analyzing,   Completion: Fourth Quarter 1996
approving and monitoring new
loans
Build capacity to manage     Establishment of a Bank      Fully operational Bank Resolution   Start: Second Quarter 1996
bankruptcies in banking sector   Resolution Unit in CBA   Unit in CBA
l___________________________ __________________________I_____________________________  Completion: First Quarter 1997
Initiate Civil Service Reform  Support for Public Service  High-level Seminars and a series    Start: Second Quarter 1996
Review and Functional       of short papers facilitating the
Reviews of key Ministries   reviews                          Completion: Third Quarter 1996
Improve the revenue          Technical Assistance to the  Establishment of a National     Start: Third Quarter 1996
performance of the Customs   Customs Department           Training Center and Anti-
Department                                                smuggling Units                 Completion: Third Quarter 1997






IMAGING
Report No: P-   6795 AM
Type:  1t



