Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2825 AM 
Development Credit Agreement
Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Project
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 4, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2825 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1996, between  REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated January 25, 1996 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program and the 
Association has agreed to finance urgently needed imports and services required during 
the execution of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement of 
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the Structural Adjustment 
Credit Agreement); and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making this 
Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
Page  2
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account the 
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions. Except as the Association 
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member 
of the Association or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations"; and
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ACMC" means the Aid Coordination and Management Center established 
within the Borrower's Ministry of Economy;
(b)
"CBA" means Central Bank of Armenia; and
 
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a Special Account in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into and out 
of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:
 
(i)
from the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement 
(the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; 
and 
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
 
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
 
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 2006 and ending September 15, 2030. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2015 shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:
 
(i)
the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined by 
the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars 
for five consecutive years; and
(ii)
the Association shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice 
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so 
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such 
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in 
the amounts of such  installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided 
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Unites States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit  
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or customs 
certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Page  5
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Rouben Shougarian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  6
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated             % of
                           Expressed in           Expenditures
Categories               SDR Equivalent          to be Financed
(1)   Goods                 500,000              100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures;
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost) and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally.
(2)   Consultants'        2,050,000              100%
      services and
      training
(3)   Operating Costs of     50,000              100%
      the ACMC
                          _________
   TOTAL                  2,600,000
                          =========
2.
For the purpose of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods and services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental costs related to the 
operation of ACMC as a result of the Project, including communication costs, 
translation of Project documentation, office supplies and minor office equipment, but 
excluding salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
Withdrawals in respect of:
 
(a)
expenditures under Category (1) under contracts for goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of less than $300,000 per contract;
(b)
expenditures under Category (2) under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $150,000;
(c)
expenditures under Category (2) under contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, and
(d)
expenditures under Category (3) for operating costs of the ACMC, may be 
permitted by the Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's institutional 
capacity to implement the measures under the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree from time to time to achieve 
such objective:
Page  7
(1)
Privatization and post-privatization
 
Provision of technical assistance to support the implementation of the 
Privatization Program and the establishment of the framework for implementing 
bankruptcy and liquidation laws and procedures under the Program.
(2)
Financial Sector
 
(a)
Provision of technical assistance to establish a pilot work-out program 
in two selected commercial banks to assess the practicability of loan recovery work 
inside major banks.
(b)
Provision of technical assistance to support the bank resolution unit 
within the CBA.
(3)
Civil Service Reform
 
Provision of technical assistance to support the implementation of a public 
service review and functional reviews of key ministries of the Borrower.
(4)
Resource Mobilization for Customs Department
 
Provision of goods and technical assistance to assist in improving the revenue 
performance of the Customs Department of the Borrower.
(5)
Aid Coordination and Management Center
 
Provision of goods and services to assist in the operation of the ACMC.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and 
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of this Part B1.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
Page  8
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract to be awarded under Part B and the first contract 
to be awarded under Part C, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be 
used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent; or (b) contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review 
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
Page  9
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; or
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Technical Assistance 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  10
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
