Docu_ait of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C 9. I> I?&  (
Report No. P-4524-GUB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 8.0 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
OF SDR 4.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
April 28, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit     Guinea-Bissau Peso (GBP)
1985   1986   1987 1'
US$1.00  =   160    205    590
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
DESCRIPTiIVE GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CEDEAO      Western Africa Economic Development Community
DICOL       Distribuidora de Combustiveis e Lubrificantes
EAGB        Electricidade e Aguas da Guinea-Bissau
EEC         European Economic Community
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation
GAPLA       Planning Bureau, Ministry of Rural Development
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IPF         Indicative Program Figure
PETROGUT    Petroleos da Guinea-Bissau
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
RIC         Reconstruction Import Credit
SAF         Structural Adjustment Facility of IMF
SFA         Special Facility for Africa
SOCOMIN     Sociedade Comercial e Industrial
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
1/ Projected annual average



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ..................**.......I.... .. i
I.   Introduction ................................ .........  ....  I
II.  The Medium-Term Framework and the SAL Program ............  3
Overall Development Strategy    ...............................  3
The Need for a Coherent Macroeconomic Management
and Control Framework ................5...........        5
External Equilibria ..........................  7
Internal Equilibria ..........................  9
Agriculture .......................... 10
Energy ....                                                   12
Commerce and Transport ................. I .................. 14
Medium-Term Economic Prospects .......... .................. 15
Alternative Adjustment Scenarios .........    ................. 19
Social Impact of Structural Adjustment ......     .............. 20
III. The SAL Program in the Context of the Financial Strategy... 21
External Resource Mobilization   ...........................   21
Internal Resource Mobilization              .....  23
The Role of IDA         .............................   23
The Role of Other Donors .........................            24
Bank-Fund Coordination ............................... 25
Benefits and Risks .......      ........................ 25
IV.  The Structural Adjustment Credits
Background .............................. 27
Procurement, Disbursement and Retroactive Financing ....... 28
Monitoring ................................................ 29
V.   Bank Group Operations    ................. .................... 31
VI.  Recommendation    ............................................ 32
Text Tables
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators, 1982-91 .....       ................. 19
Annexes
Annex   I: Economic Indicators ............. ............... 33
Annex  II: Statement of IDA Credits .....      .................. 38
Annex III: Supplementary Data Sheet ......      ................. 39
Annex  IV: Government Letter of Development Policy ........ 40
Annex   V: Matrix of Issues, Measures and Actions .... ..... 54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Amounts:
IDA:                 SDR 8.0 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
African Facility:   SDR 4.0 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Co-Financiers:       SJF: Swiizerland: SF 8.0 million (US$5.2 million
equivalent)
SJF: Saudi Fund: Rials 12.0 million (US$3.2 million
equivalent)
African Development Fund: 10.0 million UOAs (US$11.3
million equivalent)
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD):
US$5.3 million equivalent
Including the proposed IMF SAF of SDR 3.5 million
(US$4.2 million equivalent), the confirmed financing
package totals about US$44.2 million.
Project
Description:         The propo,sed IDA Credit and Special African Facility
Credit would provide US$15.0 million to support the
Government's economic recovery program and allow
economic activity to expand while current and future
reform measures are implemented. The adjustment pro-
gram focuses on economic liberalization measures and
reform of public administration and public enterprises.
The policy package includes exchange rate devaluation,
monetary and fiscal policies including restructuring of
the public investment program, decontrol of agricul-
tural prices, simplification of tariff and customs pro-
cedures, liberalization of commercial practices, and an
overhaul of the banking sector. The size of the public
administration is to be reduced by some 15 percent over
the next 2 years. Technical assistance will be provid-
ed to strengthen economic management to permit



- ii -
implementation of the program and improve fiscal and
monetary policy, public investment programming, exter-
nal debt management and eco-nomic data collection and
use.
Estimated
Disbursements:       The Credits and the Swiss grant would be disbursed in
two equal tranches of SDR 6.0 million and 3wF 4.0
million, respectively. The first tranche would be
available for disbursement upon effectiveness of the
Credits and the Swiss Grant and the second tranche
following a performance review in early 1988. Estimat-
ed period of disbursements: July 1987-July 1989.
Benefits and         The proposed structural adjustment program is expected
Risks:               to improve the growth prospects of the economy through
better incentives, more assured availability of vital
inputs, concentration of investment on quick-yielding
projects with a high return and a more efficient
allocation of available foreign exchange. Also, it
would help to create a legal and institutional frame-
work necessary to stimulate private investment and
production. The main risk is that the inadequate
administrative capacity in the country may prevent the
Government from implementing the adjustment program on
schedule. To minimize this risk, the program has been
designed on the basis of decontrol and liberalization,
so that the role of the State is limited to supporting
productive activities. Technical assistance will
support the strengthening of management capability;
initial experience in this regard in the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Plan and the National Bank is
encouraging. The removal of distortions will inevit-
ably meet opposition from vested interests, while the
public sector retrenchment program is likely to create
unemployment in the urban areas and lead to urban
discontent in the early months of devaluation-led
reform. To counter these risks, the Government has
introduced programs to alleviate the impact of price
increases on civil servants.
Map:                 IBRD 15779R
There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 8.0 MILLION
AND A SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 8.0 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) and a
proposed Credit of SDR 4.0 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) from the
Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (SFA), established by resolution
No. IDA85-1 of May 21, 1985, on standard IDA terms to the Republic of
Guinea-Bissau to support the Government's structural adjustment program for
the period 1987-1988. Financing would also be provided by Switzerland and
the Saudi Fund under Special Joint Financing (SJF) in amounts of SwF 8.0
million (US$5.2 million equivalent) and SR12.0 million ($3.2 million equi-
valent), respectively. Additional financing linked to the structural ad-
justment program would be provided by the African Development Bank and IFAD
in amounts of 10 million UOAs (US$11.3 million equivalent) and US$5.3 mil-
lion equivalent respectively. The IMF is expected to provide SDR 3.5
million (US$4.2 million equivalent) through a Structural Adjustment Facili-
ty (SAF) covering 1987-1989.
1. INTRODUCTION
2.        Report No.6361-GUB, "Guinea-Bissau: A Prescription for Comprehen-
sive Adjustment,  distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1987,
presents an analysis of the country's economic performance and sets forth
the essential elements of a comprehensive structural adjustment strategy
for Guinea-Bissau. The Report also discusses the strengthening of the
public investment planning process and the improvement of the public
investment program with respect to size, sectoral allocation and project
composition. This section sunmarizes its contents. Economic data appear
in Annex 1.
3.        After independence in 1974, Guinea-Bissau adopted an ambitious
public investment program that focussed on the manufacturing sector,
neglected agriculture, and resulted in a large external debt without a
commensurate increase in the country's ability to service that debt. An
overvalued exchange rate and inappropriate pricing policies, coupled with
an inefficient marketing system, deterred agricultural production, depress-
ed exports, stimulated growing parallel markets, and led to an increased
dependence on foreign aid for financing a large share of the imports of
basic necessities. A rapid increase in National Bank credit to the Govern-
ment fueled domestic inflation which in turn increased the overvaluation



- 2 -
of the exchange rate. At the same time, the external payments situation
remained tenuous, with mounting arrears. As a result, imports had to be
rationed and farmers w?ere unable to find the desired consumer goods. The
economic situation was aggravated by unfavorable circumstances outside the
control of the authorities, especially droughts and, at times, depressed
world market prices for the country's main exports.
4.        In 1983, the Government adopted a market-oriented and agricul-
ture-based development strategy through a stabilization program designed to
correct price distortions and to improve efficiency in the managenment of
public sector finances. In December 1983, the Government took the initial
measures of the adjustment program which was supported by an IMF first
credit-tranche starting in July 1984. These measures included: (a) an
immediate devaluation of the peso from PG 44 to PG 88 per SDR and the
introduction of weekly devaluations, (b) increases in producer and consumer
prices generally in line with the devaluation, (c) increases in taxes, and
(d) for the first time, payment of interest on savings deposits.
5.        The recovery process was generally maintained in 1984 but lost
momentum in 1985 and 1986 partly because of unexpected adverse exogenous
factors including depressed world prices for palm oil, groundnuts, and
cotton, but primarily due to implementation delays and insufficient adjust-
ment measures on the part of the Government. While weekly devaluations
continued at an annual rate of about 50 percent, domestic inflation fed by
excessive expansion of credit to the Government kept the differential
between parallel market and official exchange rates unchanged at about
3-to-l. Although consumer and farmgate prices increased generally in line
with inflation, :arallel markets for key goods continued to thrive and
continuing shortages of inputs and consumer goods reduced farmers' incen-
tive to produce. Necessary institutional reforms proceeded slowly, parti-
cularly the privatization of state retail stores and the reorganization of
state enterprises. The composition and level of public investment remained
inappropriate, contributing to a large Government deficit.
6.        Although the measures adopted since the launching of the adjust-
ment program in December 1983 have had some positive impact on the level of
agricultural output, serious economic imbalances still confronted Guinea-
Bissau at end-1986, in particular:
(i) large foreign trade deficits (nearly 40 percent of GDP in
1986) stemming from excessive public and private consumption
in relation to GDP, combined with underpriced imports and
inadequate export incentives;
(ii) a public investment program that, despite a 10 percent
reduction for 1986, remained unwieldy and large;
(iii) a budget deficit equal to 21 percent of GDP in 1986 that
required financing from unsustainable levels of domestic
borrowing;



(iv) rapid money supply growth (41 percent in 1986), largely
engendered by budget deficits, that fed inflation and offset
the effects of the weekly devaluations;
(v) heavy reliance on external assistance equal to nearly one-
half of GDP without adequate consideration of the best uses
.or the aid resources available; and
(vi) external debt service payments exceeding the country's
capacity to pay, leading to a rapid increase in external
arrears.
7.        The Government realizes that the magnitude of the economic
crisis--in particular the extent of relative price distortions and the size
of the macroeconomic disequilibria--implies that incremental policy changes
would be ineffective. Therefore, the Goveniment is determined to implement
profound adjustment measures in order to avoid a situation from which
recovery would be extremely difficult.
II. THE MEDIUM-TERM FRAMEWORK AND THE SAL PROGRAM
A. Overall Development Strategy
8.        In order to resolve the present economic and financial crisis and
to avoid a further deterioration of the situation, the Government intends
to systematically pursue an outward-oriented development strategy. This
strategy will take advantage of Guinea-Bissau's relatively extensive
natur 1 resource base for the expansion of agriculture at low cost, taking
into account the socio-economic structure of the rural sector which rests
on small farmers who would be hard to aid with large scale Government
projects in agriculture and whose contact with the modern sector is primar-
ily through small traders. A further consideration is that Guinea-Bissau
does not have a large enough market or sufficient skilled personnel to
sustain much modern industry at this time.
9.        In light of these natural, social and economic conditions, the
following three fundamental objectives underlie Guinea-Bissau's development
strategy:
(i) a strong expansion of agricultural output and exports based
on the country's comparative advantage in low-cost produc-
tion of cashew nuts, palm kernels, and groundnuts and on an
opening of the economy to the pressures of market forces;
(ii) a retrenchment of the public sector towards the provision of
basic infrastructure in support of production and exports in
line with the possibilities of public resource mobilization;
and



-4-
(iii) a concerted financial strategy to mobilize needed conces-
sional external resources to achieve stabilization over the
medium term and balanced growth over the ionger term.
10.       In order to achieve these objectives, the Government has launched
a comprehensive structural adjustment program with the aim of eliminating
distortions in the incentive system while reducing internal and external
macroeconomic imbalances. The sequencing of the various adjustment measu-
res has been determined in the context of a medium-term macroecoromic
framework establishir.g consistency among national accounts, public finan-
ces, balance of payments and the external debt. In the context of the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1987-89 prepared in consultation with IDA
and the IMP, the Government is establishing interim performance targets
that will be closely monitored by the Bank under the proposed (AL and the
IMF under the proposed Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) credit. During
the first phase of this program, which would be completed by about March
1988, the following targets would be achieved:
(i) The gap between the parallel market and the official
exchange rates would be closed (para. 17);
(ii) The differential between domestic and international
inflation would be reduced by half to less than 25
percentage points through appropriate monetary and credit
policies (para. 21);
(iii)  The share of the Government deficit in GDP wjuld be reduced
to about 15 percent, through a series of adjustment measures
to increase current revenues, contain current expenditures,
and reduce the size of the public investment program (paras.
24-26);
(iv)  Distortions in external trade incentives would be removed
through the abolition of duty exemptions and the automatic
issuance of import licenses for most imports (paras. 19-20);
(v)  Distortions in agricultural incentives would be removed
through the abolition of export taxes except on cashews, on
which taxes will be reduced (para. 31);
(vi) Most distortions in domestic incentives would be rem.oved
through the limitation of price controls to rice, sugar,
cooking oil, fertilizer and petroleum products and through
import parity pricing for all goods except rice sold to
public employees (paras. 43-44); and
(vii) nominal interest rates will be increased so that real
interest rates will become positive (para. 65).



11.       Similar targets will be established for successive years of the
structural adjustment program, consistent with the goals outlined by the
Government in its PFP, including the reduction of inflation to 8S, the
continued reduction in the fiscal deficit, the doubling of exports, and the
containment of imports through reduction in public investment and expansion
of rice output.  These targets will be subject to tevision at regular
intervals in light of unforseen changes in conditions. The Government will
move quickly to implement corrective actions, where needed, to ensure the
achievement of the overall aims for the structural adjustment program,
especially macroeconomic stability achieved through higher output.
12.       The structural adjustment piogram would be supported by a compre-
hensive strategy for regularizing Guinea-Bissau's international payments.
The Government will repay all arrears to multilateral creditors. It will
also approach those bilateral and private creditors who have not yet
rescheduled their debt to reach agreement on an orderly settlement of
arrears and a realistic schedule for future debt service payments. The
Government will also reduce its external borrowing and limit borrowing to
concessional loans.
B. The Need for a Coherent Macroeconomic Management and Control Framework
13.       The achievement of a successful transition by the early 1990s to
self-sustained growth in the framework of a liberalized incentives regime
will require a substantial strengthening of the capability of the Govern-
ment to ensure effective control over macroeconomic management and
coordination. This strengthening will be critical to ensure the adequate
sequencing and the coherence of the policy package to be implemented in the
framework of the structural adjustment program. To this end, thte Govern-
ment has taken two fundamental decisions:
(i)  On August 2, 1986, the Government created the National
Commission for Economic Coordination and Management that is
specifically mandated to coordinate, manage and supervise
the Government's action plan under the structural adjustment
program. The Commission is chaired by the President of the
Council of State, and is composed of the Permanent Secretary
of the Central Committee of the Party, the Ministers of
Finance, Plan and Commerce, the Minister-Governor of the
National Bank, and the Secretary of State for Economic Af-
fairs and International Cooperation. In particular, the
Commission is responsible for ensuring that the instruments
of the Government's economic policy are mutually compatible,
and for coordinating and implementing the full range of
fiscal, budgetary, commercial, exchange, monetary, price and
wage policies pursued b" the Government in the framework of
the structural adjustment program.
(ii) The Government is reinforcing the capacity of the Adminis-
tration to ensure the successful execution of the structural
adjustment program by implementing a comprehensive program



-6-
of technical assistance at the level of the Presidency, the
National Bank, and the key economic Ministries. This
comprehensive program will be structured around the follow-
ing key positions, most of which are already filled, while
terms of reference have been agreed for the rest:
(a) An advisor to the Minister-Governor at the Nation-
al Bank, to assist in the implementation of the
monetary and financial restructuring action plan,
financed by the EEC. The IMF is providing a
technical advisor to the National Bank's Research
and Statistics Department, while the IDA Technical
Assistance Project is financing modernization of
the National Bank's accounting system. An advisor
for commercial banking would be considered by the
Swiss government if required to assist in the
d'vision of the National Bank into a central bank
and a commercial bank, while IDA would be prepared
to consider assistance for development banking
operations;
(b) Two high-level advisors to the State Secretary for
Economic Affairs and International Cooperation in
the Office of the President, financed by IDA's
Technical Assistance Project, to assist in aid
coordination and in ensuring timely implementation
of the various adjustment measures;
(c) An advisor to the Minister of Finance, to assist
in advising on the implementation of the action
plan in the area of public finance, financed by
IDA's Technical Assistance Project. The Ministry
also benefits from technical assistance on debt
management and budget data from UNDP and France;
(d) Advisors to the Minister of Plan, including one
financed by the IDA Technical Assistance Project
for project evaluation and two financed by the EEC
for the preparation of a new multi-year investment
program and indicative plan; and
(e) Advisors to the Ministry of Commerce on restruc-
turing the parastatal trading firms and on
improving import availability in the rural areas,
financed by the EEC and IFAD, respectively.
14.       To complement the structural adjustment program, IDA and the
Government have negotiated an Agricultural Services Project which will
provide technical assistance for institutional strengthening to the
Ministry of Rural Development and Fisheries, including namely: (i) a human
resources advisor for coordinating technical assistance and the Ministrv's



- 7 -
own staff resources; (ii) a specialist in agricultural investment planning.
extension and credit, and (iii) a fisheries specialist to coordinate
training acttvities in the sector, ensure the efficient use of trainees,
and encourage small-scale fishing activities for export. IFAD intends to
make available to the Ministry of Rural Development and Fisheries technical
assistance in Soil Science/Hydrology, to review experience in mangrove rice
development leading to possible low-cost, effective mangrove rehabilitation
activities.
15.       The Government has established a unit within the Ministry of Plan
that will be responsible for assessing the social dimensions of the
structural adjustment program. The unit will be responsible, in
particular, for: (i) developing and regularly updating statistical data
bases on the social dimensions of the structural adjustment program, in
particular on the basis of a permanent household survey; (ii) carrying out
studies on the socio-economic implications of adjustment; and (iii)
idertifying, appraising and evaluating programs and projects aimed at
alleviating poverty in the context of the structural adjustment program.
The unit will be financed in the framework of the UNDP/World Bank project
on the assessment of the social dimensions of structural adjustment in
Sub-Saharan Africa.
16.       As part of its contribution to the Structural Adjustment Program,
IFAD will provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Commerce to
monitor the impact of the program on agricultura.L production. This would
be done using a small representative sample of the population, (about 50
farmers) and employing a handful of local agents, who would apply a minimum
number of indicators to measure the effects of the program on output.
These indicators would include: cropping patterns, input application
(labor, fertilizers, etc), output (quantity, marketed proportions), prices
paid to farmers and family expenditure patterns. The differentiation of
farmer response (by location, endowment of land and personal
characteristics) would also be studied in order to identify factors
enhancing farmer response to the structural and policy changes.
C. Restoring Economic Equilibria
1. External Equilibria
17.       Exchange rate Policy.  In April 1987, the Government adjusted the
exchange rate to about PG 650 per US dollar, thereby closing the gap
between the official and the parallel market rates, formerly about 2.5 to
one. Hereafter, the Government will adjust the exchange rate at frequent
intervals to ensure that any differential between the official and parallel
market rates is kept to less than 10X. The Gcvernment's commitments as to
exchange rate policy will be monitored by the IMF under the proposed SAF
which will cover the period 1987-89.
18.       Trade policy.  On August 13, 1986, the Government announced a
broad liberalization of foreign trade whereby the private sector can now
e5gagc- ir i-z.pe  an3   °    c aoIivlties with the exception of imports cf



cereals, petroleum, pesticides, and ce- 'ain equipment goods. However, the
Government has in practice allowed some private imports of these
commodities. Also, licensing procedures for private traders have been
considerably simplified. Nevertheless, private traders still face
quantitative restrictions on commercial imports, since the Ministry of
Commerce issues import licenses at its discretion for those imports not
financed by project or food aid.
19.       The Government has thereafter, recently, decreed the following to
further liberalize trade: (i) new import duty exemptions will no longer be
issued, and (ii) the import licensing system will be liberalized through
automatic issuance of licenses from July 1, 1987 for a list of incentive
goods covering about 50 percent of all commercic' imports by value, exclud-
ing petroleum products. it
20.       In addition, by March 1988:  (i) the list of goods for which
import licenses are automatically issued will be expanded, in consultation
with IDA, to cover 75 percent of all commercial imports by value, excluding
petroleum products; (ii) all import duty exemptLons will be abolished,
except those required under existing treaties and contracts, and negotia-
tions will be opened seeking their modification or abolition; and (iii) a
study will be undertaken, in consultation with IDA, the IMF, FAC and
CEDEAO, on how to implement the principle of uniform import taxes without
reducing the revenue from these taxes.
21.       Monetary policy.  The Government intends to re4uce the differen-
tial between domestic and international inflation from 30 percent in 1985
to less than 25 percent by March 1988 through appropriate monetary and
credit policies. More rapid progress would not be practical in view of the
considerable excess liquidity in the economy. In this framework, credit to
the public sector will be strictly limited in order to release the domestic
resources required to support the expansion of private investment.
22.       Specifically, the Government will limit the expansion of domestic
credit to the economy and net claims on the Central Government in 1987 in
accordance with a precise action plan to be agreed upon with the IMF in
consultation with IDA in the course of elaborating the first year program
under the Structural Adjustment Facility. This program is expected to be
agreed in June-July 1987. A similar program for 1988 will be agreed before
the start of that year. The Government intends to maintain strict monetary
and credit discipline during the second phase of the structural adjustment
program in order to reduce the differential between domestic and interna-
tional inflation to less than 5 percent in 1990.  The Government's specific
commitments in the area of monetary policy will be monitored by the IMF
under the proposed SAF.
1,   Commercial imports are defined as imports nct financed by project aid,
food aid, or aid in kind.



-9-
2. Internal Equilibria
23.       The Government intends to pursue a policy of strict public
finance discipline, implement a broad range of measures to increase
revenues, contain current expenditures, reduce and restructure the public
investment program, and implement a comprehensive restructuring of the
public enterprise sector on the basis of studies undertaker during the
first phase of the adjustment program.
24.       In addition to the tariff measures listed above, and in order to
increase current revenues, the Government has taken the following measures:
(i) ceased issuing domestic tax exemptions, except where required by
existing contractual or treaty commitments; (ii) doubled the taxation on
alcoholic beverages; and (iii) increased the tax on gasoline from 105% to
115X.
25.       In order to contain current expenditures, the Government will:
(i) reduce the public sector wage bill in real terms in 1987 by limiting
wage rate increases to 251 (inflation is projected at 35Z) and (ii) by
end-1987, reduce the number of civil servants by 5% below the number on
active service on April 1, 1987, as the first phase of a program to reduce
the number of civil servants by 301 over three years. Of the total
reduction of 750 personnel in 1987, more than half will be accomplished by
June 1987. The second phase of this program will be implemented in 1988
and will consist of a 10 reduction (or 1500 personnel), with one quarter
to be accomplished by end-March 1988.
26.       With regard to the public investment program, and in agreement
with IDA, the Government would: (i) reduce the overall size of the public
investment program to US$48 million in 1987 (18% reduction compared with
1986), 2/ and determine the size of the public investment program for 1988;
and (ii) define the composition of the public investment program for 1987
and 1988. In this context, the implementation of projects that do not have
the highest priority will be postponed. Start-up on major new projects
will be strictly limited, and their implementation will be subject to a
thorough technical, economic and financial appraisal which would
demonstrate their suitability in the context of the public investment
strategy and financial constraints.
27.       Finally, and in order to lay the foundation for a restructuring
of the public enterprise sector, the Government will launch a comprehensive
diagnosis of the public enterprise sector, financed under IDA's Technical
Assistance Project, with the objective of preparing a detailed action plan
for the restructuring of the sector. The major parastatals are two trading
2/   Based on the historical record for implementation of the budget, a
US$60 million budget is consistent with an expecteu UJS$48 million
investment program.



_ 10 -
firms (Armazens do Povo and SOCOMIN), the electrical utility, EAGB, and the
oil distribution company (DICOL), with the remainder in the industrial
sector consisting of some two dozen small public and mixed enterprises.
The study is scheduled to start in June 1987, and be completed by September
1988. Its recommendations should be implemented as part of the second
phase of the structural adjustment program in 1988-89. In addition, the
ongoing reform of the trading firms will continue in 1987-89 (paras.
41-42).
D. Stimulating Growth
1. Agriculture
28.       The principal factor limiting the expansion of agricultural out-
put has been inadequate incentives, due both to low producer prices and to
the unavailability of imported consumer goods in rural areas. Since Decem-
ber 1983. the Government has taken a numb'er of steps to improve incentives.
Producer prices were increased on average by 65 percent in December 1983,
64 percent in December 1984, 41 percent in January 1986 and 30 percent in
November 1986, compared to an average inflation rate of 35 percent. At the
same time, marketing in rural areas was improved by the transfer to the
private sector of retail outlets of the parastatal trading firms which has
resulted in a greater availability of goods. The Government's aim is to
improve incentives further through higher producer prices and more competi-
tive marketing, while simultaneously strengthening agricultural investment
planning.
29.       Crop pricing.  Under the trading system reforms of August 1986,
it is expected that farmers will actually sell most of their 1987 crops to
private rmerchants at prices well above the Government-set minimum. How-
ever, the public trading firms will be prepared to purchase at the minimum
price in case the still weak private trading sector is unable to mobilize
sufficient capital to purchase the farmers' crops. After the November 1986
increase, minimum prices as a percent of import parity at the official
exchange rate range from about 301 for cashews to over 10OZ for rice. In
order to increase ince-ttives for cashew farmers, the Government will, in
May 1987, increase the minimum producer price for cashews (the only crop
still being harvested at that time of year) from PG 50 per kilo to PG 125
per kilo to reflect the impact of the devaluation. 3/
31   Cashews are more advantageous to the producer than the low producer
prices would suggest, because the payment system is PG 12 plus 0.5 kg
of rice per kg of cashews. While the official price of imported rice
is PG SO/kg, free trade is permitted in local rice which trades at
around PG 200/kg. The Government intends to increase the rice paid
for each kg of cashews to 0.625 kg.



30.       The minimum price for all crops will be raised by December 1,
1987, before the next harvest, to reflect the changes in the exchange rate
and in international prices. The minimum producer prices will also take
into consideration the costs of production, particularly for rice. The
Government is concerned that the world market price for rice may be
artificially depressed due to unfair trading practices and that a minimum
producer price set too low in line with world market prices could lead to
production decisions which would have a serious impact on the country's
policy of promoting food securfty.
31.       In order to further improve incentives, the Government has
eliminated taxes on all export crops other than cashews. For cashews, a
product in which Guinea-Bissau has a substantial comparative advantage, the
implicit export tax, which in 1986 was 80 percent (at an equilibrium
exchange rate), will be replaced by an explicit export tax of 50 percent
for 1987, to be progressively reduced in subsequent years, as the overall
fiscal situation improves. In case of a temporary and substantial increase
in the world market price for a commodity, the Government would reserve the
possibility of imposing a temporary windfall profit tax.
32.       Marketing policy.  As part of the transition to a liberalized
trade regime, the Government intends to intensify its policy of encouraging
competition in marketing in order to contain marketing costs and to in-
crease the proportion of the final sales price received by the farmer. In
this context, the Government will: (i) ensure that SOCOMIN and Armazens de
Povo compete on an equal basis with the private sector, by guaranteeing the
flexibility of prices offered to farmers by the public sector and providing
identical access to credit for private and public merchants; (ii) continue
implementing the rehabilitation programs for the public enterprises in the
commerce sector (see paras. 41 and 42); and (iii) launch a study in early
1988 on the operations of the new commercial policy, with the aim of
promoting efficiency and competition amorng merchants who purchase from
small farmers.
33.       Investment planning.  In order to improve agricultural investrient
planning, the Government has prepared in conjunction with the UNDP-sponsor-
ed sectoral consultation currently scheduled for May 1987, a sectoral
strategy paper, to be reviewed by the Bank, aimed at redirecting foreign
assistance to high-priority needs in the sector. In light of the conclu-
sions of the sectoral consultation and in collaboration with donors and
creditors involved, the Government will redesign the mangrove rehabilita-
tion projects and the integrated rural development projects. The Govern-
ment's aim is to contain cost per beneficiary and ensure that in the medium
term the services now financed by foreign funds can be maintained, with
funding from farmers and the Government where necessary.
34.       IFAD Loan.  The IFAD loan (Guinea Bissau Rural Incentives
Programme) would play a major role in stimulating agricultural sector
growth, particularly among the smallholders who account for the large
majority of agricultural output. The IFAD Programme would ensure an
adequate supply of producer goods to allow rural producers to take greater



- 12 -
advantage of the incentives offered under the structural adjustment
program, and would monitor both rural trade and income as a means of
evaluating the impact of agricultural/food supply policy and the existing
commercial system upon smallholder producers. In order to enhance access
to producer goods by less advantaged rural groups, the IFAD loan would
initiate the process of support to local level institutional development,
particularly with regard to associations of farmers for credit and input
acquisition, and would thus complement the objective of strengthening
private sector organization through aid to producer marketing associations.
35.       Fisheries.  In order to stimulate local production while increas-
ing revenues from the remaining foreign fisheries licenses, the Government
will take the following actions by September 1987: (i) make satisfactory
progress in strengthening the monitoring of licensing agreements and
raising the license fees to increase the revenue from foreign fishing
operations; and (ii) prepare and initiate the implementation of an action
plan to stimulate domestic fish exports through appropriate investments,
including improving storage and marketing mechanisms. Under the liberal-
ized regime after March 1988, the Government will simplify the monitoring
of fisheries licenses by approaching all foreign holders of fishing rights
to renegotiate agreements in which payment is based on boat size and
duration of the license, rather than on the value of fish caught.
2. Energy
36.       Petroleum.  Guinea-Bissau relies entirely on imported petroleum
fuels for the needs of transport and industry. Petroleum is imported and
distributed by DICOL, a parastatal firm; prices are fixed such that losses
on heavy fuels are offset by profits on gasoline. Until recently, gasoline
prices were about one-half those in neighboring countries at the official
exchange rate (one-fifth at the parallel rate). The Government has
succeeded in attracting private investment to drill for oil in off-shore
lots identified with IDA support. Under the IDA-financed projects, it has
established an autonomous entity, PETROGL'I, which will continue to promote
the exploration of Guinea-Bissau's offshore in the hopes of eventually
reducing the country's import bill.
37.       In order to improve allocative efficiency, the Government has
recently increased the price of all petroleum products to the import parity
level. In addition, the Government will increase che ad valorem tax on
gasoline from 105Z to 115Z; the tax on diesel for transpoo.  will remain 15%
(there is no tax on diesel for electricity). In order to increase resource
mobilization from gasoline consumption, the Government's objective is that
gasoline prices would reach the level of neighboring countries at the
equilibrium exchange rate, reducing the risk that increased petroleum
supplies would be directed to these countries. The price of diesel for
transport will need to be increased to reduce the differential between
gasoline and diesel. To reach these objectives, the prices of petroleum
products will be increased again in consultation with IDA by March 1988.



- 13 -
38.       Electricity output in Bissau over the period 1980-86 suffered
from frequent disrepairs at the central power plant leading to widespread
brownouts and rationing. With assistance from IDA's Reconstruction Import
Credit (FY85) and UNDP emergency assistance, spare parts and equipment were
provided in late 1986 which enabled the central plant to renew
uninterrupted supply beginning in January 1987. Nevertheless, substantial
unused capacity still exists in generating facilities in some factories,
and the distribution network loses about 3O2 of electricity generated. In
the interior, new generating facilities have been built in recent years;
however, they are generally under-utilized.
39.       The power and water utility, EAGB, functions only in the city of
Bissau; in the countryside, electricity continues to be provided by the
Ministry of Industry. A major reason for the failure to transfer responsi-
bility to EAGB has been that it lacks sufficient resources to pay the staff
in the interior. The paucity of resources reflects: (i) low levels of
electricity generation due to the poor state of repair of the equipment;
(ii) uneconomic expansion of generating capacity and the distribution
network in smaller cities; (iii) tariff rates that cover only one-sixth of
costs at an equilibrium exchange rate; and (iv) low priority given to
tariff collection (at least a quarter of electricity delivered is not paid
for). The revenue shortfall affects not only salaries but also the pay-
ments by EAGB to the petroleum distribution company.
40.       In the context of the structural adjustment program, the Govern-
ment intends to strengthen the institutional structure of the energy sector
and to reform pricing policies in order to achieve full cost recovery by
March 1988. In this regard, the Government raised electricity tariffs to
cover all EAGB's operating costs. For those subject to the low-cost
electricity tariff (consumption below 50 kWh per month), the tariff will
cover the cost of diesel and lubricants; the other operating costs will be
recovered from the remaining customers. In addition, the Government will
take the following measures:
(i) extend coverage of EAGB to the whole country by end-1987.
The emergency rehabilitation program prepared with IDA
assistance for the Bissau generating system, implemented in
early 1987, will increase electricity sales and therefore
improve EAGB's ability to fund the expansion of its respon-
sibilities;
(ii) on the basis of a sectoral review to be completed by July
1987, sign a management contract with a foreign firm by
December 1987, to strengthen the technical, accounting and
billing practices of EAGB;
(iii) revise tariffs further by March 1988, in agreement with IDA,
in order to achieve full cost recovery pricing for EAGB.
Subsequently, tariffs will be revised at least annually in
order to maintain full cost recovery conditions for the
company; and



- 14 -
(iv) introduce by September 1988, in agreement with IDA, a new
policy to increase tariff collection, including an automatic
link between the tariffs collected and the wages and sala-
ries of EAGB employees at all levels.
3. Commercial and Transport Services
41.       Parastatal trading enterprises.  During the colonial era, com-
merce and transport were largely controlled by two Portuguese firms which
were nationalized after Independence. Since the start of its reform
program in December 1983, the Government has moved to encourage more
competition in commerce and transport while reducing the role of the public
sector. With extensive assistance provided by the EEC, the two parastatal
trading firms (SOCOMIN and Armazens do Povo) have transferred over 200 of
their 270 retail outlets to the private sector; laid off 630 of 3,130
workers, with a further 1,370 to be laid off by end-1987; transferred to
the Government 80 percent of their profits from exports; produced financial
statements; and, in order to expedite repairs and improve efficiency,
transferred their transport fleet and operations to RODOFLUVIAL, a recently
created semi-autonomous agency that showed a profit in its first year of
operation.
42.       In pursuing the reform of the role of these parastatals, the
Government will begin implementing by September 1987 the recommendations of
a study financed by the EEC on improving marketing in isolated areas, and
in particular on the appropriateness of maintaining any retail outlets of
the two parastatal trading firms. Specifically, the reforms will ensure
that the two firms will compete on an equal basis with p.ivate sector
companies for import and export trade. In the medium term, as the private
sector expands its trading activities, the future role of these parastatals
will be re-evaluated.
43.       Price controls.  In the past, all import prices were subject to
controls, based on direct price controls for some products and on fixed
intermediation margins for all other goods. Since December 1983, the
Government has moved to reduce price controls and to maintain controlled
prices at world market levels. In August 1986, the Government eliminated
all intermediation margins, while retaining the right to impose such
margins on an exceptional basis. At the same time, it also eliminated
direct price controls an all goods except rice, sugar, cooking oil, cement,
fertilizer, pesticides, insecticides and petroleum products.
44.       The Government intends to further expand the role of market
forces. The Government is sensitive to the issues affecting the decontrol
of basic commodity prices; on the one hand, the impact of adjustment on the
urban population must be phased to limit social discontent and, on the
other, prices must rise quickly enough to provide farmers with incentives
to produce. Consequently, the Government: (i) will not impose any new
intermediation margins; (ii) eliminated direct price controls on all goods
except rice, sugar, fertilizer, cooking oil, fertilizer and petroleum
products; and (iii) adjusted the prices of rice, sugar, fertilizer and



- 15 -
cooking oil to bring them to the import parity level. The Government's
policy is to maintain full import parity pricing for these controlled goods
with the exception of rice sold to civil servants (see paragraph 59),
through annual adjustments in controlled prices.
45.       Transport reform.  Transport is particularly important in Guinea-
Bissau since the economy depends greatly on imports and international food
aid that mrust be delivered to rural consumer centers. River transport
accounts for 52Z of tonnage, primarily in the South, while road transport
represents 48Z, mainly in the North and East. Some 85? of the population
lives near a navigable waterway, thus coastal and river transportation has
traditionally been important, and trade route distances are often shorter
by river than by road. To encourage more efficient use of the country's
limited supply of trucks, the Government has replaced price controls for
transport in the interior with maximum and minimum rates that will be
adjusted automatically to respond to cost variations. Transport in Bissau
will be free of controls.
E. Medium-Term Economic Prospects
46.       IDA's view of Guinea-Bissau's medium-term economic prospects is
discussed below in a Base Case scenario (Table 1) which aosumes that the
Government will implement the comprehensive package of structural adjust-
ment policies presented above in order to restore internal and external
equilibria and to stimulate growth.
47.       The principal source of economic growth will be the impact of
improved incentives on agricultural production. Guinea-Bissau's historical
levels of production and its natural resource base suggest that the country
could easily increase output of foodstuffs (mainly rice) and export crops
(notably groundnuts, cotton, palm products, cashewnuts). Annual production
increases of about 4 percent would be fed by such factors as:
(a) the entering into production of extensive acreage of cashew trees
planted in response to producer price increases since 1983;
(b) the potentially rapid increase in rice yields from low-cost
restoration of mangrove areas; Guinea-Bissau was for many years
an exporter of rice, and its production costs are among the
lowest in Africa; 41
(c) the higher groundnut output resulting from the application of
currently unavailable fertilizer and the greater incentive to
4/   At an equilibrium exchange rate, rice production in Guinea-Bissau for
domestic consumption is fully competitive with imports without any
tariff protection.



- 16 -
produce for sate. Current production. at 40,000 tons, is well
below the 64,030 tons produced in 1953; and
(d) the potential for increases in the local value added in fishing
through displacement over 3-5 years of foreign boats operating in
national waters.
48.       At the same time, the reduced demand for industry and services
implicit in the stabilization measures would translate into a lower rate of
growth for these sectors. Overall, real GDP is projected to grow by
3.6 percent per year between 1987 and 1991, reculting in an increase of
1.8 percent per year in real GDP per capita.
49.       On the demand side, real private consumption is projected to grow
by an average 1.3 percent per year between 1986 and 1991, translating into
a 0.5 average decline in real per capita private consumption over the
period. Public consumption will increase in 1987 as a result of the
devaluation, but contract thereafter. Overall consumption is expected to
grow at an average annual rate of 1.3 percent between 1987 and 1991, about
35 percent of the rate of growth of GDP over the period. As a result, the
share of consumption in GDP is projected to decline to 98 percent by 1991,
compared to 109 percent in 1986. iThis would lead to a positive domestic
savings ratio of about 3 percent of GDP which, combined with the contrac-
tion in the public investment program, would allow for an expansion of
private investment, projected at 9.2 percent per year between 1987 and
1991, primarily in agriculture and related trade and transport services.
50.       The structural adjustment program would be marked by a substan-
tial improvement of the public finance situation. The share of the govern-
ment deficit in GDP (including grants) is projected to decline from 27
percent in 1985 to 14 percent in 1991. The size of the deficit is of
concern, but it should be noted that foreign financing needed to close the
balance of payments gap will provide more tnan sufficient resources to
finance the fiscal deficit in 1987-91. As a result, the Government will
repay all its outstanding credits from the National Bank by end-1988.
Indeed, the Government will become a major net creditor of domestic banks.
The fiscal situation is influenced by several factors. On the revenue
side, the reduction of the deficit would result from the positive impact of
the devaluation on the domest'ic currency equivalent of external grants
(which are assumed to remain constant in nominal dollar terms through
1991). and on the domestic currency equivalent of tariff revenue. On the
expenditure side, the reduction of the deficit results directly from the
contraction of public consumption and of public investment assumed under
the stabilization program. These positive tendencies, however, are offset
after 1987 by the negative impact of the devaluation on interest payments
on medium- and long-term debt expressed in domestic currency terms. As a
result, public national savings (i.e, including grants and foreign interest
payments) will decline somewhat through 1991 as the grants/GDP ratio falls
and interest payments rise.



- 17 -
Table 1: Key Fco ic Indicators, 1982-91
Actual         Est.       Proj_  Annual Average
1982   1984   1985    1986   1989  1991  '82-85 '86-91
Real Change from Previous Year (in percent)
(MP at m.p.                       4.2      5.5    4.3   -1.0      2.9   3.8   2.6   3.8
Consumption                       12.1    7.6    5.5   -2.6       2.0   2.1    5.3   1.4
Public                          20.3   -3.4    6.1       l.1   -5.0   0.0   5.9   1.5
Private                         8.8   12.9    5.2   -4.1        4.3   2.7   5.0   1.3
Investmnt                        28.1     5.5   10.1      0.0   -9.0  -5.8    9.6 -8.0
Public                           ...    ...      ...    ...  -10.8  -7.9    ...  -9.6
Private                          ...    ...    ...       ...   10.0  10.0   ...  9.2
Agricultural value added           4.2     2.4    3.0    4.3       5.0   4.0   2.8  4.6
Industrial value added            2.9  -12.0   -0.4  -17.0        1.0    2.0   8.5   1.4
Services value added              4.4     3.0    4.4   -4.8   -1.4   4.0   2.1  0.7
(in percent of CDP)
Investment                       31.7   30.0   32.0   31.6   21.1  17.3
Domestic Savings                -11.3   -8.9  -11.2  -10.4    0.0   3.8
Public Investment
(as % of total investment)       87.1   94.2   94.i   94.0   89.7  85.9
Goverruent Finances 1/                           (in percent of CDP)
Government Revenue                11.5   12.6   11.7   11.1   25.7  25.2
OQrrent non-interest Expenditures 26.2   20.3   19.3   20.8    19.8  16.9
Capital Expenditure              30.8    37.7   36.8   32.2    50.5  48.7
Gov. Deficit after Grants       -29.8  -29.6  -27.1  -21.1   -14.8 -13.8
Dmostic Brrowing                  12.8    7.5    6.7    4.8  -14.0 -12.8
Foreigi Borrawing                 11.9   17.6   20.0   16.3   28.8  26.6
Balance of Payments                               (in US$ mnioion)
EXports of Goods and Services     17.4   25.4   18.1    17.7   31.7  39.6
Inports of Goods and Services   -84.2  -82.6  -85.1   -82.6  -75.1  -76.3
Grants (official)                44.7   29.3   32.7   43.5    35.0  37.0
Current Account Balance         -35.2  -36.2  -40.4  -29.4   -20.5 -18.1
Ioan Disbursments                 29.1    34.5   43.1    37.3   30.0  29.8
Overall Balance                 -20.0  -15.8  -13.3    2.6   -3.7  -7.4
(in percent of MP)
Goods and Services Balance I/   -34.2  -29.9  -39.3  -39.2  -26.4  -16.6
Ourrent Account Balance 1/      -22.2  -22.4  -23.9  -17.6  -11.0  -9.0
Debt and Debt Service 21                         (in US$ millian)
Disbursed Outstanding Debt,
End of Period                  136.1   225.2  281.9  300.5  427.4 468.2
Principal Payments Due            4.8    6.1    4.9    8.1    14.2  20.1
Interest Payments Due             2.2    3.4    5.1    6.5    11.1   17.4
Debt Service Ratio (In %)         41.4   40.2   63.5   87.5    79.8  94.7
Total Arrears                     10.3   18.2   25.6   38.2   24.0   19.0
Additional Debt Rescheduling      -       -       -       -       7.8   7.4
Debt Service Ratio after
Additional Rescheduling (in %) 41.4   40.2   63.5   87.5   54.6  76.0
NLT Debt Citsta:ding/PUP (in %)  85.8   139.3  166.8  179.9  229.3 232.8
Sources: National Bank of Ginea-Bissau and IBMR estimates.
1/ Calculated fran current price data.
2/ Excluding IMF, except as noted.



- 18 _
51.       The real exchange rate devaluation, along with the progressive
liberalization of domestic prices and the adjustment of controlled prices
in line with world prices would lead to a sharp contraction of real imports
of goods and services, averaging about 5 percent per year between 1987 and
1991. This contraction would result essentially from the reduction in food
imports made possible by the expansion of domestic food crop output, by the
reduced import requirements of the sharply lower public investment program,
and by a containment in imports of consumer goods in response to the
relative price effect of the devaluation. Real exports through official
channels, on the other hand, are projected to grow at about 8 percent per
year on average over the period. This export performance wou;d result di-
rectly from the incentives policies to be pursued by the Government over
the stabilization phase. In addition, the accelerated devaluation of the
exchange rate combined with adjustments in domestic producer prices would
restore agricultural exports to their 1984 level by 1988.
52.       The rapid expansion of exports of goods and services and the con-
traction of imports resulting from the implementation of the structural ad-
justment program would lead to a progressive reduction in the goods and
services balance deficit from 39.2 percent of GDP in 1985 to 14.1 percent
in 1991. Consequently, the current balance deficit is expected to decline
from about US$40 million in 1985 to about US$18 million in 1991, despite
the progressive increase in interest payments made on the external debt
over the period, from US$2.2 million in 1985 to US$17.4 million in 1991.
This decline in the current balance deficit and the concurrent reduction in
the net foreign borrowing requirements of the public sector are seen to be
compatible with an equilibrium of external payments over the period, as the
deficit in the overall balance of payments could be entirely covered by
expected debt reschedulings.
53.       The burden of debt service before rescheduling is bound to in-
crease during the structural adjustment program because of the profile of
payments on existing (pre-1986) debt. Despite the recent debt rescheduling
agreements with the USSR, Portugal, and Portuguese commercial banks, the
debt service ratio is projected to rise sharply from 64 percent in 1985 to
113 percent in 1987, highlighting the need for additional debt re-
scheduling. The ideal situation, however, to enable viability of the
balance of payments, would be for the Government to obtain debt forgiveness
from its principal creditors. For expositional purposes, the Base Case
assumes rescheduling in 1987-88 of 90 percent of principal not already
rescheduled, i.e., terms significantly less favorable than those accorded
in the reschedulings of 1986. From 1989 onwards, reschedulings on a
smaller scale would be needed to close the balance of payments gap.  Under
these assumptions, the debt service ratio could be contained to about 55
percent per year. While a debt service ratio in the 55 percent range is
high, it would, nevertheless, reprosent  considerable progress compared
with the present sitwation.  Farthermore, Guinea-Bissau is able to sustain
a relatively high debt service ratio because a large proportion of imports,
including nearly all imports of capital goods and inputs, are financed by
external assistance. Guinea-Bissau would need to rely on continuing extra-
ordinary financing from debt rescheduling to finance its balance of



- 19 -
payments gaps, unless additional creditors were to follow the example of
Canada, Netherlands, and Portugal by cancelling outstanding debts or
converting them to local currency.
54.       Combined with the effect of debt reschedulings, the improved
current account would be sufficient te permit a reduction in the gross
foreign borrowing requirement from US$37 million in 1986 to US$29 million
in 1991, on the conservative assumption that grants are at US$37 million.
Borrowing for projects would be reduced from US$15 million to US$14
million. Non-project borrowing, which would increase in 1987, would need
to be maintained roughly constant from 1987 through 1991 in nominal US
dollars at US$16 million. Thiis level of external assistance is somewhat
below the pattern observed in 1984-86 and is a low estimate based on the
announced intentions of the major donors and creditors. IDA and associated
SFA credits are projected to account for US$85 million of the US$340
million in loans and grants disbursements during 1987-91.
55.       The successful completion of the structural adjustment process
could place Guinea-Bissau in a position to achieve self-sustained growth
over the longer term. Increases in GDP would derive primarily from domes-
tically-financed investment. The economy would be open then to the pres-
sures of market forces which would rapidly signal opportunities for profit-
able output expansion while facilitating the flow of resources from less
productive to more advantageous sectors. Guinea-Bissau's relatively
generous natural resource endowment, particularly in arable land, provides
a basis for optimism about the country's long-term prospects once distor-
tions in the system of economic incentives have been eliminated and the
macroeconomic balances restored.
F. Alternative-Adiustment Scenarios
56.       Forced Adjustment.  The policy package required to accomplish the
transition to self-sustained growth relies on strong changes with respect
to past policies. In the absence of such a policy breakthrough, existing
macroeconomic disequilibria would be further exacerbated, leading to a
profound economic and financial crisis. In the short run, the maintenance
of existing policies would entail higher Government spending and a higher
growth profile than under the Base Case scenario. However, such levels of
Government expenditure would provoke by 1989 an external payment crisis
that would be considerably more acute than the current shortage of foreign
exchange. As the foreign exchange shortage deepened, imported inputs vital
to production would become scarce. 'T'he Government would have to curtail
its expenditures, particularly on public investment. The scenario would
lead to a forced and disorderly adjustment to lower levels of income and
consumption that would persist in the medium term.
57.       Downside risk.  A downside risk scenario was calculated for the
possibility that the adjustment program would be implemented at a slower
pace than assumed in the Base Case, while the supply responses were less



- 20 -
substantial than expected 5/. This scenario gave a 1 percent lower rate of
economic growth on average in 1987-92, with a 2 percent per annum decline
in real private per capita consumption. On the external accounts, export
growth would decline by comparison with the Base Case, but at the Lime time
the lower rate of growth would affect import requirements. The overall
impact on the current account balance would lead to a deficit of 16 percent
of GDP in 1991, compared to 9 percent in the Base Case. As a result, the
need for external assistance would remain at the high 1986 level throughout
the period. Debt service, even after rescheduling, would remain at over
70 percent of exports. This scenario would be marginally feasible, but -t
would run the grave risk that the donor community would be unwilling to
continue to provide extraordinary debt relief and emergency assistance over
the medium-term, in which case shortages of foreign exchange could reemerge
which would hamper production and contribute to public dissatisfaction.
G. Social Impact of Structural Adjustment
58.       The adjustment program will have a significant effoct on increas-
ing the income of the poorest group in Guinea-Bissau, namely, small farm-
ers. Higher farmgate prices and greater import availabilities will increa-
se the welfare of the rural poor. At the same time, some urban grcups--
especially Government employees--will be adversely affected by at least the
initial phase of structural adjustment, as the size of the civil service is
reduced and Government salaries fall in real terms. In addition, following
the planned reduction in public current and capital expenditures, urban
employment opportunities are likely to decline.
59.       The Government is committed to easing the transitional sciial
impact of the adjustment process through a four-fold approach. Fi.st, with
support from the UNDP and other donors, the Government has put in place a
program for retraining and resettlement of laid-off civil servants into
agricultural activities in the villages, aided by severance compensation
payments. Secondly, in conjunction with WPF and other food aid donors, and
in order to provide temporary compensation, the Government has begun a
program to provide rice at low prices for Government employees, especially
for the lowest paid group that spends one-third of its income on rice. The
price of rice will gradually rise over three years to forestall the danger
of a permanent subsidy. Thirdly, in order to protect vulnerable groups,
the Government will implement a program, supported by proposed IDA credits,
to ensure that health and education services are improved for these groups.
60.       Finally, and as noted in pararagraph 15, the Government  .11
establish a special unit within the Ministry of Plan responsible I
51   International prices for Guinea-Bissau's key exports lower then
projected by the Bank would also have a negative effect, but their
impact would be relatively small due to the low level of exports of
goods in relation to imports.



- 21 -
assessinZ the social implications of the structural adjustment program.
This unit w!__  launch an IDA-managed study financed by UNDP to track the
real income effects of the structural adjustment program and the pace of
adjustment at the household level in representative segments of the
population, in order to provide the data upon which to base Government
social policy. Furthermore, an ongoing survey of the impact of the
adjustment program in the countryside among the rural poor will be financed
by UNDP and IFAD. The Government will be prepared, over the adjustment
period, to introduce additional measures to offset the costs of adjustment
based on findings of these and other continuing studies.
III. THE SAL PROGRAM IN THE CONTEXT OF THE FINANCIAL STRATEGY
A. The Medium-Term Finar.cial Restructuring Strategy
1. External Resource Mobilization
61.       As a result of the heavy burden of existing debt and the imbal-
ances in the economy, Guinea-Bissau will require continuing high levels of
external assistance and/or debt relief on concessional terms for some years
to come. Nevertheless, the Government is committed to progressively
reducing its dependence on foreign financing. To this end, the Government
has adopted the following policy measures, in addition to those mentioned
earlier, to contain the fiscal deficit and to reduce the deficit of the
balance of payments current account:
(i) A ban on loans with a grant element of less than 50 percent,
which applies irrespective of the source of credit: a
multilateral agency, a bilateral creditor, a commercial
bank, or a foreign supplier. The ban on loans at commercial
rates would apply even to projects which appear highly
attractive, both because concessional financirng can probably
be secured for such projects and because the country's
difficult external payments situation allows little margin
for error in case of unforeseen problems with a specific
project. The ban would cover short-term credits including
those to the National Bank, except trade credits that are
purely self-liquidating within one-year.
(ii) Strict monitoring of concessional loans and grants. On
April 2, 1986, the Council of Ministers forbade 'the signing
of concessionary loans or even grants by Ministers without a
decision of the Council of Ministers based on an opinion of
the Minist-y of Plan analyzing the impact of the recurrent
costs which would increase the operating budget of the State
and/or have an impact on the foreign exchange balance." The
National Commission for Economic Coordination and Management
(para. 13(i)), in conjunction with the IMF, will monitor
compliance with this provision.



- 22 -
62.       In addition, the Government has decided to prepare a comprehens-
ive medium-term financial strategy in close coordination with IDA and the
IMF. This strategy will focus on mobilizing substantial resources in the
short-term but with a rapidly declining need for extraordinary assistance,
consistent with the Base Case scenario. The key elements of the financial
restructuring strategy are:
(i) Maintaining grants at a high level, namely US$43 million in
1987 and US$36 million average in 1988-91; these projections
are conservatively set at below the historical pattern
(US$39 million average in 1982-86);
(ii) Mobilizing additional non-project capital inflows to finance
the costs of structural adjustment. In 1987, the nonproject
financing needed would be about US$14 million above the 1986
level. 6/ Since public capital expenditures will decline
under the structural adjustment program, project financing
will decline during 1987-90; and
(iii) Approaching creditors for debt rescheduling to relieve the
heavy burden of servicing Guinea-Bissau's existing debt as
well as the cost of servicing the new debt which the country
will need to contract in order to finance the costs of
structural adjustmernt. For illustrative purposes only, the
Bank's Base Case Scenario assumes an annual debt reschedu-
ling of 90 percent of principal due to bilateral and private
creditors in 1987-88. 7/ Reschedulings of a smaller magni-
tude will also be needed after 1988 to close the financing
gap in the balance of payments.
63.       Guinea-Bissau has rescheduled some of its outstanding obligations
in recent years. In 1986, US$5 million owed to Brazilian commercial banks
was rescheduled. In 1986, Portuguese banks agreed to reschedule US$37
million in outstanding credit lines as a 10-year loan with 7 years grace at
LIBOR plus 1 percent. The Portuguese government will extend a loan to
cover the first four years interest under the latter. Furthermore, Portu-
gal has agreed to convert its total outstanding debt (US$5 million) into a
local currency development fund. One of the country's largest creditors,
6/   If debt rescheduling of the order assumed below is granted each year,
the capital flows required would decline to levels below the pattern
of the mid-1980s. The international community may prefer to frovide
the resources necessary to support Guinea-Bissau's recovery effort
through maintenance of disbursements at the 1984-86 level, in which
case debt reschedulings could be phased out after 1989.
7/   The terms of the rescheduling are assumed to be 8.5 percent interest,
6 years grace, and 12 years maturity.



- 23 -
the USSR, has also agreed to reschedule on generous terms all arrears and
debt service due in 1986-1989 (100 percent of interest and principal, 5
percent interest, 5 years grace, 10 years maturity). Other than to Por-
tugal, Guinea-Bissau's only obligations to Paris Club member governments,
now that the debt owed to The Netherlands and Canada has been cancelled, is
to France and to Italy. It would seem that the most productive approach in
Guinea-Bissau's case would be for the authorities to approach each bilate-
ral and private creditor individually with respect to rescheduling. Aside
from multilateral organizations and those mentioned above, the principal
creditors are Algeria, Angola and Libya.
64.       The Government is committed to eliminating all of its external
arrears as soon as possible; these arrears amounted to US$28 million at end
1986. It has already approached the major creditors to which it owes
arrears to resolve the matter, including through rescheduling some obliga-
tions. In uddition, the Government is committed to paying US$19 million to
clear arrears in 1987-90. At the same time, the Government's financial
strategy is designed to ensure that sufficient resources will be available
to service all debt service obligations on a regular basis, after debt
rescheduling.
2. Internal Resource Mobilization
65.       In order to increase domestic resource mobilization by the
banking system, the Government is moving towards the goal of a positive
real interest rate by a combination of: (i) reducing the inflation rate via
containing the Government deficit, including the containment of net bank
claims on the Government referred to in paragraph 22; and (ii) the recent
increase in nominal interest rates to about 25 percent on average, a level
sufficient to reach positive real interest rates by March 1988. -
66.       In order to improve banking services, the Government will: (i)
prepare and begin implementing by July 1987 an action plan in agreement
with IDA to separate the central banking functions of the National Bank
from its commercial banking functions; (ii) implement by July 1987 the
recommendations of the recent IDA-financed study on improving the account-
ing system of the National Bank; (iii) complete by March 1988 a study of
the possibilities for establishing commercial banks, including foreign-
owned banks, and implement its recommendations by December 1988 in agree-
ment with IDA; and (iv) implement by March 1988 the first phase of a plan
to increase the number of bank branches, especially mobile branches that
visit villages on a regular schedule.
3. The Role of IDA
67.       IDA has played a key role in supporting Guinea-Bissau's economic
recovery program. Dialogue with the Government on the necessary policy
reforms became more active beginning with discussions on the 1982 Country
Economic Memorandum. IDA's US$10 million Reconstruction Import Credit
(RIC) approved in 1984 financed imports essential for the economic recovery
program, while the US$6 million Technical Assistance Credit is helping to



- 24 -
strengthen macroeconomic management capability. IDA chaired a February
1985 meeting within the UNDP Round Table framework to coordinate non-
project assistance. In 1986, IDA deepened its dialogue on policy reform
through the Public Investment Report (para. 2) and provided a US$5 million
supplement to the RIC from the Special Facility for Africa. IDA is the
largest lender to Guinea-Bissau, with an active prog.am %!'ich has included
five project credits, two for highway maintenance, two for petroleum
exploration promotion, and one for rehabilitation of the port at Bissau.
68.       If the Government takes the actions needed on a broad variety of
fronts to halt the current economic deterioration, IDA will be prepared to
adjust both the size and composition of its lending program over the next
few years to respond effectively to the country's development needs. Since
the problems confronting Guinea-Bissau are deep-rooted and widespread, the
proposed SAL should be seen as the first in a series of operations to
remove the existing distortions and strengthen vital economic institutions.
IDA would also need to provide further support to strengthen economic
management institutions, as well as for projects in human resource develop-
ment and improvements in physical infrastructure in support of production.
Under the Base Case Scenario, Guinea-Bissau's debt to IDA would rise to
about US$125 million at the end of 1990, compared to US$54 million at
end-December 1986. Debt service to the Association would then be about
US$1.0 million, or 3 percent of projected 1990 debt service obligations.
4. The Role of Other Donors
69.       The UNDP has played an active role in Guinea-Bissau and organized
a first Round Table in July 1984. A first follow-up meeting to the Round
Table was held in Bissau in July 1985 to review progress achieved in the
recovery program and in the disbursement of pledged project aid. The
follow-up meeting also decided to hold subsequent sectoral consultations on
agriculture, fisheries, health, technical assistance and human resources,
with the objective of helping to define secto'al strategies and investment
programs in a coordinated fashion. The first of these consultations, for
the health sector, took place in February 1986 and resulted in agreement
between Gover,nment and donors that all future activities in the health,
nutrition and population areas will be closely coordinated through UNDP and
the principal donors. In this context, IDA is preparing a Health/ Popula-
tion project, and has also agreed to participate actively in the Agricul-
turelFisheries consultation currently scheduled for May 1987. UNDP has
also begun preparations for the technical assistance/human resources
meeting, to be held in mid-1987.
70.       In addition to project lending, assistance to meet the country's
minimum import requirements has been provided by several countries, espe-
cially Sweden, The Netherlands, Switzerland, and Portugal. Disbursements
of such aid averaged US$4 million annually in 1984-85. In addition, food
aid disbursements averaged US$7 million in 1984-85, principally from the
European Community, World Food Program, Japan, USAID, and the Soviet Union.
Furthermore, Angola financed most of the country's petroleum needs on
concessional terms in 1984 and 1985.



- 25 -
5. Bank-Fund Coordination
71.       The Bank has coordinated closely with the Fund in the preparation
of the proposed SAL. The Fund's 1986 Article IV consultation mission
overlapped with the Bank mission which discussed the Economic Report (para.
2). A Fund technical assistance mission in October 1986 helped the autho-
rities formulate a reform of the foreign exchange system. Fund staff
participated in the appraisal mission of the proposed SAL, in particular to
provide support to the discussions with the authorities on monetary and
fiscal policies.
72.       Based on the results of the SAL appraisal mission and the Fund's
October mission, the Bank and Fund staff have prepared a draft Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) as the basis for the proposed Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAF). The SAF would monitor interim performance targets aimed at
achieving macroeconomic stability in the medium- term. During a March 1987
IMF mission, agreement was reached with the Government on a PFP, which is
scheduled to be considered by the Bank's Board in early May, and on the
principal elements of a first-year program under the SAF.
73.       Use of Fund ordinary resources is not envisaged by Guinea-Bissau.
In light of the critical imbalances in the economy, it seems unlikely that
the Government would be in a position to service borrowing from Fund
ordinary resources over the medium-term. The Fund will, however, provide
vital assistance to the authorities in formulating their macroeconomic
policies, and the overall stance of those policies for each year during
1987-89 will be agreed with the Fund in the context of the SAF.
B. Benefits and Risks
74.       The proposed structural adjustment program is expected to improve
the growth prospects for Guinea-Bissau's economy through improved incen-
tives, more assured availability of vital inputs, concentration of invest-
ment on quick-yielding projects with a high return, and more efficient
allocation of available foreign exchange. Without the proposed reforms,
the public finance and balance of payments deficits would likely deterio-
rate, provoking a disorderly forced adjustment which would entail a signi-
ficant decline in real per capita incomes with a real risk to the survival
of the existing political order. Nevertheless, the proposed process of
planned adjustment faces the risks outlined below.
75.       Inadequate administrative capacity  may prevent the Government
from implementing the adjustment program on schedule. The adjustment pro-
gram has therefore been systematically designed for simplicity of adminis-
tration in order to minimize this risk. IDA will finance advisors under
its Technical Assistance Project, at the National Bank, the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Plan, and the State Secretariat for Economic
Affairs and International Cooperation to reinforce key aspects of the
structural adjustment program (para. 13). In this context, IDA and UNDP
are cooperating closely in their programs to provide technical assistance
for macroeconomic management. Assistance to strengthen the Ministry ot



- 26 -
Rural Development will be provided through IDA's proposed Agricultural
Services Project. Additional assistance will be provided by IFAD and the
African Development Bank (para. 14).
76.       Lower-than-expected supply responses, especially from farmers,
c-uld prevent achievement of export growth, import substitution, and GDP
growth targets. The major dangers are: (i) the full benefits of the trade
liberalization may not be passed on to farmers if there is inadequate
competition by merchants. Guinea-Bissau has historically had a weak
private trading sector, and it suffers now from serious undercapitaliza-
tion. To help traders expand their activities, expansion of credit consis-
tent with macroeconomic stability will be directed primarily to the private
sector, with the help of fiscal measures which will reduce outstanding
National Bank credit to the Government. Furthermore, as noted above,
regulations on entry and price controls on transport services would be
eased to promote competition; (ii) farmers may need assistance in rehabi-
litating flood-irrigated fields and in improving productivity. To this
end, the Bank will provide considerable assistance in the context of the
proposed Agricultural Services Credit; (iii) the weather may prove
unfavorable. Guinea-Bissau has not suffered from chronic droughts to the
extent that some other African countries have, but the vulnerability of the
economy to unfavorable weather conditions should be faced by flexibility in
the pace of the adjustment measures.
77.       A less-favorable-than-expected international environment.
Assumptions in the Base Case scenario about world market prices for Guinea-
Bissau's major export products are quite conservative. The down-side risks
are real, but they are worth taking, since there are no clear alternatives
at this time. A further risk is that mobilization of the necessary conces-
sional aid and debt relief on a timely basis may prove difficult. IDA will
make every effort to ensure that financing is secured to provide an ade-
quate supply of vital inputs in the initial period of the adjustment pro-
gram. The Government has arranged short-term credit lines to cover vital
imports before the SAL becomes effective. In addition, US$1.7 million may
be available under the RIC for vital agricultural inputs, when the planting
season starts in April/May. Finally, SDR 3.0 million in retroactive
financing to January 1, 1987, will be provided under the proposed SAL.
Over the medium term, the Government's adoption of a comprehensive reform
program should improve the climate for maintaining aid flows at the
relatively high levels experienced recently. At the same time, IDA will
assist the Government within the framework of a Round Table in approaching
creditors and donors to redirect their assistance, if necessary, towards
the country's greatest needs.
78.       Socio-political risks.  The impact of the adjustment program on
income and welfare levels is expected to be positive over the medium term,
as rising incomes in the agricultural sector will benefit the poorest
segment of the population, the small farmers, who have to date been most
heavily taxed and received the least benefit from Government expenditure.
Nevertheless, transitional costs are likely to be felt before most of the
expected medium-term benefits become visible. In rural areas, the already-



-27 -
implemented trade reform should result in substantially higher prices paid
producers for the harvest which began in November 1986. The higher pro-
ducer prices should provide the resources to pay the higher, post-devalua-
tion prices for inputs, typically purchased in April-July. In the urban
areas, the initial impact of the adjustment process is likely to be more
severe due to the increased price of rice and, to a lesser extent, elec-
tricity, petroleum, and imports in general. At the same time, increased
availabilities should reduce dissatisfaction over current shortages (espe-
cially of electricity) and reduce time spent in searching for needed
consumer goods. The adjustment program will include measures targeted to
benefit the group most severely affected by the stabilization measures
namely Government employees (para. 58). Finally, the Government is making
a major effort to explain to the population, through extensive countryside
tours by the President and his cabinet, the justification for the reforms
and the need for short-term sacrifices in order to end the current economic
crisis.
IV. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENr CREDITS
Background
79.       Subsequent to IDA's review of the Public Investment Program in
early 1986, a report analyzing the country's economic performance and
discussing the essential elements of a comprehensive structural adjustment
strategy for Guinea-Bissau (para. 2) was discussed with the authorities in
September l986. The authorities expressed full agreement with the Bank's
assessment and with the overall objectives of the structural adjustment
strategy and agreed to an 182 reduction in the 1986 public investment
budget. The IMF agreed with Government in March 1987 on precise policy
recommendations, particularly in the areas of public finance and pricing,
that could serve as a basis for a Structural Adjustment Facility for
1987-1989. An IDA mission, in which representatives of Switzerland, ADB,
IFAD and the IMF participated, appraised the proposed Credits from November
24 to December 5, 1986. Negotiations were held in Bissau from March 23 to
27, 1987, with a Bissau-Guinean delegation headed by the Minister-Governor
of the National Bank. A Letter of Development Policy sets out the action
program envisaged by the Government for 1987 and 1988 (Annex IV) and forms
the basis for this operation. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.
Supplementary Data appear in Annex III.
The Credits
80.       The Government's structural adjustment program would be supported
by a proposed IDA credit of SDR 8.0 million and an African Facility Credit
of SDR 4.0 million of which SDR 3.0 million each from the IDA Credit and
the SFA Credit would be released as a first tranche. In addition, Special
Joint Financing through the Facility will be made available by Switzerland
(SwF8.0 million equivalent to US$5.2 million) to be administered by the
Association and by Saudi Arabia through the Saudi Fund (SR12.0 million
equivalent to US$3.2 million). The Swiss Grant will be available in two
equal tranches of SwF 4.0 million. The African Development Fund will



- 28 -
provide 10.0 million UOAs (US$11.3 million equivalent), and IFAD is provid-
ing a proposed Special Facility Credit of US$5.3 million equivalent to be
administered by the Association.
Procurement. Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
81.       IDA financing will be limited to imports procured from Bank
member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan, China. African Facility financ-
ing, including Special Joint Financing from Switzerland and the Saudi Fund,
will be limited to procurement from contributors to the African Facility
and Part II IDA countries. The Credits could not be used to finance items
financed by other sources or on a specific list of excluded items, such as
military and para-militarv items and luxury goods. Financing of foodstuffs
and petroleum products would each be limited to an aggregate amount not to
exceed 25 percent respectively of disbursements under the proposed IDA and
African Facility Credits, and there would be a bulking of purchases for
petroleum products. IFcZ, and Saudi Fund assistance will be in support of
Government's agricultural incentives program and disbursed against a
positive list of agricultural inputs and incentive goods.
82.       The import and distribution of goods would be handled by normal
commercial channels. Direct imports of foodstuffs and petroleum products
would be handled by the Ministry of Commerce. All other imports would be
under international competitive bidding for contracts of $300,000 and
above. All awards of contracts of $300,000 and above will be subject to
prior approval by the Association. Goods costing less thar. $300,000 would
be procured through limited international bidding by requesting no fewer
than three quotations from reputable suppliers in Guinea-Bissau and abroad.
These thresholds are based on proven capabilities of purchases to handle
ICB.Provision has been made for procurement by direct purchase for con-
tracts costing less than $50,000 when demonstrated urgency requires, and
for proprietary items. Invoices of less than $10,000 will not be eligible
for reimbursement.
83.       Disbursements under the IDA and SFA Credits would be effected
through Special Accounts to be established in U.S. dollars in commercial
banks and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and into
which US$5.0 million would be disbursed upon Credit effectiveness. These
accounts would be replenished up to the limit of thc First Tranche of
SDR 3.0 million from the IDA Credit, SDR 3.0 million from the SFA Credit,
and SwF 4.0 million from the Swiss grant when the accounts have been
reduced by one-third, or monthly. Disbursements of the Saudi Fund Loan
would be effected through the SFA Special Account. The IFAD Special
Facility would be disbursed into a separate special account. All
applications would be prepared by the Management Unit for Balance of
Payments Assistance (UGAB) of the National Bank.
84.       Disbursements against contracts or purchase orders above the
equivalent of US$50,000, or under applications for direct payments or for
issuance of Special Commitments as permitted by IDA will be fully document-
ed. All other disbursements will be made against certified Statements of



- 29 -
Expenditure. For contracts up to US$50,000 equivalent, full documentation
including invoices will be retained for periodic exaulination by Bank staff,
and withdrawal applications would be consolidated and accepted on the basis
of written statements from UGAB indicating the country of origin, a de-
scription of goods, date and currency in which payment was effected, the
commercial bank involved and the final beneficiary. The Credits would be
disbursed only against foreign expenditures, with retroactive financing of
up to SDR 1.0 million from the SFA and SDR 2.0 million from the IDA credit
for expenditures made before signing of the Credit Agreements, but after
January 1, 1987, in accordance with established IDA procedures and procure-
ment guidelines.  Assuming satisfactory progress on the program, the
proposed IDA and African Facility Credits, the Swiss and Saudi Arabian
Special Joint Financing, the IFAD Special Facility financing and the
African Development Fund Credit are expected to be disbursed over the
24-month period ending about July 1989.
Monitoring
85.       Aside from monitoring the effects of the adjustment program on
agricultural trade and production (para. 16) and its social implications
(para. 15), monitoring of performance under the Credits would involve a
general supervision of progress on implementing the overall program as well
as the specific conditions for second-tranche release.
86.       The following actions have already been taken by the Government
in the context of the proposed program:
(a) Producer price increases averaging 41 percent in January 1986 and
30 percent in November 1986;
(b) A ban on non-concessional foreign borrowing;
(c) An 18 percent reduction in the public investment budget as part
of the reform measures announced on April 2, 1986;
(d) Creation of the National Commission for Economic Coordination and
Management on August 2, 1986, to coordinate, manage, and super-
vise the structural adjustment process; and
(e)  A comprehensive trade reform introduced August 13, 1986 which
abolishes controls on trade margins and direct price controls on
all but seven commodities and permits private traders to purchase
at a free price any commodity for export; private exporters can
retain 50 percent of their export receipts to finance imports.
(f) Devaluation of the exchange rate from about PG 250 = US$1 to
about PG 650 = US1 (para. 17);
(g) Adoption of a satisfactory 1987 fiscal program, including mea-
sures to contain expenditures by refocusing public investment and
reducing the size of the civil service and measures to mobilize



- 30 -
resources by restricting import duty exemptions and domestic tax
exemptions (paras. 24-26);
(h) Adoption of a satisfactory monetary policy program, including
credit targets for 1987, based on reform of the National Bank's
accounting system, and increase in nominal interest rates (paras.
65-66);
(i) Reduction of explicit export taxes (para. 31);
(j) Revision of electricity tariffs (para. 40) and petroleum prices
(para. 37);
(k) Further liberalization of trade through automatic issuance of
import licenses for 50 percent of nonpetroleum imports
(para. 20); and
(1) 150Z increase in minimum agricultural producer price of cashew
nuts (para. 29).
87.       Release of the second tranches of the proposed IDA and SFA
Credits and the Swiss Grant would be contingent upon progress satisfactory
to the Association in implementing the structural adjustment program, in
particular the following actions:
(a) Further extension of the automatic issuance of import licenses
(para. 20);
(b) Increases in all minimum producer prices for the 1988189 crop
season (para. 31);
(c) Further revision of electricity tariffs and the signing of a
management contract for EAGB, if recommended by the July 1987
sectorial review (para. 40);
(d) Increase in the price of controlled goods, including petroleum
(paras. 37 and 44);
(e) Adoption of a satisfactory 1988 fiscal program, including a
public investment program (para. 26) and a level of export
taxation for cashew nuts (para. 31);
(f) Adoption of a satisfactory 1988 monetary program (para. 22); and
(g) Further reduction in the number of civil servants (para. 25).



- 31 -
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA-BISSAU
88.       IDA has made nine credits to Guinea-Bissau totalling US$73.9
million.  Four have been in the transport sector, two for petroleum explo-
ration, one for the strengthening of the country's macroeconomic management
capability, and two for financing urgently needed imports in support of the
government's economic recovery program.
89.       IDA's assistance has focused on urgently needed rehabilitation
and maintenance of roads under the First Roads Project, for US$9.0 million
(FY79) and the Second Roads Project, for US$8.0 million (FY84). These
projects are strengthening the local maintenance capacity by training road
maintenance brigades. Further assistance in the transport sector is being
provided under the Bissau Port Project for US$16.0 million (FY83) which
involves the rehabilitation of the existing port of Bissau and small river
ports throughout the country. The two credits in tee petroleum sector have
helped Government to perform offshore oil exploration through the col-
lection, processing and evaluation of seismic data, provision of training
and physical facilities, and assistance in establishing a sound legal
framework for negotiating exploration contracts.
90.       In FY85, IDA approved the US$6.0 million Technical Assistance
Credit to assist Government in strengthening the macroeconomic management
capability of key economic institutions and in developing a sound irstitu-
tional framfmork in newly created ministries and agencies. Its objective
is to provide Government with the technical and managerial expertise
necessary to support economic recovery. Under the project, financing has
been provided for the strengthening of the operations of the National Bank
of Guinea-Bissau, including the preparation of the Bank's accounts and the
national accounts. The project is also financing a survey of the state
enterprises (para. 27). After initial delays in project implementation,
while the Government assimilated Bank guidelines for recruitment of consul-
tants, the project has proceeded satisfactorily.
91.       In FY85, IDA approved a US$10.0 million Reconstruction Import
Credit to assist in providing urgently needed agricultural, transport,
energy and other essential imports to support the economic recovery program
and ensure economic activity during the design and implementation of reform
measures. Lack of administrative capability and experience in Bank pro-
curement procedures hampered implementation of the project at the outset.
Subsequently, technical assistance was provided for procurement matters,
and execution improved markedly. Currently, all credit funds are virtually
committed and 902 have been disbursed. A supplementary credit of US$5.0
million from the African Facility was approved in FY86 to ensure needed
imports for 1986 and the continuation of the policy reform program. The
credit will also finance urgently needed equipment and spare parts for the
energy sector.
92.       The Association will continue to pursue a selective approach to
its lending program in Guinea-Bissau, linked to the responsiveness of the
authorities to policy recommendation. Our analytical work and related



- 32 -
lending operations would help the authorities: (i) prepare, finance and
implement the two phases of its structural adjustment program; (ii) reha-
bilitate key economic, physical and social infrastructure; (iii' establish
the administrative framework and the public institutions needed to manage
the development process; and (iv) develop human resources. In this re-
spect, a population/health project will be submitted shnrtly for considera-
tion by the Executive Directors and an education sector project is being
prepared.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
93.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
94.       I am satisfied that the proposed African Facility Credit would
comply with the provisions of Resolution No. IDA 85-i of May 21, 1985.
95.       I am also satisfied that the proposed Special Joint Financing
Administration Agreement for the non-reimbursable contribution from Swit-
zerland would comply with the Agreement between the Government of Switzer-
land and the Association for cooperation in thi Cofinancing of Programs of
the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa dated September 11, 1985.
96.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed African Facility Credit and that the
Association would act as Administrator of the proposed Special Joint
Financing non-reimbursable contribution from Switzerland.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 28, 1987



- 33 -
Annex I
pire Tof 5
Table 1. Guinea-Bisau: Central Government operations
(in million- of peaos)
Prelim.     P r o e c t    d
1983     1984     1985   1986     1987       1988     1989      1990     1991
(in millione of peos)
Total revenue and grants                    2523      5258     8416    12719    36570    38315   41612    44840    49030
tudgetary revxnus                          1023     2100     2943     3802    11200    13475    15537    16400    18320
income tot                               131       270      425      568      693      821      896      929      1002
Taxsa on ;nternational trade             459       664     1202     1247     5596     6721     7821     7773      87l5
Taxes on exports                        59        87       43      101     2065     1484     1106        0         0
Teaxe on imports                        351      492      991      957     2986     4611     6044      7037     7940
Import6 duties                       244      318      689       S0W    1687      2318     2899     3584     4231
Consumption tos-s                     108      174      331      377     1299     2294     3144     3453      3704
Port chargso                            49       84       168      189      545      626      671      738      776
Consauption tax on domestic goods         105      134      133      131      350      420      466       513      559
Other tax rovenue                        128       168      185      260      658      733      808      889       977
Non tax revenue                           174      828      998    t582      3903     4780     5'46      6296     7067
Interest payments and profits            2       197      446      439        1        1        1        1         1
fees                                    108      389      407      975     3127     3864     4545     5214     S893
Fishing lc. and oll royalt;es          64      260      362      888     3127     3884     4545     5214      S893
Other                                 44       129       45       87        0        0        0        0         0
Other                                   63       242      143      168      775      915     1000      1081     1173
Unclassified receipts                     20        35        0       14        0        0        0        0         0
Grant*                                    1600    3158       5473     8917    25370    24840    26075    28440    30710
Food aid/80P support                      ...      679      897     2439     7021     5520     5960     6320      6640
Project aid                               ...    2479      4576     6478    18349    19320    2011F    22120    24070
Total expenditure                           4751      9893    14856    19057   43914    47820    49732    53254    51435
Current exPenditure                       2311      3602     65i1     8025    15594    17460    19167   20232    22077
Wages and Salaries                       1268     2053     3008     4023     5050     5479     5433      5146     5404
Other goods and cervices                 670      1019     153S    2196      3813     4461     4818     5107     6363
Transfers                                 321      323      474      910     1116     1310     1709      1688     1517
Intereet on public debt                   52      207       581      896     5605     6210     7227     8295     9794
Capital expcnditure                       2440      6291     9276    11032   28320    30360    30545    83022    35358
Net inding[ll                                  0         0     1056      8S0        0        0        0        0        0
Current account deficit                    -1288    -1502    -2638   -4223   -4394    -3985    -3649    -3832    -3757
Overall deficit (commitment basie)         -2228    -4635    -7496    -6688    -7344    -9505    -8119   -S414    -8405
Change in expenditure related arrears
(increase e)                               21      130      464      453    -4130         0        0        0        0
Overal I deficit (cash basis)              -2207    -4505   -7032    -6235  -11474   -9505    -8119    -8414   -8405
Financing                                   2207     4505      7032     6235    11474     9505     8119     8414     8405
National bank                             1260      1253     1691     1629   -5872    -8228    -8494    -6833    -9274
Foreign                                    782     2946      5042     3879    10856    10S7    10802     9322    11537
Drawings                                 944      3379     5346     5340    18880    21735    22360    22910    24734
SOP lonnr                            ...               ...      2200    10030    11040    11920    12640    13260
Project&                                 ...           ...      3139     8850    10695    10430    10270    11454
Amortization                            -162      -433    -304    -1461    -8024  -11178  -11548  -13A88   -13197
Current principal                  -162      -433     -304     -799    -7493    -9108   -9313    -9638   -13197
Reduction principal arrears        --        --       --       -662    -531    -2070   -2235    -3950           0
Other                                       165     305       299      727        0        0        0        0         0
Financing gap                             --        --       --          0     6490     7176     5811     5925      6142
Possible debt relief                      --        --       --       --       6490     7176     5811     5923      6142
on current obligations                --        --       --       --       S310    7176      5811     5925      6142
principal                         --       --        --       --       5310     7176     5811     5925      6142
interest                          --0                                              0        0        0        0
onarrea                               --        --       --       --       1180        0        0        0         0
principal                         --        --       --       --          0        0        0        0        0
interest                          --       --       --        --       1180        0        0        0        0
MEMORANDM ItEMS
Overall deficit before grants            -3728    -7793  -12969   -15605   -32714   -34345   -34194   -36854   -39115
Changes in arrears on principal
(increwse  .)                      90      317      369      759    -531    -2070    -2235    -3950          0
Sources:  ini-try of Finance; Nat;onal Bank of Guinca-8issu; end staff eetimates.
[1] In 1986 includes use of a loan for the new hotel a,ready drawn in 1985.
and net lending to public enterpriases(ainly AP,SOCOMIN)in fore of unp.d
counterport funds for food aid and SOP grants and loans



- 34 -
rABLE 2                       Annex I
Page 2 of 5
G'UTNFA-BISSAL:  National  Income  Accounts
* in G9F Million at 1?86 Constant Prices ,
Actual       Est.               Projections
1984      1i85      1986      1987      1988       1989      1;90      1991
Consuiption                        35910     38404      ?9Z6    37127       .7972    38745    1?624    40454
Private                          2?727     300237    9?675    2?407    28738    29972    ;0851          !1681
Fublic                            3183      83a8      8151      ?720       9234      8772      8772      877?
1nvestnent                          i93Q     11071     10836      9836       8891      8069      7595      7156
Fri ate                            J95       685        o'o       702       i58       834       917      1009
Public                            9344     10386    10186       9134       8133      7255      6677      6147
Total Dosestic deeand              45849    49475    48662    46963    46862    46834    47218    47610
Goods & Services Balance          -12711   -14891    -14399   -10741    -9628    -952q    -7448    -6316
Exports of G&NFS                  4489      3409      3262      5103       5429      5778      6172      0596
Ilports of 6&NFS               -17200   -18300   -11660   -15844   -15057   -14307   -13620    12912
8DP at Market Prices               3'138     34584      44264    36222    37234    3a304    39770    41293
M.euorandue Item:
Agriculture                      18631     19576    '0420    21441    2251          23639    '4584    Z5568
Industry                          31 a      3696      2067 1      98       3129      3iO       3 223     3288
Services                         10?35    10c83      lOliQ       ?959      7819      ?682    lO94    10Q 472
Indirect Taxes Less                -11       ,.i a     67        1725      1773      lB24      1894      1966
3ubsidies
iP at Factor Cost                i2544      3,i55     35987    34497    :5461    36480    37876    39327
Source: I PD proiections



-36-                                          Annex I
Page a of S
Table S. Ouinea-Biesau: Balance of Payments
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
_a---------------------------------------------------^-----------__------------__------------__---- -------__*-_____
1983     1984     1985     1986    1987       1988     1989     1990     1991
prel.est    proj.    proj.    proj.    proj.    proj.
O. Current account                     -29.0    -38.2    -40.4    -29.4    -23.4    -23.7    -20.4    -18.1    -18.1
Trade balance                  -49.8    -42.7    -4?7.    -49.8    -40.3    -34.7   -31.7    -30.4   -27.4
Exports, f.o.b.               8.8     17.4     11.8      9.8      14.2     18.8     21.6     24.6    27.8
Imports, f.o.b.            -68.4    -60.1    -69.6    -58.4    -54.5    -63.6    -53.2    -66.0    -56.2
Services (not)                -11.8    -17.9    -.9.6    -22.8    -26.1    -24.0    -22.7    -22.7    -28.7
Interest due                  -3.1      -4.1     -2.2     -6.6    -10.8    -30.5    -11.0   -11.9    -17.3
IMF charges                -0.2      -0.2     -0.3     -0.2     -0.2      -0.1     -0.1     -0.1     -0.1
M.& L.term debt end 86     -2.9      -3.9     -1.9     -4.6     -7.7      -5.9     -6.0     -4.4     -8.4
M.& L.term debt new           --       --       --      0.0     -1.8      -3.2    -4.7      -8.1    -7.8
Interat Fin. Cap             --        --       --      0.0     -0.3      -0.3     -0.2     -0.2    -0.2
Other Interest                --       --       --     -1.8     -1.0      -1.0     -1.0     -1.0     -1.0
Freight and insurance          -6.0     -6.9     -8.4     -8.5      -6.1    -8.2      -6.1    -8.3      -8.3
Other invisibtes               -2.2     -7.9    -11.0     -9.86    -8.2      -7.4     -5.6     -4.5    -3.0
Transfers (net)                 32.1     24.4     27.1     42.0     42.0      35.0     34.0    35.0    36.0
Official grants              43.0      29.3     30.5     43.5     43.0      36.0    36.0      36.0    37.0
Food A BOP support        .,.      ...      5.1     1:.9    11.9        8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0
Project aid               ...      ...     26.4     31.8    31.1       26.0     27.0     28.0     29.0
Private transfers            -10.9     -4.9     -3.4     -1.5     -1.0      -1.0     -1.0     -1.0     -1.0
3. Capital account                      17.1     37.8     39.9     32.8     17.0      16.6    16.9      16.9    10.0
Medium- and long-tern
Disbursements                22.6     43.1     43.1     37.3     82.0      31.6    30.0      29.0    29.8
Refln.of Arrears           ...      ...      ...     19.4      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
BOP-support                     ..       ...          2.8     17.0      16.0     16.0     16.0     18.0
Projects                   ...      ...      ...     16.8     16.0      16.      14.0     13.0     13.8
Amortization                                            -4.5    -16.0    -15.9    -14.1    -13.1    -19.8
Debt end 88              -6.5      -5.8     -3.2     -4.5    -16.0    -16.9    -14.1    -13.1    -18.3
New debt                   --        --       --      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    -1.6
C. Err.& Omm.snd Priv.Capt             -6.4    -16.6    -12.8      -0.8      2.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
. Overall balance (A+BeC)            -17.3    -16.0    -13.3       2.6     -4.3      -7.2     -3.6     -1.2     -7.1
Financing                            17.3     15.8    13.8      -2.6       4.3      7.2      3.6      1.2      7.1
Changes in NFA                  13.1      7.8      6.7     -4.3     -0.8      -1.3     -2.4     -1.0      0.0
Use of Fund credit (net)     -0.4       1.6     -0.9     -1.1     -0.3      -1.1     -0.9      0.0      0.0
Drawlngs,.xcl.SAF            0.0       1.6      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Repurchases                 -0.4       0.0     -0.9     -1.1     -0.3      -1.1     -0.9      0.0      0.0
Other WfA                    18.6       6.2      8.6     -3.2      0.0      -0.2     -1.6     -1.0      0.0
Arrears (decrease -)            4.2       8.0      7.e      1.7     -8.2      -8.0     -3.0     -6.0      0.0
Medium- and long-ter     3.6       7.0      6.8      4.1     -8.2       ...      ..
Short-term               0.8       1.0      0.8     -2.4      0.0       ..i
SAF drawings                      --       --       --       --      1.8       1.2      1.2      0.0      0.0
Debt Relief Needed to close                          -       --     11.0      10.8      7.7      7.2      7.1
cap
lemorandum items:
:urront account without grants        -72.0   -65.5   -70.9   -72.9   -68.4    -59.7   -56.4   -54.1    -65.1
xports goods A non-factor services    43.0      29.8    30.6       17.7     22.9     28.2     31.7      36.8     39.6
---------------_-- ---- -------_ ------------   ----- -----------_----_-__-------___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____---____ ___ ___
Source: National Bank of Guinea-Blssau, IMF, and Sank staff estimates



-se-
Annex I
TABi_ 3*:. WUINEA-9ISSAU - ECONOMIC INDICAT-RS-
-------- ------- ------- ----- - --- -------  Page   4  ol
P¢,pulftaton:        901.9         (mid-1986,thousand)
@Et For Capit        1815.0,       (US$, 1986)
Amount                                             Annuat growth rate (5) at constant prices 1086
(aillion BP at-
Ind;cator                 current prieos)                      Actual                 Eatimated                 Projected
1988                   ___________ __ _
1982    1983    1984   1985       1986    1987    1988    1980    1990    1991
NATIONAL ACCOU4TS
Groes Dneetic Product      34264.0                       4.2    -3.4      S.5      4.8    -1.0      S,7     2.8      2.9     3.8      3.8
Agriculture              20420.0                       4.2    -5.0      2.4      3.0     6.0      S.0     S.0      5.0     4.0      4.0
Induatry                  3067.0                       3.0    -1.4    -0.5    -0.4    -3.0        1.0     1.0      1.0     2.0      2.0
Services                 10100.0                       4.S    -4.2      3.0      4.4    -2.4    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4       4.0      4,0
Indirect T.xes             677.0                       1.7    -0.7      1.0      1.2     1.4       -      2.8      2.0     3.8      3.8
Consumption                 7826.0                      12.1    -3.5      7.6      S.0    -2.6    -S.8      2.8      2.S     2.1      2.2
Cro4r Investeant           10838.0                      28.1    -3.0      S.$    10.1    -902    -3.0    -8.0    -7.7    -4.6    -6.2
Export. of GdFS             3262.0                     -10.5    -7.4    86.7   -27.6    10.6        7.0     7.8      7.8     8.4      8.4
Imports of a&83            17660.0                      88.8    -4.1    16.3      2.9    -1.8    -2.1    -3.0    -3.3    -4.3    -4.9
PRICES
GDP Deflator (1986=100)                                 24.8    30.5    50.3    72.9   100.0   12S.0   146.3   158.0   167.4   175.8
Exchange rate (JSS1205 GOP)                             89.9    42.9   tOO.O   160.0   205.0   S90.0   690.0   745.0   790.0   830.0
Share of CDP at Market Prices(S)              Average Annual Increase (S)
(at current prices)                      (at constant 1986 prices)
1981    1988    1986    1989    1991           1982/1985        1986/1991
Gram Dosmetic Product        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                2.6               3.8
Agriculture                 67.6    57.8    59.6    61.7    61.9                 2.8              4.6
Industry                     8.6      7.3     9.0      8.2     8.0              8.5               1.4
Sorvices                    32.2    83.0    29.5    25.8    25.3                 2.1              0.7
Indirect Taxes               1.E      1.9     2.0      4.8     4.8              9.8              11.2
Consumption                   98.8   111.8   110.4    97.2    95.8                 5.3              1.4
crags Investment              25.7    38.7    81.6    23.3    17.8                 9.6             -8.0
Exports of GNFS               11.2      9.9     9.5    15.7    16.8                5.1              6.7
Imort. of CNFS                85.8    52.9    51.5    86.9    81.5                4.7             -4.5
As a I of GDP Current
FUQ1C FINANCE                 I982    145    1986    1969    1991
Current Revenues              11.S    11.7    11.1    25.7    25.2
Cureant Non-interest Expend.   26.2    19.3    20.8    19.8    16.9
Capital Expenditures          80.8    88.8    82.2    50.5    48.7
Foreign Financing             11.9    20.0    16.3    28.8    26.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------____
Source  lIRD Staff Estimates and projections.



_ 3 7- _Annex I
Page 5 of 5
TABLE 3b: GUINEA BISSAU - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:           901.9       (mid-19ar.thousand)
OP per CapIto:        185.0      (tUs, 1986)
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__----_-------------------------------------_---------------------__----
Ampunt                      Annual growth rate (t) at constant prices                Period Average arowth Rate (I)
(million US          ____________________________________________________ -----    _-________________-_
Indicators                  at current price.)                          Actual                     Eatimated          Actual          Projected
1981    1082     1983     1984     1986      1988           1982-85          1986-91
ETERNAL TRADE
lerchandise Exports                    9.6              44.2    -2.3   -39.5    37.3   -41.5          0.5              -1.8               9.0
Groundnutn                           0.6             -17.9    66.6    -3.6    -2.4   -46.9          4.7              -2.8               8.0
Palm Kernels                         1.0              37.5   -20.8   -41.0    30.2   -63.8   320.0                    4.1              -2.8
Caehw Nuts                           S.2             170.9   -39.3    33.2   300.0   -17.5    13.6                   31.5              10.0
Fish and Shrimp                      1.0              40.0      4.8   -45.5   141.7   -41.4   -42.2                  11.8               6.5
Other                                1.8              52.4   -41.8   -S7.7   -19,6   -37.8    10.0                  -31.0               6.7
Merchondise Imports                   66.0             -19.1    45.8   -14.2        5.7    12.4    -1.6                 3.8              -5.0
Food Iteme                          11.8              17.9    14.1    36.0   -15.2    19.3   -18.0                   13.1              -4.0
Other Coneum. Goods                 18.3              -1.5      9.7      8.3    -1.2    -0.5        8.0               2.3               2.4
Petroleum                            5.1             -28.5   38.7   -24.3         3.5    44.6    17.0                 1.9               2.4
Manufactured Goods                  30.8             -25.6    60.6   -25.7       16.6      3.6      0.0               1.4            -11.0
PRICES                                         1980    1981      1982     1983     1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990    1991
Export Index (1986=100)                       116.0   111.1   111.3    87.S    84.0   102.8   100.0    104.3   111.4   117.8   124.9   130.0
Imort Index (1986=100)                        108.9   112.8   120.5   112.9   105.0   101.4   100.0   104.6   108.1   112.2   116.1   119.6
Term of Trade Index                           106.S    98.6    92.4    77.6    80.0   101.4   100.0    99.7   108.0   105.0   107.5   108.7
Composition of Merchandioe Trden(%)
(at current prices)
1980    1985     1986     1989     1991
Exports                       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Groundnuts                   23.9    16.4       6.S    11.4    10.8
Palm Kernels                 16.8      8.6    10.2       9.7    11.0
Cashew Nuts                   3.5    41.4    S8.8    45.9    46.4
Fish and shrimp             34.5    27.6    10.8    20.8    19.7
Other                        21.2      6.0    18.7    12.2    12.1
Imports                       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                          8.83   23.3    19.3    18.8    17.1
Other Con. Coods            22.5    24.7    26.8    26.7    27.2
Petroleum                    17.6    12.5    12.4    10.0    11.0
Intermediate Goods          24.2    23.9    25.4    28.3    28.0
Manufactured Goods           17.5     15.5    16.1    16.2    16.7
Source: I8D Staff Estimtes and Projections.



- 38 -
Annex II
GUINEA-BISSAU
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1987)
Credit
No.        Year      Purpose                     Amount a/   Undisbursed a!
----(U5$ Millions)-
Two fully disbursed credits                         15.8           0.00
1334-GUB     1983      Petroleum Exploration II   13.1             1.10
1392-GUB     1983      Bissau Port                 16.0            5.44
1473-GUB     1984      Roads II                     4.0            2.24
SF18-GUB     1984      Roads II                     4.0            1.50
1517-GUB     1985      Technical Assistance         6.0            2.17
1531-GUB     1985      Reconstruction Import       10.0            1.13
A014-GUB     1986      Suppl. Recons. Import         5.0           3.22
Total                       73.9           16.70
of which has been repaid    ,--
Total now held by IDA       73.9
Total undisbursed                          16.70
The status of the projects listed above is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA projects in execution. This report is updated twice
yearly and is circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October
31 of each year.
a/   IDA Credits after 1980 and Special Fund Credits are denominated in
Special Drawing Rights. U.S. dollar amounts in table are calculated
using exchange rates prevailing at time of credit negotiations.



- 39 -
Annex III
GUINEA-BISSAU
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of key events
a)   Identification mission                               February 1986
b)   Pre-appraisal mission (jointly with IMF)             September 1986
c)   Appraisal mission (jointly with IMF)                 Nov/Dec 1986
d)   Negotiations                                         March 1987
e)   Planned date of Effectiveness                        June 1987
f)   Target date for Second Tranche release               March 1988
Condition of Effectiveness:
The Government will establish Special Accounts at a bank(s)
satisfactory to the Association to receive proceeds of the proposed cred-
its.
Conditions of Second-Tranche Release:
(a) Further extension of the automatic issuance of import licenses;
(b) Increases in minimum producer prices for the 1988/89 crop season;
(c) Further revision of electricity tariffs and the signing of a
management contract for EAGB, if recommended by the July 1987
sectorial review;
(d)  Increase in the price of controlled goods, including petroleum;
(e) Adoption of a satisfactory 1988 fiscal program, including a
public investment program and a level of export taxes for cashew
nuts;
(f) Adoption of a satisfactory 1988 monetary program; and
(g) Implementation of the second phase of a program to reduce the
number of civil servants.



- 40 -
Annex IV
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTNENT CREDIT
Government Letter of Development Policy, 1987-1988
I.   Introduction
A. The Government Adjustment Program: 1983-85
1.        Faced with a rapid deterioration of the economic and financial
situation, the Government of Guinea-Bissau adopted in 1983 a market-orient-
ed development strategy based on the expansion of agricultural output and
exports along the lines of the country's comparative advantage. In support
of this strategy, the Government prepared a stabilization program aimed at
correcting internal and external price distortions, shifting the internal
terms of trade in favor of the rural sector, and improving efficiency in
the management of the public sector.
2.        In December 1983, the Government implemented the initial measures
of the adjustment program, which was supported by an IMF first credit-
tranche program starting in July 1984. These measures included: (a) an
immediate devaluation of the peso from PG 44 to PG 88 per SDR and the
introduction of weekly devaluations, (b) increases in producer and consumer
prices generally in line with the devaluation, (c) increases in taxes, and
(d) payment for the first time of interest on savings deposits.
3.        The adjustment process was generally maintained in 1984 but lost
momentum in 1985. Although part of the difficulties originated from
unexpected exogenous factors beyond the control of the Government, includ-
ing delays in disbursement of expected foreign assistance which had a
negative impact on levels of supply, the primary causes of the poor perfor-
mance were implementation delays as well as insufficient adjastment mea-
sures. Despite weekly devaluations, domestic inflation fueled by rapid
domestic credit expansion kept the differential between parallel market and
official exchange rates unchanged. Prices of consumer goods subject to
controls and agricultural producer prices were increased generally in line
with inflation, but little progress was made in correcting initial distor-
tions, so that parallel markets for key goods continued to thrive. At the
same time, the public investment program remained inordinately large,
composed essentially of projects that contributed little to the growth
potential of the economy. Finally, while substantial progress was achieved
in privatizing state stores, the reorganization of state enterprises and
the liberalization of transport and wholesale trade proceeded slowly.



- 41 -
B.   The Present Economic Situation: An Assessment
4.        Although the measures adopted since the launching of the struc-
tural adjustment process have had some positive impact on the level of
agricultural output, Guinea-Bissau is now facing a profound economic and
financial crisis. In 1985, the Government deficit amounted to about 35
percent of GDP. The deterioration of the goods and services balance,
combined with the Increase in interest payments on the external debt, led
to a current account deficit of about 30 percent of GD?. Despite a sharp
rise in net foreign capital inflows, the financing gap of the balance of
payments amounted to about US$ 13 million, or about 9 percent of GDP. As a
result, external arrears continued to accumulate, reaching US$25 million by
the end of the year. The economic situation worsened in 1986, with further
deterioration in external payments and more widespread shortages of vital
imports. The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services whicb
was 28 percent in 1981, is expected to reach 65 percent in 1986.
5.        The Government recognizes that six fundamental policy defi-
ciencies are at the root of present economic difficulties:
(a) Overvaluation of the Exchange Rate. The weekly devaluations
failed to reduce the differential between the parallel market and
the official exchange rates, currently estimated at about 3-to-1.
This has resulted in a disincentive to export and in underpriced
imports, and has led to a widening trade deficit;
(b) Restrictive Trade Policy. Distortions in the structure of import
taxes, restrictions on imports, a difficult foreign exchange
situation and complex trade licensing procedures stifled the
growth potential of the economy and contributed to the large
trade deficit;
(c) Expansionary Monetary Policy. The rapid growth of the money
supply, largely engendered by the budget deficits, led to an
acceleration of domestic inflation that offset the effects of the
weekly devaluations;
(d) Lack of Discipline in Public Finance Policy. Although tax
increases and limitations in the growth of the wage bill since
1983 resulted in a reduction of the Government savings deficit
relative to GDP, this was offset by the rapid growth of capital
expenditures, from 27.7 percent of GDP in 1981 to 48.4 percent of
GDP in 1985, largely for projects that contributed little to the
growth potential of the economy. This led to growing public
sector deficits, which were financed by a rapid expansion of
domestic credit to the Government and by increased foreign
borrowing that led to the present external debt crisis;
(e) Inadequate Incentives Policy. Although agricultural producer
prices were raised substantially in 1984 and 1985, they remain at
an equilibrium exchange rate well below the export parity level.



- 42 -
This implicit taxation discourages the allocation of resources
towards areas of comparative advantage, thereby reducing the
medium- and long-term growth potential of the economy;
(f) Weakness of Internal and External Resource Mobilization Policy.
Domestic resource mobilization has been hampered by the persis-
tence of negative real interest rates, and by the inclusion of
commercial banking functions within the National Bank. Lack of
coordination among the various Ministries responsible for con-
tracting external debt obligations has precluded the implementa-
f-:)n of a coherent strategy for the mobilization of external
resources, contributing to the rapid increase in the external
debt burden.
II. A Medium-Term Framework for Structural Adjustment
A.   The Need for a Coherent Medium-Term Framework
6.        Given the magnitude of the economic and financial crisis, in
particular the extent of relative price distortions and the size of the
macroeconomic disequilibria, the Government recognizes that continued
incremental policy changes would be inadequate. Instead, profound adjust-
ment measures are now required in order to avoid a situation from which
recovery would be extremely difficult. The Government also recognizes that
the rapid deterioration of the economy over the last three years stems
largely from the absence of a coherent framework to ensure the compatibil-
ity between macroeconomic and sectoral objectives, strategies, and policy
instruments.
7.        In order to redress the present crisis and to steer the economy
on a path towards sustained recovery, the Government has decided to design
and implement a comprehensive structural adjustment program based on
far-reaching actions concerning exchange rate, trade, monetary, fiscal,
incentives, and domestic and foreign resource mobilization policies. In
this context, the Government commits itself to taking all the necessary
measures to ensure the coherence of the policy actions required at every
stage of the program. To this end, the Government has taken two essential
steps:
(a) Creation on August 2. 1986, of the National Commission for
Economic Coordination and Management with a mandate to coordi-
nate, manage and supervise the Government's structural adjustment
program. The Commission is chaired by the President of the
Council of State, and is composed of the Permanent Secretary of
the Central Committee of the Party, the Ministers of Finance,
Plan and Commerce, the Minister-Governor of the National Bank,
and the State Secretary for Economic Affairs and International
Cooperation in the Office of the President, who is the secretary
of the Commission. In particular, the Commission is responsible
for ensuring that the instruments of the Government's economic
policy are mutually compatible, and for coordinating and



- 43 -
implementing the full range of fiscal, budgetary, commercial,
exchange, monetary, price and wage policies pursued by the
Government in the framework of its structural adjustment program;
(b) A decision to implement a medium-term macroeconomic framework
that integrates national accounts, money, public finance, balance
of payments and the external debt. This framework will be used
as an operational tool for setting compatible policy targets, in
particular concerning Government revenues and current and capital
expenditures, as well as ceilings on domestic credit to the
Government and on external borrowings In relation to the project-
ed evolution of the economy over the medium term.
8.        The Government has decided that the National Commission for
Economic Coordination and Management will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the Government's action plan inder the Structural Adjust-
ment Program. The Commission will inform the F.nk on a regulir basis of
the progress achieved in the implementation of the program.
9.        The Government has also decided tc Jstablish, before September 1,
1987, a unit within the Ministry of Plan, that will be responsible for
conducting a study to track the social impact of the structural adjustment
program at the household level in representative segments of the popula-
tion. The study will be financed by the UNDP from resources additional to
the country IPF.
B.   Key Objectives of the Structural Adjustment Program
10.       The Government's structural adjustment program aims at achieving
three fundamental objectives over the medium term: reestablishing external
and internal equilibria, stimulating growth, and achieving financial
restructuring.
(a) Reestablishing External and Internal Equilibria. Given the size
of the present macroeconomic imbalances, the Government considers
that the first priority of its structural adjustment program is
to reestablish external and internal equilibria. In this per-
spective, the share of the current account deficit in GDP will be
reduced through appropriate exchange rate, trade and monetary
policies, with the objective of achieving a viable balance of
payments situation over the medium term. In addition, the share
of the public sector deficit in GDP will be reduced through
appropriate public finance policies, in particular through a
drastic reduction and restructuring of the public investment
program, with the objective of releasing the resources required
to finance the expansion of the private sector;
(b) Stimulating Growth. The market-oriented approach adopted since
1983 will be deepened and broadened as the centerpiece of the
Government's strategy to stimulate growth in the productive
sectors. In agriculture, incentives will be improved through a



- 44 -
wider opening of the economy to the pressures of market forces
and Government investment and services will be concentrated on
basic infrastructure in support of small farmers. In energy, the
reliability of electricity supply will be increased through a
restructuring of the management and finances of the power utility
and through a reform of tariff policies in the sector. In
transport and commercial services that support agriculture,
incentives will be improved, opportunities for the private sector
will be increased, and administrative procedures will be simpli-
fied in order to encourage private sector activity;
(c) Financial Restructuring. As an essential component of the
strategy to restore external and internal equilibria and to
stimulate growth, a comprehensive financial restructuring strate-
gy will be implemented. With regard to domestic finance, banking
services will be improved, the mobilization of resources to the
banking system will be increased, and credit will be directed to
the highest priority uses for development. With regard to
external finance, the Government will design and implement, in
concert with the international donor community. an adequate
restructuring of its external debt with the objective of ensuring
orderly servicing of debt service obligations in line with the
country's capacity to pay. It will also develop an aid coordina-
tion strategy aimed at directing foreign resources toward the
highest priority needs.
III. Reestablishing External and Internal Equilibria
A.   Reestablishing External Equilibrium
11.       In order to achieve a viable balance of payments situation over
the medium term, the Government will implement the following exchange rate,
trade and monetary policies:
(a) Exchange Rate Policy. The exchange rate will be adjusted with
the objective of achieving the real devaluation necessary to
eliminate the gap between the official and the parallel market
rates, now three-to-one. Specifically, the gap between the
official and parallel market rates will be closed by May 1, 1987
in agreement with the IMF and in consultation with the Bank;
(b) Trade Policy. On August 13, 1986, the Government announced a
broad liberalization of foreign trade and of pricing policy. As
a result, all import and export trading activities can now be
carried out by the private sector, with the exception of imports
of rice and petroleum products. Also, licensing procedures for
private traders have been considerably simplified. Under the new
structural adjustment program, the Government will further
intensify its trade liberalization policy. Specifically, by May
1, 1987:



- 45 -
(i)  the Government will initiate the implementation of a program
for the phased modification of the import licensing system.
As a first step towards this objective, import licenses will
be automatically issued for a list of goods, to be agreed
with the Bank; covering about 50% of commercial imports, 1/
excluding petroleum products;
(ii) no new import duty exemptions will be granted.
12.       In addition, the following actions will be taken by May 1, 1988:
(i)  the list of goods for which import licenses are automatical-
lv issued wil'l be further expanded to about 75% of commer-
cial imports, excluding petroleum products;
(ii) all import duty exemptions will be eliminated except those
required under existing treaties and contracts and negotia-
tions will be opened to eliminate these; and
(iii) based on the Government's acceptance of the simplifying
principle of a uniform tariff but wanting to ensure that
overall import tax receipts will not decline as a result, a
detailed study will be conducted, in collaboration with the
Bank, the IMF, FAC and the CEDEAO on the means to achieve
this objective.
(c) Monetary Policy. The Government will pursue a tight monetary
policy compatible with the objective of reducing the differential
between domestic and international inflation over the medium
term. Specifically, the expansion of domestic credit to the
economy and net claims on the Central Government will be limited
in 1987 in accordance with a precise action program to be agreed
with the IMF in consultation with the Bank by July 1, 1987; a
similar program for 1988 will be agreed by March 1, 1988.
B.   Reestablishing Internal Equilibrium
13.       In order to achieve the public sector deficit reduction necessary
to release the domestic resources required to finance the expansion of
private investment, the Government intends to pursue a policy of strict
public finance discipline, and to implement a broad range of measures to
increase current revenues, contain current expenditures, restructure the
public investment program, and lay the foundation for a restructuring of
the public enterprise sector.
1/   Commercial imports are defined as all imports except those made under
project aid and those resulting from food aid grants.



- 46 -
(a) Increasing Current Revenues. Specifically, the following mea-
sures will be taken by May 1, 1987, in addition to the tariff
measures listed above:
(i) abolishment of domestic tax exemptions, except where
required by existing contractual or treaty commitments and
launching of negotiations to eliminate such exemptions;
(ii) increase of the tax on the-manufacture of alcoholic beverag-
es, by 100% on average; and
(iii) imposition of a 10% "ad valorem" tax on retail sales of
gasoline.
A second phase of the above action program will be implemented by
March 1, 1988, in agreement with the Bank. This will include the
imposition, by December 31, 1987, of an import surcharge on all luxury
goods, at a rate to be agreed to with the Bank.
(b) Containing Current Expenditures. The following specific measures
will be taken:
(i) reduce public sector wages in real terms in 1987, limiting
the rate of increase in nominal wages to 25%;
(ii) implementation of a program to reduce the number of civil
servants by about 380 by June 1, 1987, and by about 1125 by
March 1, 1988.
(c)  Reducing and Restructuring the Public Investment Program.  The
overall size of the public investment program will be reduced to
US$48 million in 1987, both by limiting start-up on major new
projects and by delaying implementation of projects that do not
have the highest priority, in agreement with the Bank. The size
and the composition of the public investment program in both 1987
and 1988 will be determined in agreement with the Bank.
Furthermore, the Government is committed to not implementing new
projects before a thorough technical, economic and financial appraisal
demonstrates their suitability in the context of the public investment
strategy and financial constraints.
(d)  Laying the Foundation for a Restructuring of the Public Enter-
prise Sector. The Government has decided to launch, with the
support of the Bank, a comprehensive diagnosis of the public
enterprise sector, with the objective of preparing a detailed
program of action for the restructuring of the sector. Bids were
requested from consultants in September 1986. The study is
scheduled to start in June 1987, and to be completed by September
1988.



- 47
IV. Stimulating Growth
14.       In order to restore the medium- and long-term growth potential of
the economy, the Government will reinforce the steps already taken in three
key sectors: agriculture, energy and transport and commerce.
A.   Agriculture
15.       Support for small farmers will be intensified through a wider
opening of the economy to the influence of market forces and through
concentration of Government investment and services on basic infrastructure
in support of small private farmers. This policy will be carried out
through a comprehensive action plan in the areas of crop pricing, marketing
policy, public investment planning, and fisheries services.
16.       Crop pricing.  Producers will tend to receive in the medium term
prices that reflect export parity at an equilibrium exchange rate, without
any implicit or explicit export tax. Important steps have been taker. in
this direction with the new commercial policy announced on August 13, 1986.
Merchants are now free to purchase crops from producers at any price at or
above the minimum prices announced by the Government, to export those
crops, and to retain half the export receipts for their own use. In order
to further intensify this program minimum producer prices for 1987 for
cashew nuts will be revised by May 20, 1987, in agreement with the Bank, to
at least reflect the impact of devaluation, taking into consideration the
evolution of international prices and production costs. Minimum producer
prices for 1987/88 will be revised again by December 15, 1987 in agreement
with the Bank.
17.       However, the Government will revise the tax schedules for any
product if there should be a significant and temporary increase in its
price. Export taxes on cashew nuts will be progressively reduced from the
effective rate of 80% levied in 1987 (including the profits of the
now-abolished state monopoly) to 50% in 1987. Subsequently, this rate will
be reduced as a function of the fiscal situation, in consultation with the
Bank.
18.       Marketing policy.  The Government will intensify its encoura-
gement of competition in marketing will be encouraged in order to contain
marketing costs and to increase the proportion of the final sales price
received by the farmer. In this context, the following measures will be
implemented by May 1, 1987:
(i) placement of agriculture marketing through the public sector
on an equal basis with the private sector by freeing prices
offered to farmers by the public sector in order for them to
remain competitive;
(ii) continued implementation of the rehabilitation program for
Armazens do Povo and SOCOMIN.



- 48 -
19.       Investment planning.  In order to improve investment planning in
the sector, the Government will bring to full operational capability the
Planning Bureau (GAPLA) in the Ministry of Rural Development in order to
reinforce the Ministry's capacity to monitor the evolution of the sector,
to evaluate projects and to coordinate assistance provided by the various
partners in development.
20.       The Government has prepared a sectoral strategy paper with the
aim of redirecting external assistance to sector needs having highest
priority. The following measures wil' be taken subsequent to the
conclusions of the sectoral meeting scheduled for May 1987, sponsored by
the UNDP, and substantial progress will be achieved on them by September 1,
1987:
(i) redesign, in collaboration with donors and creditors
involved, the mangrove rehabilitation projects, in order to
develop less capital-intensive alternatives that would allow-
private farmers to maintain the projects with their own
funds in the medium term; and
(ii) redesign, in collaboration with donors ard creditors in-
volved, the integrated rural development projects.
21.       Fisheries.  Over the medium-term, the Government intends to base
the payment under all licensing agreements on net gross tonnage and dura-
tion of the license rather than on the basis of the value of fish caught.
In the interim, the following actions will be taken by September 1, 1987:
(i)  definition of an action plan to strengthen the monitoring of
licensing agreements in order to increase the revenue from
foreign fishing operations; and
(ii) preparation and initiation of the implementation of an
action plan to stimulate private activities in the sector
and exports of fish products.
B.   Energy
22.       Institutional structure.  The institutional structure of the
energy sector will be reinforced through the following measures to be taken
before December 31, 1987:
(i) transfer the responsibility for the national network and
power plants to the autonomous electricity and water utili-
ty, EAGB, which is to replace the services directly provided
in the interior by the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Industry; and
(ii) if judged necessary, on the basis of a sector review by July
1, 1987, signing of a management contract with a foreign



- 49 -
firm to strengthen the managerial and technical capabilities
of EAGB, in agreement with the Bank and other donors.
23.       Pricing.  The medium-term aim is to ensure that, by 1989, elee-
tricity revenue covers all costs of EAGB's operations, including amortiza-
tion of equipment. As a first step in this direction, the level and the
stru.uiee of electricity tariffs will be revised by May 1, 1987, in agree-
ment with the Bank. The new tariff structure will ensure that -AGB's
revenue is sufficient to cover all its operating costs. The tariffs for
consumers of up to 50 KwH per month will be set at a level sufficient to
cover the costs of fuel and lubricants; other operating costs will be
recovered from different consumers. The Government will also revise
tariffs at least once a year thereafter as a function of the evoluticn of
costs, in consultation with the Bank.
24.       Furthermore, in order to generate resources for EAGB to pay for
fuel and for essential repairs to the distribution system, a neui tariff
collection policy will be implemented by September 1, 1988, with the
objective of increasing tariff collection, including an atutomatic link
between the tariffs collected and the wages and salaries of EAGB employees
at all levels.
25.       In order to reduce the risks that increased petroleum supplies
are directed to neighboring countries and in pursuit of the goal of in-
creasing tax revenues from consumer goods:
(i) the price of diesel oil for all clients, including EAGB,
will cover DICOL's costs; furthermorer all clients, except
EAGB, will continue to pay the 15% ad valorem tax. In order
to generate additional tax revenue, diesel prices will again
be raised by March 1, 1988;
(ii) gasoline prices will be raised by May 1, 1987 in order to
include a new 10% ad valorem tax, as well as all existing
taxes and import and distribution costs. Prices will again
be raised, by March 1, 1988, in consultation with the Bank,
with the objective of reaching the level in neighboring
countries at the equilibrium exchange rate by March 1, 1988.
C.   Commercial and Transport Services
26.       Price controls.  In 1986, the Government eliminated all interme-
diation margins. It also eliminated direct price controls on all goods
except petroleum products, rice, sugar, cooking oil, cement, fertilizer,
pesticides, and insecticides. The Government also implemented a policy of
increasing these prices regularly to reflect the effect of devaluation for
all goods except rice, sugar and cooking oil. In order to fturther expose
the commercial and transport services sector to the pressures of market
forces, the following measures will be implemented by May 1, 1987:



- 50 -
(i)  elimination of direct price controls on all goods except
rice, sugar, cooking oil fertilizers and petroleum products;
(ii) implement a price adjustment for controlled goods except
rice sold to clvil servants.
27.       Marketing reform.  With a view to consclidating its policy of
turning retail trade over to the private sector, the Government has expe-
dited licensing procedures for private traders. Also, it will:
(i) begin implementing by September 1-, 1987, the recommendations
for enlarging the role of the private sector of the study
financed by the Trilateral Program (Guinea-Bissau, U.S., and
Portugal), now underway and due to be completed by July
1987; and
(ti) begin implementing, by September 1, 1988, the recommenda-
tions for improving trade in isolated areas, in particular
the appropriateness of maintaining any retail outlets of the
parastatal trading firms, resulting from the ongoing study
of those enterprises financed by the EEC.
28.       Transport reform.  An action plan will be prepared to encourage
more efficient use of the country's limited supply of trucks and boats.  In
addition to ensuring adequate access to spare parts and equipment, the plan
will include:
(i) simplification of licens4ng requirements for private trans-
port b;' July 1, 1987; and
(ii) creation of a ceiling for minimum and maximum rates for
public and private transport of goods and people between and
within cities by May 1, 1987, with the rates to be adjusted
automatically in line with variation in cost components.
V.   Financial Restructuring
29.       In the context of its structural adjustment progra;  the Govern-
ment intends to implement a comprehensive financial restructuring strategy
in support of the objectives of restoring internal and external equilibrium
and stimulating economic growth. With regard to internal finance, the key
goals will be to improve banking services, increase mobilization of re-
sources by the banking system, and direct credit to activities with the
highest priority for development. The external finance strategy will aim
at limiting new debt, ensuring full Government servicing of the local
currency counterpart of service on e::isting debt, and adopting, in concert
with bilateral, private, and commercial bank creditors, a comprehensive
medium-term debt restructuring strategy for the orderly servicing of debt
service obligations In line with the country's capacity to pay. The aid



- 51 -
coordination strategy will serve to direct those foreign resources that
become available to the highest priority needs.
A.   Internal Finance
30.       In order to improve banking services, the Government will:
(i) prepare and begin the implementation by July 1, 1987 of an
action plan in agreement with the Bank to separate the
central banking functions of the National Bank from its
commercial banking functions;
(ii) fully implement by July 1, 1987, the recommendations of the
recent Bank-financed study on improving the accounting
system of the National Bank;
(iii) complete a study of the possibilities for establishing
commercial banks, including foreign-owned banks, in line
with the Council of Ministers' decision of April 2, 1986, by
May 1, 1988 and implement its recommendations by December
31, 1988.
31.       In order to increase the mobilization of resources by the banking
system, the Government will:
(i) move towards the medium-term goal of a positive real inter-
est rate by a combination of: (1) reducing the inflation
rate via containing internal demand and (2) increasing
nominal interest rates, before May 1, 1987 in consultation
with the IMF and the Bank, by about 25% on average, with
periodic readjustments in light of market conditions;
(ii) implement the first phase of a plan to increase the number
of bank branches, especially mobile branches that visit
villages on a regular basis by March 1, 1988.
32.       In order to direct credit in line with the country's development
strategy, the Government will limit its use of domestic bank credit in
accordance with the action program referred to in paragraph 10. As a
further step towards improving the allocation of credit, the Government
will adopt regulations by July 1, 1987, to ensure that private and public
enterprises receive equal treatment in the allocation of credit.
B.   External Finance
33.       In the corText of the structural adjustment program, the Govern-
ment intends, over the medium term, to increase self-reliance and reduce
dependence on foreign credit, with the intention that domestic resources
cover a growing portion of Government expenditures. To this end, the
Government adopted on April 2, 1986 a decision that "forbids the



- 52 -
contracting of nonconcessionary loans for financing of projects and the
signing of concessionary loans or even grants by Ministers without a
decision of the Council of Ministers based on an opinion of the Ministry of
Plan analyzing the impact of the recurrent costs which would increase the
operating budget of the State and/or have an impact on the foreign exchange
balance." The Government will also refrain from guaranteeing non-conces-
sional loans. In addition, the Government will continue its policy of
making full payment of the local currency counterpart according to the
original debt service schedule. Finally, the Government will by
May 1, 1987:
(i) extend the April 2, 16 decision of the Council of Minis-
ters to ensure that the National Bank does not borrow on
non-concessional terms except for short-term trade credits
that are purely self-liquidating within no more than one
year or credits to refinancing existing loans;
(ii)  make the ban on non-concessional loans more explicit by
specifying that it covers all loans with less than a 50
percent grant element; and
(iii)  undertake the necessary studies and internal discussions to
seek an equitable solution towards strengthening the Nation-
al Bank's financial situation with respect to its long-term
debt, which now seriously distorts monetary data.
34.       In parallel, the Government will undertake a thorough restructur-
ing of the external debt in concert with its partners in the international
financial community. The Government has already secured rescheduling on
favorable terms from some of its creditors, such as the USSR, Portugal and
Portuguese banks. Since the remainder of the bilateral and private debt is
owed to a relatively small number of creditors, a multilateral debt re-
scheduling meeting, such as those organized by the Paris Club, does not
seem to be called for. Instead, the Government will approach each bilater-
al and private creditor by May 1, 1987, in order to secure dabt reschedul-
ings on terms comparable to those provided by the USSR and Portugal and in
line with the medium-term financial outlook.
C.   Aid Coordination
35.       The Government will work closely with the donor and creditor
community to channel assistance in line with the country's highest priority
needs. In this regard, the Government will by June 1, 1987:
(i)  ceitralize its aid coordination mechanisms by designating
the SSEAIC as the one agency which will monitor and coordi-
nate all aid requests;
(ii)  improve communications with the international community by
encouraging meetings of all the donors present in Bissau no
less frequently than semi-annually, with minutes to be
subsequently prepared for circulation to a broader audience;



- 53 -
(iii) encourage one of the donors, possibly the UNDP, to initiate
a program of providing to all donors information on requests
from the Government for financing of all types; and
(iv) assign to the Ministry of Plan a key role in the process of
planning, preparation of the public investment program, and
supervision of the implementation of ongoing projects.
36.       The Government considers that the Round Table mechanism has been
useful in discussing its strategy and in establishing donor priorities. In
particular, the Government intends to continue to work closely with the
UNDP and others in the international community in preparing for follow-up
sectoral meetings, such as the agriculture sector discussion scheduled for
May 1987. Specifically, the Government will, before September 1, 1987:
(i) initiate the preparation of a meeting, possibly a Round
Table, to discuss the coordination of aid to Guinea-Bissau,
including the mix of assistance among project aid, food aid,
and other non-project aid; and
(ii) prepare an in-depth report for such a meeting evaluating
economic developments since the 1984 Round Table, presenting
the Government's development strategy, and outlining the
priority projects by sector and the country's medium-term
financial requirements.
Bissau, March 27, 1987
s) Pedro Godinho Gomes
Minister-Governor
National Bank of Guinea-Bissau



Annex V
page 1 of 3
GUINEA-BISSAIl: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MATRIX OF ISSUES, MEASURES AND ACTIONS
Structural Issues                       Action Taken by the Government          Measures to Be Taken                    Monitorable Actions and Titming
I. Macroeconomic Management
a. Inappropriate official exchange    Continuing weekly 0.5% devaluations   Unification of the official and             Full unification by May 1987;
rate distorts resources allocation    of official rate                          parallel rates; flexible adjustment   flexible policy thereafter (IMF to
and consumption patterns and reduces                                            of exchange rate thereafter             monitor; 2nd Tranche condition)
incentives
b. Excessive Government control over  Permited private sector to export         Increase opportunities for private    - Automatically issue import
foreign trade, including extensive    any good and to retain half of            sector traders and ent reliance on        licenses against agreed list oc
quantitative restrictlons               export receipts.  Permited private    quantitative restrictions                   goods covering 50Z of commercial
sector to import all goods except                                                 imports
cereals, petroleum products,                                                    - Expand above list to cover 75%
pesticides and certain equipment                                                  of commercial Imports by March
goods                                                                             1988 (2nd Tranche condition)
c. Widely varying tariff rates                                                  Make tariff structure more uniform,   - Cease issuing exemptions by May
(including many exemptions) distort                                             supplemented by surcharges on             1987
resource allocation and reduce                                                  luxuries, and end exemptions            - Eliminate all exemptions and
fiscal revenue                                                                                                            complete study of uniform tariff
by March 1988
d. High inflation brought on by         Increased proportion of credlt going  Adopt credit ceilings compatible          Reduce net claims on the
rapid expansion of credit,              to private sector                       with reducing inflation to below 10%  Government in 1987 in context of
especially to Government                                                        in 1989                                 an agreed credit program (ITMF to
monitor; 2nd Tranche condition)
e. An inflexible tax system, in         Improved collection procedures;         Abolish tax exempttons and increase   Tmplement first phase of action
which taxes as proportion of CDP        double the National Reconstruction    taxation of luxury goods                  plan by May 1987; second phase by
decline steadily                        Tax                                                                             March 1988 (IMF to monitor)
f. High level of personnel              1986 vage increase (30%) less than    Reduce real wage blll primarily           - Implement action plan to cut
expendltures by Government              inflation rates (35-50%)                through reducing civil service size       civil service; first phase of 52
in 1987: second phase of 10% in
1988 (2nd Tranche condition)
- Reduce wage rates in real terms
in 1987 by 10%
g. Public investment program that       Reduced 1986 investment budget from   Reorientation of the public               - Reduce the size of real
was overly large and contained many   planned level, resulting in               investment program along lines            Investment program hb  15% In
'nappropriste projects                 essentially a real expenditure           recommended by Bank                       1987 over 1986, further
freeze                                                                            reduction in 1988 (2nd Tranche
condition)
- Limit start-up on new projects
and delay ongoing projects that
do not have highest priority
h. Public enterprises that run          Laid off 20% of workers in state        Launch comprehensive diagnosis of       Study to be completed by June 1988
chronic deficits and have low           trading firns and adopted plan to       public enterprise sector
capacity utilization rates              lay off another 35Z; transferred 200
of 270 state retail outlets to
private sector



Annex V
page 2 of 3
Structural Issues                       Action Taken by the Government          Measures to Be Taken                    Monitorable Actions and Timing
II. Agriculture
a. Crop prices that did not reflect   - Increased producer prices by 40X    Reach export parity pricing, without  - Abolish explicit taxes all
vorld market prices and offered           on average in January 1986 and 302  explicit or implicit taxation               export crops except cashew
inadequate incentives                     on average in November 1986                                                     nuts by May 1987, reduce cashew
- Permitted merchants to purchase                                                 tax to 50  in 1987 and further
corps at any prlce at or above the                                              thereafter
Government-set minimum price                                                  - Raise cashew price to PC 125tkg
by May 1987 ard revise minimum
producer prices by March 1988
(2nd Tranche condition)
b. Inflexible rural marketing that    - Abolished the public sector             Increase competition in marketing       - Ensure prices offered farmers by
relied heavily on the parastatal          monopoly on crop purchases                                                      the parastatal firms are
trading firms                           - Reformed of the parastatal trading                                              flexible and follow market
firms                                                                           trends
- Launch a study of the effects of
the new commercial policy
c. Inadequate capacity to evaluate    Established the Planning Unit             Prepare a sectoral strategy and         - Bring GAPLA to full strength and
investment proposals and                (GAPLA) In the Ministry of Rural        redesign key investment projects in       prepare for UNDP sectoral
inappropriately expensive investment  Development                               line with it                              consultation in May 1987
projects;                                                                                                               - Approach creditors for redesign
of mangrove rehabilitation and
Integrated rural development
projects
III. Energy
a. Inefficient management of            Created of an electricity firm          Strengthen the capabilities of EACB   - EAGB to assume responsibility
electricity sector, without concern   (EAGI) separated from Ministry to                                                   for electrical network in
for cost recovery                       handle electrical network in Bissau                                               interim by December 1987
- Management contract with foreign
firm by December 1987 if decided
necessary (2nd Tranche
condition)
b. Electricity tariffs that do not    Engaged EDF Financial Administrative  Achieve full cost recovery                  - Increase tariffs to cover opera-
cover costs and are often not           and Planning experts                                                              ting costs by May 1987; increase
collected                                                                                                                 to cover all costs by March 1988
(2nd Tranche condition)
- Tie EAGB salaries to tariffs
collected
c. Subsidined petroleum prices                                                  Achieve import parity for all          - Achieve import parity for all
including gasoline prices so far                                               products and mobilize resources from    petroleum products and increase
below the level in neighboring                                                  petroleum taxation                       gasoline tax by 10% by May 1987
countries as to encourage smuggling                                                                                    - Raise gasoline price to parity
with neighboring countries and
Increase diesel prices (2nd
Tranche condition)



Annex V
page 3 of 3
Structural Issues                       Action Taken by the Government          Measures to Be Taken                    Monitorable Actions and Timing
IV.  Comerce and Transport
a. Excessive role of inefficient        Transfered of 200 out of 270            Increase opportunities for the          Launch a study on improving trade
public sector trading firms             parastatal retail outlets to private  private sector in trade                   in rural areas and increasing'
sector                                                                          private wholesale trade
b. Price controls that distorted        - Abolished all price control on        Limit price controls further and        - Eliminate price controls on all
consumption, exacerbated sbortages        intermediation margins                achieve import parity pricing for         goods except rice, sugar, ferti-
and encouraged profiting                - Limited direct price controls to 7  controlled goods                            lizer, cooking oil and petrol
goods and petroleum products                                                    and raise prices annually to co-
ver import costf beginning in
Aprll 1987 (March 1988 price
increase 2nd Tranche condition)
c. Inefficient use of transport         Created separate parastatal             Fncourage expansion of private          - Set maximum and minimum rates
resources, due in part to Government  transport firm to more efficiently    sector trucking                               for private and public transport
regulations                             manage repairs and maintenance                                                    of goods and passengers by May
1987
- Simplify licensing requirements
by June 1987
V. Financial Restructuring
a. Excessive external borrowing,        Banned on non-concessional loans and  Preparation of a comprehensive            Presentation of the strategy to an
including borrowing on terms the        strict monitoring of concessional       external financing strategy, in         aid coordination session, possibly
country not afford                      loans and grants                        cooperation with the Bank and TMF       a UNDP Roundtable
b. External debt servicing burden       Rescheduled debt to USSR, Portugal,   Approach other bilateral and private
that exceeds the country's capacity   and Portuguese banks                      creditors to obtain debt
rescheduling
c. Inadequate real interest rates to                                            Achieve positive interest rates         - Jncrease nominal Interest rates
mobilize domestic financial                                                                                               by May 1987 to 25% on average
resources                                                                                                               - Contain inflation through credit
program
d. Overly concentrated and              Co w eted IDA-financed study on         - Strengthen National Bank              - Implement recommendations of
inefficient banking services            National Bank's accounting system         management cApabilities                 study of National Bank accounts
- Expand banking services by              by May 1987
providing role for private sector   - Separate Central Bank and
banking                                 commerclal bank functions of
Yational Sank by January 1988
- Encourage more bank branches in
rural areas



.   _*  y - -- - ' -- r- - - ' - '~~6O~                                             I  3
_   .  ;':      16'S'                             t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6sX'    1v
t?3W,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~'s,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                        Bisr
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~ .  --a
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ORANGO ~ ~ ~       ~
3                                                                                                      RUSIIJRLICA,~
an.00 WM gr o w.;;
.-4*Onft OVA* 6WOW*Ar 
~~~~~~~~~BteI X,'                               $OM A;
01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. J4-   : 
~~~/                             fatb8dS  '    i     e-   
/  S      iMJg Re u*i* *f 54aUs' ef  .                   
:r -]  <Is.n
j . .t J..*~0



O'                   ¢t004~~~~~~OO                   )4*3O0
G         A           L
ro Doker                  ropoko,r         ToDekar
At_                                     U Ju'                      P Nrod   >--
-. z .,          I--             /          <rhOrnnb  b                             -.
lonforim ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      onco
B A    A T A   \,O'u
REPUBLIC  I
.. r       /       t             |                                            REPUBLICA
SrRADAS aO TAl
iTite Gt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~npaw foa > 
171
S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6IO x,.s_
I   ~~~~~~~~~~K~~ILOMETERS31
MILES
-s (----s    W/                   REPUB 130



IBRD- 15779R
.y   1P00                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~14 30'                                            MAwY 1ZW
I.
Th Ookor                       k40r                 a'aa
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,0
/~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a -,                                                                       uJ
GAA           U
doSo
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P--- M/                                                                 I .VS
ty6 r                                                                                  .J  |  ,,X sP;iiX]-Rft   ., ,   iCtqU@4h    ¢
ojfi                   . ' i BCangacim'                                   " l,.              P     .,  A 
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---7~>4--- Fede rod                                             lnenam     .Qlr
CAMNORRI                 AEO_R   1 /41E S'   RMOV  A L
~~~~~~        AT A                   b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISCAIA  111tAI1
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                 r- s 'j  O I Z 
-I               /           f                / < \ ;
q*bP                                                                 b u e  , r,3
,4__+/~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ktfm boundaries  it ;     
0  10  20     30         40         SD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13
/-,                                  REPUBLI OF GUIA - B
'}98 REULC V A GU/Nt- _  __x B/i-SSAU
.. .,,    \ '                                         1  1 
---5--s  //                                          R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESTR4OA OF GUINE-AISA
P0)8,'tr3/|  E S/C  TA IIVTER/SAIAIOA
'-I  ,  )   
to;fl'.-( X1,~mpbe    /                                                4.   u  l                     be      9r
*~ ;,g                                10,-jrmee\        AOSOSS                    MEErE-I
I  ,                                                       RNfR5NENCOf
.i,,.-fio 



