OFFICIAL
iOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER )79g GUB
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 17q8 GUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    17&4   2            , 1987, betweem THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
March 27, 1987 from the Borrower (the Letter of Development
Policy) describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association, acting
as Administrator of a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the
African Facility) established by its Executive Directors by Reso-
lution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, to provide additional
assistance in support of the Program, and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association as Admin-
istrator of the African Facility (the African Facility Credit
Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to four million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000);
(C) the Borrower has also requested the Association as
Administrator of Special Joint Financing from the Swiss Confedera-
tion (the Swiss Grant Administrator) within the framework of the
African Facility to provide additional assistance in support of
the Program, and by an agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Association (the Swiss Grant Agreement), the
Swiss Grant Administrator is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an amount of eight million Swiss Francs (SwF 8,000,000) (the
Swiss Grant);
(D) the Borrower contracted from the Saudi Fund for Develop-
ment (the Saudi Fund) a loan (the Saudi Fund Loan) in an amount of
twelve million Saudi Riyals (SRls 12,000,000) to assist in
financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Saudi Fund Loan Agreement) entered into between the
Borrower and the Saudi Fund dated February 13, 1987;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the African Deve-
lopment Fund (ADF) a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent
to ten million Fund Units of Account (FUA 10,000,000) to assist in
financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the ADF Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and ADF;


﻿-2-
(F) the Borrower intends to contract from the Govirnment of
the Federal Republic of Germany (Kreditanstalt ffir Wiederaufbau)
(KfW) a grant (the KfW Grant) to assist in financing the Program
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW
Grant Agreement) between the Borrower and KfW;
(G) the Borrower intends to contract from the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in
an amount equivalent to five million three hundred thousand
dollars ($5,300,000) to assist in financing the Program on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IFAD Loan
Agreement) between the Borrower and IFAD; and
(H) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the African Facility Credit and
the Swiss Grant be disbursed pSo-rata on account of expenditures
in respect of the Program, before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Credit, provided for in this Agreement, are made; and
WHEREAS on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Con-
ditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.";
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Dte or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose betwe'en the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and


﻿-3-
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c) "EAGB" means the Electricity and Water Entity of Guinea-
Bissau (Electricidade e Aguas da Guin6-Bissau) an Empresa Publica
of the Borrower established pursuant to Decree of the Council of
Ministers of the Borrower No. 32/83 dated November 19, 1983;
(d) "Counterpart Funds Account" means the account to be
opened and thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of
this Agreement;
(e) "BNG" means the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (Banco
Nacional da Guine-Bissau); and
(f) "UGAB" means the Management Unit for Balance of Payments
Assistance (Unidade de Gestao da Ajuda A Balanca de Pagamentos)
established within BNG by Presidential Executive Order of the
Borrower dated June 28, 1984.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1989 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February
15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1997, and ending February
15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment pay-
able on February 15, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BNG is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts UGAB with responsibility for the prepara-
tion of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the col-
lection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the
Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000).
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, and such
actions in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) Not later than thirty days after the date set forth in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement, open and thereafter maintain a
counterpart funds account in BNG;
(b) deposit into such Counterpart Funds Account the local
currency generated from the sale of foreign exchange by BNG under
the Credit; and
(c) furnish to the Administrator, for its review and
comments, quarterly reports on the use of said counterpart funds
in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-7-
(ii)     retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)     enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(b) (i) subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit and of
any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Program shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated, in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreements providing therefor; or
(B) the African Facility Credit and any such loan
shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)    Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:


﻿-8-
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreements; and
(B) adequate funds required Ouring the execution
of the Program are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Bor-
rower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio das FinanQas
C.P. 67
Bissau, Guind-Bissau
Cable address:                     Telex:
MEF                             257 MEF BI


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
du.ly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA BISSAU
By  /41
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Region   Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwiths:anding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items,
112         -                    Alcoholic beverages
121         -                     Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -                     Tobacco, manufactured
667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
688                               Uranium depleted in U235
and thorium, and their
alloys, unwrought or
wrought, and articles
therefor, n.e.s.; waste
and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of
thorium
718         718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, n.e.s.
897         897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)


﻿-12-
Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
-      971.0                   Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1987;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association, the Swiss Confederation and the Saudi
Fund shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(g) expenditures in excess of aggregate amounts equivalent
to SDR 2,000,000 for petroleum products, and for foodstuffs,
respectively, for each commodity.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the African Facility Credit after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account, and the
total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent
of SDR 3,000,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement:
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment have been taken and are satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 13 -
4.   If, after such exchange of views, the Association is not so
satisfied and this situation shall not be rectified by the
Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof by the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the Credit unwithdrawn from the Credit Account or any
part thereof.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines) subject to the
following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one news-
paper of general circulation in the Borrower's country and,
in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 15 -
2.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $300,000 each shall b'e awarded through
limited international bidding on the basis of price quotations
from at least three reliable suppliers in accordance with
procedures set forth in Section III, paragraph 3.2 of the Guide-
lines.
3.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $50,000 each shall be awarded through
direct contracting in accordance with procedures set forth in
Section III, paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2
and 3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the
Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 or
paragraph 5 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
7.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(a) automatic issuance of import licenses to at least 75% of
all commercial imports except petroleum products;
(b) adjustment of minimum agricultural producer prices for
1988/89 in line with international price levels, variations in the
exchange rate and production costs;
(c) adjustment of electricity tariffs to recover EAGB's
operating costs and amortization of capital;
(d) signing of a management contract to strengthen EAGB, if
recommended by the sectoral review carried out by the Borrower;
(e) adjustment of the price of rice, fertilizers, sugar,
cooking oil and petroleum products;
(f) adoption of a fiscal program for 1988, including the
public investment program and the adjustment of the level of
export taxation for cashew nuts;
(g) adoption of a monetary program for 1988; and
(h) reduction of the number of civil servants by about 1125
below the number of civil servants in active service on April 1,
1987.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of pay tents made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.


﻿- 18 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Association shall have  determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Program, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal f"com the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Bor-
rower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligi-
ble expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.


﻿- 19 -
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


