Report No. 427-CE
Appraisal of the                                                          FILE COpy
Sri Lanka
Dairy Development Project
June 5, 1974
Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =  Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs) 6-74M
Rs 0.01        =  Sri Lanka Cent
Rs 1              US$0.148
Rs 1 million   =  US$148,368
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (British System)
1 long ton                   2240 lbs  =  1.016 metric tons
1 hundredweight (cwt)         114 lbs  =  50.8 kg
1 bushel (bu)                45 lbs (of paddy)
1 pint                       0.57 liters (1)
1 acre                       0.405 hectares (ha)
1 mile                       1.609 kilometers (km)
1 gram (g)                   0.035 ounce (oz)
1 inch                    =  25.4 millimeters (mm)
ABBREVIATIONS
APHD      =  Animal Production and Health Division
(in the Ministry of Agriculture)
CRB       =  Cooperative Rural Bank
DCS       =  Dairy Cooperative Society
MPCS         Multipurpose Cooperative Society
NMB       = National Milk Board
PTU       =  Project Technical Unit
APC       =  Agricultural Productivity Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
/1   The Sri Lanka rupee has been tied to the pound
sterling since June 1972 at Rs 15.60 per pound
and has consequently been floating with it. The
US dollar rate is thus dependent upon the cross-rate
between the pound and the dollar. The rate of
US$1 = Rs 6.74 was established by the Central Bank
of Ceylon on December 31, 1973. Under the Foreign
Exchange Entitlement Certificate Scheme (FEEC's),
a levy of 65% is applied to most non-food imports.
Since the major items to be imported by government
agencies under the proposed Project are subject to
the FEEC's, the exchange rate used in this Appraisal
Report is US$1 = Rs 10, which is the approximate
average FEEC rate between June 1972 and the time of
project appraisal.



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ............................... i  -  i
I.      INTRODUCTION  ........ .............                         .....................
II,,    BACKGROUND              ......................              ......................
A.  General .                  .......................................... 1
B.      Agricultural  Sector  ..............................                                    2
C.     Milk  Marketing  and  Processing  ....................                                   3
D.      Development  Support  Services   .....................                                  4
III.       THE  PROJECT  AREAS  .....................................                                      6
IV.      THE  PROJECT  ...........................................                                        7
A.      Description  ......................................                                     7
B.      Detailed  Features   ................................                                   8
C.      Cost  Estimates   ...................................                                 10
D.      Proposed  Financing  ...............................                                  12
E.      Procurement   ......................................                                  13
F.      Disbursement   .....................................                                  14
C.      Reporting  and  Auditing  ...........................                                 14
V.      ORGANIZATION   AND  MANAGEMENT  ...........................                                    15
A.      Administration  ...................................                                   15
B.      Management  and  Technical  Services   ................                               15
C.      Lending  Operations   ...............................                                 17
VI.   MARKETING, PRICES, SUBSIDIES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS ....   18
A.      Marketing  and  Prices   .............................                                18
B.  Subsidies . ........................................  20
C.      Producer  Benefits  ........                     ........................             21
VII.       ECONOMIC  BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION   ....... ..                           ..........       21
VIII.        AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION  .............                            ...         22
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of R. Bailey (IDA),
H. Groenewold (FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme) and T. Haworth (Consultant)
that visited Sri Lanka in June/July 1973.



-2-
ANNEXES
1 -  The Dairy Sub-Sector
2  -  National Milk Board
3  -  Pricing and Subsidies Relating to the Dairy Sector
4  -  Recent Legislation:  Land Reform and Agricultural Productivity
5  -  Agricultural Cooperatives
6  -  The Lending Banks
7  -  Dairy Farm Development Projections
8  -  Management, Technical Assistance and Pilot Units
9  -  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Specialists
10  -  Terms of Reference for Milk Collection and Transport Consultancy
11  -  Project Costs by Investment Categories
12  -  Estimated Schedule of Disbur3ements
13  -  Financial Rates of Return
14  -  Economic Rate of Return
MAP



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture plays a major role in the economy of Sri Lanka through
its large contribution to GNP, foreign exchange earnings, and government
revenue.  In 1973 the agricultural sector accounted for nearly 33% of GNP,
about 77% of export earnings, and 50% of total employment. While livestock
farming has considerable potential it is now of minor economic importance,
contributing only about 7% of the gross value of agricultural production.
ii.       The proposed Project would be the Bank Group's fourth in agri-
culture in Sri Lanka and the first IDA Credit in the livestock sector. It
would provide for on-farm development on about 42,000 acres, comprising about
1,800 small (5-10 acres) and 600 larger (40-50 acres) farms in the Coconut
Triangle and Mid-Country, including purchase of about 10,400 local and 3,200
imported heifers. Existing milk collection and transport services of the
National Milk Board (NMB) and cooperatives would be expanded and improved.
Technical assistance is also prov:lded in the form of pilot programs to develop
and demonstrate systems of communal calf rearing and techniques for milk
production in the Dry Zone area, as well as for in-service training.
iii.      Project cost is estimated at US$12.7 million equivalent, includ-
ing working capital required during the on-farm investment phase, and covers
a five-year period, from 1974 to 1978. The proposed IDA credit of US$9.0
million would finance foreign exchange costs of US$5.5 million and about
502 of local currency costs. Government would establish a project account
with the Central Bank of Ceylon through which the proceeds of the IDA credit
would be channeled. The major part of the credit ($5.5 million) would be for
on-farm development and milk collection and transport investments and would
be relent by the Borrower to two participating banks - People's Bank and
Bank of Ceylon - for 12 years including three years of grace with interest
at 6% p.a., for subsequent relending to dairy farmers, NMB and cooperatives.
The participating banks would augment these funds by contributing about $1.5
million of their own resources to the financing needs of the project bene-
ficiaries. Relending terms to project beneficiaries would be: (a) to
farmers at 10% p.a. for 12 years; (b) to NMB at 8% p.a. for 10 years; and
(c) to cooperatives at 8% p.a. for 12 years; all including a three year
grace period. The remainder of the credit ($3.5 million) would be for
imported livestock, the Project Technical Unit and pilot operations and
would be disbursed through the Ministry of Agriculture, complemented by
Government's contribution of about $0.5 million. Government would also
contribute about $0.9 million in the form of pasture development subsidies
to participating farmers. Farmers would contribute about $0.9 million in
labor, cash and kind toward the cost of on-farm development and livestock.
iv.       In order to ensure overall coordination, a Project Committee would
be established under the chairmanship of the Ministry of Planning and Econo-
mic Affairs. It would include representation from all agencies and banks



- ii -
concerned in the Project. Responsibility for executing dairy farm develop-
ment, livestock procurement, techuical services and pilot operations provided
under the Project would lie with PTU, which would be established in the
Mtinistry of Agriculture. The PTU would be headed by a Project Director who
would report to the Deputy Director of Agriculture responsible for the Animal
Production and Health Division (APHD) and who would be supported by inter-
nationally recruited personnel, including a technical director and experts
on tropical pasture and calf-raising. Responsibility for milk collection,
transport and marketing would lie with NMB and be coordinated through the
Project Committee.
v.         International competitive bidding, in accordance with IDA guide-
lines, would be used for the purchase of imported milk storage equipment
and vehicles and mobile testing units to be purchased by NMB - about US$0.6
million. Heifers valued at about US$1.4 million would be imported from
selected countries free from foot and mouth disease in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to IDA. As most major vehicle manufacturers are represented
in Sri Lanka, local competitive bidding would be used for purchase of imported
vehicles required by PTU - about US$0.3 million. Seed and materials for
pasture planting would be purchased from local suppliers. Local contractors
would be used for construction of selected buildings, and water supply
facilities which would be of a small and scattered nature. Local cattle would
be procured from both Government herds and from private farm herds through
auctions organized by PTU.
vi.       Participating farmers are expected to benefit from higher net
incomes at full development, expected in 1981, and the smallest farmers
would more than double their incomes. Additional milk production would
be about 43 million pints annually, amounting to about 25% of 1972 imports
of dairy products giving estimated annual foreign exchange savings of about
$2.0 million. The estimated financial rate of return to the farmers' invest-
ments would range from 15% to 19%. The economic rate of return for the
proposed Project is estimated at 15%. The project would create new jobs for
about 1,500 people.
vii.      The proposed Project would also assist the Government in its planned
diversification from marginally productive tea on 14,000 acres in the Mid-
Country. In addition, the extension and research activities in pasture deve-
lopment, communal calf rearing and milk production would encourage sound
animal husbandry not only on project farms but also in the surrounding areas.
Moreover, the experience gained in financing development of small farmers
under the Project is expected to contribute significantly to improved and
expanded credit operations in the dairy sector.
viii.     The proposed Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$9.0 million.



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I, INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Sri Lanka has applied for Bank Group assistance
in financing a part of its Five Year Plan (1972-76) in the dairy sector.
The proposed Project would support dairy development on small to medium-
sized farms, and help expand essential milk collection and transport facil-
ities. The Bank Agricultural Sector Mission of October 1971 identified the
Project. It was subsequently prepared by an interagency team from various
Sri Lanka Government departments, with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Coopera-
tive Programme.
1.02      This would be the Bank Group's fourth agricultural sector project
in Sri Lanka. Credits 121-CE' for US$2.0 million in 1968 and 168-CE for
US$2.5 million in 1969 supported irrigation and land reclamation. Loan
653-CE/Credit 174-CE for US$29.0 million in 1970 supported power and irriga-
tion. Although there were initial delays, progress on the three projects
is satisfactory.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of
R. Bailey (IDA), H. Groenewold (FAO/IBRD Cooperative Progratme) and T. Haworth
(Consultant) that visited Sri Lanka in June/July 1973. Consultation with the
Government of Sri Lanka regarding dairy pricing and other policy matters were
undertaken following the field appraisal.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Sri Lanka covers an area of 25,300 sq mi and has
a population of about 13.5 million which is growing-by slightly more than 2%
annually. Various governments since independence in 1948 have concentrated
heavily upon a wide range of social welfare programs, expenditures for which
have tended to depress the rate of economic growth. The real GDP growth
rate, which has averaged about 4% over the period 1960-1970, dropped to
less than 1% in 1971 but recovered to about 2% in 1972 and to 2.5% in 1973.
Per capita income in 1971 was estimated at US$100. Activity in the private
sector remains depressed; unemployment is high, particularly among the
young; export earnings in real terms have declined sharply in recent years,
and, with increasing prices for oil and other imports, the balance of payments
is under strong pressure.
2.02      Sri Lanka's economy is predominantly agricultural.  Agriculture is
the largest productive sector, accounting in 1973 for nearly 33% of GNP,
50% of total employment and 77% of all export earnings through the sale of



- 2 -
tea, rubber and coconut products. In contrast, food imports, which have
averaged about US$150 million p.a. in the past five years (over 50% of all
foreign exchange earnings), have increased.
2.03      In its effort to reverse the deteriorating economic trend, Govern-
ment is concentrating attention on both export expansion and import substi-
tution programs, looking particularly to increasing domestic production of
rice and subsidiary food products, including meat and milk. The Bank Group
is already assisting rice production through irrigation projects and with
the proposed Project would provide effective support to development of the
lagging dairy sector, aimed at increasing supplies of milk and reducing
the country's dependence on imported milk powder. In 1972 these imports
were worth about US$8 million representing about 43% of the liquid milk
sales of NMB. Even with imports at this level, the per capita availability
of milk is only about 45 g per day compared with about 113 g per day in
India. This is inadequate to meet even minimal daily nutritional require-
ments, estimated at about 150-200 g per capita.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.05      Sri Lanka's patterns of agricultural production are extremely
diverse, reflecting varied climat..c and topographic conditions. The Wet Zone
(i.e. the highlands and the southwestern region) receives both monsoons; the
annual rainfall varies from 75 to 200 inches. This Zone covers 25% of the
area and contains two-thirds of the area under permanent agriculture. The
Dry Zone, the northern and eastern 75% of the island, receives 35-75 inches
of rainfall mostly during the four-month November-February period. Rainfed
crop growth is severely limited during most of the other months (Map).
2.06      Of a total land area of 16 million acres, only one-fourth is
under permanent agriculture; most of the remainder is forest or bush,
natural grassland and scrub. Tree crops, mostly tea, rubber and coconut,
are grown on both estates and smallholdings and cover nearly 60% of the
permanent cultivated area. Rice accounts for 30% of the cultivated area
and, along with a great diversity of other crops as well as livestock, is
produced mainly on peasant smallholdings. Farm sizes are generally small:
of nearly 1.2 million total land holdings at the 1962 Census, only about
6,000 were larger than the 50 acre maximum subsequently imposed by 1972
land reform legislation and 85% were smaller than 5 acres (Annex 1, Table 4).
Livestock and Milk Production
2.07      Cattle and buffaloes, numbering 1.6 and 0.7 million respectively,
are the most important farm animals. Most herds are very small, with the
animals kept primarily for draught and milk on widely dispersed smallholdings
throughout the island. About 90 million lb of beef (mostly by-product), 20
million lb of other meat (chiefly pork and poultry), and 225 million pints
of milk (bevond that fed to calves) were produced in 1972, accounting in
total for about 7% of the gross value of agricultural production. Consump-
tion of livestock products is low, averaging about 7 lb of beef, 1.5 lb of



- 3 -
other meats and 29 pints 1/ of milk (of which 12 plnts were imported) per
capita in 1972. Including eggs and milk, all livestock products combined
account for only 6% of all food protein consumed.
2.08      Total livestock output lhas increased since 1960 at an average
rate of about 4% annually. Growth was confined to the early 1960's, however,
and slaughter of all types of farm animals has increased since 1965 leading
to a considerable decline in cattle and buffalo numbers.
2.09      With only 40% of the total cattle numbers, the Wet Zone has great
potential for dairy development. Conditions for pasture growth are such
that it is possible to produce milk on a year round basis. Most cows in this
area produce up to 10 pints per day during a 160-day lactation period compared
with 2-3 pints in the Dry Zone. Basic information on pasture development in
the two main milk producing sub-zones in the Wet Zone (the Coconut Triangle
and the Mid-Country) is available. The potential for increasing production
from these sub zones is considerable, both through the application of known
pasture technology and the greater use of crossbred and purebred European
dairy breeds. By contrast, pasture management technology has yet to be
proven in the Dry Zone.
Animal Health
2.10      Sri Lanka is free of rinderpe;t.  Foot and mouth disease, hemorrhagic
septicemia, black quarter and anthrax are prevalent but are effectively con-
trolled through disease control programs (Annex 1). Foot and mouth disease
ordinarily causes only a temporary reduction in performance. Hemorrhagic
septicemia is normally fatal unless animals are vaccinated at six month in-
tervals. Piroplasmosis and anaplasmosis do not affect indigenous cattle,
but all importations require preimmunization. Internal parasites can be
controlled by drenching. Leeches attack grazing cattle on pastures above
1,200 feet elevation and cattle are customarily housed to prevent reduction
in milk production. Calf mortality is a serious problem in the Mid and Up-
Country where calves are normally separated from their mothers after birth,
suffer from malnutrition and are made more vulnerable to disease. A pilot
project to develop techniques for collective calf rearing is proposed (para
4.12).
C. Milk Marketing and Processing
2.11      About 75% of the milk produced domestically for sale is marketed
locally either directly or more commonly through middlemen who pay the farmer
35-40/pint. The remaining 25% is sold through the Government-owned National
Milk Board (NMB) which processes and markets mainly in the larger population
areas.
1/ Liquid milk equivalent of all milk products consumed.



- 4 -
2.12      The role of NMB. The NMB is the biggest milk marketing organiza-
tion in Sri Lanka and the only one with processing facilities. However,
until May 1973 when the procurement price was increased from 40i to 60i per
pint, the Board had great difficulty in obtaining regular supplies. Today
more farmers are selling regularly to NMB through their cooperatives and its
supply position is improving. However, many potential suppliers are unable
to sell to NMB because of inadequate collection facilities.
2.13      Currently NMB has about 30 milk collection centers throughout the
island with another 20 coming up by 1974.  Processing capacity in NMB's
five plants is now 281 million pints/year with the recent commissioning of
a milk powder factory at Ambewela and a heat treatment plant at Colombo in
1973. At maximum operating capacity NMB could process nearly six times the
quantity of milk collected in 1972.
2.14      Since late 1972, NMB has purchased milk almost exclusively from
cooperative societies which collect milk from farmers and deliver it to
NMB collection centers (para 2.20). NMB pays cooperatives monthly for whole
milk delivered; cooperatives pay their suppliers one or two days later,
after deducting a collection charge which by recent cabinet directive cannot
exceed 5 cents 1/ per pint. Previously, collection charges ranged up to 11
cents.
2.15      NMI's financial structure, management and operating performance are
presently weak (Annex 2). NMB's price policy is rigidly controlled by
Government. The procurement price for;4% butterfat milk, which averaged 40
cents per pint (extremely low by international standards) over 1970-72, was
increased to 60 cents in May 1973. Consumer prices of NMB milk products,
which historically have been set below cost, were increased by 20-85% in
May 1973, but the price of NMB's two major products, powder and condensed
milk, were reduced a few days later, due to public protest and political
pressure, to a point above their previous level but below cost (Annex 2 and
paras 5.07-5.08).
D. Development Support Services
Research, Extension and Education
2.16      The Animal Production antd Health Division (APHD) of the Department
of Agriculture and Lands (Ministry of Agriculture) has primary responsibility
or p,licy formulation, research, veterinary and extension services in the
livestock sector.  With 92 veterinarians filling most key positions on its
total staff of 500, animal health has been given more emphasis in programs
and services than has animal production, particularly with respect to
extension services.
2.17      Pasture and forage research is conducted at Government farms
(para 2.19), the University of Ceylon, the Coconut Research Institute and
1;   Sri Lanka cent, equivalent to Rs 0.01.



- 5 -
the Agricultural Research Station at Maha Illupallama. Pasture species
adapted to conditions in the proposed Project areas have been proven and
planting materials are produced and sold by both Government and private
nurseries.
2.18      Four year B.Sc (Agriculture) and B.V.Sc degree courses at the
University of Ceylon have produced 30-40 graduates per year; admissions
have now been increased to 100 annually. A two-year animal husbandry
diploma course at the Kundesale School )f Agriculture graduates about
100 per year, most of whom join the Department of Agriculture as
inspectors, and two to six-month training courses in animal husbandry
are offered on Government farms and at the APHD Training Institute at
Peradeniya. While numbers of graduates are adequate to meet the manpower
requirements for the Government services concerned, it is anticipated
that further training of personnel to staff the proposed project will
be required and conducted by the Project Technical Unit (para 4.03).
Government Farms
2.19      Three Government farms maintain herds of improved dairy cattle
for research and training, multiplication and sale of bulls and heifers
to private farmers, and for milk production to supply nearby NMB milk
processing plants. The farms alsc serve as quarantine stations for large
scale imports of cattle. More emphasis has been placed on milk production
than on the other service functions (Annex 1).
Agricultural Cooperatives
2.20      The cooperative structure in Sri Lanka, at the primary level,
consists of 368 large sized Multipurpose Cooperative Societies (MPCSs),
most of whose main activity has beeti to run consumer stores, and a number
of specialized societies including 29 Dairy Cooperative Societies (DCS)
and seven coconut producers' cooperatives. Two major changes significant to
the proposed Project have occurred in the functions of the MPCSs following
completion of a drastic reorganization in 1971 (Annex 5). They, along with
DCSs, have taken a much more active and generally efficient role in collect-
ing milk for NMB (from 5% of NMB purchases in 1969 to 65% in 1973); further
increases are expected and encouraged by NMB.  Second, a program to estab-
lish Cooperative Rural Banks (CRBs) within the MPCSs has been actively
pursued, with CRBs increasing from 20 in 1967 to 350 in April, 1974. Estab-
lishment of CRBs in nearly all of the 368 MPCSs (152 in the proposed Project
areas) by the end of 1974 is planned; each with deposit and agricultural
lending facilities and with access to Peoples Bank for banking advances (para
2.22 and Chapter IV). Details of the perfortiance of the Banks are given in
Annex 6.
Banking and Agricultural Credit
2.21      The commercial banking system in Sri Lanka consists of four local
banks and eight foreign banks. The former account for 77% of the deposits
of all banks and of these, the Bank of Ceylon and the Peoples Bank are the
largest, each with deposits of about Re 1 billion. Some 10% of the advances



by the! Bank of Ceylon are for agriculture, mostly to the larger tea and
rubber estates. Of the advances by the Peoples Bank, 20% are for agricul-
ture, mainly to coconut farmers and cooperatives. The Bank of Ceylon, set
up in 1938, is now fully state-owned, while Government and Cooperatives
share about equally in ownership of the Peoples Bank. The Central Bank
of Ceylon, which exercises supervisory powers over all banks in the
country, provides rediscount facilities to banks from its general funds
for short-term advances, and from its Medium and Long-term Fund for
long-term (up to 15 years) advances. Interest rates vary from 8 to 12%
for agricultural advances depending on collateral offered and period of
the loan.
2.22      Two significant developments in banking and agricultural credit
are in process. First, under the Agricultural Productivity Act of 1972
(Annex 4), over 400 Agricultural Productivity Centers (APCs) will be built
(150 open at April 1, 1974), each to include a branch or sub-branch of the
Bank of Ceylon. Bank of Ceylon is pressing the branch establishment program,
consistent with a policy decision to participate more actively in small-
holder farmer financing. Second, a network of CRBs is being established
by cooperatives with support of Peoples Bank. Plans are for about 90 Bank
of Ceylon branches (or sub-branches) and 100 CRBs to be operative in the
proposed Project areas (in which both banking systems are expected to parti-
cipate as on-lenders) by the end of 1974. This rapid expansion is straining
the supply of experienced management, particularly at local (branch/CRB)
level, and both banking systems are recruiting and expanding their management
training programs.
Bilateral and Multilateral Support
2.23      The proposed project was designed with the benefit of the ex-
perience gained under the UNDP/FA0 Project (CEY 22 "Agricultural Diversifica-
tion of Uneconomic Tea and Rubber Lands") which is identifying alternative
land uses including the development of improved pastures in the Mid-Country.
2.24      Dairy development is aided by various assistance programs, many
of which are a part of the International Scheme for Coordination in Dairy
Development (ISCDD) initiated by FAO in 1969/70. Bilateral aid includes
a pledge of US$2.1 million from Sweden (SIDA) for artificial insemination,
vaccine production and veterinary services; technical milk processing assistance
and a soft loan for heifer imports from Denmark; US$0.2 million for pasture
development fertilizer from Federal Republic of Germany; US$0.3 million an-
nually from Australia for veterinary equipment and services; and in addition
the United Kingdom has indicated it would probably consider favorably a
request to finance a consultancy study of milk collection and transport for
MMB (para 4.10).
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
3.01      The proposed project would be located in the Wet Zone where con-
ditions for dairy farming are most favorable. It would be concentrated in
the two existing main milk producing sub zones --the Coconut Triangle and
the Mid Country. The Coconut Triangle is located along the South West Coast



- 7 -
with genexally flat terrain at elevations below 1,500 feet. The Mid Country
sub zone is located to the east of the Coconut Triangle between 1,000 and
3,000 feet. The terrain is generally hilly.
3.02      Coconut Triangle.  The population of the Coconut Triangle is about
4.3 million, including the city of Colombo. About 20% of the country's
cattle and 33% of its buffaloes are located in the Coconut Triangle where
they are used traditionally for coconut harvesting and transport purposes.
They are grazed under the coconut trees by day and housed and fed cut forage
by night. Traditionally, milk is produced for home consumption. Any surplus
is sold either fresh or as ghee. Average yields from local dairy stock and
their crosses with Indian dairy bulls are about 1,200 pints per lactation.
3.03      Most of the area is well served with all-weather roads and almost
all the settlements have electricity. NMB has two milk processing plants
and seven collection centers in the area; three further centers are under
construction. Presently 15 DCS and 107 MPCS are in operation. The area is
estimated to have over 18,000 farm holdings of 10 to 50 acres in size.
3.04      Mid-Country  The population of the Mid-Country is about 1.6 million.
In this area, the Government is encouraging the replacement of marginal tea
and rubber with more profitable and reliable forms of production. Milk pro-
duction is an attractive alternative. The area has about 7% of the island's
cattle and buffaloes. Most farmers own cattle, almost all of which are up-
graded crosses of native and Indian breeds stallfed on fresh indigenous
roughage and home-mixed concentrate, and produce an average of 2,400 pints
per 250 day lactation. The temperate climate is suitable for European breeds
of cattle when they are given shelter against the heavy rains and external
parasites.
3.05      The area is well served with narrow but mostly sealed all-weather
roads. NMB has one milk processing plant and two collection centers in the
area; eight further centers are under construction. Six DCS and 45 MPCS are
in operation. The area is estimated to contain 12,000 farms of 5-10 acres
and 4,200 of 10-50 acres in size.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The proposed Project would provide an integrated program for the
development of milk production on about 42,000 acres comprising about 2,400
dairy farms in the Wet Zone. It would provide technical support and credit
to farmer participants and would ensure adequate support for milk collection
and transport and marketing.
4.02      Specifically the following activities would be undertaken:
(a)  credit and technical serrices for on-farm development including
purchase of livestock on about 800 farms of 5-10 acres and 400



farms of 40-50 acres in the Coconut Triangle and about 1,000
farms of 5-10 acres and 200 farms of 40-50 acres in the Mid
Country;
(b) supply and installation of equipment for the expansion
and improvement of milk collection and transport services
allowing NMB to handle the incremental production expected
from the project;
(c) credit to MPCS and DCS for the construction or improvement
of facilities to house milk collection equipment;
(d) establishment of a Project Technical Unit within the Ministry of
Agriculture, including technical a,isistance to help execute
on-farm development and pilot operations; and
(e) establishment of pilot units to (i) demonstrate systems
of communal calf rearing through the establishment of a
pilot unit with a yearly throughput of 500 heads; (ii)
develop pasture management systems for increasing milk
production in the Dry Zone using existing government
land and livestock in the region.
B. Detailed Features
Dairy Farm Development
4.03      Approximately 2,400 dairy farms would be developed by farmers
selected in the Coconut Triangle and the Mid-Country. This is expected to
involve about 42,000 acres of which about 14,000 acres in the Mid-Country
is at present under sub-marginal tea or rubber production. An essential
feature of the development plans in both areas would be the use of improved
dairy cattle to increase herd sizes and production. These would be procured
from local sources within and outside the project areas and through direct
importation. Credit would also be provided for land clearing (in the Mid-
Country), pasture establishment, buildings, fences, water supply and small
dairy equipment (details in Annexes 1 and 7).
4.04      In the Coconut Triangle, improved pastures and fodder grasses would
he pltnted to replace natural growth under coconut palms and domestically-
procured high grade heifers would be purchased which, over a period of
herd build-up, would replace indigenous cattle with crossbreds and increase
average yield from the present 1,200 pints to 3,000 pints per lactation.
Based on the experience of NMB'and the Animal Production and Health Division
(APHD) it is estimated that development would take place on about 400 farms
of up to 50 acres in size and 800 smallholder farms of around 10 acres.
Investments would be phased over three years and total about US$94 per acre
for the 50 acre holdings, and about US$80 per acre over two years for the
10 acre farms.



4.05      In the Mid-Country about one-half of the 1,200 farmers expected to
participate are now located on marginal tea and rubber lands. They are
maintaining crossbred dairy cattle on indigenous forage cut and carried
from wastelands and marginal tea (or rubber) gardens. Under the Project
the original crops would be uprooted and replaced with improved fodder
grasses. Herd sizes and productiiity would be increased by purchase of
pure bred (European type) heifers, half of local origin; half imported.
Lactation yields would increase from the present 2,400 to 3,600 pints per
lactation. It is estimated that about 200 farms of around 40 acres and 400
of 8 acres in size would participate. Investments, phased over three years,
would average about US$185 per acre for the 200 forty acre farms expected
to participate. Similar but less intensive investments would be phased over
two years on the eight acre holdings and would average about US$106 per acre.
These investment costs are higher than in the Coconut Triangle because of the
need for land clearing.
4.06      The remaining 600 Mid-Country farms which would participate are
smallholdings under traditional mixed tree, shrub and vegetable crops on
farms ranging around 5 acres in size. Investments in addition to grass
establishment would include purchase of one purebred heifer, shelter, water
supply and minor equipment for a total of about US$100 per acre.
4.07      The integration of high producing livestock into mixed farming
systems is one of the most desirable forms of diversification from both the
nutritional and economic aspects. The proposed investments per acre are
comparable with those for dairy development in similar environments in Thailand
and Burma where pasture and breed improvement are also the two essential com-
ponents.
Milk Collection and Transport
4.08      It is expected that NMB would participate under the Project as the
main outlet for milk produced by farmer-participants and as a sub-borrower
for the purchase of essential imported equipment. However, NMB's finaucial
situation is poor and measures for its improvement are to be taken, as set
out in para 5.08.
4.09      The existing milk collection and storage facilities of NMB in the
Project areas are hardly adequate for present levels of production. Expanded
and improved facilities are needed to encourage the production of milk under
the Project. Funds would therefore be provided for NMB to purchase storage
tanks and chilling equipment for about 70 new milk collection centers, two
mobile milk testing units, and for about 15 bulk milk tank trucks to transport
milk from collection centers to processing plants. Funds would also be pro-
vided to cooperatives for construction or improvement of buildings to house
the tanks. Tanks and equipment would be owned by NMB and maintained by the
cooperatives which would manage and operate the collection centers. The
testing units would be acquired in Project year 1 and the tankers in year 2.
Construction of buildings and installation of equipment for collection centers
would be phased over years 2 and 3, coordinated with the expected flow of
milk from participating farms. These investments will be phased following a
special study to be undertaken by consultants to NMB (para 4.10).



- 10 -
4.10      Based upon the estimated increases in milk production resulting
from the Project, it is anticipated that about 40 of the new collection
centers would be located in the Coconut Triangle and 30 in the Mid-Country.
However, their exact number, distribution and specific locations as well as
the specification of exact transport routes and procedures would need to be
based upon the results of a comprehensive collection/transport study expected
to be financed by the Commonwealthi Fund for Technical Cooperation and to be
completed by qualified consultants employed by NMB. Terms of reference for
the consultants were discussed with NMB and are at Annex 10. Agreement was
obtained that NMB would engage these consultants, under terms of reference
agreed with the Association, not later than 60 days after Credit effectiveness.
Technical Services and Pilot Operatl ons
4.11      Project technical support would be provided under the Project to all
farmer participants to help them draw up farm investment plans and supervise
their development programs. This would be done through a Project Technical
Unit (PTU) (See Chapter V), which would also be responsible for setting up
and demonstrating systems of communal calf retaring and of milk production in
the Dry Zone.
4.12      Facilities for the pilot calf-rearing unit would be constructed
near the Veterinary Research Institute at Peradeniya. The unit would have
a capacity of 500 heifer calves per year, to be purchased soon after birth
from dairy farmers, reared on purchased feed, and re-sold prior to first
calving. Finance would be provided for the :onstruction of buildings
and purchase of equipment, and to cover the first two years' operating
expenses. First estimates have been made which suggest a capital
investment of about US$65,000 and that the unit would be self-sustaining
after the second year. Detailed planning would be a first responsibility
of the calf rearing specialist to be employed under the Project.
4.13      The pilot operation in the Dry Zone would test the feasibility
of increasing the low cattle carrying capacity under traditional Dry Zone
land use by developing a ley (rotational) farming system in which feed
grains and pulses would be rotated with grass and legume pasture for the
production of draught animals and milk. Initial attention would concentrate
on identification of suitable field crop rotations and adapted grass and
legume species for pastures, utilizing Government lands and cattle for
experimentation. Finance would be provided for buildings, land clearing
and some levelling, and establishment costs.
C. Cost Estimates
4.14      Total Project cost, including participating farmers' incremental
working capital (US$0.57 million) required during the on-farm development
phase, is estimated at US$12.7 million (Annex 11) including contingencies and
taking into account the price rises which followed recent crude oil price
increases . In particular fertilizer prices are about 250% of those prevailing



- 1 1 -
at appraisal in July 1973. 1/ A physical contingency of 5% has been applied
to all items and price contingencies have been added as follows: imported
cattle 5% p.a. cif; local cattle, farm deve3opment and technical services
6% p.a.; and equipment, fertilizer and fuel 14% and 11% for 1974-75 and 7.5%
for 1976 and thereafter. The estimated foreign exchange component is about
US$5.5 million, or about 43% of total Project cost. Details of investment
costs and foreign exchange components by major categories are given in Annex
11 and summarized in the following table.
Total Project Cost
Foreign
Category       Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
--(Rupees Million) --        --(US$ '000)-----
Dairy Farm Devel-
opment              22.9   17.0      39.9   2,288   1,700   3,988       42
Incremental Working
Farm Capital         4.5     -        4.5     450       -      450      -
Purchased Livestock  10.8   14.5       25.3   1,081   1,447   2,528       57
Milk Collection &
Transport Equipment 5.8    5.5       11.3     575      553   1,128      49
Collection Center
Buildings            0.9    0.2       1.1       92      16      108     15
Management, Technical
Services & Pilot
Units               12.5    4.8      17.4   1,252      481   1,733      28
Subtotal         57.4   42.0      99.4   5,738   4,197   9,935       42
Contingencies:
Physical             2.9    2.1       5.0     294      205     499      41
Price               12.2   10.8      23.0   1,219   1,082   2,301       47
Subtotal         15.1   12.9      28.0   1,513   1,287   2,800       46
Total ProJect Cost   72.5   54.9    127.4   7,251   5,484  12,735         43
1/   Reflecting a projected farm gate price for urea of US$225 per m ton.



- 12 -
D. Proposed Financing
4.15      The proposed IDA Credit of US$9.0 million would finance about 702
of total Project cost. ApproximateLy US$5.5 million of the Credit would
finance the full foreign exchange cimponent and US$3.5 million would finance
about 50% of the local currency expenditure. The Project would be financed
as follows:
(Rs Million)
Total
Category            Farmers  Banks  Government        IDA      Amount
(Amount)---------  (Amount) (%)
Imported Livestock           -      1.4       -           17.3   92   18.7
Local Livestock              -      1.2       -           10.7   90   11.9
Dairy Farm Development      8.8     3.4      8.8          30.7   60   51.7
Incremental Farm Working
Capital                     -      0.6       -            5.1   90    5.7
Sub-Total             8.8      6.6      8.8          63.8   72   88.0
Milk Collection and
Transport Equipment         -      8.0                    7.7   49   15.7
Collection Center Build-
ings                       0.1     0.2       -            1.0   80    1.3
Mansnagement, Technical
Services & Pilot
Units                      _        -       4.8          17.5   78   22.3
TOTAL                 8.9    14.8      13.6          90.0   70  127.3
4.16      Government.would establish  a project account with the Central
Bank through which the proceeds of the IDA Credit would be channeled.  The
major part of the Credit ($5.5 million) would be for on-farm development,
including purchase of domestic.livestock, and milk collection and transport
:-quipment and would be relent by Government to People's Bank and Bank of
,.eylon, which would augment these funds by contributing about $1.5 million
of their own resources. Funds for on-farm development would be relent to
dairy farmers by both banks: by Bank of Ceylon through its branches and by
People's Bank to Cooperative Rural Banks (CRBs) and by CRBs to farmers.
Funds for milk collection and transport equipment would be relent by Bank
of Ceylon to NMB, and funds for collection center buildings would be relent
by People's Bank to the cooperatives (see paras 5.09-5.15 for details of
lending terms and operations). The remainder of the Credit ($3.5 million)
would be for imported livestock, PTU and pilot operations and would be



- 13 -
disbursed through the Ministry of Agriculture, complemented by Government' s
contribution of about $0.5 million. Government would also contribute about
$0.9 million in the form of pasture development subsidies to participating
farmers. Farmers would contribute about $0.9 million in labor, cash and
kind toward on-farm development and livestock. Execution of subsidiary
loan agreements between the Borrower and People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon,
as well as provision of acceptable forms of lending agreements between
these banks, CRBs, NMB, farmers and cooperatives, would be conditions of
Credit effectiveness.
E. Procurement
4.17      Contracts with an estimated value of about US$0.6 million net
of contingencies would be let under international competitive bidding, in
accordance with IDA guidelines, for the purchase of milk storage and transport
equipment and mobile testing units which would have to be imported by NMB.
Tenders would require the suppliers of milk storage equipment to supervise
its installation. Specifications for milk storage and transport equipment,
the timetEble for phasing its purchase and installation and the determination
of sites for the installation of storage equipment would be set by NMB
in accordance with the findings of the milk storage and transport study to
be completed by consultants (para 4.10), and would be subject to IDA approv-
al. Agreement on these provisions was obtained.
4.18      Approximately 13,600 dairy heifers costing about US$2.5 million
net of contingencies would be purchased. Of these, about 3,200 costing
US$1.4 million would be imported; 4,000, costing about US$0.5 million,
would be purchased from existing Government herds; and 6,400, costing about
US$0.7 million, would be purchased from privately-owned herds. All purchase
of dairy heifers would be subject to the supervision and approval of the PTU
Project Director and, during the first three years, the Technical Director,
for quality and suitability of stock. Purchase of imported heifers from
outside Sri Lanka would be organized by PTU. Because of the wide variations
in breeds, types and adaptability of animals available, and the disease
situation in supplying countries, proposals would be obtained from at least
three countries free from foot and mouth disease, that can supply heifers
of the type required, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. This
was agreed during negotiations. The allocation and sale of heifers and
young cattle from existing Government herds to Project participants would
be carried out by PTU as would the organization of local cattle auctions in
the Mid and Up-Country through which sales of privately-owned cattle of
suitable breeding to farmer participants in the Project would be conducted.
4.19      Orders for the 19 four wheel drive'vehicles and 90 motorcycles
required by the PTU would total less than US$200,000 and be of a piecemeal
nature since they would have to be coordinated with the needs of the PTU
technical staff which would be built up and trained under a gradually expanding
program phased over 3 years to meet increasing demands of the Project. There-
fore international competitive bidding would not be appropriate and procurement



- 14 -
would be by local competitive bidding. Most major manufactures of imported
vehicles are represented in Sri Lanka and are competitive and offer satis-
factory follow-up service facilities. PTU wiwuld incur additional costs of
about US$0.4 million in direct expenditures on technical assistance salaries
and vehicle operations. Pasture planting materials, fertilizer, buildings,
water supply and other materials required for on-farm development, costing
in total about US$5.3 million, would be obtained by farmers and PTU through
local suppliers and contractors. These goods and services would be procured
piecemeal over 5 years and could not reasonably be bulked to allow for
competitive bidding. However, they are readily available locally and there
is keen competition between suppliers in the Project areas. Erection of the
collection center buildings, which will be widely dispersed and of simple
construction, would be carried out mainly by cooperative members. Any minor
contracts required would be negotiated with domestic contractors.
F. Disbursement
4.20      The IDA Credit would be used to finance (a) the cif cost of dairy
heifers and of milk storage, collection and transport equipment imported
specifically for the Project; (b) 90% of sub-loan disbursements to partici-
pating farmers on new on-farm development investments approved under the
Project including working capital and local cattle but excluding imported
cattle; (c) 90% of sub-loan disbursements to participating cooperatives for
collection center buildings aplproved under the project; (d) the cif cost
of vehicles for the PTU; (e) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of technical
specialists and calf rearing and dry land pilot operations; and (f) 80% of
all other PTU expenditures on management, technical services and pilot units
except for purchases of vehicles. Disbursement requests would be supported
by the usual documents. Disbursements against sub-loans would be made on
the basis of a statement of expenditures certified by the Central Bank and
participating banks. Detailed supporting documentation for local expenditures
would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the Borrower and
be available for inspection by the Association during the course of project
supervision.
4.21      Disbursement of the Credit would be over five years.  The phasing
of disbursements for each major investment category and the forecast of
estimated disbursements on a quarterly basis are shown in Annex 12.
G. Reportlng and Auditing
4.22      Government would maintain a Special Project Account with separate
accounts for the several components of the Project, i.e., dairy farm loans,
imported livestock, purchased local livestock, milk collection and transport
equipment, and PTU (management, technical services and pilot units). It
would submit quarterly reports to IDA within 30 days of the close of the
quarter. Within six months of the close of the fiscal year IDA would also



- 15 -
require annual audited statements covering the Special Project Account, the
entire operations of NMB and the Project-related accounts of Bank of Ceylon
and Peoples Bank by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
Agreement on these procedures was obtained.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Administration
5.01      Responsibility for overall coordination of the various agency
activities related to the Project would be vested in a Project Committee
to be appointed by Government under the Chairmanship of the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs and to include representation from the Ministry
of Agriculture (including the APHD), the Ministry of Finance, the Commissioner
of Cooperatives, Peoples Bank, the Bank of Ceylon and NMB. It would be a
condition of effectiveness that the Project Comnittee has been established.
5.02      The PTU would be set up specifically for the purpose of the Project,
and its establishment would be a condition of effectiveness of the Project.
It would be responsible for the execution of on-farm development, livestock
procurement and the technical services components of the project including
pilot demonstration operations. It would be established as an autonomous
unit within the APHD under a Project Director who would report directly to
the Deputy Director of Agriculture in charge of APHD. Milk collection and
transport components would be executed by NMB. Coordination of these
activities with the on-farm development program under PTU would come through
the existing APHD representation on the NMB board and also the Project
committee.
B. Management and Technical Services
Project Technical Unit
5.03      The full-time Project Director would be recruited locally.  He would
probably be drawn from the existing cadre of senior members of the APHD and
would be an experienced administrator in livestock development services. It
was agreed that the PTU would at all times be headed by a competent Project
Director whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Government and IDA and that his appointment would be a condition of effective-
ness. He would be assisted by an internationally recruited Technical
Director who would be experienced in dairy farm development and the management
of pastures under tropical conditions. The Technical Director would be
responsible for training the technical staff of the PTU and participating
banks, particularly in preparation and approval of farm plans, and for the
approval of farm plans submitted by farmers for financing under the Project.



- 16 -
5.04      Two additional specialists would be recruited and attached to
the PTU staff as follows:
(a)  a livestock specialist responsible for planning and
operation of the calf-raising pilot operation. He
would also participate in the livestock aspects of
farm development planning and appraisal and PTU staff
training; and
(b) a tropical crops and pasture specialist responsible for
determining and training PTU staff in the most suitable
kinds of pasture/fodder crops, production methods and
seed multiplication on Project farms. He would also
plan and conduct the Dry Zone rotational farming/milk
.roduction pilot operation and participate in the technical
aspects of a farm development planning and appraisal.
5.05      The Technical Director and two specialists would be recruited in-
ternationally on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and agreement on
these points was obtained. Proposed terms of reference are at Annex 9. The
appointment of the Technical Director would be a condition of effectiveness
and that the two specialists would be appointed within 6 months of signing of
the Credit. Other PTU) staff would be selected largely from members of the
APHD with experience in dairy development in the Project areas.   Staff
requirements are shown at Annex 8.
5.06      To ensure close contact with the farming community and success
in promotion of the Project, the PTU would be decentralized with its head
office located at Peradeniya (which is the HQ of APHD and where suitable
accomodations are available) and branch offices located at the existing
APHD Livestock Offices in Nawalapitiya, Kurunegala and Welisara.
National Milk Board
5.07      Since its formation in 1954, NMB has, with the exception of small
trading profits in 1970 and 1971, operated unprofitably with losses covered
annually (only partially in 1972) by Government. With the May 1973 price
increases, profits of Rs 19 million were projected for 1973 but at the sub-
sequently reduced (and present) prices, losses of up to Rs 11 million may be
expected for the year. Further, at present prices and with or without the
proposed Project, NMB future losses would likely be even greater (see Annex 2).
5.08      Strengthening of NMB's financial management and restoration of
the organization to a sound financial position through, inter alia, revision
of its pricing structure are essential to its effective participation in
the Project. NMB intends to recruit a competent finance manager empowered
to achieve these goals, and appointment of a person whose qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness.
In addition, it has been agreed that:



- 17 -
(a)  Government would take all measures necessary to ensure the
financial viability of NMB and to enable NMB to realize, by
the end of its fiscal year 1977, and maintain a rate of
return of 8% on NMB's total capital employed. These objec-
tives could be attained initially if the schedule of milk
and milk product price increases introduced by Government on
May 26, 1973 but subsequently retracted, were re-established
fully by January 1976 (see Annex 2, Table 4) with necessary
adjustments for inflation; and
(b)  Government would provide NMB with the funds necessary to
enable NMB, not later than December 31, 1975, to write off
all its losses accumulated up to December 31, 1974, such funds
to be used by NMB to reduce its current liabilities.
C.  Lending Operations
5.09      Sub-borrowers under the Project would be NMB, Cooperatives and about
2,400 farmers approved by PTU. Initially the farmers in those areas nearest
the main chilling and collection centers and with established banking
services would be brought into the Project. After the PTU and Bank staffs
have been trained and had experience in these operations they will move to
more isolated areas. Both the Bank of Ceylon, through its branches, and
Peoples Bank, through CRBs would serve as on-lenders of Project funds for
dairy farm development. In addition, Bank of Ceylon would serve as on-lender
to NMB, and Peoples Bank would on-lend to cooperatives for construction of
buildings to house milk collection equipment. Both Bank of Ceylon and Peoples
Bank recruit and conduct training programs designed to provide competent
managers for the 90 branches and 100 CRBs scheduled to be operative in the
Project areas by end-1974. Government has undertaken to ensure the establish-
ment of these banking facilities as well as any additional facilities neces-
sary to carry out the project.
Procedures
5.10      Dairy Farm Development Loans.  The PTU technicians would collaborate
with the participating banks and MPCS in the Project areas in the initial
promotion of the project. This is considered an essential prerequisite to
success, since many farmers lack familiarity with improved livestock and
pasture management. However, the limited experience to date in the project
areas has shown that farmer interest in dairy development credit can be fos-
tered with good promotion and advice. Farmer applications for development
credit (including purchase of cattle), would be submitted either to one of
the participating banks or to a PTU farm planning technician located in the
Project areas. Proceeding concurrently, the Bank would initiate investigation
of the applicant's creditworthiness and, if need be, title to property offered
for mortgage; the PTU technician, in cooperation with the applicant, would
prepare a farm development plan for submission to the PTU Technical Director



- 18 -
(or his appointed representative) for approval which would be based on lend-
ing criteria as set forth in Annex 6, Appendix 1 and contingent upon assur-
ance that timely payment would be made by Government to the applicant of the
appropriate pasture development subsidy (para 6.08). Upon receipt of the
approved development plan from PTU the participating bank, with power of
approval limited to the applicant's creditworthiness, would secure mortgage
of property, obtain an assignment from the borrower on his sales of milk
and proceed with execution and disbursement of the loan.
5.11      Equipment and Building Loans.  After receiving IDA approval of
specifications and bids, NMB would apply to the Bank of Ceylon for loans to
finance the purchase of imported milk storage, transport and testing equipment.
Cooperatives would apply to Peoples Bank for loans to finance buildings to
house collection center equipment.
5.12      Relending Terms.  Relending terms for IDA funds from Government to
Bank of Ceylon and People's Bank would be at 6% for 12 years. Bank of Ceylon
wiould relend to farmers at 10% for 12 years and to NMB at 8% for 10 years.
1eople's Bank would relend part of its proceeds to CRBs at 7-1/2% for 12
years and the CRBs would relend to farmers at 10% for 12 years. People's
Bank would relend the remainder of its proceeds to cooperatives (MPCS and
DCS) at 8% for 12 years. All relending terms include a grace period of three
years, These terms are consistent with prevailing terms for similar loans
in Sri Lanka. The interest spreads would be sufficient to cover administra-
tive costs and credit risks. Agreement has been reached that the above interest
rates may be increased to reflect future increases in the interest rates
charged by banking institutions in Sri Lanka on loans for agricultural
purposes.
VI. MARKETING, PRICES, SUBSIDIES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Marketing and Prices
6o01      NMB marketed about 215 million pints of milk equivalent in 1972,
equal to about half the country's consumption. About 160 million pints of
this was reconstituted from imported milk powder while about 55 million pints
of raw milk was collected locally and sold as processed milk. The balance of
the domestic production of about 170 million pints was sold by producers
oither directly or through collection agents to local rural customers.
6.02      The demand for milk and milk products has invariably exceeded
supply over recent years. Although consumer prices have been controlled
at levels that have stimulated demand, domestic production has stagnated due
mainly to controls on producer prices which, up to recently, offered no in-
centive for commercial milk production. In addition, Government has re-
stricted importation of milk powder. Over the next decade, Government plans
to increase domestic production by 4-5% per year through a package of higher



- 19 -
producer prices, subsidies and improved technical services. However, this
increase, if realized, will barely keep pace with increasing demand which
Government estimates will increase by 5% per year. The Project incremental
production of 43 million pints annually would have a significant impact in
reducing import requirements.
6.03      Prices paid to most milk producers did not increase between 1960
and 1972 and, in fact, actually fell in the Mid and Up-Country. However,
NMB raised its procurement price from 40 to 60 cents/pint (55 cents/pint net
of collection charge) in May, 1973. Many small producers, having only three
to six pints to sell daily, are outside NMB's existing collection system and
get 30-35 cents/pint from middlemen. In some production areas raw milk can
be retailed directly by producers at 50-55 cents/pint but most producers now
appear to turn readily to the NMB channel when accessible. However, with
the recent increase in fertilizer prices the financial benefits to the farm-
ers have been so reduced that unless procurement prices are increased there
will be little incentive for investment in dairy farming. At current costs
and prices the milk procurement price would need to be increased gradually
from 60 to about 75 cents per pint by January 1977 in order to guarantee
farmer interest. Agreement has therefore been reached that Government and NMB
would keep milk procurement prices continually under review, adjust prices
whenever necessary to ensure that production incentives for dairy farmers
are maintained, and consult with IDA semi-annually on the suitability of the
production incentives.
6.04      Consumer milk price structure tends to follow NMB's pricing
since NMB supplies half of the market. NMB's price structure is set by
Government, and reflects the long-standing national policy of consumer
(estecially foodstuffs) subsidization (Annex 3). Thus liquid milk, which
is almost exclusively consumed by the more affluent urban consumers, is
priced relatively higher than powder which, because of its keeping quality,
is consumed by the urban and rural poor. However, neither product is sold at
prices that cover all costs. Powder, which at present world prices costs
about 92 cents/pint equivalent to import and repack, is sold at 77 cents.
The price of 91 cents/pint received by NMB for liquid milk covers direct
costs but results in a substantial net loss when overheads and depreciation
are deducted.
6.05      Consumer prices of milk products were adjusted upwards by from
77% to 90% on May 26, 1973 but, due to public reaction and political pres-
sures, prices of powder and condensed milk were brought back close to their
previous levels and below NMB's costs. The Project requires Government to
adjust milk prices and/or take such other actions as may be required to
ensure NMB's financial viability as specified in paras 5.08 and 8.01 (c).
6.06      With lagging domestic production of beef and imports restricted to
hotel requirements, retail prices for beef have increased more rapidly than
those of other foodstuffs. Retail prices per pound range upwards from the
controlled price of Rs 1.75 in Government shops to Rs 2.40 in unregulated
private butcher stalls. To market animals legally for slaughter (through



- 20 -
Government shops) proof of registration and ownership is required. However,
most producers do not register their animals, hence must sell to middlemen
who arrange for the necessary documents, act as wholesalers, control supplies
and set producer prices at low (Rs 0.30-0.40/lb liveweight) levels. However,
the Project animals would all be registered under the Animals Regulations
Act and surplus males or cull females could therefore be sold into the
domestic market for beef at reasonable prices.
6.07      Surplus dairy heifers are traded at about Rs 600 to 1,300 per head,
depending on quality, with the prices - particularly for low producing cat-
tle - reflecting beef prices. Prices of imported purebred dairy cattle to
farmers are subsidized at f.o.b. cost in country of origin -- about Rs 1,300
per head for heifers, and comparable purebred heifers from Government farms
are priced at the same level. Because of the unattractive producer prices
for milk and unorganized marketing, there has been, until recently, a lack of
enthusiasm for dairy operations. However, the incentives offered under the
Project should correct this situation and Project output of surplus breeding
heifers which would be available in number from about 1980 should find a
ready market. An increased supply of quality stock will be essential to meet
the Government plans for expanded milk production.
B. Subsidies
Producer Subsidies
6.08      Four direct input subsidy schemes are available to dairy producers
in the proposed Project areas. These are described in detail in Annex 3 and
summarized as follows:
(a) Rs 500 per acre for pasture establishment in the
Mid-Country (for diversification from tea and
rubber);
(b) Rs 120 per acre for establishrent of improved
pastures under coconut palms;
(c) 50% subsidy on pasture fertilizer cost after
establishment of pasture in (b); and
(d) pricing of imported cattle to dairy producers
at f.o.b. cost in country of origin.
6.09      The pasture development subsidies serve as an incentive to farmers
to shift from traditional land uses and farming practices to the different
uses and more sophisticated technologies required under the Project.
They are consistent with Government's goal of increased production of food
crops and livestock products. Similarly, the subsidy on imported dairy
cattle is an incentive for farmers to change from their low producing native



- 21 -
breeds to proven high producing dairy breeds and consistent with goverment
policy for a rapid build up of a high producing dairy herd. As new technology
developed by the project becomes widespread, increasing the availability of
high quality dairy cattle, and milk procurement prices rise gradually (para
6.03) the need for these subsidies will disappear.
C. Producer Benefits
6.10      Parmers participating in the Project are expected to benefit
from higher net incomes at full development. During appraisal it was es-
timated that the 600 smallest farmers, (five acres in the Mid-Country) would
double their incomes (from Rs 700 to Rs 1,400) at year seven, with an in-
crease again to 2,400 after debt retirement in year nine. Similar financial
benefits would also accrue to the estimated 1,200 small farmers in the Mid-
Country and Coconut Triangle with 8-10 acres. In the case of the 600 larger
'farmers with 40-50 acres their net incomes currently derived from dairying
are mLrginal and would increase under the Project to about Rs 5,000 to
Rs 9,500 at full development in year 7. The financial benefits from these
investment models are detailed in Annex 7 and show financial rates of return
of 18% to 26%. The time required to reach full development ranges from 6 to
8 years. Although no substantial cash incomes are generated until years
five to six for large and small farmers in the Coconut Triangle and the
larger farms in the Mid Country, experience has shown that many farmers in
the area are willing to forego higher initial incomes and rely on existing
sources provided they can see that their investments will eventually result
in considerable improvement of their income and nutritional levels.
6.11      With fertilizer prices adjusted to reflect a projected farm gate
price for urea of US$225 per ton, the rates of return at the present producer
price for milk range from 7% to 11%. Phased increases of Rs 0.05 per pint
per year 1975-77 (total increase Rs 0.15) in the producer price of milk
would bring the rate of return into the 15 to 19% range. For this reason
agreement has been reached that Government and NMB would keep milk procurement
prices continually under review and adjust the prices whenever necessary to
maintain producer incentives (para 6.03).
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would assist Sri Lanka in the development of its
livestock potential and, by substantially increasing domestic milk produc-
tion, help conserve scarce foreign exchange resources. At full development,
expected in 1981, additional milk production from project farms would be
about 43 million pints annually, amounting to about 25% of 1972 imports of
dairy products and savings of about US$2.0 million in foreign exchange. In
addition, meat production in the form of cull animals from project farms is
likely to be 1,250 tons liveweight annually (valued at US$418,000), equivalent
to about 3% of domestic production in 1971. Also, the 1,400 head of purebred
and 1,350 head of crossbred surplus breeding heifers, together valued at



- 22 -
US$780,000, available annually from the project will offset the number of
imported stock otherwise needed for a rapid build-up of the national herd.
7.02      Non-quantified but significant benefits would result from the
support that the project would provide in the implementation of the Govern-
ment's plans relating to milk production. In general terms, it would en-
courage the integration of livestock into the farming system and the adop-
tion of mixed farming which in turn would have marked effect in improvement
of soil fertility and structure. Specifically, the extension and research
activities in calf rearing and pasture management would encourage sound
animal husbandry and effective pasture management not only on project farms
but also in the surrounding areas and improved animal husbandry and pasture
technology adapted to Sri Lanka's tropical environment would emerge. In
addition, the experience gained in financing development of about 1,800 small
farmers of about 5-10 acres under the Project should contribute materially to
the improvement and expansion of credit operations for small farmers throughout
the Island.
7.03      The Project would also assist the Government in its planned
diversification of marginally productive tea operations on 14,000 acres
in the Mid-Country. Displacement of about 3,000 tons of present green
leaf tea production is expected. The Project would increase the utiliza-
tion of family labor and create employment for additional 1,500 full time
workers.
7.04      To reflect the shortage of foreign exchange, an average FEEC rate
of Rs 10 - US$1 was used in the economic rate of return calculations. Local
crossbred animals were valued at the full domestic market prices as was all
labor. The value of the lost tea production is taken equal to the cost of
its production since mainly only the marginal operations are being sacrificed.
All imports for and imports displaced as a result of the Project were valued
at international prices. On these assumptions the economic rate of return
for the Project has been estimated at 18% (Annex 14). No account was taken
of the recent fertilizer price increases in this calculation. When this is
included, and assuming no change in commodity prices, the economic rate of
return is 15%. To test the Project against changes in investment costs and
production results a sensitivity analysis was done. By increasing both
investment and operating costs by 20% without changing the operating results,
the return to the economy would drop to about 13%. Similarly, by reducing
benefits by 20% without changing costs, the rate of return would be 12%.
Additional sensitivity tests are given in Annex 14.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  NMB would employ, not later than 60 days after Credit
effectiveness, qualified consultants to carry out, under
terms of reference agreed with the Association, a study
of milk collection and transport in the Project area



- 23 -
'.r-a 4. 0, and specifications for milk storage and
transport equipment to be imported by NMB and the sites
for the collection centers would be subject to IDA
approval (para 4.17);
(b) PTU's Technical Director, Crops and Pasture Specialist,
and Livestock Specialist would be recruited internationally
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and the two
Specialists would be appointed within 6 months after signing
of the Credit (para 5.05);
(c)  Goverament would (i) take all measures necessary to ensure
the financial viability of NMB and to enable NMB to realize,
by the end of its fiscal year 1977, and maintain a rate of
return of 8% on total capital employed and (ii) provide NMB
with the funds necessary to enable NMB, not later than
December 31, 1975, to write off all its losses accumulated up
to December 31, 1974, such funds to be used by NMB to reduce
its current liabilities (para 5.08);
(d) Government would keep milk procurement prices continually
under review and adjust prices when necessary in light of the
review to ensure that production incentives for dairy farmers
are maintained (para 6.03).
8.02      Agreement was also reached on the following as conditions of
credit effectiveness:
(a) Subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to IDA between the
Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon and the Peoples Bank had
been made (para 4.16);
(b) acceptable forms of the proposed lending agreements between
the participating banks, intermediary institutions and project
beneficiaries have been furnished to the Association (para
4.16);
(c) establishment of the Project Committee and the PTU (paras
5.01, 5.02) and appointment of the Project Director (para
5.03);
(d) appointment of the Technical Director (para 5.05); and
(e) appointment of the finance manager by NMB (para 5.08).
8.03      The proposed Project is financially and economically sound and
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$9.0 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Dairy Sub-Sector
Livestock In Sri Lanka Agriculture
1.        Agriculture plays a major role in the economy of Sri Lanka through
its large contribution to GNP, foreign exchange earnings, and government
revenue. In 1973 the agricultural sector accounted for nearly 33% of GNP,
about 77% of export earnings, and 50% of total employment. While livestock
farming has considerable potential it is now of minor economic importance,
contributing only about 7% of the gross value of agricultural production.
2.        Cattle and buffaloes are the most important farm animals, being
widely dispersed on smallholdings and numbering about 1.6 million and 0.7
million, respectively (see Table 1 for livestock numbers). In the paddy
and coconut growing areas of the south-west, cattle and buffalo numbers
are linked to draught power requirements. In the dry north and east,
cattle and buffalo grazing is based on the communal use of natural grass-
lands, and their numbers exceed the local requirements for draught power.
Most cows are milked after parturition but yields are typically low. In
the past some tea estates have used higher yielding European type cattle to
supply milk for their laborers. This type of milk production has virtually
ceased, the cattle having been transferred to small-holders and estate laborers
with milk used largely for home consumption.
3.        There is no specialized beef production in Sri Lanka; all beef
is the by-products of traditional cattle and buffalo husbandry for draught
and milk. Goat and sheep populations are relatively small and located
predominantly in the Dry Zone. Pig numbers have remained constant at about
100,000, concentrated in small units on the west coast. Encouraged by gov-
ernment programs including the suspension of all imports of poultry products,
poultry production increased rapidly in the 1960's. A network of private
hatcheries and commercial production units around the consumption centers
developed, but a serious setback to the poultry industry occurred in early
1973 when concentrate prices rose to an all-time high due to poor coconut
harvests and the continued substantial export of dessicated coconut and of
coconut cake (poonac).
4.        Livestock output has increased since 1960 by about 4% annually,
growth rates being higher in the early 1960'.. Since 1965, slaughter
rates of all farm animals have increased and reportedly have caused con-
siderable declines in cattle and buffalo numbers. 1972 estimates indicate
that the slaughter rate in cattle still exceeds their rate of natural



ANNEX 1
Page 2
increase, but that buffalo numbers are increasing again. Total production
of beef (including edible offal) was about 90 million lb in 1971,
equivalent to about seven lb per capita per year (see Table 2 for present
livestock production). Average consumption of all other meats is estimated
at about 1.5 lb per capita per year. Ii 1970, about 220 miilion eggs
were produced, corresponding to about 17 eggs per person. It is estimated
that at present about 610,OCO pints of milk are available daily for human
consumption from local production. This corresponds to about 224 millon
pints total production per year and, including 1972 imports of about 160
million pints of fluid milk equivalent, gives an estimated average annual
per capita consumption of about 30 pints. All livestock products combined
account for only 6% of all food protein consumed in Sri Lanka, less than
half as much as fish.
Milk Production
Production Systems
5.        Present conditions and development potential of milk production
can best be considered by referring to the different ecological zoues of
the island (see Map and Tables 3 and 4).
6.        The Dry Zone consists of about 11 million acres.  There are
about 400,000 individual holdings covering about 1 million acres of irrigable
land, 2 million acres used for shifting cultivation (chena), 2 million
acres of natural grasslands and 6 million acres of jungle. Most villages
derive their subsistence food and income from the production of rice on
individually owned lands. The Dry Zone has about 60% of the country's
cattle and more than 50% of its buffaloes. Cattle herds average 10-15 head
of indigenous stock. All animals are privately owned but collectively
grazed during the day on the village or government owned natural ranges
and jungle clearings around the villages. About three acres of unimproved
rangeland are required per animal but grazing is seasonal and insufficient
in quantity and quality during the long dry season from March until October.
No concentrates are fed. After calving, most cows are milked; with once a
day morning milking they produce 2-3 pints per day over a 160 days lactation:
they produce a total of no more than about 500 pints of milk for home con-
sumption or for curd production, and feed their calf.
7.        NMB has four milk collection centers in the area around Polonnaruwa;
only about 5 million pints out of widely dispersed total annual production of
about 95 million pints are collected. Although not much of the milk produced
in the Dry Zone is available for consumption outside the area, this region
provides the rural areas and urban populations of the southwest with large
numbers of draught and slaughter cattle.
8.        The Coconut TriLangle covers about 1.6 million acres in the
southwest of the island. An area of about 1.2 million acres is under
coconut palms, 280,000 acres on valley floors are used for paddy production.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
The area has about 20% of the country's cattle population, traditionally
used for transport work in coconut harvest, and about one-third of Sri
Lanka's buffaloes used for paddy cultivation.
9.        Grazing for the cattle is provided by the grasses, mainly
Axonopus species, and shrubs which grow under mature coconut trees. On
larger farms cattle are grazed free during the day; on smaller holdings
they are tethered. All cattle are housed and fed cut forage at night
when lactating cows are separated from their calves so that they can be
milked next morning. Average yields from indigenous stock and their crosses
with Indian dairy bulls (Sahiwal, Red Sindhi, Haryana) are about 1,200 pints
per lactation in addition to calf requirements. All cattle have traditionally
been given substantial amounts of coconut cake and rice bran and, on average,
all nutrients required for the milk produced are derived from the daily
average ration of about 6 lb of concentrates per cow. Improved grasses for
grazing on larger holdings and for a cut-and-carry system on smaller
farms have been planted only receatly to improve the forage supply for
cattle.
10.       It is estimated that about 36 million pints of milk are produced
annually in the Coconut Triangle. Of this, about 6 million pints are
delivered to NMB milk collecting centers. So far, most milk delivered
to the collecting centers is from larger holdings of about 40-50 acres
average, as the owners of smaller farms with one or two lactating cows
find it unattractive to bring the small quantities they produce to the
collection centers and as very few cooperatives have taken up milk col-
lection.
11.       The Mid-Country occupies 1.3 million acres in the hill areas
between 1,000 and 3,000 feet above sea level. The topography is generally
undulating to steep, the flat valley floors being used for paddy pro-
duction. Tea is the predominant crop and occupies about 500,000 acres.
Paddy and other annual crops are grown on about 130,000 acres, the remainder
is taken up in about equal parts by rubber and forest gardening (mixed tree,
shrub and vegetable production). The Mid-Country is the area where
government policy is to replace marginal tea and rubber with more profitable
land uses. This area has at present about 7% of the country's cattle and
buffalo populations.
12.       Generally, all animals are housed day and night throughout the
year and stallfed with 80-100 lb of cut, fresh forage. Panicum maximum
grows freely on the edges of roads and fields, and in empty spaces of tea
or forest gardens and provides sufficient amounts of fodder throughout the
year even for landless cattle owners. Most farmers own cattle, and the
typical forest gardener with about five acres of land has fresh fodder collect-
ed daily in a radius up to one mile around his property, saving the more
easily collected small amounts of fodder which grows on his own lands for festive
days. There is competition for free growing fodder. Many tea estates have
been subdivided during the last 20 years into holdings of 5-10 acres. Most
of these farmers find sufficient fodder for their cattle on their own lands.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Sowe of the larger, owner-managed tea farms have started to keep dairy cattle
in order to make use of those lands which cannot be used for tea and are
now under indigenous or planted grasses. Lactating cows received about 5
to 6 lbs. daily of a home-mixed concentrate consisting of poonac and rice
bran. Most cattle area of a non-descript type, being crosses between the
native stock and Indian dairy breeds and then upgraded to imported
European dairy stock. Lactation yields average about 2,400 pints in 250 days.
Most cows are milked without their calves at foot.
13.       It is estimated that about 41 million pints of milk are produced
annually in the Mid-Country. Of this, about 18 million pints are deliv-
ered to NMB collection centers. Most of this milk is produced on small-
holdings, particularly of the forest garden type, and is collected and sent
to the NMB centers through cooperatives.
14.       The Up-Country is the area above 3,000 feet occupied, typically
by Agency-House-managed tea estates. 1/ There are about 310 tea estates in
the Up-Country. Some areas on hill tops are under grass cover (patua), some
others have been planted to wattle, pines or are still under virgin forest.
The Up-Country has about 6X of Sri Lanka's cattle population.
15.       Most cattle in this area are owned in units of one or two cows by
estate laborers for the augmentation of family income. European type cattle
of Friesian and Ayrshire descent are kept in fully enclosed sheds and fed
about 100 lb of indigenous grasses which are cut daily by family members
on the waste areas accounting for about 5% of estate lands. On a few
estates, centrally managed dairy herds are maintained. Very few pastures
have been established so far on Up-Country tea estates. All cattle receive
large rations of concentrates; 6-7 lb of a poonac/rice bran mixture would
be typical for a lactating cow. Averaga lactation yields are about 2,400
pints, without calf at foot.
16.       Total annual milk production in the Up-Country is estimated to be
about 38 million pints. Nine-tenths of this is produced by estate laborers
and about 24 million pints or 65%, is collected by NNB collecting centers.
17.       Southern Wet Zone.  There are about 1.6 million acres, not
included in the Coconut Triangle and the Mid- and Up-Country, located in
the south and southwest of the island at elevations up to 1,500 feet.
About 60% of this land is held in smallholdings of less than five acres
for rice and tree crop production. Most of the remaining cultivated lands
are under plantation crops (rubber). This area has about 8% of the cattle
and buffalo populations.
18.       Cattle husbandry is generally similar to tnat in the Coconut
Triangle, but because of high temperature and rainfall neither European
breeds or upgraded cattle perform well. Cattle are mainly kept for
1/   Foreign owned.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
draught and lactating cows are milked once a day but with low production
and only one NHB center in the area collecting about 1 million pints
annually the bulk of the 14 million pints produced per year is for home
consumption and processing into curd.
Cattle Breeds and Performances
19.       The vast majority of cattle are of the indigenous (Bos indicus)
type which thrives well under the local conditions. A number of Indian
cattle have been used with limited success to increase the milk production
potential and body size of Sinhala cattle. For a long time higher yielding
purebred European dairy breds, mostly Friesian, Jersey, Ayrshire and Shorthorn,
hav, been used on Up-Country estates.  Their offspring and crosses with
indigenous cattle have been passed on to the Mid-Country and, to a limited
extent, also the Coconut Triangle where they have proven to be higher yield-
ing than the indigenous cattle particularly when attention is paid to their
nutrition. It is estimated that 90% of all cattle in the Up-Country and
50% in the Mid-Country are of European descent and their crossbreds. Only
about 5-10% of cattle in the Coconut Triangle are European crossbred, but
their number, particularly from crossing with Jersey bulls, is increasing
rapidly.
20.       Productivity of all cattle is low and generally less than genetic
potential, largely reflecting low levels of nutrition and management. The
calving rate approached 50% on a national level and is about 65% in the
Mid- and Up-Country. Deficiency and seasonality of feeding are the major
cause of reduced fertility. Calf mortality is probably as high as 20% on
the more intensively operated dairy farms whereas adult mortality is quite
normal at about 5%. Average liveweight of mature Sinhala cattle is 700-800 lb
in bulls and 500-600 in cows. First calving occurs at three years of age.
Cattle Disease Situation and Calf Mortality
21.       Sri Lanka has been free from Rinderpest since 1964.  Diseases of
major economic importance are haemorrhagic septicaemia, foot-and-mouth
disease, black quarter and anthrax. Haemorrhagic septicaemia is normally
fatal; it requires vaccination at six-monthly intervals. 0 and C type viruses
are the causes of foot-and-mouth disease which normally only causes a
temporary reduction in performance. Piroplasmosis and anaplasmosis are
present. They do not affect indigenous cattle, but all importations
require preimmunization. Internal and external parasites are widespread.
Leeches attack grazing cattle on pastures above 1,200 feet elevation,
cause considerable loss of milk production through blood loss and disruption
of grazing, and necessitate housing of animals.
22.       Calf mortality is a serious problem where calves are separated
from their dams after birth and not needed for milk let-down in their
mothers. This is normally the case in the Mid- and Up-Country, whereas
in the Coconut Triangle and Dry Zone calves run with their mothers during
the day and get some milk in the morning when they induce milk let-down.
Most farmers try to sell all the milk they produce and, in the absence of



ANNEX 1
Page 6
milk replacers, many calves are subjected to malnutrition for a very critical
period before they become true ruminants. This malnutrition, often combined
with Lo-hygienic and unhealthy stables, predisposes young calves to a series
of contagious diseases, like white scours or pneumonia, which then are the
final cause of death. Calf mortality is above 20X on many farms and
represents a serious loss of valuable animal resources.
Forage Productivity
23.       This section summarizes information obtained from discussions
with private farmers and at various research centers regarding recent
experiences with pasture/fodder production in Sri Lanka.
24.       To provide cattle regularly with as much low cost energy as
possible is the key objective of pasture/fodder species selection. Con-
siderable progress has been made during recent years and the following
results can be substantiated:
(a) In the Up-Country, Kikuyu graiss (Pennisetum clandestinum)
grows well throughout the year; with a fertilization
of 200 lb of N per acre, one acre can support 1.5
animal units. Nutrient intake is sufficient for
maintenance plus three to four pints of milk in
lactating cows.
(b) In the Mid-Country, Napier grass (Pennisetum purpurem),
Guinea A and B (Penicum maximum), Nandi grass (Setaria
sphacelata) and various Brachiaria species grow well,
With proper fertilization they will remain productive
through the short dry seasons. At a fertilization
level of 100 lb of N per acre, which seems the pro-
bable practice on small holdings, about 1.0 - 1.2
animal units can be maintained per acre. Nutrient
intake provides for maintenance requirements plus six
to seven pints of milk.
(c) In the Coconut Triangle, Brachiaria miliiformis and
B. brizantba are the most promising grasses for
grazing, and Hybrid Napier or Guinea grasses for cut-
and-carry systems. In areas with more than 75 inches
of rain, coconut yields will not be depressed if the
undergrowing grasses are fertilized with 150 lb of N
and 100 lb P205 per acre, plus K20 where required.
With average intensity of shade in mature coconut
groves, about 1.5 acres and 1.2 acres per animal unit
are required under cut-and-carry and under grazing con-
ditions, respectively. In both caaes, about four pints
of milk can be produced from grass.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
(d) In the Dry Zone Brachiaria miliiformis and B. brizantha
and Pangola grass (Digitaria decumbens) grow well. About
four acres are required to support one animal unit.
Forage conservation is not necessary in spite of the
long dry season, if they have access to low lying grass-
lands (Villu) which remain productive during the dry
season when inundation from the rivers terminates.
25.       Little experience is available in Sri Lanka concerning the
role of tropical legumes in pastures. They are probably of little value
in tall growing grasses uader zero grazing and heavy application of
nitrogen, but their role for less intensively managed pastures for grazing
animals in the Coconut Triangle and in the Dry Zone has priority for opera-
tional field research.
Production Support Services
Institutional Support
26.       The Animal Production and Health Division (APHD) of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Lands has primary responsibility for policy form-
ulation, research, veterinary and extension services in the livestock
sector. Its headquarters is in Peradeniya. It is headed by a Deputy
Director of the Department of Agriculture, with assistants in charge of
the four sectors: government livestock farms, production promotion, animal
health and research. APHD has a staff of about 500 of which 92 are quali-
fied veterinaries, a few are graduates in agriculture. About 310 of APHD
staff is located at village level as agricultural extension workers.
Veterinary Services
27.       There are about 40 veterinary hospitals and dispensaries spread
over the country. Each is under a veterinarian who with his staff carries
out the various field programs of the Division (vaccination, castration, etc.).
Treatment is carried out free of charge at the hospitals and also at the
owner's property against a fee for mileage and services. All veterinarians
employed by APED are permitted to practice privately in their own time and
to retain the fees earned. Some veterinary hospitals have diagnostic labora-
tories. During recent years about 80% of all analyses were of poultry. The
veterinary diagnostic services are expected to be strengthened by bilateral
support from SIDA during the next year.
28.       Vaccines and medicines required for the diagnosis and prevention
of contagious diseases are produced in sufficient quantity locally. About
500,000 cattle are vaccinated annually against various diseases. This is
done without charge under nationally sponsored program but cattle owners
have to pay small fees if vaccinations are carried out at their request.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Production Extension
29.       APHD provides extension services through nine regional livestock
offices. As most of these are under veterinary graduates, extension has
a strong veterinary bias and insufficient attention is given to crop produc-
tion, farm management and other related aspects of livestock production.
The nine livestock officers are assisted by about 70 field staff who
frequently have gone through several years  f in-service training at
government livestock farms. The entire livaostock extension service is
weak technically and has very little contact with the livestock farmers in
the vicinity. This is partly due to a grave shortage of vehicles and travel
funds. Recruitment of additional staff, preferably graduates in agriculture,
is needed to meet the needs of the proposed Project. A shift in program
emphasis to give greater attention to the neglected (non-veterinary) aspects
of livestock farm development is also needed and would be facilitated by the
Project. Additional training, particularly in pasture/fodder development
and the techniques of farm development planning is also provided under the
Project.
Education and Training
30.       Four year courses leading to B.Sc. (Agr.) and B.V.Sc. degrees
are provided by the university at Peradeniya. So far graduates in
agriculture from this university have not been accepted for employment
in the professional category by APHD, although the university is
relatively strong in its animal production sector. The School of Agri-
culture at Kundesale graduates, after a two year training program, about
100 students each year who become Agricultural Inspectors by joining the
Department of Agriculture. Six month training courses for about 40 junior
staff of APHD staff and different groups of livestock farmers are given
at the Peradeniya In-Service Training Institute with teaching assistance
from APHD headquarters staff. A new cattle production in-service training
institute is under construction at the government livestock farm near
Kegalle.
Research
31.       The Veterinary Research Institute and government livestock
farms carry out research in animal production. Some research is also
conducted by the University at Peradeniya, the Coconut Research Institute
at Lunuwila and the Agricultural Research Station at Maha Illuppallama.
The Veterinary Research Institute at Peradeniya does research in para-
sitology, bacteriology, virology, animal breeding, animal nutrition,
pastures and fodder production. Adaptable pasture species have been
proven for the various agro-climatic zones. The University carries out
trials on pasture and forage, fertilizer, yields, and feed value. At Maha
Illuppallama several grasses and legumes useful under irrigation have been
demonstrated and the Coconut Research Institute has identified and demon-
strated pastures suitable under coconut. While a reasonably adequate base
of research data relevant to the proposed Project is available, experience



ANNEX I
Page 9
In its application at farm level is limited. The project will afford the
opportunity to widen this experience particularly in determination of the
most suitable varieties and mixtures for forage and fodder, cultural tech-
niques inc(luding seeding and fertilization rates, stocking rates and live-
stock management systems most suited to the various micro ecological
environments within the Project areas.
Artificial Insemination (AI) and Bull Distribution
32.       AI services were started in 1950 and the number of inseminations
increased slowly to about 19,000 in 1971/72. Two bull centers collect
semen from 42 dairy bulls and dispatch it thrice weekly by train to the
39 veterinary hospitals from where the inseminations are carried out by
assistants on request. Charges are Rs 10 for the first insemination
and Rs 5 each for two re-inseminations. The 90-day non return rate is
claimed to be about 65%: acceptable for these tropical conditions.
The AI center at Kundesale has been selected to become the center of Swedish
bilateral assistance, which will also strengthen the use of deep frozen semen.
33.       In areas where AI is not feasible, i.e. particularly in remote
areas of the Dry Zone, young bulls of improved types are issued to
villages or individual farmers under the Bull Calf Exchange Scheme. In
this scheme, recipients are expected to return to APHD an equivalent
weight of mature, local males and to give an undertaking to castrate all
other males in the herds concerned. About 1,500 bulls are issued and
26,000 castrations carried out by APHD field staff annually.
Government Farms
34.       Three farms, or groups of government farms are of importance
to dairy development. Two of these are located in the Up- and Mid-Country
and one in the Dry Zone. One additional farm with milk buffaloes is
located in the southern Wet Zone. All the three first mentioned farms
have NMB processing facilities nearby.
35.       All government farms maintain improved dairy stock. Indian
dairy cattle and buffaloes are kept at the Polonnaruwa farms in the Dry
Zone, and European type dairy breeds at the Kegalle farm in the Mid-
Country and the Ambewela farm complex in the Up-Country. Surplus bulls
and heifers are sold to private farmers. Farmers apply to APHD for
female stock which are normally sold at 12-14 months of age for Rs 600-700
each. APHD receives about 2,000 applications per year. The government
farms in the Mid- and Up-Country are at present fully stocked and carry
about 2,400 cows; considering actual calving and wastage rates, about
420-500 young females can be sold to the private sector each year.
36.       Government farms also serve as quarantine stations for large
scale cattle imports. European type imparted heifers are transported
at once to the Ambewela farm complex for pre-immunization against tick-borne
diseases under strict veterinary supervision.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Cattle Marketing
37.      The marketing of live animals follows traditional lines. No
organized cattle markets exist from where draught animals, dairy replace-
zunt cattle or stock for slaughter could be collected. Instead, middlmen
and their agents visit rural communities at irregular intervals and try to
obtain the kind of stock for which they have an outlet. Marketing channels
are uncertain and margins excessive. Regular local auctions, with inspection
and grading services are badly needed.
38.      Marketing of cattle for slaughter is subjected to the Animals
Regulations Act of 1968 which requires the registration of all cattle
and buffaloes within 18 months of birth and proof of ownership when
passed on for slaughter. The act is poorly implemented. It strengthens
the bargaining position of the middlemen who normally arrange for the
necessary documents. There is also a reluctance for religious reasons
to sell ani-als directly for slaughter which further allows the intermediaries
to purchase at low prices. Wholesale and retail prices of beef are supposed
to be controlled at Re 1.00 and Rs 1.10 per lb carcass weight. Although
these prices are not adhered to, they are the basis of price negotiations
used by the middlemen. Accordingly, many iroducers obtain only Rs 0.30-0.40
per lb liveweight for beef which then is sold in unregulated butcher stalls
for about Rs 2.40 per lb without bones.
39.      A Livestock Development Board was established in 1972 within
the Department of Agriculture and Lands with the objective, inter alia,
to (a) establish a series of slaughterhouses suitable for veterinary
inspection and by-product utilization, (b) establish a series of livestock
and meat markets, and (c) introduce a beef-grading system. The Board is not
yet operational. A Chairman was appointed in early 1972, and a study
concerning the location and equipment of the required abattoirs was
completed in July 1973 with assistance fromn Denmark.
40.      Supply of dairy cattle is organized in two different ways:
(a) by approaching APHD and requesting the allocation of surplus stock
from government far",- (b) by approaching an intermediary. Due to the
low farm gate price of milk until the end of Hay 1973 and very high
concentrate prices, demand for dairy cattle has been low during the last
year. However, a considerable number of pure-bred or high-grade dairy
stock would be required under the envisaged dairy development project
and in order to organize the procurement of all locally available cattle
of suitable breeding, close cooperation between the project, AfPD and
the Livestock Development Board would be essential. With a proper
announcement campaign it would be possible to organize dairy cattle sales
at regular intervals at the Grama Sevaka Division level.
1/  Milk marketing is described in Annex 2.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
41.       It has been estimated that between 420-500 dairy heifers could
be released from government livestock farms annually. Assuming that 90% of
all cattle in the Up-Country, and 50% of cattle in the Mid-Country are of
suitable dairy merit, and accepting the performance parameters used in Table
3, it would appear that about 1,700 three-year old heifers would become
available from the private sector. Obviously, it would depend on the effi-
ciency of the dairy cattle marketing to be organized, but the number which
could become available from local sources would be about 2,100 to 2,200
heifers per year.
Feed Supplies and Industry
42.       Locally produced coconut cake (poonac) and rice bran are the
main ingredients of concentrates in Sri Lanka. About 60,000-70,000 tons
of poonac and 30,000 tons of rice bran come on to the market per year.
The State Flour Mill produces about 15,000 tons of good quality wheat
bran from imported wheat, but this is normally re-exported to earn foreign
exchange. Availability of high energy feed grains for the modern pig and
poultry sectors is critical. About 10,000 tons of maize are produced now,
mainly under shifting cultiv4tion and Rs 3.25 million has been accumulated
under a World Food Programme (WFP) poultry feeding project in order to
increase the local production of maize.
43.       Most milk producers, even the smallholders, mix poonac and rice
bran on their own farms. The feed industry consists of two large government
mills, the Ceylon Oils and Fats Corporation operating under the Ministry
of Industries, and the British Ceylon Trading Corporation operating under
the Ministry of Commerce and Trade. Together, the two mills have a single
shift capacity of about 100,000 tons per year which is at present utilized
to about 50-55%, predominantly for the poultry industry. The bulk of the
compounded dairy cattle feeds goes to the government livestock farms. Both
mills have facilities for simple chemical analyses. An animal nutritionist
from APHD visits the mills twice monthly to assist in ration formulation.
44.       Attractive world market prices in 1971/72 led to a sharp increase
in the export of dessicated coconut. This, together with a general depres-
sion of coconut yields due to drought, resulted in a serious shortage of
poonac toward the end of 1972. Local prices of poonac rose from about
Rs 350 per ton in early 1972 to Rs 1,000 per ton in November 1972 and
effected similar price increases in all other ingredients. Government
has banned the export of dessicated coconut and of poonac since early 1973
in an effort to salvage the poultry industry and to halt the decline in
milk production. These measures had reduced the price of poonac to Rs 850
per ton in May 1973. It is estimated that the future price of poonac will
be about Rs 650-700 per ton, and that adequate supplies will be available.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
Bilateral and Multilateral Support
45.       Dairy development in Sri Lanka has been and is being aided by
various foreign assistance programs, many of which are part of the
International Scheme for Coordination in Dairy Development (ISCDD)
initiated by FAO in 1969/70.
(a) Sweden has pledged US$2.1 million for the strengthening
of artificial insemination services, vaccine production
and veterinary diagnostic services.
(b) Denmark is providing funds for an expatriate milk plant
manager during the running-in period of the Ambelwela
spray drying plant and a soft loan for 480 in-calf
Jersey heifers to be flown in during September 1973.
(c) The Federal Republic of Germany has provided fertilizers
at a value of US$200,000 for pasture development and
indicated its willingness to consider similar contribu-
tions in the future.
(d) Australia gives about US$300,000 per year for various
veterinary equipment and will provide an expert to
develop the techniques of pre-immunization against
tick-borne diseases; a gift of dairy heifers is also
under consideration.
(e)  The United K gd  is considering financing a con-
sultancy study of milk collection and transport.
(f)  The WorldFood Programme (WFP) sponsors a dairy
cattle feed grain project under which, over a five
year period, WFP-donated maize will generate a
revolving fund of about US$3.1 million. These funds
are available to government to finance infrastructural
development (in-service training, artificial insemina-
tion, milk recording) and pasture development in the
Coconut Triangle and the Dry Zone.
(g) FAO/UNDP Prolect CEY "Agricultural Diversification of
Uneconomic Tea and Rubber Lands" is engaged in deter-
mining the extent to which diversification should be
pursued and the types of alternative land uses to be
recomended. The project operates in the Mid-Country.
(h) Numerous overseas training programs are executed with
the assistance of various foreign donors.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
Government Programs-and PIlans
46.       Past livestock development policy has been principally concerned
with veterinary programs and development of Government livestock farms.
Livestock diseases of economic itportance are now under control, and improved
breeding stock, as well as advice on the establishment and management of
pasture/forage crops, can now be provided disseminated to the private sector.
47.       The Five Year Plan (1972-76) aims at increasing milk production
to attain the 1963 level of consumption by utilizing the existing facilities
and services for developments in the private sector. Rs 50 million, 47Z of
total allocations for animal production in the Plan, have been earmarked for
dairy development. Plan implementation is the responsibility of APHD. The
bulk of Plan allocation is for pasture/forage developments in the Mid-Country
and the Coconut Triangle, for dairy cattle importation and for AI development.
48.       The Divisional Development Councils (DDC) and the UDA-RATA
Estates Development Board also are involved in dairy development. The
former are local authorities which may prepare, with government support,
development proposals eligible for public financing. DDC projects
receive preference in the allocation of cattle from government farms.
The UDA-RATA Board has been entrusted by government to develop 27 estates
(total about 8,000 acres) which the government has acquired in the Mid-
Country. Dairy development is under consideration for some of these
estates.
49.       Government supports milk production developments through various
subsidies (described in detail in Annex 3).
(a) The Tea and Rubber Controller issues Rs 500 per
acre for the uprooting of uneconomic tea and
pasture establishment, including fertilizer, soil
conservation measures and fencing.
(b) The Coconut Cultivation Board issues Rs 120 per
acre for the planting of pasture/fodder grasses
under coconut palms. Thereafter the permit holder
is entitled to purchase fertilizer at half cost in
the second year.
(c) Cabinet Paper June 1971 provides for government
subsidy to allow distribution of imported stock to
purchasers at cost in country of origin. The subsidy
amounts to between Rs 3,000-3,500 per imported animal.






ANNEX 1
Table I
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Population in Sri Lanka
('000 head)
1960         1965           1970
Cattle                             1,552         1,90h          1,593
Buffaloes                             813        1.,051           736
Goats                                 419          600            556
Sheep                                  52           35             27
Pigs                                   76          117            108
Poultry                            3,409         6,090          6,856
Source: Village Headman's Returns as reported by Department of Census
and Statistics.
October 10, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 2
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Production and Consumption of Livestock Products
(Millions of Units)
Milk     Beef       Mutton    Pork      Poultry Meat   Eggs
1972     1971        1970     1970          1970        1970
(Pints)/ -----------------(Pounds)----------------  (Number)
Total Production            224      90.6        10.5      6.0          4.5          219
Total Imports               160        -           -        -            -            -
National Consumption        384      90.6        10.5      6.0          4.5          219
Average per Capita
Consumption ]/             29       7          0.8       0.5          0.3           17
j,f Based on a yield of 70% from cattle and buffaloes, including edible
offal.
g,/ Liquid milk equivalent
y/ Units (pints, pounds or number) per capita
Source: (a) Consumer Finance Survey, November 1969 - October 1970.
(b) Mission Estimates
October 10, 1973



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
Livestock Distribution And Cattle Paraneters
Unit        Dry Zone       Coconut         Mid-            Up-           Southern         Total
Triangle        Country         Country       Wet Zone
A. Ecological Characteristics
Elevation                       Feet          0-1,000         0-1,500       1,000-3,000  above 3,000    0-1,500               -
Temperature   /                Fahrenheit  75-90            75-85             65-85          50-75       71-85
- Rainfall  g/                    inches       35-75          75-200             75-200        85-220       75-200             -
B. 'Livestock Distribution
Cattle                            %           59              20                 7             6           8                 100
Bur aIo                           %           54              33             (C..6 ...            )        7                 100
Goats and Sheep                   %            63             21              (......12  .        )        4                 100
Pigs                              %             2             97              (...   ..                    -                 100
Poultry                                       36               4               ..   12 ..         )        8                 100
C.  Cattle Paraneters
Total N-xnber 1970                '000       949             32h               104            90         126               1,593
Cow Nu=ber                        '000       342             117                hi           38           45                 586
Nurber of Calvings/Tear           '000       188              64                29            25          25                 331
D. Estimated Number of  ,/
3-Year Old Heirers               '000                                         ... 114.0 .        )
Nurber Cows Culled                '000                                        (..--12.3 .         )
Surplus HeiCers/Year              '000                                         ..(.1.7 .          )
M ilinimum and maximun monthly mean temperature recorded in the zone
/  Range in total annual rainfalI            I
3/  Assuaming 501 of the Hid-Country calf .crop.
Source:  Mission Compilation.                                                                                                      X
October 10, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 4
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farm Land Use and Farm Size Distribution In
The Project Area by Climatic Zone
Land Use             Plantation   Paddy   Other   Grassland   Other 1/   Total
Crops             Crops
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .'000  acres.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Mid Country              403.9      86.3    94.7      4.9      142.2        713.6
Coconut Triangle       1,123.7     295.9   103.1      6.4      140.5     1,669.6
Total Project Area     1,527.2     382.2   197.8    11.3       264.7      2,383.2
Whole Island           2,323      1,139     821      33        653        4,667
Farm Size
Distribution (ac)        0-5        5-10    10-25    25-50    50-100   Over   Total
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..'000  acres   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Mid Country              194.0       77.5    47.7     25.1     20.8      347.7   713.6
Coconut Triangle         563.4     262.9   208.8    130.0    109.0      395.5   669.6
Total Project Area       758.2     340.4   256.5    155.1    129.8       743.2 2,383.2
Whole Island           1,482        852     530      262      192        134.9 4,667
. . . . . . . . . Number of farms ('000). . . . . . . . . . .
Whole Island             985.7      132.4  37.5        8.3      2.8        3.1  1,169.8
j Homesteads and on-farm waste land.
Source: Department oV Census and Statistics - Census of Agriculture 1962
Vol. II Land Utilization.
Colombo 1966.
October 10, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Milk Board (NMB)
A. Background
1.        NMB was constituted in 1954 3s a department of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Lands to establish and maintain efficient milk collection,
processing and marketing services. The Board consists of seven members
appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and, within its principal function
of milk marketing, acts in matters of contracts, sale and purchase of land,
plant, livestock and recruitment of staff. The Board also raises commercial
and government loans. However, decisions affecting national policy (espe-
cially pricing) are subject to confirmation by the Minister. Financially,
the Board is responsible to the Minister and the Government is responsible
for covering NMB losses.
B. Collection and Transport
2.        Statistics available on livestock numbers and milk production
in Sri Lanka are poor. Data on milk production are derived partly from
Headman's 1/ stock counts (multiplied by an assumed average yield) and
partly from a consumer survey (1968) of 4,300 households. Neither figure
can be accurate, but it is estimated that the NMB, collecting about 54 mil-
lion pints in 1972, handles about one-fourth of Sri Lanka's milk production
meant for human consumption. The remainder is either consumed on the farm,
retailed locally or marketed through private collection agents. NMB
intake of liquid milk has increased to the present 54 million pints from
a level of 22 million pints in 1967 following the installation of collec-
tion centers with chilling facilities and the expansion of its transport
fleet. Location of new NMB collection centers has been decided on the
basis of milk production surveys and has therefore largely attracted
milk previously sold locally. NMB expects the producer price increase
of May 1973 (para 4) to further increase intake. Such collections of
liquid milk accounted for about one third of NMB's total throughput in
1972, with the balance of 115 million pints equivalent being imported,
mostly as powder milk.
1/ Village Headman.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Cooperatives
3.        Until 1972, deliveries to NMB collection centers were mostly
by individuals, often through private collectors who purchased the milk
from producers, typically at reduced prices. With the 1970-71 reorganiza-
tion of cooperatives (Annex 5) and the establishment of cooperative
collecting points, deliveries to collection centers through cooperatives
have increased sharply: from only 5% of NMB purchase in 1969 to 65% in
May, 1973. Under Government encouragement NMB has supported the shift to
cooperative collection in order to improve quality and reduce rejections.
Both multipurpose cooperative societies (MPCS), 152 in the project area,
and dairy cooperative societies (DCS), 21 in the project area, are engaged
in milk collection and delivery. Each IPCS covers a large area and uses
hired truck transport. The DCS are smaller and use whatever transport is
available and suitable. Some use bicycles. All milk is delivered to
collecting centers in cans; no bulk (tank) transport is used.
4.        Collection and transport charges to producers have generally
been high, in some cases as much as 11 cents per pint out of a producer
milk price (until May, 1973) of 40 cents. DCS charges have typically
been lower than HPCS, reportedly because of the greater influence of DCS
members on management. A recent Government directive established 5 cents
per pint as the maximum collection charge to be levied by cooperatives.
This should stimulate collections. NMB tests all milk on arrival at the
collection centers for fat content, solid content and keeping quality, and
may reject a complete delivery if necessary.  Rejections have fallen over
recent years, and were less than 25% in 1972.
Producer Prices
5.        For 4% fat raw milk NMB now pays 604/pint to the cooperatives
compared to 35-404/pint before May 1973. Prices received by producers
wholesaling through the cooperatives are now comparable to those received
by producers able to retail locally. The latter receive between 50 and
55 cents per pint, but the majority sell through agents who pay 35 and 40
cents. Thus producers now turn readily to NMB when collection facilities
are made available. NMB pays monthly for milk on the fifteenth day of
the following month, and the cooperatives, after deducting collection
charges, pay their suppliers one or two days later.
Traslort
6.        Milk is transported once daily from the collection centers to
the processing facilities by tankers, mostly of 1,200 gallon capacity.
A fleet of 23 tankers was purchased between 1962 and 1969. and a DANIDA
grant will provide for the replacement of the ten most aged vehicles in
1973. By then, NMB will have in commission a road tanker fleet with an
operational capacity of 170 million pints Annually. Excluding milk
transfers between plants, road hauls are short (approximately 20 miles) and
it should be possible to achieve h_gh utilization of the transport capacity.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
C. Processing
Cpacity
7.        Almost all milk processing, except for the curd manufactured in
the production areas, is done by NMB. By the end of 1973, NMB will have
in commission a total processing capacity of 281 million pints annually
(Table 1) excluding the imported power repack operation. This is almost
six times the amount of milk collected in 1972. Over half the capacity
consists of a new spray drying plant at Ambewela, in the hill country,
and the replacement of the 1957 pasteurized and sterilized milk plant
at Colombo.  The Anbewela plant is financed by DANIDA and by Government
and is intended to reduce the imports of powder milk which has doubled
in price on world markets since 1972. The initial throughput is expected
to be about 24 million pints annually, rising to its full capacity of
74 million pints as the IDA project progressively reduces the need to use
hill country milk for processing in Colombo. The new Colombo plant is
financed by DANIDA and has an annual capacity of 100 million pints.
Products
8.        The chief products from NNB plants are pasteurized and sterilized
milk, powder milk, malted milk, condensed milk and small amounts of milk
products manufactured from surplus fat content (ice cream, butter &
yoghurt). Before the Ambewela plant was commissioned, all the powder
milk output was from repacked imports. Details of milk movements into
various products and channels are shown in Table 2. Two factors will
affect the future product mix and processing schedule. The first is the
effect of price changes. NMB expects sales of pasteurized and sterilized
milk not to have risen in the latter half of 1973; surplus milk is being
transported to the condensery and stocked as condensed milk for sale in
1974. However, when the spray-drying plant is operative, it will process
all the milk produced in the hill country taking about 1 million pints
per year more than is currently being processed for stock in Polonnaruwa.
The amount of liquid mild sold will therefore fall by that amount. The
second factor affecting the production schedule is the proposed IDA project.
Under the farm component 43 million extra pints of milk per year will be
produced from 1981 onwards. Transport costs will be reduced; Colombo's
liquid milk consumption would increasingly be satisfied from local sources,
and the surplus milk now processed at Pallekelle will be transported direct
from the collection centers to the spray drying plant.
Marketing
9.        Powder milk, malted milk and condensed milk are sold exclusively
to the Ceylon Cooperative Marketing Union Ltd (CCMU), and then to the coop-
eratives. CCMU receives a commission of approximately 6 cents/pint equiv-
alent. Pasteurized and sterilized milk and other milk products are sold
to agents for cash at a commission of 5 cents per pint (the previous practice
of giving one week's credit had led to a bad debt problem), to hospitals on
one month's credit, and for cash through milk bars owned by NMB.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
D. Financial Situation
Operational Profitability
10  ,    The earning capacity of NMB depends on government-regulated prices.
Increases in product prices to eliminate operating losses and to enable
iNNB to meet loan repayments are essential. Any changes in milk and milk
product prices, both producer and retail, are subject to confirmation by Govern-
ment. Both producer and consumer prices were increased on May 26, 1973. The
producer price increase was maintained and the' ission was informed that it
would not be reduced. However, the increases in consumer prices on two major
products, powder milk and condensed milk, were reduced after four days on
May 30, 1973 due to consumer and political pressures. The changes are given
below   Since powder and condensed milk together amount to almost 75Z of NMB'8
sales, these price reductions will clearly have an adverse effect on NMB's
financial situation projected from the May 30 prices.
Before    May 26    After /2
Unit   May 26    May 30    May 30
Producer Price-                 pt      0.40       0.60      0.60
Consumer Price
Pasteurized                  pt      0.55       0.95      0.95
Sterilized                   Pt      0.60      0.95       0.95
Vitamalt (it tins)           lb      5.40       6.50      6.50
Powder (in tins)             lb      3.65       6.75      4.75
Condensed (in tins)          lb      1.25       2.25      1.75
/1  For 42 fat content; to cooperatives which now deduct only
5J/pint collection charge compared to 1/pint till 1972.
/2   Prices at appraisal.
11.       At present prices, condensery direct costs (i.e. excluding fixed
overheads, depreciation and interest)  xceed income by 16%   The plants
at Colombo and Pallekelle make direct profits, on the same definition, of
16Z and 22% of income respectively, but these are not sufficient for them
to operate profitably after deducting overheads and depreciation. Pallekelle
breaks even and, being a small plant operating near capacity, needs higher
selling prices to achieve better results. Colombo needs significantly
greater throughput at present prices. Breakeven now is 401 of capacity;
the forecasts for 1974 and for 1981 are 10% and 42% of capacity, part of
the increase arising from a reduction in Pallekelle's throughput. The
profitability of the imported powder packing operation at Welisara depends
on world prices for powder. At the time of the mission's visit it was



ANNEX 2
Page 5
profitable, but with subsequent increases in the price of imported powder,
it barely covers costs: fixed costs are very low. This price results
in an overall cost 20Z higher than that of powder from the Ambewela plant.
Caitalization
12.       Sources of capital at December 31, 1972 were as follows:
Total    Equity    Grant     Loan          Other
(short-term)
------------------Rs million--         -----
Sri Lanka Government      55.5    35.7        2.1     17.7/
Other Governments
New Zealand              3.5                3.5          /2
Danida                   5.0
Banks                      12.2                         9.9           2.y-=
Trading Credit            45.1                                       45.1
Depreciation              -16.8                         -
138.1    35.7i4.    5.6     32.6           64.2
/1   Rs 13 million interest free.
/2   IDA terms.
/3   Overdrafts.
/4   The equity must be reduced by the accumulated loss of Rs 17 million.
From this summary it can be seen that about 12% of NMB ' capital bears
comercial interest: this will reach only 17% when the project loan is
fully drawn. Sri Lanka Government has provided over 70% of the subscribed
capital, almost entirely as equity, grant and interest-free loan.
Table 3 shows balance sheets from 1969 to 1972.
13.       Financial projections for NMB are given in Tables 3 and 4 where
the existing price structure (after May 30, 1973) and full-increase price
structure are analyzed. Without the project, an 8% p.a. growth in NMB0's
local milk procurement is projected. With the project, at existing
producer, product and import prices, operating losses (before deprecia-
tion aad interest) would amount to about Rs 26 million in 1975 and decline
to Rs 15 million in 1981. However, any debt servicing without substantive
government support is ruled out in these circumtances. If powder and
condensed milk prices to consuers are increased to the May 26, 1973 level,



ANNEX 2
Page 6
NMB's operating income with the project would be increased sufficiently to
permit a 15 cent per pint increase in producer prices (required to provide
minimum investment incentives to dairy farmers) and provide a return, after
taxes, of 7 to 10% on NMB capital.
14.       To meet the minimum requirements of profitability, debt servicing,
re-investment needs, and higher producer prices, without recourse to govern-
ment subsidy, price increases equivalent to those introduced by Government
on May 26, 1973 need to be re-established. Given the fact that different
products are consumed by different segments of the population, the price
structure could be adjusted to deal with the issues relating to the low
purchasing power of certain segments without sacrificing the requirements
of NMB's financial soundness by increasing the price of liquid milk which
is consumed mainly by the high income sector of the population relatively
more than that for powdered and condensed milk which are consumed by the
lower income group. More specifically, the following measures are recom-
mended:
(a) NMB milk and milk product selling prices would be
increased to levels which will enable NMB to main-
tain, from the end of 1976 onwards, an operating
income sufficient to provide a return after taxes
of at least 8% on total capital employed;
(b) Government would subscribe in cash an amount to NMB's
equity sufficient to write off NMB's retained losses,
with the funds to be used by NMB to repay bank overdrafts.
Financial Management
15.       NMB financial management is weak.  Management information and
budgetary control are lacking, and no accounts had been produced at the
time of the mission's visit (June-July 1973), since those for 1972. NMB
intends to recruit a high-grade financial controller, and certain changes
to the accounting systems are contemplated which will increase their value
to management. Recruitment of a financial controller whose qualifications
and terms of reference are acceptable to IDA would be a conditiorn of Board
presentation. Also agreement under the Project would be sought that NMB
would submit to IDA annual statements covering its entire operations within
120 days of the close of the fiscal year.



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Channels for Milk and Milk Products
Figures indicate movement of supplies, 1972 in million
of pints of fluid milk equivalent
I MPORTS7
ESTIMATED                                               _O
FARO SALES                                        MILK POWDER   1!01
224                                           BUTTER          10
PRODUJCER                        COOPER ATIVES
RETAI LERS                            TO
& AGENTS                             N.M.B.
170                                 54
113
lNMB  
&
R EPACKlING 
67                                 100              47
NMB              NMB               NMB               NMB               NMB
PASTEURIZED       OTHER            CONDENSED        SPRAY                POWER           MILK
AND               PRODUCTS 3       MILK      29     DRIER (NOT           REPACK          POWDER   37
STERI LIZED                                         OPERATIONAL)           100
MILK              WASTE    1                                                             BUTTER   10
_  CONSUMER .
_384
PRODUCTS             SOURCE OF MILK          1972
DOMESTIC        IMPORTS        TOTAL
.            millions of pints..| . |
LIQUID           204            -             204
POWDER            -             137           137
CONDENSED         16            13             29
OTHER BUTTER       4             10            14
TOTAL          224           160            384   |
World Bank-8491






ANNEX 2
Table 1
SRI LANA
DAIEI DVEWPMEMT PROJECT
NMB Procegsing CamacitZ - End 1973
Million pints Liquid Milk
Opening                      Sauivalent (IME)
Date                  Capacity          $ales, 1972
Powder Milk
Welisara:                          1969
Powder milk packing                                     158                  85
Malted milk packing                                      50                  15
Ambewela                           1973
Powder Milk manufacturing                                A   -
Sub-Total                                         282                 100
Liquid Milk
Colombo                            1957/1973               100
Pallekelle                         1962                     22!
Polgahawela                        1958                     17
Catlle                             1959                      11
Sub-Total                                         151                  36
Condensed Milk
Polonnaruwa                        1968                     56                   30
Total                                             X89                 166
January 3, 197h



ANNEX 2
Table 2
MTA  D3WlNlT PEWRT
1KB:           Shgtl  1969:72
1969                 1970                  1971                 1972
A. ASSETS
1. Current Assets
Cash                           152                3,552                 106                   3,757
Inventory                  19,958                23,961                24i 8468              31,156
Accounts Receivable          9,176   29,286      1 1 28   38,741       10.579   36,513      10,264   bS,173
2. Depoaits & Advances
Deposits                        96                  114                   223                 9,132
Advances & Prepaid
Expenses                   1.823    1,919        1,612    1,726       1.504    1,727         3.1s    12,h70
3. Fixed Assets
Original Cost               37,821               41,281                45S,030               44,872
Lesst Depreciation           9.702   28,119      11.174   30,107       13,717   31,31.3    16jL8j    28,050
Plant Under Construction.-            2,158                14,519               16,142                18,180
4. Total Assets                             61.482                                     85.695
B.   LIABILITIES
1.  Current Lisbilities
Accounts  sryable           10,403               16,706                14,942               16,711
Refundable Deposits and
Subsidies                 1,262                 2,390                 9,763                 3,369
Bank Overdrafts& TR Loans 18,445   30,110         9,431   28,527        2,275   26,980      29 U      49,132
2.  Long-Tern Liabilities
Governu ent Loan               750                  750                   750                   750
Commercial Loan             41,87L4   5,624      18,116   18,866    14J7       15,483        9.892   10,642
3.  Capital, Ekiulty & Reserves
Goverrnent EquiU'           24,645               26,595                26,895                39,602
Donated Gapitalf             5,010               14,10262 26,300                             21,654
General Reserves                63                    63                   63                    63
Retained Earnings (Losses)(4,170)  25,748        (3,360)  37,700       (4,026)  43,232    (17,420)  44,099
L.  Total Liabilities                       6i,482               65,093                85,695               103,873
C. OPEL TING RESULTS
1.  Net Sales                      h8,000                72,000               87,000                99,000
2. Gross MarginW'                   8,334               11,334                10,857                (4,959)
3.  Net Income                       (909)               1,115                   240               (15,375)
D. IMPORTANT RATIOS
1. Current Assets to Current
Liabilities                    0.97                 1.36                  1.35                  0.92
2.  Long Tern Debt to Net Worth       22%                   50%                   36%                  24S
3. Current Liabilities to
Fixed Assets                    49%                   33%                  31%                   47%
L.  Inventories to Sales              42%                   33%                   29%                   31%
5. Gross Margin -   to Sales,         17%                   16%                  12%                   -5
1/ Sourcet HMB, Annual Report 1970 and draft annual report 1972.
2/ Chiefly Spray Drying Plant at Ambewela.
3/ Danida and New Zealand Governuent.--Plant and Transport Vehicles.
Income before administrative overheads, depreciation, izterest and taxes.
Deceniber 1?, 1973



SRILANKA
DAIRY  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
NMB/ OPERATING STATEMENT CASE I: PRODUCT PRICES OF JUNE '73
( Rs  000)
YEAR                                         1974            1975            1976            1977             1978            1979            1980            1981
A. WITHOUT PROJECT 2
1. SALES
Pasturized & Sterilized Milk              20880           23040           25200           27360            29520           33840           45360           53280
Powder & Vita Milk                        98530          101840          104330          106810          109300           110120          103500          101010
Condensed & Other                         39410           40180           40900           41630           42360            43640           46690           48880
Total Sales                           158820          165060          170430          175800          181180           187600          195550          203170
2. OPERATING COSTS
Cost of Materials                        134530          138730          142330          145930           149530          153730           58530          163330
Processing & Packing                      29250           30370           31280           32200            33120           33950          134020           34580
Transport & Selling                        6830            7200             7520            7850            8170            8620            9390           10015
Other Fixed Costs                         14950           14950           14950           '14950           14950           14950           14950           14950
Total Operating Costs                185560          191250          196080          200930          205770           211250          216890          222870
3.  OPERATING MARGIN                      (26740)         (26190)         (25680)          (25130)         (24590)         (23650)         (21340)         (19700)
4.  DEPRECIATION                            7450             7450            7450            7450            7450            7450            7450             7450
5.  INCOME BEFORE INTERST & TAXES           (34190)        (33640)         (33100)         (32580)         (32040)         (31100)         (28790)          (27150)
B. WITH PROJECT 3/
1.  SALES                                                                                                                                                    5
Total Sales                          I58820          165060          170430          175800          181180           187600          195550          203170
2.  OPERATING COSTS -
Cosc of Materials                        134530           138370          1410b0          142850          144630          147970          151300           155580
Processing & Packing                      29250           30450            31610           32990           34360           35320           35860            36560
Transport & Selling                        6830             7230            7640            8140            8630            9140           10070            10750
Other Fixed Costs                         14950           14950            14950           14950           14950           14950           14950            14950
Total Operating Costs                185560          190950          195265          198930          202570           207380          212180          217840
3.  OPERATING MARG1N  4/                   (26740)         (25940)         (24830)         (23130)         (21390)         (19180)        (16630)           (14670)
4.  DEPRECIATION                             7450            7460            7940            8240            8240            8240            8240             8240
5.  INCOME BEFORE INTEREST & TAXES         (34190)         (33400)         (32770)         (31370)         (29630)         (27420)          (24870)         (22910)
C, REDUCTION TN OPERAT NGTfSS
DUE TO PROJECT 5i                         -               250             820            2000            3200            4470             4710            5030
1/     Consumer Prices as follows:  P & S Milk at Rs 0.95/pint; Powder at Rs 4.75/lb, condensed milk at Rs i.,5/Vi.  ImpocLs aze p.iced. at WS  987/ton
or 76/pint equivalent - the CIF price 1973.  Local procurement at Rs 0.60.          -          -
2/     Assumes a growth in local procurement of 8% p. a based on an actual growth of 12% in 1970-73.
Imports are assumed constant at 121 million pints equivalent without the project and project incremental production determines the eatent of
import substitution wqith project.
3/     Product mix is not changed as a result of the project, bua locally produced products are substituted for imports.
4/     Demonstrates inability to service any debts without substantial product price increases. (CASE II)
5/    'Financial rate of return on incremental investment of Rs 13.3 million is 22%.
December 12, 1973
LO



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I/
NIME - OPERATING STATEMENT CASE II:  WITH PROJECT AND WITH PRODIUCT AND PRODUCER PRICE INCREASES
(Rs '000)
YEAR          1974            1975            1976             1977            1918            1979            1980            1981
1. SALES
Pasteurized and Sterilzed Milk                            20,880         23,040           25,200           27,360          29,520          33,840         45,360           53,280
Powder and Vita Milk                                      98,530        127,605          157,120          160,850        164,600         165,840         155,870         152,120
Condensed and Other                                       3911           44.800           50,230           50,870          51.600          52,880          55,930    ~ 58 ~12 
Total Sales                                          158,820       195,445          232,550          239,080         245,720         252,560         257,160         263,520
2.   OPERATING COSTS   2/
Cost of Materials                                        134,530        141,960          149,380          157,700         161,880        167,020          172,750         178,680
Processing and Packing                                    29,250         30,450           31,620           32,990          34,360          35,320          35,860         36,560
Transport and Selling                                      6,830          7,230            7,640            8,140           8,630           9,140          1 0, 070        10,7.50O
Other Fixed Costs                                         14,950         14.950           14,~50            4,9 50         14,950          14,950          14j50~          14,950
Total Operating Costs                                185,560       194.590          203,580          213,780         219 820 __      226.~430     __232_L,30          4094
3.   OPERATING MARGIN                                            (26,740            855           28,970           25,300         25,900          26,130          25,530          22,580
4.   DEPRECIATION                                                  7,450          7.460            7.940            8,240         _8, 740_          8,240           820824
5.   INCOME BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES                            (34,190)        (6,605)          21,030           17,060          17,660          17,890          17,290         14,340
6.   TAXES                                                          --8,950                                         6,880           7a?290         7.~690           79              6.160
7.   INCOME AFTER TAXES                                          (34,190)        (6,605)          12,080           10,180          10,370          10,200           9,660           8,580
8.   AFTER-TAX RETURN TO CAPITAL   3/                              (30%)          (5%)              10%               8%              8%              8%              6011            7%
DEBT SERVICE FOR PROJECT LOANS
1.   LOANS
(a)  IDA Funds                                                  -4,200                       2,280-----
(b)  BlanIs  of   Ceylon   Funds                                    __4-          Q ___ _ _ _ 2400_ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ -_ __ _ _ _ _ _
Total                                                 -8,660                       4,680             --                                                
2.   DEBT SERVICE
(a)  Interest (8)                                              -335                            870            1,060             940             810             675              525
(b)  Principal                                                 -              -               -               1.485           1 6~05          1,730                             020
Total-                                                               355              870            2.545 2,4                       .4               .4                45
I/  Consumer prices increased on powder and condensed milk to the May 26, 1973 levels of Rs 6.75/lb on powder
and Es 2.25/lb on condensed milk: half the increase effective January 1, 1975; half January 1, 1976. Procurement
price increased from Es 0.60/pint to Es 0.75/pint (Rs 0.15/pint increase), phased at Rs 0.05/pint on January 1, 1975-76-77.
2/  Same as corresponding item in Case I, but with local milk procurement price increased.
3/  The capital base required for the projected scale of operations is fixed at the 1973 level (rs 113 million)
plus project investments in 1975-76.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pricing axad Subsidies Relating to the Dairy Sector
1.        Agriculture in Sri LankE (including the dairy sector) is subject
to a complex network of price supports, taxes, subsidies, and controls
which severely distort price relationships. The most important factors have
been:
(a) the maintenance of consumer subsidies on foodstuffs;
(b) the introduction of selective input subsidies;
(c) the use of taxes on commoctity exports to raise
public revenues; and
(d) the gradual over-valuation of the official exchange
rates, and the development of a dual exchange system
following the introduction of the Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificates Scheme (FEEC's) in 1968.
Consumer Subsidies
2.        After achieving independence in 1948, Sri Lanka put high priority
on improving the welfare of its less privilesed people. The subsidized
rice ration initiated during World War II was extended to cover the
entire population. Efforts to reduce consumer subsidies for rice and other
foods in 1953 and 1970 had severe political consequences and, except for
these brief periods progressively more extensive and costly food subsidy
programs were maintained until late 1973, when their cost comprised 20-25% of
total Government current expenditures.
3.        Sri Lanka's already acute foreign exchange shortage worsened in
1973, reflecting a sharp downward movement in the terms of trade. The
adverse trends in both prices and availability of key imports in 1973 led
Government to reconsider its policy of supporting and subsiding food
consumption through the budget. In October major changes were made. The
principle of public responsibility for a basic food supply for all the
population was retained but the balance of the system was shifted to supply
foodstuffs in a manner which sharply reduced the subsidy element.
4.        Specific reductions in food subsidies include:  (a) a halving of
the free rice ration to one pound per person per week; (b) a halving of
the wheat flour ration; (c) an increase of 60% in bread prices; and (d)
a reduction in the sugar ration and an increase from RS 2 to Rs 5 per pound
in the price of off-ration sugar. At the same time steps were taken to



ANNEX 3
Page 2
start a national food drive to increase domestic supplies and substitutes
for imports, and to pass on sharp cost increases of imports, particularly
of petroleum products.
5.        Subsidy payments on rice have been the largest single item of
food subsidy, accounting for 80-90% of total food subsidies. As far as
dairy products are concerned, consumer subsidies have been maintained since
1972 on imported infant milk food (milk powder) by private importers.
Government expenditures on this Eubsidy item have been rather small: Rs 3.0
million in 1971/72 (provisional actual for 15 months) and Rs 5.0 million in
1973 (mid-year revised estimates as of end June 1973).
6.        In the dairy sector Sri Lanka has attempted to control wholesale
and retail prices of milk products by fixing maximum prices at wholesale
and retail stages. However, open market prices have averaged above those in
regulated establishments such as cooperative stores. Retail milk prices in
Colombo set by the National Milk Bcard (NMB) had increased only 10% between
1964 and May 1973 when the NMB announced price increases for all its products,
while in rural areas fluid milk prices to consumers had increased by more
than 30% during the the same period.
7.        Through the years, with the exception of 1970 and 1971, the NMB
has incurred annual operating losses which have periodically been replenished
by government either through increasing equity participation, or by loans or
grants. Thus, the low wholesale and retail prices on milk products have been
maintained through subsidization of NMB.
8.        Despite the May, 1973 milk price increase, at the present level
of product prices, the NMB will continue to operate at a loss for the fore-
seeable future. Unless a more realistic pri-ce formula is adopted (Annex 2
para 15) continuing government assistance will be required, contributing
to an accelerated increase in government transfer payments (the most
rapidly growing items in Government expenditures) since the performance
of most other state corporations is similar.
Producer Subsidies
9.        At the producer level too, the government has played and is
playing a steadily increasing role in price control of agricultural
products. It has long maintained a support price for the sale of paddy
but in recent years the Guaranteed Price Scheme (GPS) has been extended to
include other crops. In 1970 producer prices for rice, onions, chillies,
uaize and sorghum ranged from 402 to over 100% aboveworld market prices
(converted at the official exchange rate).
10.       In recent years Government policies and actions within the
Agricultural sector have been a disincentive to private investment within
the sector. Thus most programs have been financed from Government sources.
Tea replanting has been carried out with payments to growers financed by
the cess collected from tea exports. On the other hand, subsidy payments
for replanting rubber have been made from general government revenue. In
the case of coconuts, fertilizer has been subsidized and seedlings have been
made available at subsidized prices.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.       Most existing producers subsidy schemes have been formulated on
an ad hoc basis to tackle specific difficulties rather than as part of
integrated long-term planning. Consequently, several government agencies
are simultaneously involved in various similar schemes among which there is
no consistency in applying subsidy payments to the farmers. Budgetary res-
ponsibility to control various subsidy payments is thus scattered among
many agencies. Moreover, some of the payments are disguised as a result of
incorporating them into other broader categories.
12.       The dairy sector has so far been one of the most neglected
fields in agriculture in Sri Lanka. No significant measures were taken
to stimulate dairy production until very recently. Producers' milk price
had been kept at Rs 0.40 per pint (for 4% fat content) since 1957 until
the overall price increases in milk and milk products on May 26, 1973,
when the milk price to dairy farmers was raised to Rs 0.60 per pint.
13.       Also, the dairy farmers had in the past received very little
input subsidies. As a result, together with the disincentive of a low
producer price, many dairy farmers have delayed making development in-
vestments in the hope that subsidies similar to those for plantation crops
would become available for pasture and herd development. In addition,
insecurity of land ownership has discouraged any further fixed investments
particularly in the tea and rubber growing areas. (The Land Reform Act
of 1972 provides for a ceiling of 50 acres on the ownership of land by
individuals.)
14.       The first attempt at input subsidies in the dairy sector field
was the Crop Diversification Pilot Project in 1969. The government launched
this pilot project on a limited and experimental basis ove r-thezperiod of
three years comencing on October 1, 1969, for replanti  a8,0acres of
uneconomic tea and rubber lands (registered in the Tea indRXibber Control
Departments), with coconut, cocoa, cardamom, cloves, nutmeg, pepper,
pineapple, passion fruit, pasture, timber, rubber (in tea lands) and oil
palm (in rubber lands). However, the result of this pilot project was
disappointing. By the closing date of July 10, 1970, 522 applications
(of which only seven were for pasture development subsidies) had been
received covering an area of 4,726 acres. Out of these, 70 applications
(including two for pasture development), covering 1,756 acres, were rejected,
leaving the remaining 2,970 acres eligible for receiving subsidies. Thus,
only 37% of the project's objective of 8,000 acres was achieved. In the
case of pasture development, only 152 acres received a subsidy of Rs 500 per
acre.
15.       In the course of preparing the current National Five-Year Plan
(1972-76), animal husbandry - which had previously not been included in
the draft proposal prepared at the working level - was given very high
priority as a means of import substitution of the basic protein food
items, and of the diversification of agricultural production. Con-
sequently, in July 1971, the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands recommended,
and the Cabinet approved, the following four types of input subsidy schemes
for the dairy sector:



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(a) subsidy for pasture establishment in mid-country
under the enlarged Crop Diversification Subsidy
Scheme;
(b) subsidy for pasture establishment under existing
coconut trees;
(c) extension of the Coconut Fertilizer Subsidy Scheme
to pasture establishment after the above subsidy
has been granted; and
(d) subsidy scheme for making imported cattle available
to dairy producers at f.ob. prices.
Although it is too early to determine how effective these subsidies have
stimulated dairy production they do indicate a positive effort by Government
to encourage development within a long regulated subsector particularly as
when considered in conjunction with recent increases in the price of milk
purchased from farmer cooperatives by NMB (pars 12).
16.       In the Five-Year Plan, Rs 90 million was estimated to be required
over the plan period for pasture development, importation of cattle, and
improvement in milk collection centers and procesoing, but no breakdown
mong these items nor annual allotments was spelled out (the Five-Year
Plan, Table 3, page 39). In the 1971/72 Budget, covering 15 months
what is significant is the capital expenditure allocation for the first
time in recent years of Rs 15,985,865 for the development of animal
husbandry. This capital expenditure includes: (a) construction of per-
manent buildings such as veterinary offices and animal quarantine sections;
(b) purchase of equipment and vehicles, (c) land development and (d) grants
and contributions to such organizations as tfhe Veterinary Council of Ceylon.
In the current 1974 Budget the provision for capital expenditure is Rs 14,570,000,
which is approximately the same magnitude as the previous year's on a 12 month
basis.
17.       The following provisions are made in the current Budget:
Purpose                        Budgetary Allocations
(Rs)
(1) Pasture Development subsidy
to the private sector farmers
in the mid-country                                    1,150,000
(2) Pasture subsidy scheme
(in the coconut areas)                                 600,000



ANNEX 3
Page 5 -
(3)  Coconut fertilizer subsidy programl/                     22,500,000
(4) Subsidy for the purchase of
imported cattle                                          None2/
18.       Under the present Crop Diversification Subsidy Scheme, a subsidy
of Rs 500 per acre is paid to farmers in two installments for the estab-
blishment of pasture in old tea and rubber lands as follows:
(a) First installment - Rs 400 per acre. On the up-
rooting of old tea and rubber and the establishment
of pasture (including soil conservation and fencing);
(b) Second installment - Rs 100 per acre. One year after
establishment of pasture for application of fertilizer
and maintenance.
To date only areas in and around the existing milk collecting centers run
by the NMB in Colombo, Kandy, Matale, Nuwara-Eliya, Kurunegala, Ratnapura,
Kegale, Badulla and Galle districts are entitled to participate in this
subsidy scheme. Applications for permits under the scheme are scrutinized
by the Tea and Rubber Control Departments to meet the following conditions:
(a) that the applicant has title to the land in
question;
(b) that no subsidy has previously been paid for
that parcel of land;
(c) that the land in question is not suitable for
economic tea or rubber production and that it
is suitable for pasture production. For the
latter assurance, the Tea/Rubber Controller is
entirely dependent on the Animal Production and
Health Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Lands.
19.       Regarding the input subsidy for pasture establishment under the
existing coconut trees, a subsidy of Rs 120 per acre is paid to owners
of coconut lands in two installments as follows:
I/   Included in this fertilizer subsidy scheme are those subsidies not
only to farmers who would grow pasture under existing coconut trees,
but also to all coconut growers. No distinction between these farmers
is made in the budget.
2/   Althouah no subsidies for this purpose are provided in the current Budget,
a provision of Rs 150,000 is stipulated for the purchase of 400 heifers
(Friesian and Jersey) for Government farms.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(a)  Firbt installment of Rs 50 per acre - upon completion
of planting of pasture/fodder grass;
(b)  Second installment of Rs 70 per acre - two months
after planting on application of fertilizer.
Those entitled to participate in the subsidy scheme are the owners of
coconut lands in the administrative districts of Colombo, Kalutara and
Kegalle and Wet Zone parts of the districts of Kurunegala, Puttalam
and Matale which receive a fairly evenly distributed annual rainfall of
75 inches or more are eligible to apply. Owners of coconut lands who do
not possess cattle may also participate in the scheme if they can dispose
of their pasture/fodder grass to other cattle owners. Applications for
participating in this scheme are scrutinized by the Coconut Cultivation Board.
20.       Those who have granted the above subsidy are also entitled to
purchase fertilizer at 50 percent of the cost from the second year on
under the Coconut Fertilizer Subsidy Scheme. A special permit will be
issued for this purpose as in the case of coconut fertilizer. (The
existing Coconut Fertilizer Subsidy Scheme started in 1956, following the
recommendation of the Coconut Research Institute. From 1956 to 1966, the
Scheme provided fertilizer at prices subsidized by 33-1/3 percent for
estates larger than 20 acres and by 50 percent to small holders. Since
1966, the subsidy has been 50 percent equally for all growers.)
21.       Regarding the fourth type of input subsidy to make imported
cattle available to dairy farmers, at f.o.b. prices, Cabinet approval was
obtained on May 15, 1973. In 1968, 500 imported cattle (temperate breeds)
were offered for sale but only 22 were sold and the rest had to be added to
the stock of government farms. Since the import of cattle is subject to
FEEC's rate, the Government has to absorb under the proposed subsidy scheme
the FEEC portion of 65 percent in addition to the cost of freight and
insurance. Because pasture establishment should precede importation of
cattle, no provision for this subsidy is made in the current 1973 budget.
22.       In reviewing the aforementioned four types of proposed input
subsidy schemes, what seems to be highly inconsistent is the pricing
policy for fertilizer. All fertilizer is imported almost exclusively by
the Fertilizer Corporation at the official exchange rate, i.e. fertilizer
import is FEEC exempt. Since the costs of handling, transportation and
storage are so high the market price to farmers is double the CIF cost.
In order to encourage its use in certain selected crops a 50 percent
subsidy (i.e. close of the CIF price) is offered to farmers. Until
recently this was restricted to the production of paddy, coconut and
cinnamon; other farmers had to pay the full price. In addition, in order
to ensure that subsidized fertilizer is used only for the purpose intended,
farmers must follow an extended bureaucratic process which requires con-
siderable paper work. Realizing these constraints, the present government
is attempting to apply a uniform price for fertilizer and has extended a
50 percent subsidy to other crops, including mulberry, cocoa, cashew
cardamon, cloves, nutmeg, pepper, citronella oil palms, coffee and papaw
and so encourages non-traditional minor exports. However, there are still
inconsistencies.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
23.       For instance, under special permit, the owners of coconut land
are entitled to participate in the Coconut Fertilizer Subsidy Scheme from
thc second year on, in addition to an initial grant of Rs 120 per acre of
whiichi rs 70 is supposed to subsidize fertilizer cost. Hlowever, farmers in
the mid-cotunitry are not entitled to a 50 percent subsidy on fertilizer
after receipt of grants of Rs 500 per acre in two years. In the latter case
only Rs 100 per acre out of the total Rs 500 appears to be a fertilizer subsidy
while an estibilated expenditure of Rs 300 per acre is required for fertilizer
in most circumstances in mid-country.  This means that farmers in mid-
country receive a fertilizer subsidy equal to only one-third its cost.
24.       For consideration of equity and for administrative convenience, it is
undesirable to maintain a selective fertilizer subsidy system and the Government
recognizes that it should be replaced by a single price gradually approach-
ing world prices. As a step toward this goal the government is currently
taking action to reduce distribution costs by designating multipurpose
cooperative societies as sales agents for the Fertilizer Corporation. This
is expected to reduce distribution costs by eliminating the involvement
of the Agrarian Services Department in the distribution process. In addition,
the Asian Development Bank is currently considering financing the establishment
of a urea factory witlh a 280,000 ton capacity.
25.      m)ajor uncertainties regarding fertilizer usage in Sri Lanka (as
well as many other developing countries) in 1974 and very possibly beyond,
are the physical availability of supplies and import prices. The present
short-term outlook is for a world-wide shortage, particularly of urea,
and very high prices.  If this proves to be the case, Sri Lanka's food drive,
dairy development program and programs designed to increase the output of
traditional agricultural exports, tea, rubber and coconut products, will
very likely be affected adversely.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Recent Legislaticn. L_m_ Reform and Agricultural Productivity
Ls-end Reform Law No. 1 of 1972
1.        In 1972, the National State Assembly of Sri Lanka passed the
Land Reform Law which became effective from August 26, 1972.  The purpose
of the law, as stated in the preamble, is to establish a Land Reform
Commission to fix a ceiling on the extent of agricultural land that a
person may own, to provide for the vesting of lands owned in excess of such
ceiling in the Land Reform Commission and for such land to be held by the
former owners on a statutory lease from the Commission and to prescribe
the purposes and the manner of disposition by the Commission of agricultural
lands vested in the Commission so as to increase productivity and employ-
ment.
2.        The specific provisions of the Act dealing with the above
objectives are set out below:
Section 3
(1) On and after the commencement of this law, the
maximum extent of agricultural land which may be
owned by any person, in this law referred to as
the 'ceiling', shall:
(a) if such land consists exclusively of paddy
land, be twenty-five acres; or
(b) if such land does not consist exclusively
of paddy land, be fifty acres, so however
that the total extent of paddy land, if any,
comprised in such fifty acres shall not
exceed the ceiling on paddy land specified
in paragraph (a).
(2) Any agricultural land owned by any person in
excess of the ceiling on the date of commence-
ment of this law as from that date:
(a) be deemed to vest in the Commission; and
(b) be deemed to be held by such person under a
statutory lease from the Commission.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Section 8
Where any agricultural land is vested in the Com-
mission under this law, such vesting shall have the
effect of giving the Commission absolute title to such
land, as from the date of such vesting, and free from
all encumbrances.
Section 14
(1) Any person who becomes a statutory lessee of any
agricultural land under this law may within three
months from such date make an application to the
Commission in the prescribed form for the transfer
by way of sale, gift, exchange or otherwise, of
the entirety or portion of such agricultural land
to any child who is eighteen years of age or over
or to a parent of such person.
(2) The Commission may, by order made under its hand,
grant or refuse to grant, approval for such
transfer.
(3) Any transfer effected in accordance with the
provisions of an order made under sub-section (2),
or such order as amended, varied or modified
on appeal, shall have the effect of transferring
the right, title or interest in property so
transferred free of the statutory lease.
Section 15
(a) The statutory lease may be terminated at any time
at the option of the Commission. Unless terminated
earlier, such lease shall run for one year from the
date of commencement of his statutory lease and
may be renewed for a further period of one year.
No further renewals of such leave shall be given
except with the express approval of the Minister.
Section 22 of the Act describes the variety of purposes for
which land vested in the Commission may be used.
A major purpose is sale, exchange, rent, purchase
or lease of such land for agricultural development
or animal husbandry, to (i) persons who do not own
agricultural land or who own less than the ceiling;
or (ii) to cooperative societies or collective farms.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Section 28 of the Act defines the oompensation payable to
owners who are dispossessed of land in excess of
the ceiling. The compensation is fixed as the
higher of either (a) not exceeding 15 times the
average annual profit on such land if such land is
not paddy land and 10 times the average annual
profit if it is paddy land, and (b) the value of
such land as assessed by the Commissioner of
Inland Revenue for the assessment year ended
31 March 1971.
Under Section 65 of the Act, the provisions of the law are
not applicable to (a) any State Corporation and
(b) any Government sponsored cooperative society.
Agricultural Productivity Law No. 2 of 1972
3.        The above law was passed in the Sri Lanka National State
Assembly and became effective from 21 September 1972. The object of the
law is to provide for maximum productivity through the proper use and
management of agricultural land and the efficient management of agri-
cultural crops and livestock. The law also provides for the establishment
of Agricultural Productivity Committees and Agricultural Tribunals.
4.        The important provisions of this law are as follows:
Section 2
(1) It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier
of any agricultural land to farm such land with
such crops or breed of the livestock as are best
suited for the land, having regard to the extent
and the situation and the natural resources of
the land, and to manage it in accordance with
the rules of good management, as are hereinafter
provided by this law or any regulations made
thereunder, with a view to improving the pro-
ductivity and maintaining efficient standards
of production, both as to quantity and quality
of the produce.
(2) Where the owner is not in occupation of such
agricultural land and the occupier is in posses-
sion by virtue of a formal or informal agreement
with the owner, it shall be the duty of the
owner, unless there is an express provision to
the contrary in any agreement, to provide the
capital works and equipment necessary to enable
the occupier to farm such land and maintain
an efficient standard of production.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Section 3 of the Act describes the various steps to be taken
by the owner or occupier for efficient management
or agricultural land. These relate to the varieties
and strains of crops used, manner of cropping,
drainage and irrigation of land, steps taken
to maintain soil fertility, steps taken to ensure
eradication of pests and diseases, steps for
protection and preservation of growing crops and
adequacy of repair and maintenance work.
Under Section 4 of the Act, any owner or occupier who fails
to fulfill the obligations under Section (3) is
guilty of an offence under this law.
Section 6 states that when the Minister is satisfied that
any agricultural land is not being farmed as
required in Section (3), the Minister may place
the owner or occupier under a Supervision Order.
Section 7 states that where, after a Supervision Order has
been in force for a period of twelve months, the
Minister is satisfied on the report of any
authorized person .... that no satisfactory
improvement has been shown notwithstanding any
direction given (by the authorized person)
the Minister may make an Order of Dispossession.
The land in respect of which an Order of Disposses-
sion is made shall, from the date of such Order,
vest in the Government.
Where the occupier of the land is not the owner,
the land shall not be so vested, but shall, on
the recommendation of the Agricultural Productivity
Commission, within whose area of Authority the land
is situated, be let to a suitable person.
An owner or occupier whose right, title or interest
is affected by the Order of Dispossession could
either appeal against the Order to the Agricultural
Tribunal or apply for compensation to an authorized
officer who will decide the amount payable as
compensation. The Act also provides for an appeal
to the Board of Review constituted under the Land
Acquisition Act if the owner or occupier is dis-
satisfied with the amount of compensation.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Section 23 of the Act provides for the setting-up of an
Agricultural Productivity Committee for each
area determined by the Minister. Such a Committee
shall, within the area of its authority, be charged
with "the duty of promotion, coordination and
development of agriculture, of assisting in the
formulation of implementation programmes and
targets for the production of crops and
livestock".
Under Section 20 (1) of the Act, the Minister may
constitute such number of areas as he may
consider expedient, for which Agricultural Tribunals
may be established. Each Agricultural Tribunal
shall consist of not more than eight members ap-
pointed by the Cabinet. The Agricultural Tribunal
will consider appeals made by persons on whom an
Order of Dispossession has been served. The
Tribunal will also consider disputes relating to
management or farming of any agricultural land
within its jurisdiction and referred to it by the
Minister or by the Agricultural Productivity Com-
mittee in the area.
The decision of the Agricultural Tribunal shall be
final but the parties to an appeal will have the
right of further appeal to the Supreme Court.
The Act also provides for the organization of
Agricultural Cooperative Societies in each
Agricultural Productivity Committee area.
Agricultural Productivity Centers
5.        The main thrust of Government in implementing the Agricultural
Productivity Law is the establishment of Agricultural Productivity
Centers in each Agricultural Productivity Committee area. A stereotype
building has been designed which will house the Committee's offices, the
Agricultural Tribunal, and offices of key rural community services includ-
ing a sub-branch of the Bank of Ceylon.
6.        At June 30, 1973, 135 Productivity Centers had been opened, in
20 of which Bank of Ceylon sub-branches were operational. Government is
pressing the construction programme which calls for Centers to be estab-
lished in 438 Agricultural Productivity Committee areas, mostly fitting
into the boundaries of existing Multipurpose Cooperative Societies.






ANNEX 5
Page 1
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Cooperatives
Historical Background
1.        The first legislative enactment for the organization of coop-
erative societies in Sri Lanka was the 1911 Cooperative Credit Society
Ordinance. This Ordinance was subsequently amended to provide for the
organization of secondary and non-credit types of societies. During the
earlier years the main type of soAieties promoted were thrift and credit
societies. The need to supply rationed rice and flour at controlled rates
during the second world war led to the setting up of nearly 4,000 cooperative
consumer stores during the war years.  By 1957 this number was brought
down to about 2,500 by consolidation and amalgamation. Post-war years also
saw the growth of nearly 1,000 cooperative agricultural production and sales
societies for distribution of production inputs to farmers and marketing
of their produce.
2.        In 1957, a reorganization of all rural cooperatives into multi-
purpose cooperatives, one for each village, was attempted. This led to
the organization of about 5,000 small-sized multipurpose cooperatives,
many of which were formed by conversion of existing consumer cooperatives
or agricultural production and sales cooperatives. Due to their larp
numbers and small sizes, they were not always viable,in 1966 over half
incurred lo-re e.overnment control, although excessive, was ineffectual
and several instances of default and of malpractice were publicized. As
a result, a Royal Commission was appointed in 1968 and reported in 1970.
Two of the more significant recommendations were that the many small MPCS be
reorganized into larger ones with branches and Government control be eliminat-
ed but that it should still supervise and advise MPCS in their operations.
Both were accepted; new by-laws were adopted to improve operation, and
auditing procedures were greatly strengthened.
3.        By 1971, reorganization had been completed and 368 large, multi-
purpose cooperative societies (MPCS) now remain, each covering some 10
to 15 villages. In addition, a number of other societies with specialized
functions exist in the country. Of these, 29 are dairy cooperatives (DCS)
and 7 are coconut producers' cooperatives. In the proposed Project areas
there are 152 MPCS (107 in Coconut Triangle; 45 in the Mid-Country) and
21 DCS (15 in the Coconut Triangle; 6 in the Mid Country).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Functions
4.        A major activity of most MPCS is the running of consumer
stores, with a society having, on average, 10 to 12 stores located in its
branches. Most serve as the marketing channel for members' produce and
a supply channel for farm inputs, including supplement feeds. Since 1971,
MPCS have been designed as agents for the Paddy Marketing Board: the
sole authorized buyer of paddy. Some make monthly advances of up to 50%
of the value of estimated milk deliveries as well as limited numbers of
loans to members for cattle purchase, against mortgage of land.
5.        Milk Collection.  Since April, 1972, MPCS and DCSA have moved
much more heavily into the role of milk collection for the National Milk
Board (NMB), following a decision by NMB to eliminate most private milk
deliveries (other than producsrs supplying more than 100 pints per day)
and otherwise to accept milk only from cooperatives. Collections by
cooperatives have, as a result, increased from 5% of NMB purchases in 1965
to 65% in May, 1973 and further increases are expected and encouraged by
6.        Under the proposed Project it is envisaged that additional NMB
collection centers will be established in MPCS and DCS to provide the
storage and collection facilities required to accommodate the increased
farm production of milk resulting from the Project.
7.        Based upon the estimated increases in milk production to result
from the project, it is anticipated that new collection centers would be
established in about 66 cooperatives: 38 in the Coconut Triangle; 28
in the Mid-Country. Their specific locations, however, would be based
upon the findings of a comprehensive study of milk collection and transport
requirements by consultants to NMB. Storage tanks and chilling units
would be purchased by NMB under the Project and installed in buildings
provided and owned by the cooperatives. Cooperatives would thereafter
manage and operate the collection centers. If required, cooperatives
would borrow from Peoples Bank to finance the construction of necessary
buildings (Annex 6).
S.        Banking and Credit.  Cooperatives had mainly served as agents
of Government in their agricultural credit activities, and particularly
in the financing of paddy production which accounted for the bulk of their
advances, until their reorganization, which was completed in 1971. To 1967
MPCS advances to farmers were on behalf of a series of Government depart-
ments: for the 10 years ending in 1967, the Department of Agrarian
Services. The record of performance left much to be desired: defaults
were high (nearly 16% by 1964-65) and in 1967 (just preceding the start
of the MPCS reorganization program) Peoples Bank was given the responsibi-
lity for financing the cooperatives. Performance continued to be poor,
however, and, of Rs 235 million disbursed in paddy loans between 1967-68
and 1971-72, Rs 81 million were outstanding in 1968, of which Rs 67 million
were overdue. The main defect from which the latter program suffered
was failure to give the cooperatives authority to assess members' credit-
worthiness and refuse loans.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
9.       1Aith reorganization of the MPCSs completed, and taking in-
struction from past mistakes, Government is sponsoring a new agricultural
credit scheme in which MPCSs establish Cooperative Rural Bank (CRB)
branches to administer their credit operations and in which the CRBs,
functioning in considerable part under Peoples Bank guidance and super-
vision, have discretionary authority to assess applicants' credit-
worthiness and establish credit limits. The program has progressed
rapidly: 20 MPCSs had CRB branches in 1967; in January, 1973 there were
252 CRBs and it is expected that by the end of 1974 almost all MPCSs will
be operating a CRB branch.
10.       At December 31, 1972 the CRB8s had aggregate deposits of Rs 23
million, of which Rs 22.7 million were deposits of 103,000 savers. Short-
term loans of Rs 8.2 million to 11,500 borrowers and 60,700 pawn loans
for Rs 7 million were outstanding. Total deposits exceeded total loans
and advances by Rs 8.1 million. People's Bank, being the banker to the
cooperative movement, lends both to MPCS's for their working capital needs
in their consumer retail businesses and, when necessary, to CRBs for their
banking advance businesses. In addition People's Bank has a considerable
supervisory responsibility over CRB activities (the relationship and the
operating procedures are described in Annex 6).
Organization, Control and Financial Performance
11.       The Cooperative Development Commission is responsible for super-
vising the formation and operations of the cooperatives. It's head office
is in Colombo, but it is largely decentralized. Assistant Commissioners
of Cooperatives are at twelve main centers, with Assistant Commissioners
of Audit at most. Detailed monthly reports are submitted by MPCSs
(although not by DCSs) to the regional Assistant Commissioners, but the
information from these, and from the annual accounts, appear only
occasionally to be forwarded to Colombo.
12.       The organization and control of DCS are less stringent than of
NPCSs because their functions are typically limited to collection, delivery
and finance of milk production and they have fewer members (seldom more than
400). The MPCS organization chart at Table 1 shows the functions of policy-
making and management clearly separated; a general manager at the main office
and branch managers at the branch offices are responsible for execution of
policy. A typical DCS organization chart is shown at Table 2.
13.       The financial performance of cooperatives has improved greatly
since reorganization. Prior to amalgamation nearly half of the small
village cooperatives operated at a loss. As of 1971-72 only nine of the
368 MPCSs incurred losses. Consolidated balance sheets for MPCSs and
DCSs in the Project areas are shown in Tables 3 and 4.






SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of a Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society
1   -------       - ei    BODY
I                                    --T
|  DELEGATES                            PRESIDENT                         CREDIT
TO GENERAL BODY                        BOARD         - ~m       r      COMMITTEE
JI
|  BRANCH  l                                GENERAL
| COMMITTEES g                               MANAGER
# ~I                 II
|  MAANACGERS| |MARKETING  |       AAE              AEGR ||ACCOUNTANT ||AMNSRTV
.RuRAL BANK
MANAGER
World Bank-8489






SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of a Dairy Cooperative Society
PRESIDENT
BOARD
GENERAL
MANAGER
COLLECTORS                                  CLERK
World Bank-8490






ANNEX 5
Sli- LA IKA                            Table  r
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PRtOJECT
Financial Position of Multiple Purpose Cooperative Societies
in the Project Area
(Consolidated from most recent returns, 1971-72)
(Rs '000)
Coconut Triangle          Mid-Counta
(107 Societies)          (45 Societies)
Liabilities                       Total          Average    Total       Average
Share capital                   4,6541           43       1,701         38
Stationary reserves            10,823           101       2,417        54
Other reserves                  5.591            52       1.908         42
21,068          196        6,O26       134
Deposits                        4,687            44         731        16
Peoples' Bank                   7,948            74       4,477        99
Other liabilities  1)          17,599           164       5,206        116
Total              51,302           478       16,440       365
Represented by;
Fixed assets                    6,118            57       2,595        58
Loans and advances             13,924           130       6,381        142
Financial investments           5,981            56       1,056         23
Stock                           8,609            80       2,628         58
Other assets  1)                9,285            86       2,164         48
Cash                            7,385           69        1,616        36
Total              51,302           378       16,44o       365
1) Other assets and liabilities are mainly current accounts.
IRovember 15, 1973



ANNEX '
SltI lANKA                          Table T
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Position of Dairy Cooperative Societies
in the Project Area
(Consolidated from most recent returns, 1971-72)
(Rs tooo)
Coconut Triangle           Mid-Countr
(15 Societies)            (6 Societies)
Liabilities                        Total         Average    Total        Average
Share capital                      16.9            1.1       14.1         2.4
Reserves                           19.6           1.3        49.5         8.2
36.5           2.4        63.6        lo.6
Deposits                            5.5            .h         7.7         1.3
Peoples' Bank                     38.0            2.5         -           -
Other Liabilities  1)              12.3             .8       54.1         9.0
Total                 92.3            6.1      145.4        20.9
Represented by:
Fixed assets                       5.9              .4       11.8         2.0
Loans and advances  2)            35.5            2.4        74.2        12.4
Financial investments             17.4            1.2         4.9         0.8
Stock                                                         0.5         0.1
Other assets                       14.3           1.0        21.0         3.5
Cash                               7.2            0.5         7.8         1.3
Total assets       -8.3               5.5      120.2        40.1
Losses  3)                        12.0                        5.2
Total                 92.3                     125.4
Notes:
1) Mainly milk payments received, not disbursed
2) Advances on milk and of concentrates
3) Four DCS in the Coconut Triangle and 2 in the Mid-Country were
in loss positions at the dates of their latest returns.
November 15, 1973



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Lending Banks
Background
1.        The commercial banking system in Sri Lanka consists of four local
banks (Bank of Ceylon, People's Bank, Commercial Bank of Ceylon and Hatton
National Bank) and eight foreign banks (four British, three Indian and one
Pakistani). The local banks account for 77% of the deposits of all banks,
the British banks for 19% and the Indian and Pakistani banks for 4%. Among
local banks, Bank of Ceylon and People's Bank are the largest; together
holding 69% of total deposits. Commercial Bank of Ceylon and Hatton National
Bank, having been set up very recently, are much smaller (Table 1). Under
the Monetary Law Act, the Central Bank of Ceylon exercises supervision over
the operations of all banking institutions in the country.
2.        Together, Bank of Ceylon and Peoples Bank have over 200 branches
in Sri Lanka and both are increasing rapidly the outlets for credit in the
agricultural sector, as described below. None of the other banks have the
necessary facilities to provide credit to agriculture, other than to the
larger estates.
3.        Until recently, most agricultural credit was for crop production,
mainly loans by Bank of Ceylon to the estate sector. Up to 1967, the
major:ty of advances on paddy were by Government departments through
cooperatives; collection procedures were inadequate and heavy defaults
resulted. In 1967, People Bank took over paddy crop advances through
cooperatives to smallholders of less than 10 acres; from 1971, Bank
of Ceylon has lent to larger holders through its regular branches. Ulnder
the former scheme, the Central Bank of Ceylon guaranteed the Peoples
Bank 75% of defaults by cooperatives in return for a fee of 1/2%. Of
Rs 235 million advanced through People's Bank for paddy production for
1968 to 1972, nearly 30% was overdue at December 31, 1972, and of this only
one-third was due to crop failure. Although the loan applications
were on the basis of plans drawn up by agricultural extension workers,
the People Bank guarantee contributed little to the desire of the cooperatives
and the People's Bank to recover, and societies in default were able to
continue to borrow provided the final loan was to a non-defaulter.
4.        Following, this experience and with the reorganization of coop-
eratives into 368 multipurpose cooperative societies completed (Annex 5),
policies and mechanisms for providing credit to the agricultural sector
have been greatly altered since 1971. First, Peoples Bank has been given
responsibility for serving as banker to the network of Cooperative Rural
Bank branclhes (CRBs) being established by MPCSs. In this capacity, it



ANNEX 6
Page 2
is responsible for formulation and control of CRB procedures, for training
of CRB personnel, and for preliminary review and approval of loan applica-
tions. Peoples Bank personnel supervise CRB operations, with powers of
audit and the right to participate in CRB/NPCS Board meetinos.
5.        A second recent change significant to banking and agricultural
credit resulted from the enactment of the Agricultural Productivity Act of
1972 (see Annex 4). Under this Act, Government will construct over 400
Agriculturnl Productivity Centers (APC) and provision has been made for
Bank of Ceylon to open a branch in each APC. At June 30, 1973, 21 branches
had been opened and the program of APC construction/branch opening was
proceeding rapidly. Plans are for about 125 branches to be operative in
the Project areas by end-1974. Thus, between Peoples Bank and CRBs and Bank
of Ceylon and its branches -- both intended as on-lenders in the proposed
Project -- local coverage with banking points will be adequate to service
participating farmers. The rapid expansion, however, is straining the
supply of trained, experienced personnel. Although recruiting and training
programs are conducted, continuing attention by the banks to staff training
will be required for quality of service to be maintained.
Bank of Ceylon
6.        Bank of Ceylon was formed in 1938 as a state-aided institution
under the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance with a share capital of Rs 4.5 million,
of which Government contributed Rs 3 million. It was nationalized under
the.Finance Act of 1961. The Board has six members; one is the Secretary
to the Treasury (ex officio), the others are appointed by the Minister of
Finance. The bank has a total staff of 2,990 of which 576 are in the
supervisory and executive grades. The chief executive is the General
Manager who is assisted by one Deputy General Manager and two Assistant
General Managers. Two credit managers at the head office are in overall
charge of the credit portfolio. Branch Managers are responsible to five
regional managers. The branches at June 30, 1973 were as follows:
Colombo                                         14
Country                                         51
Kachcheri (regional Government offices)         19
Agricultural Productivity Centers              21
Pay Offices                                      7
London                                           1
7.        The General Manager or his Deputy and the Assistant General
Managers have power to sanction loans and advances up to Rs 100,000. All
loans up to Rs 50,000 are sanctioned by the Credit Managers or Branch
Managers. Loans above Rs 100,000 are sanctioned by the Board which meets
three times a month.
8.        The accounts (see Table 2) show that deposits have risen 63% from
the beginning of 1970 to the end of 1972. They now represent 38% of the
country's total. The liquidity ratio, after several years at a low level,
is now satisfactory. The level of guarantee and acceptance business is



ANNEX 6
Page 3
high, although experience with this business in recent years has been good.
Overdue accounts amount to less than 5% of loans and advances, and are
fully provided for in the accounts.
9.        When operative, the loan assessment procedures in Bank of Ceylon
sub-branches 1/ in Agricultural Productivity Centers will be concerned both
with the viability of the proposed projects and the credit-worthiness
of the individuals. For a production loan, the farmer will complete a
three page questionnaire; the sub-branch manager has a three page checklist
of similar questions and a separate checklist has been prepared for dairy
development. Both are described as suggestive rather than exhaustive.
It is expected that in many cases the farmer will be assisted in preparing
his application by the Agricultural Productivity Committee and his applica-
tion will be countersigned by it. The sub-branch manager must address
himself to technical, management nd organization, financial and economic
aspects of the application. He will then forward it to the branch manager
with a recommendation or with a request for advice. The branch manager
may approve to a limit of Rs 25,000. Other applications will be forwarded
to regional offices. Approved qualifications will be returned to sub-
branch managers with the necessary security documents. Short-term loans
are secured either on movable property (with or without guarantors) or
immovable property (including 99-year leases). Branch managers have
discretion as to the security taken. Processing time will vary according
to the security taken but, with the complexity of the application/approval
procedure, could be lengthy, especially in the case of larger loans which
exceed the branch managers' authority.
10.       Loan disbursements are usually in kind.  For repayment from
paddy sales the branch manager can arrange with the MPCS as agent for a
written agreement with the farmer that payments for his crop will be
made direct to his account. A similar authorization (assignment) may be
obtained for repayment of Project loans from proceeds of milk sales to MPCS
but a pledge to not sell milk elsewhere will also be required. Loan
releases will be subject to satisfactory reports from either the Agricul-
tural Productivity Committee or, in the case of Project loans, the Project
Technical Unit. If an unsatisfactory report is received, the sub-branch
manager may refuse disbursement.
11.       Sub-branch managers will be graduates, trained for three months
in a branch of the ~ank of Ceylon before posting.
1/ Although it is intended that the Agricultural Productivity Center
operations will have full branch status, they are presently sub-
branches with one supervisory staff member and two clerks.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Peoples Bank and Cooperative Rural Banks
12.       Peoples Bank was set up in 1961 as the successor institution
to the Cooperative Federal Bank of Ceylon under the Peoples Bank Act
(No. 29 of 1961). A number of district cooperative banks existing in
the country were also amalgamated with the Peoples Bank in subsequent
years (10 banks amalgamated in 1962 and 7 in 1971). Section 4 of the Act
states that the 'purpose of the bank shall be to develop the cooperative
movement of Ceylon, rural banking and agricultural credit'. The bank
since its inception has been the financing agency for the village multi-
purpose cooperative societies and the cooperative agricultural production
and sales societies. Cooperatives, including the Cooperative Rural Bank
(CRBs) within MPCS, are not permitted to maintain deposits with, nor
to obtain medium or long term loans from other banks. Peoples Bank
has considerable powers of inspection of Cooperatives and of their bor-
rowers, and they may recommend to the Commlssioner the dissolution of a
Cooperative which does not meet its inspection criteria.
13.       Accounts of Peoples Bank are audited by the Auditor-General.
Annual accounts to December 31, 1971 have been audited and the audited
reports published. The 1972 audit has not been completed.
14.       Branch Managers have responsibility for supervising the Coop-
eratives' (including CRBs) financial affairs. They are expected to attend
the Board meetings at least every six months, to study performances regular-
ly, and to make random inspections. They have considerable audit duties
with respect to CRBs and are empowered to discuss the Cooperatives' finan-
cial affairs with the District Assistant Commissioners of Cooperatives.
The Peoples Bank branch employees with Cooperative duties must attend all
Board meetings, assist with loan applications and other documentation,
and supervise the utilization of funds.
15.       Excessively cumbersome lending procedures have been specified for
CRBs by Peoples Bank. Instructions have been issued which cover:
(a) maximum loan limits and repayment periods;
(b) security;
(c) individual maximum credit limit (a member has to
complete a six page form -- even if his credit
limit is more than Rs 5,000, he may only borrow
above that limit under a special scheme approved
by Government or by Peoples Bank, which would
include this project);
(d) application procedures (applications go through
five stagep before approval by the MPCS Board of
Directors. These include review by the Peoples
Bank advisor, and by the Cooperative's lawyer to
inspect security. Although title inspections can



ANNEX 6
Page 5
be carried out quickly, the latter process sometimes
takes six weeks. Production loan applications
are simpler and quicker to process in that no col-
lateral other than the crop is required);
(e) loan release (loans are normally granted in kind);
(f) supervision (the Branch Committee inspects every
six months. If the loan is more than Rs 2,000,
the MPCS General Manager and the Credit and Marketing
Manager also supervise).
16.       Adherence to the present lending procedures is likely to cause
serious delays in the processing of loan applications under the proposed
Project. Farm development plans approved by the Technical Director of
the Project Technical Unit (PTU) should be accepted by CRBs and Peoples
Bank as sufficient technical and financial basis for approval, other than
with respect to determination of individual credit-worthiness, sufficiency
of security and the taking of an assignment on the borrower's proceeds
from sales of milk.
17.       Rural Bank managers will be university graduates, trained in
Peoples Bank branches and at the school for Cooperative employees.
Interest Rates
Interest rates prevailing on July 12, 1973, were as follows:



ANNEX 6
Pagen% 6
Bank of
C!rl      !isiJBeank   Rural Ba_k#
----- --Pereett p.a --           ----
Borrou1nW
Savings Deposits                      4.5          4.5     )
)      5-6
Fixed Depewts                      4.5-5.75       5-5.75   )
Seven Days' Notice                    4.25        4C25             8
From People' Bank                                                   8
Rural Bank Deposit                                 8
Leadind
Agricultural Development             7-9. 4
(On XNttgage of Fixed Ptrperty)    8.5                          9-11
(Unsecured Loan.)                                              12-14
To Coopi$itivea - Fisheries
Loan Li                             8.5          8
To Rural B*iks                                     8
Deposits with People* Bank                                         8
Central BW3k Rate 6-1/2%
Treasury Bills 5t
?*AL4 iiad Long Teref
Fund I3 (MLF)                       6% (Agriculture)
DEpending on security offered
/2   Finance provided by Asian Development Bask for de*elopfent of fishing
industry north of Colombo (not yet operative).
/3   The MLF was created for the promotion of development of agriculture
and intdustry, for the iodernization and coUtruction- of the faetories,
and for the promotion and d&velopient of trade, coi_erce and business.
Its repaiynht periods are 5-15 years.



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Principal Indicators of Financial Position of Local Banks: 1971 1/
'Deposits              Financial       Loans and    Fixed
Shere                 and Other      Cash   Investments       Advances    Assets
Capital   Reserves    Accounts
--------------------------------------------------(Rs million)-----------------------------
Bank of Ceylon               4.5       45.0         1,220.4        221.0        435.0      575.2            20.9
People's Bank                6.3       21.7         1,041.7        135.6       133.4       793.1             4.8
Commercial Bank of Ceylon  5.0          0.2            64.5          11.1        26.6       33.0             0.4
Hatton National Bank         2.7         0.3             49.9        18.7         6.7        26.3            1.7
1/  As at Dec. 31, 1971 for Bank of Ceylon, Commercial Bank of Ceylon and Hatton National Bank
As of Sept.30, 1971 for People's Bank.
October 17, 1973
iID



ANNEX 6
SRI LANKA                                     Table 2
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3ank of Ceylon
iA'innncial Statement and Profit and Loss Accounts,
Year-End, 1969-72
(Rs ilillion)
1969       1970         1971          1272
(unaudited)
Liabilities
Issued share capital                   4.5        4.5          4.5           4..
Reserves                              38.4       43.4         45.4          47.4
42.9      47.9         49.9          51.9
Deposits  1/                         951.7   1,110.0       1,220.4       1,554.2
Other liabilities                     30.3        0.3          7.3           2.9
1.024.9   1,158.2      1,277.6       1,609o.
Represented by:
Cash on hand and with banks          143.4      206.5        221.0         330.(
Money on call and short notice         7.5         -           0.4           6.5
Government investments               195.8      412.7       1430.1         514.14
Bills discounted                     174.2       21.5         25.5          85.:
Other financial investments            6.3        5.9          4.5           4.0
Advances                             478.2      491.2        575.2         648.5
Fixed Assets                          19.5       20.4         20.9          20.'-
1.024.9   1.158.2      1,277.6       1,609.0
Guarantees and acceptances             970.7      646.5        771.4       1,077.3
- as % of total assets                  95%        56%          60%           67%
Linuidity ratio  3/                       16%       18%          17`            21A
Profit and Loss
Net profit after tax                   5.4        5.5          1.3          _5.
Transfers to general and
other reserves                         5.0        5.0           -            2.D
Payments to Consolidated Fund            -          -           0.7           2.;
Dividends                               0.5        0.5          o.6           0.6
Net Profit after tax as
% of average assets                     0.55%     0.5%         0.11%         0.14%
i/  Deposits on December 31, 1972:               Rs Million
Current accounts                             829.5
Davings deposits                             273.0
Timie deposits                               134.7
Other (including cheques in
collection"                                317.0
1t 55) .9 ~
2/ See Table 3 Cor most recent breakdown of advances.
3/  Cash on hand and with banks, money on call and short notice, as a
percentage oL total assets.
October 17, 1973



AIINEX 6
TaLble 7
SRI LANKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank of Ceylon
Classification of Advances. December 31. 1971,
by Purpose and Period
(Rs Minlion)
Number of        Up to       1 to 5         Above
Prpose                 Advances        1 Year      Years          5 Years    Total
Comercial               4,377           117.5       35.1           24.3       176.9
Financial               1,412            57.0        9.4           12.2        78.6
Agricultural            3,103            19.9       17.1           13.5        50.5
Industrial              1,371            67.3       13.6           44.8       125.7
Consumption            11,292            16.0       28.1           21.4        65.5
Others                    633             8.5        9.6            0.4        18.5
Total                  22,188           286.2      112.9          116.6       515.7
October 17, 1973



AM=IEX 6
Table -7
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Peoples Bank
Financial Statement and Profit and Loss Accounts,
Year-End, 1969-72
(Rs Million)
Sept. 30,  Sept. 30,  Sept. 30,   Dec. 31,
1969        1970        1971         1972
(unaudited)
Liabilities
Issued share capital                    5.7         5.7         6.3          6.8
Reserves                               17.6        16.4        21.7         25.2
23.3        24.1        28.0         32.0
Deposits  l/                          851.0       935.5      1161.2       1690.1
Other liabilities                       4.7         7.6         10.1        19.4
879.0       967.2      1199.3       1941.5
Represented by:
Cash on hand and with banks            72.0        81.2       135.6        282.8
Money on call and short notice         40.0         -          11.3         19.3
Cheques in collection                 151.2       151.9       128.0        252.2
Government securities                  53.8        57.9       122.1        111.1
Advances   2/                         554.2       669.1        793.1      12 2.9
Fixed assets                            4.9         3.6         4.8          4.7
Other assets                       _     .9         3.5         4.4         18.5
879.0       967.2      1199.3       1 241.5
Guarantees and acceptances              882.7       863.3       871.2        875.0
- as % of total assets                 100%         89%          73%         45%
Liquidity ratio 1V                        30%         24%         23%          29%
Net profit after tax                    2.3         2.1         1.2          2.1
Transfers to general and
other reserves                       2.0          1,8         0.7          1.5
Pamnents to Consolidated Fnd             -           -          0.1
Dividends                               0.3         0.3         0,4          0.5
2.3         2.1         1.2          2.1
Net profit after tax
as % of average assets                0.27%       0.24%       0.11%        0.13%
1/  Deposits on December 31, 1972:           Rs Million
Current accounts                         440.3
Cheques in collection                    170.9
Savings accounts                         257.9
Fixed deposits                           148.3
Others (including amount received
from Central Bank on account
of cultivation loans)           872.7
1890.1
2/    See Table 5 for recent breakdown o' advances.
3/   Cash on hand and with banks, money on call and short notice, and cheques
in collection as a percentage of total assets.
October 17, 1973.



ANNEX 6
Table W
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
People's Bank
Classification of Advances. June 30. 1972
by Purmose and Period
(Rs Million)
Period of Advance
No. of      Up  to     1 to 5       Above
Purpose                Advances      1 Year    Years       5 Years       Total
Commercial  /             8,485       136.6       53.1       5.5         195.2
Financial   2/            8,420         3.5       14.1        7.3         24.9
Agricultural  3/         26,278        86.8       52.5        3.1        142.4
Industrial i/             2,817       120.9      106.9        9.0        236.8
Consumption  5/         120,592        19.5       38.6        9.6         67.7
Other loans  6/          82,613        15.1       27.6        5.0         47.7
Total                   249,205       382.4      292.8       39.5        714.7
1/ Export, import, wholesale and retail trade.
/ Advances to financial institutions and individuals for purchase
of assets (shares, securities, real estate).
3/ Production loans for tea, rubber, coconut and other crops as
well as for livestock and dairying.
4/ For processing of agricultural commodities and for manufacturing
industries including mining and fisheries.
5/ For purchase of consumer goods.
6/  Miscellaneous, not covered under above classifications.
iptober 18, 1973.






ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 1
PROJECT LENDING POLICIES AND PRsOCEDURES
I.     Investments to be Financed
1.     Sub-loans would be granted to finance the acquisition of dairy cattle, land
clearing, pasture establishment, construction of buildings to raise cattle and store
animal feed, erection of fences, procurement and installation of small dairy
equipment, and construction of water supply facilities.
2.     Credit would be provided to NMB for the purchase of storage tanks and
chilling lUnits for about 70 new milk collection centers, two mobile testing units
and about 15 bulk milk tank trucks.
3.     Credit would be provided to MPCS and DCS for the construction or improvement
of about f'ifty facilities to house the milk collection equipment to be provided
under para 2, above.
II.    Lernding Terms
A.     Except as Government and the Association shall otherwise agree, the following
lending terms and conditions would be used in implementing the Project:
Lending Terms - Government to BC and PB
(a)  Term:                12 years including a three-year grace period;
(b) Interest:             6% per annum on outstanding balance;
(c)  Repayments to be in installments set to coincide with scheduled
collections of sub-loans made by BC and PB.
Leriding Terms - BC or CRB's to Farmers
(a)  Term:                12 years including a three-year grace period;
(b;)  Interest:           10% per annum on outstanding balance;
(c) Sub-loans would be made to finance not more than 90% of the total
cost of the proposed investment exclusive of pasture deve'lopment
subsidies. The balance of the cost would be provided in cash or in
kind by the borrowing farmer.
Lending Terms - BC to NMB
(a)  Term:                10 years including a three-year grace period;
(b)  Interest:            8% per annum on outstanding balance.
Lending Terms - PB to CRB's
(a)  Term:                 12 years including a three-year grace period;
(b) Interest:             7-1/2% per annum on outstanding balance;
(c) Repayments to be in installments set to coincide with scheduled
collection of sub-loans made by CRB's to farmers.



ANNEX 6
.plendix I
Page 2
Lending Terms - PB to MPCS and DCS
(a)  Term:                12 years including a three-year grace period;
(b)  Interest:            8% per annum on outstanding balance
B.    The initerest rates specified under para A above may be increased by agreement
between Government and the Association to reflect future increases in the interest
rates charged by banking institutions in Sri Lanka on loans for agricultural
purposes.
III.   Procedures for Processing Sub-Loans to Farmers
1.     PTU staff would assist farmers in preparing farm plans and budget, appraise
proposed investments, provide supervision during the carrying out thereof, and
would regularly, thereafter, provide consultation to farmers until sub-loans
shall have been fully repaid.
2.     All sub-loans to farmers would be appraised in terms of incremental returns,
and particular consideration would be given to repayment capacity of the borrower.
3.     Sub-loans would be made only to such farmers who:
(a)  are in areas where satisfactory milk collection, storage and
transport facilities shall exist;
(b)  are eligible for payment by Government of the appropriate pasture
development subsidy; and
(c) have Carm development plans approved by the PTU Technical Director
'ior his designated representative).
4.     BC and CRB's would accept PTU's approval as satisfactory evidence of the
technical adequacy of fanm development plans submitted to them for sub-loans, and
would base their approval of applications only upon applicants' creditworthiness.



ANUZ  7
Table 1
ORI LANKA
Dariy Oevelop-enL ?roljct
Model 1:  C--nt Trisoole - 50 Acre Farn
Herd Development Projections
ff Before      Ir 1         Yr 2          Yr 3         Yr 4        Yr 5         Yr 6          Yr 7         Yr 8-25
] Development (                              Number of Head
A - Parameters of -lerd Perfornance
Calving Rate 71                                                       55           55           60          65           70           70           70            70            70
Mortality Adults %                                                    10           10            5           3            3            3            3             3             3
Mortality Birth  - I yr %                                             15           15           10           8            8            8            8             8             8
Cow Culling %                                                         10           15           25          25           tS           15           t5            15            15
2-3 yr Heifer Cullng                                                  10 4         1            10          10           10           10           15            1             10
Milk Sales (pt/lactation)
Original Coms                                               1200         1200         1450        1700         1700         1700         1700          1700          1700
Upgraded or Parchased Cow.                                    -            -          2000        2200         2400         2800         3000           3000          3000
Sale Weights (lb liveweight)
Cull Cows                                                    600          600          600         625          65o          675          700            700           700
Cull Heifern                                                 400          450          455         475          500          525          550            550           550
Calves                                                       120          120          130         140          150          150          150            150           150
Males 1-2 yr                                                 250          250          300         350          375          400          400           400            400
Males over 2 yr                                              700          700          750         800          850          850          850            850           850
Age at First Calving (months)                                         36           36           36         32.           32           30           30            30            30
Carrying Capacity 1A0/farn)                                           16           20           30          36           36           36           36            36            36
B - Herd Development Projections (100 UOits)
Cows        On hand                                                 655           655          622         990         1312          1654        1723          1827          1811
Plus in-calf heifers                                   145           145          584         616          596           378         427           323           339
Total mated                                            800           800         1206        1608         1908          2032        2150          2150          2150
Less deaths                                             80            80           60          48           57            61          65            65            65
Less sales                                              65            98          156         248          197           248         258           274           274
On hand at end                                         655           622          990        1312         1654          1723        1827          1811          1811
Heifers      2-3 yr on hand                                         168           168          168         178          263           311         299           317           317
Plus -urchIsev                                          -            500          500         400           -            -
Sub total                                              168           668          668         578          263           311         299           317           317
Less deaths                                             17            67           33          17            8             9           9            10            10
Less sales                                               6            17           17          18           32           173         284           301           285
On hand at end                                         145           584          618         543          223           129           6             6            22
Heifers      1-2 yr on haod                                         187           187          187         326          480           615         654           693           693
Less deaths                                             19            1g            9          10           14            18          20            20            20
On hand at end                                        168           168          178         316          466           597         634           634           634
Calves       Born during year                                       440           440          724        1045         1336          1422        1505          15)5          1505
Less deaths                                             66            66           72          84          107           114         120           120           120
Male calves sold                                        -             -            -           -           200           380         472           472           472
On hand at end                                         374           374          652         961         1029           928         913           913           913
Males        1-2 yr on hand                                         187           187          187         326          481          454          274           220           220
Less deaths                                             19            19            9          10           14            12           8             7             7
Less sales                                              -             -            -           -           417           352         216           163           163
On hand at end                                         168           168          178         316           50            50          50            50            50
Males       Over 2 yr on hand                                       318           318          318         328          466           200         200           230           200
Less death.                                             32            32           16          10           15             6           6             6             6
Less sales                                             136           136          152         168          302            44          44 464                      44
On hand at eld                                         150           150          150         150          150           150         150           150           150
Bulls        On hand                                                 16            16           16          16           16            16          17            17            17
Plus purchases                                           3             3            3           3            3             4           4             4             4
Subsotal                                                19            19           19          19          19             20          21            21            21
Less deaths                                              1             1            1           1            1             1           1             1             1
Less sales                                               2             2            2           2            2             2           3             3             3
On hand at end                                          16            16           16          16           16            17          17            17            17
Total        Animal units                                          1668          2179         2585        3185         3617          3592        3598          3601          3601-
Total        Cows calving                                           440           420          724        1045         1336          1422        1505          1505          1505
1/ Increvental Herd Growth = 1933 AU
February 1, 1974



SRI LANKA
Dairy Development Project
Model 1: Coconut Triangle - 50 Acre Farm
Investment Projection
Year 1            Year 2             Year 3              Total
Units     Unit Cost   Units   Cost Rs   Units   Cost Rs   Units   Cost Rs   Units   Costs Rs
Rs
1/
Pasture Establishment/       ac          340      24       8,160     24      8,160       -        -        48     16,320
Fencing2/                 chain           60      48       2,880     48      2,880       -        -        96      5,760
Buildings3/              lact.cow        810       8       6,480      7      5,760       _        -        15     12,240
Water Supp  4               farm       1,000       1       1,000      -         -        -        -         1      1,000
uply-
Dairy Equipment5'          farm          300                150     12        150       -        -         1        300
Livestock Purchases
Heifers or Young Cows    head          800       5      4,000       5      4,000       4      3,200      14     11,200
TOTAL                                                   22,670            20,950              3,200             46,820
1/  Land preparation by hired labor (Rs 80/acre); seed and planting (Rs 120/acre); fertilizer during year
of establishment: 150 lb/acre of urea (Rs 60) plus 175 lb/acre triple superphosphate (Rs 65) plus
75 lb/acre potash (Rs 15).
2/  2 chain new fence per acre required at Rs 60/chain.
3/  36 sq ft  at Rs  10/sq.ft  per lactating cow plus 30 sq ft  at Rs  15/so ft  per calf = Rts 810/3lactating >ows
Ii? Water reticulation to central dairy buildings.
/  Buckets, churns, etc.                                                                                               R 
February 1, 1974                                  ~                                                                     C



SitI I1NKA
Dai.  Developmrent Project
iKodel 1: Coconut Triangle - 50 Acre Farm
Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
(Rs '000)
Before   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7           Year 8
and Onwards
A. Farm Livestock Sales
filk Sales 1/                     2.9        2.9       6.7     11.8      16.8      21.3      24.8     24.8        24.8
Cattle Sales for Beef,
Cull Cows, Heifers,
Bulls and Other 2/               1.0        1.1     15        2.1       4.1       2.9       2.8      2.7         2.7
Breeding Heifers 3/                -          -         -        -         -        0.9       1.7      1.7         1.6
Total Livestock Sales             3.9 o/    4.0        8.2     13.9      20.9      25.1      29.3     29.2        29.1
B.  Operatin5g ;xnenses
Labor 4j                          1.2        2.2       2.2      2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9         2.9
Disease Control and AI 51         0.1        0.3       0.3      0.4       0.5       o.5       o.5       o.5 0$5
Concentrate Feeds 6/              3.3        2.6       3.6      5.1       6.3       7.0       7.6       7.6         7.6
Pasture Maintenance 7/             -          -       1.2       2.14      2.14      2.4       2.4       2.4         2.4
Maintenance of StrucTures 0/        -         -        o.5      1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0         1.0
Purchase of Bulls 9/              0.1        0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       3.1       0.1        0.1
Total Operating Expenses          4.710/    5.2        7.9     11.9      13.2      14.3      15.0      15.0        15.0
1/  Rs o.55/pt of milk with 4Z fat, assuning Rs  0.05 for transport.
2/  Rs  0.70/lb liveimight.         3/  Rs 650/heifer.
1/ 1 laborer at Rs 100/mon'th before development; 1.5 laborers at Rs 120/month in years 1 and 2;
2   laborers at Rs 120/month from year 3 onwards.
5/  Rs 3/AU plus Rs.2/lactating cow before development; Rs 10/AU plus Rs 10/lactating cow from year 1 onwards.
7/  Rs 600/lg ton;2 lb/AU daily before development; 1 lb/AU daily plus 1/3 pt of milk sold from year 1 onwards.
7/  Nil before establishment: Rs  50/ac/yr (100 lb P205) starting in year after establishment.
W/  5% of investmerlt/year.                                  
9/  Share of bull purchased 9 Rs 2,000w
10/  Exclusive of sales of and expenses on coconuts.
Febru ry 1, 1974



DAIRY DNVELOFPiEUT PitJeCT
DAiry Farm Development ProjAections
Model 1: Coconut Triangle - 50 Acre Farm
Financial Projections
Farm Year
1          2           3            4                                                               9           10           11-15
---------------------------------------Rs000----------
Cash Inflow
Sales                      4-.        8.2        13.9         20.9         25.1         29.3        29.2          29.1        29.1        29.1          29.1
Subsidy 1/                 2.9        2.9
Loan:
Loan-term               16.4       14.9         2.7
Medium-term              2.1        2.5         2.0
Farmer's Contribution      3.4        3.1         0.5
Total          28.8        31.6        19.1         20.9        25.1          29.3        29.2          29.1       29.1         29.1         29.1
Cash Outflow
Investment                22.7       20.9         3.2
Operating Expenses         5.2        7.9        11.9         13.2        14.3          15.0         15.0         15.0        15.0        15.0          15.0
Total          27.9        28.8        15.1         13.2        14.3          15.0        15.0          15.0       15.0         15.0         15.0
Annual Cash Balance
Before Debt Service        0.         2.8         4.0          7.7        10.8          1413 14.2                 14.1        14.1        14.1          14.1
Debt Service
Long-term:
Interest (10%)           0.8        2.4         3.3          3.4          3.3          3.1          2.5          1.9         1.2         0.6
Principal                 -          -           -           1.0          2.0          6.2          6.2          6.2         6.2         6.2            -
Medium-term:
Interest (12%)           0.1        0.4          0.7         0.8          0.5           -
Principal                -           -                       2.5         4.1            _
Total           0.9         2.8         4.0          7.7         9.9           9.3         8.7           8.1        7.4          6.8            -
Annual Cash Balanee
Aftpr Dpht, RP;iftp_ -                 -            -                       0.9          5.o          5.5          6.o         6.7          7.3          14.1
1/  Rs 120/acre for establishment of improved pastures under coconuts.
February l, 1974.



SRI LANKA
Dairy Develop-ent Project
Model 2: Coconut Triangle - 10 Acre Farm
Herd Development Projections
Before   |     n          Yr 2         Yr 3         Yrs           Yr 4        Yr 6         Yr 7         Yr 8-25
Development                                      Nubers of Head
A - Parameters of Herd Performance
Calving Rate h                                                      55            55           60          65          70            70          70            70            70
Mortality Adults %                                                  10            10            5           3           3             3           3             3             3
Mortality Birth - 1 yr %                                            15            15           10           8           8              8          8             8             8
Cow Culling %                                                       10            15           25          25          15            15          15            15            15
2-3yr Heifer Culling X                                               5            10           10         10           10            10          10            10            10
Milk Sales (pt/lactation)
Original Cows                                             1200          1200         1450        1700         1700          1700        1700         1700          1700
Upgraded or Purchased Cows                                   -             -         2000        2200         2400          2800        3(00         3000          3000
Sale Weights (lb liveweight)
Cull Cows                                                  600           600          600         625          650           675         700          700           700
Cull Heifers                                               450           450          450         475          500           525         550          550           550
Calves                                                      120          120          130         1410         150           150         150          150           150
Males 1-2 yr                                               250           25o          300         350          375           400         500          400           400
Males over 2 yr                                             700           700         750         800          85o           850         850          850           850
Age at First Calving (months)                                       36            36           36          34           32            30          30           30            30
Carrying Capacity/farm (AU)                                          3             5            7           7.5          7.5           7.5        7.5           7.5           7.5
B - Herd Development Projections (100 Units)
Cows   On hand                                                     164           164          155         226         289           287         319           369           362
Plus in-calf heifers                                        36            36          124         131           51            86         111            61            68
Total mated                                                 200          200          279         357          340           373         430           430           430
Less deaths                                                 20            20           14          11           10            11          13            13            13
Le_s Sales                                                   16           25           39          57           43            43          48            55            55
0  hand at end                                             164          l55          226         289          287           319         369           362           362
Heifers 2-3 yr on hand                                              42            42           42          45          61            69          53            58            67
Plus purchases                                              -            100          100          -            -             -          -             -             -
Sub-total                                                    42          142          142          45           61            69          53            58            67
Lens deaths                                                   4           14            7           1            2             2           2             2             2
Less sales                                                    2            4            4           5            7            10          58            56            65
On hand at end                                               36          124          131          39           52            57           3             0             0
Hleifers 1-2 yr on hand                                             47            47           47          75         106           110         120           139           139
Less deaths                                                   5            5            2           2            3             3           4             4             4
On hand at end                                               42           42           45          73          103           107         116           135           135
Calves Born during year                                            110           110          167        232          238           261         301           301           301
Less deaths                                                 17            17           17          19           19            21          24            24            24
Wale calves sold                                             -            -            -           -            45            90         108           108           108
On hand at end                                              93            93          150         213          174           150         169           169           169
Males  1-2 yr on hand                                               46            46           46          75         107             64          33           30            30
Less deaths                                                   5             5           2           2            3             2           1             1             1
Less sales                                                   -            -            -           42           75            33          -             -             -
On hand at end                                              41            41           44          31           29            29          29?           29            29
Males  2-3 yr on band                                              151           151          151         155         131           129         129           129           129
Less deaths                                                  14            14           7           4            4             4           4             4             4
Less sales                                                  27            27           34          40           27            25          25            25            25
On hand at end                                             100           100          100         100          100           100         100           100           100
Bulls  On hand                                                       4             4            4           5            4             4          4              4             4
Plus purchases                                               1             1            2          -             1             1           1             1             1
Sub-total                                                     5            5            6           5            5             5           5             5             5
Less deaths                                                  -            -
Less sol es                                                   1             1           1           1            1             1           1             1             1
On hand at end                                                4             4           5           4            4             4           4             4             4
Total animal units                                                 481           581          661         701         750           750         767           791           7911'
Total cows calving                                                 110           110          167         232         238           261         301           301           301
I/  I-cre  eotal Herd  -roeth = 310 AU
Febr-ery 1. 1974



SRI LANKA
Dairy Development Project
Model 2: Coconut Triangle - 10 Acre Farm
Investment Projection
Unit Cost          Year 1                 Year 2                   T_t_l
Investment            Unit        Rs          Units     Cost Rs      Units     Cost Rs      Units      Cost Rs
Fodder Establishment 1/    ac           300          6         1,800        3           900         9        2,700
Buildings 2/                AU         360           7         2,520        1           360         8        2,880
Water Supply 3/            Farm         500          1           500         -            -         1          500
Dairy Equipment 4/         Farm        100           1           100        -             -         1          100
Livestock Purchases
Heifers or Young Cows    Head         800           1           800        1           800         2        1,600
TOTAL                                                       5,720                   2,060                  7,780
1/  Land preparation labor (Rs 80/ac); grass cutting and planting (Rs 60/ac); fertilizer at establishment
200 lb/ac of urea (Rs 80) plus 175 lb/ac of phosphate (Rs 65) plus 75 lb/ac potash (Rs 15).
2/ 40 sq ft plus 5 sq ft for storage per AU at Rs 8/sq ft.
3/ Reticulation to central building.
LT/ Buckets, churns, etc.
February 1, 1974 h



SRI LANKA
Dairy Developmaent Project
Model 2: Coconut Triangle - 10 Acre Farm
Sales and Operating Expense Projections
(Rs '000)
Before Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 and
After
A. Sales Proiections
Milk Sales 1/                 0.7     0.7     1.0      1.9     2.5     3.6      5.o     5.0      5.0       5.0
Cattle Sales for Beef
Bull Cows, Heifers, Bulls
and Others 2/                0.2     0.3     0.4      o.6     o.6     o.6      0.5     o.6      o.6       o.6
Breeding Heifers 3/            -       -       -        -       -        -      0.2     0.3      0.3       0.3
Total Livestock Sales -o/    0.9      1.0     1.4      2.5     3.1     4.2      5.7     5.9      5.9       5.9
B.  Operating Expenses
Labor V                        -       -        -       -       -        _       _       _        _         _
Disease Control and AI 5/      -      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1       0.1
Concentrate Feeds 6/          007     0.7     o.8      1.0     1.1     1.3      1.6     1.6      1.6       1.6
Fodder Maintenance 7/          -       -       0.5     0.7     0.7      0.7     0.7     0.7      0.7       0.7
Maintenance of Structures 8/  -       0.1      0.2     0.1     0.2      0.1     0.2     0.1      0.2       0.1
Purchase of Bulls 9/           -      0.1      -        -       -        -      0.1      -        -         -
Total Operating Expenses-l/ 0.7       1.0    16       1.9     2.1     2.2      2.7     2.5      2.6       2.5
1/  Rs 0.55/pt of milk with 4% fat, assuming Rs 0.05/pt for collection.
2/  Rs 0.70/lb liveweight.    3/  Rs 650/heifer.       4/  Family labor only.
7/ Rs 3/AU plus Rs 2/lac-tating cow before development; Rs 10/AU plus Rs 10/lactating cow starting in Year 1.
&/  Concentrate at Rs 600/ton; 3 lb/AU daily before developnent; 1 lb/AU daily plus 1/3 lb/pt of milk sold
from Year 1 onwards.
7/  Nil before dc-velopment; Rs 80/ac/year (200 lb urea), starting in year after establishment.                          C '
7/ 5% of investmen-t starting one year after investment is made.
7/  Share of communally used bull purchase @ Rs 2,000 each, occurring every fifth year.
10/ Exclusive of sales of and expenses on coconuts.
February 1, 1974.



SRT LANKA DATRY DEVELOPHENT PHOJECT
DLirY Farm Development Projections
Model 2: Coconut Triangle - 10 Acre Farm
Financial Projections
Farm Year
1          2           3            4              R                     7                        9            10          11-15
Cash Inflow
Sales                     1.0         1.4         2.5          3.1        4.2          5.7          5.9          5.9         5.9         5.9           5.9
Subsidy l/                0.7         0.7
Loan:
Long-term               4.1         1.1
Medium-tern             0.3         o.8         0.1
Farmerts Contribution     0.9         o.3
Total           7.0        4.3          2.6          3.1        4.2          5.7          5.9         5.9          5.9         5.9           5.9
Cash Outflow
Investment                5.7         2.1
Operating Expenses        1.0         1.6         1.9          2.1        2.2          2.7          2.5          2.6         2.5          2.5          2.5
Total           6.7        3.7          1.9          2.1        2.2         2.7           2.5         2.6          2.5         2.5           2.5
Annual Cash Balance
Before Debt Service       0.3         o.6         0..7         1.0        2.0          3.0          3.4          3-3         3            3..
Debt Service
Long-ten :
Interest (10%)          0.2         0.5         0.5          0.5        0.5          0.5          0.4          0.3         0.2          0.1           -
Principal                -           -           -           0.2        0.3          1.0          1.0          1.0         1.0          0.7           -
Medium-term:
Interest (12%)          0.1         0.1         0.2          0.2         0.1
Principal                      -                 -           0.1        1.1
Total           0.3        o.6          0.7          1.0        2.0          1.5          1.4          1.3         1.2          o.8
Annual Cash Balance
After Debt Service         -           -           -            -           -          1.5          2.0          2.0         2.2          2.6          3. i
1/ Rs 120/acre for establishment of improved pastures under coconuts.
February 1, 197h1



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 7
MODEL 3: MID-LOUJNTRY -40 A~CRE FARM                                                          Ta_ble 9
Herd Development Projections
Before              1        Yr 2         Yr 3       Yr 4          Yr 5         1'r 6         Yr 7
Development       Yhunabers of Head                                             ----)and after
A - Parameters of Herd Perforoance
Calving Nate 1                                                      65            65            70         73            75           75          75            75
Mortality Adults %                                                   10            10            5           3             3            3           3            3
Mortality  Birth - 1 yr X                                            20            20          15           10             8            8           8            8
Cow Culling X                                                       15            25           25          25            15           15          15            15
2-3 yr Heifer Culling %                                               5           15           15          15            15           15          15            15
Milk Sales (pt/lactation)                                         2400          2400         2850        3300          3600         36co        3600          3600
Sale Weights (lb liveweight)
Cull Cows                                                   700           700          700         725           750          775         800           800
Cull Heifers                                                500           500          500         515           550          575         600          600
Calves                                                      120           120          130         140           150          150         150           150
Males 1-2 yr                                                350           350          350         375           40          425         425          425
Males over 2 yr                                             800           800          800         825           850          875         875          875
Age at First Calvint (months)                                        30            30           30         28            26            24          24           24
Carrying Capacity/farm  (AU)                                          8           23           46          50            50           50          50            So
B - Herd Development Projections  (100 Units)
Cows   On hand                                                     470           470          390        1243          1941         2384        26,9          2610
Plus in-calf heifers                                        130           130         1022        1079           817          716         451           490
Total mated                                                 600           600         1412        2322          2758         3100        3130          3100
Less deaths                                                  60            60           71          70            83           93          93            93
Less sales                                                   70           150           98         311          291           358         327           397
On hand at end                                              470           390         1243        1941          2384         2649        2610          2610
Heifers 2-3 yr on hand                                               70            70           70         74           136          125         41.2           548
Plus purdases                                                -           1000         1000         500            -            -          -
Sub total                                                    70          1070         1070         574           136          125         4 .2          51.8
Less deaths                                                   7           107           54          17             4            4           14           16
Less sales                                                    3            11           11          11            31          121         458           532
On hand at end                                               60           952         1005         546           101           -           -             _
Heifers 1-2 yr on hand                                             156           156          156         420           763          952        1 9'0         1070
Less deaths                                                  16            16            8          13            23           29          32            32
On hand at end                                              1140          140          148        407            740          923        1038          1038
Calves Born dering year                                            390           390          988        1695          2069         2325        2325          2325
Less deaths                                                  78            78          148         170           165          185         185           185
Male calves sold                                             -             -            -           -            150          740         71.0          740
On hand at end                                              312           312          840        1525          1751         1400        14100         1400
Males  1-2 yr on hand                                              156           156          156         420           762          802         :13:           330
Less deaths                                                  16            16            8          13            23           24          10            10
Less sales                                                  140           140          148         407           735          778         320           320
On hand at end                                               -             -            -           -             -            -           -             -
Bulls  On hand                                                      18             18          18          20            20           20          20             20
Plus purchases                                                7             7            7           5             5            5           5             5
Sub total                                                    25            25           25          25            25           25          25            25
Less deaths                                                   3             3            1           1             1            1           1             1
Less sales                                                    4             4                  4            4                   4           4             4
On hand at end                                               18            18           20          20            20           20          20            20
Total animal units                                                1007          2007         2819        3761           4444        5004        4997          4997 l/
Total cows calving                                                 390            390         988        1695          2069         2325        2325          2325
1/  Incremental herd growth = 3,990 AU
February 1, 1974



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 3: MID-COUNTRY - 40 ACRE FARM
Investment Projections
Year 1                 Year 2                     Year 3                        Total
Investments               Units    Unit Cost          Units         Cost        Units       Cost          Units         Cost           Units       Cost
Rs                           Rs                      Rs                          Rs                          Rs
Forage Establishment
Waste Land  1/              ac          320              4           1,280         3          960             -           -                7         2,240
Tea Land  2/                ac          540              7           3,780        18        9,720            6         3,240             31        16,740
Boundary fence  3/               Chain        60            30           1,800        15           900            -           -               45         2,700
Buildings  4/                   AU           360            30          10,800        20        7,200             -           -               50        18,000
Water Supply  5/                 Farm     1,000               1          1,000          -          -              -           -                1         1,000
Dairy equipment  6/             Farm         500             0.6           300         0.4        200             -           -                1           500
Livestock purchases
Heifers or young cows       Head      1,300             10          13.000    _10          13.000             5         6.500            25         32,500
Total                                                            31 960                 31 980                      9 740                       73 680
1/  Land preparation TRs 80/ac); grass cutting and planting (Rs 60/ac); fertilizer at establishment: 300 lbs urea/ac (Rs 120); 125
lbs triple superphosphate/ac (Rs 50); 50 lbs potash/ac (Rs 10).
2/ Uprooting tea and preparing land (Rs 300/ac); grass cutting and planting (Rs 60/ac); fertilizer as above (Rs 180/ac).
3/ Boundary fence, of which 50% is existing.
4/  30 sq ft stables plus 5 sq ft storage/AU @ Rs 12/sq ft; 15% of requirements already existing.
5/ Water supply to central dairy barn.
6/ Churns, buckets, etc.
February 1, ]974                                                                                                                                                      o z
o _



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 3: MID-COUNTRY - 40 ACRE FARM
Sales and Operating Expense Projections
(Rs '000)
Before          1        2        3        4          5        6          7           8
And Later
A.  SALES
Milk  1/                            5.0           5.0       14.9    29.6       39.5    44.4      44.4       44.4       44.4
Cattle for beef  2/                 0.8           1.2        1.0      2.8      4.0      5.2       4.3       4.4        4.4
Breeding heifers  3/                 -             -         -         -        0.1     0.7        2.7       3.3        3.3
Total Livestock Sales               5.8           6.2       15.9    32.4       43.6    50.3      51.4       52.1       52.1
Tea Sales  4/                       1.7           1.3        0.3       -        -        -         -         -          -
Total Sales                         7.5           7.5       16.2    32.4      43.6    50.3       51.4      52.1        52.1
B.  OPERATING EXPENSES
Labor  5/                           2.4           3.8        6.5      7.7       8.9    10.1       10.1      10.1       10.1
Disease control and A.I.  6/        0.1           0.2        0.4      0.5       0.7      0.7       0.7       0.7        0.7
Concentrate feeds  7/               4.0           3.2        6.6    11.4       14.4    16.2      16.2       16.2       16.2
Forage maintenance  8/               -             -         1.3      3.8       4.6      4.6       4.6       4.6        4.6
Maintenance of structures  9/        -             -         0.7      1.1       1.1      1.1       1.1       1.1        1.1
Purchase of bulls   10/             0.1           0.1        0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1
Total Operating Expenses            6.6           7.3       15.6    24.6       29.8    32.8       32.8      32.8       32.8
1/  Rs 0.53/pt of milk with 3.8% fat, assuming Rs 0.05 for transport.
2/  Rs  0.70/lb liveweight..
3/  Rs 700/heifer.
4/  Plucking cost Rs 0.15/lb greeu leaf, sold at Rs 0.22/lb; net proceeds of Rs 0.07/lb;yield of 800 lb green leaf/ac.
5/  Two laborers at Rs 100/month before development; 1 milker at Rs 120/month plus 3 laborers at Rs 100/month in year 1;
two milkers at Rs 120/month plus 4 laborers at Rs 100/month in year 2; 2 milkers at Rs 140/month from year 3 onwards,
five laborers at Rs 120/month in year 3, 6 in yzar 4, 7 laborers d  RS 12aII,IILh foiua yeaL 5 unwaids.
6/ Rs 3/AU plus Rs 2/lactating cow before development; Rs 10/AU plus Rs 10/lactating cow from year 1 onwards.
7/  Rs 600/lg ton; 4 lb/AU daily before development; 1 lb/AU daily plus i lb/pt of milk sold from year I onwards.
8/  Nil before development; 300 lbs urea/ac (Rs 120) annually starting in year after establishment.
9/  Starting in year after establishment; 3% on buildings, 5% on fences and water, 20% on equipment.
10/ Share of communally used bull purchased at Rs 2,000.
February 2, 1974



D..B    - , ,IP P3aRO
D trs' FaruDev    oent Pto.tions
Model 3: Nid-CQaZ  -    ore lam
Financial Prolections
Farm Tear
1          2           3            4           <       -    b             7           8            9            10          11-15
(--------------------------------------------- Rs '000 --------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Sales                      7.5       16.2         32.4        43.6         50.3        51.4          52.1         52.1         52.1        52.1          52.1
Subsidy -                  2.8        7.9          4.2
Loan:
Long-term               24.4       19.3          4.0
Medium-term              1.1        3.1           -
Farmer's Contribution      4.8        4.8          1.5
Total          40.6        51.3        42.1         43.6
Cash Outflow
Investment                32.0       32.0          9.7
Operating Expenses         7.3       15.6         24.6        29.8         32.8        32.8          32.8         32.8         32.8        32.8          32.8
Total          39.3        47.6        34.3         29.8        32.8         32.8         32.8          32.8         32.8        32.8         32.8
Annual Cash Balance
Before Debt Service        1.3        3:7                     13.8         17.5        18.6          12-3         jY_2         19.3        E.32          12.3
Debt Service
Long-term:
Interest (10%)           1.2        3.4          4.6         4.8          4.2         3.5           2.8           2.1          1.4        0.7            -
Principal                 -          -            -          5.7          7.0         7.0           7.0           7.0         7.0         7.0
Medium-term:
Interest (12%)           0.1        0.3          0.5         0.2           -
Principal                 -                      2.7         1.5           -
Total           1.3         3.7         7.8         12.2        11.2         10.5           9.8          9.1          8.4         7.7            -
Annual Cash Balance
After Debt Service          -          -            -          1.6          6.3          8.1          9.5          10.2         10.9       11.6           19.3
1/ Total of Rs 500/acre for tea up-rooting, pasture establishment and pasture maintenance.
F.bruary 2, 197l.                                                                                                                                              1r
oz



SRI LANKA
ANNEX 7
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     Table 13
MODEL 4: MID-COUNTRY - 8 ACRE FARM
Herd Developmer.t Projections
Before          Yr 1       Yr 2         Yr 3           Yr 4        Yr 5       Yr 6
Development                                                                    and onwards
D(velopment  -   Nmbers of Head                  )
A - Parameters of Herd PerfoMsance
Calving Rate %                                                        65           65           70          73            75           75          75
Mortality Adults %                                                    10           10            5           3             3            3           3
Mortality Birth - 1 yr %                                              20           20           15          10             8            8           8
Cow Culling  %                                                        15          25           25          25             15           15          15
2-3 yr Heifer Culling  %                                               5          15            15          15            15           15          15
Mill Sales (pt/lactation)                                          2400         2400         2850        3300          3600         3600        3600
Sale Weights (lb liveweight)
Cull Cows                                                    700          700          700         725           750          775         800
Cull Heifers                                                 500          500          5         525           550          575         600
Calves                                                       120          120          130         140           150          150         150
Males 1-2 yr                                                 350          350          350         375           400          425         425
Males over 2 yr                                              800          800          800         825           850          875         875
Age at First Calving (manths)                                         33           33           33         31             29           27         27
Carrying Capacity/farm (AU)                                            2            5.8          7.0         7.0           7.0          7.0         7.0
B - Herd Development Projections (100 Units)
Cows   On hand                                                      237          237          211         287           356          377         381
Plus in-calf heifers                                          63           63          147         154            87           73          69
Total mated                                                  300          300          358         441           443          450         450
Less deaths                                                   30           30           18          13            13           14          14
Less sales                                                    33           59           53          72            53           55          55
On hand at end                                               237          211          287         356           377          381         381
Heifers 2-3 yr on hand                                                52           52           52          56            63           68          79
Plus purchases                                                -           100          100          -             -            -           -
Sub-total                                                     52          152          152          56            63           68          79
Less deaths                                                    5           15            8           2             2            2           2
Less sales                                                     2            8            8           8            61           66          77
On hand at end                                                45          129          136          46
Heifers 1-2 on hand                                                   78           78           78         107           14S          152         152
Less deaths                                                    8            8            4           3             4            4           4
On hand at end                                                70           70           74         104           141          148         148
Calves Born during year                                              195         195          251         322           332          332          332
Less deaths                                                   39           39           38          32            28           28          28
Male calves sold                                              -            -            17         103           129          140         140
On hand at end                                               156          156          196         187           175          164         164
Males  1-2 yr on hand                                                 78           78           78          89            42           23          12
Less deaths                                                    8            8            4           3             1            1
Less sales                                                    70           70           74          86            411          22          12
On hand at end
Bulls  On hand                                                         5            5            6           6             6            6           6
Plus purchases                                                 1            2            1           1             1            1           1
Sub-total                                                      6            7            7           7             7            7           7
Less deaths                                                    1            1
Less sales                                                    _            _             1           1             1            1           1
On hand at end                                                 5            6            6           6             6            6           6
Total animal units                                                   514          615          673         700           700          700         700  I/
Total cows calving                                                   195          195          251         322           332          332         332
1/  Increeental herd growth = 186 AU
-ruary 2, 1974



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 4: MID-COUNTRY - 8 ACRE FARM
Investment Projection
Year 1                Year 2                    Total
Units    Cost          Units      Cost          Units    Cost           Units   Cost
(Rs)                    (Rs)                    (Rs)                   (Rs)
Forage Establishment
Waste land   1/                   ac        320            1        320                       -             1      320
Tea land   2/                     ac        540            4     2,160                       -              4    2,160
Pasture Improvement  3/           ac        180            2        360                      -              2      360
Buildings   4/                       AU        350            7      2,450                       -             7    2,450
Water supply  5/                     Farm      500            1        500                       -             1      500
Dairy Equipment  6/                  Farm      100            1        100                       -             1       100
Livestock Purchases
Heifers or Young cows             Head   1,300             1      1.300            1       1,300            2    2,600
Total                                                    7.190                     1,300                8,490
1/  Land preparation (Rs 80/ac); grass cutting and planting (Rs 60/ac); fertilizer at establishment; 300 lbs urea/ac
(Rs 120) 125 lbs triple superphosphate/ac  (Rs 50), 50 lbs potash/ac (Rs 10).
2/  Uprooting tea and preparing land (Rs 300/ac); grass cutting and planting (Rs 60/ac), fertilizer at
establishment; same as in 1/ above.
3/  Fertilizer only, as in 1/ and 2/ above,
4/  30 sq  ft stable plus 5 sq ft storage/AU at Rs 10/sq ft (Rs 350); 15% of facilities already existing.
5/  Water supply to dairy barn.
6/  Churns, buckets, etc.
February 2, 1974
_l



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 4: MID-COUNTRY - 8 ACRE FARM
Sales and Operating Expense Projections
(Rs '000)
Before    Year 1       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4         Year 5         Year 6         Year 7          Year 8
A. Sales Projections
Milk sales  1/                   2.5         2.5         3.8           5.6           6.3             6.3           6.3            6.3             6.3
Cattle for beef  2/              0.4        0.5          0.5          0.8            0.6             0.6           0.6            0.6             0.6
Breeding heifers  3/               -          -           -             -            0.4             0.4           0.5            0.5             0.5
Total Livestock Sales              2.9        3.0         4.3           6.4           7.3             7.3           7.4            7.4             7.4
Tea Sales  4/                     0.4          -           -             -                             -             -              -               -
Total Farm Sales                  3.3         3.0         4.3           6.4           7.3             7.3           7.4            7.4             7.4
B.   Operating Expenses
Projections
Labor  5/                          -          -           -             -              -               -            -              -               -
Disease control and Al  6/         -         0.1         0.1           0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1            0.1             0.1
Concentrates  7/                 2.0         1.2         1.6           2.1           2.3             2.3           2.3            2.3             2.3
Forage maintenance  8/             -          -          0.8           0.8           0.8             0.8           0.8            0.8             0.8
Maintenance structures  9/         -          -          0.1           0.1            0.1            0.1           0.1            0.1             0.1
Purchase of bulls  1O/           0.1         0.1         0.1           0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1            0.1             0.1
Total Operating Expenses           2.1        1.4         2.7           3.2            3.4             3.4          3.4            3.4             3.4
1/  Rs 0.53/pt of milk with 3.8% fat, assuming Rs 0.05/pt collection costs.
2/ Rs 0.70/lb liveweight.
3/ Rs 700/heifer.
4/  Selling at Rs 0.22/lb green leaf; plucking cost Rs 0.10/lb (1/3 family labor); net profit Rs 0.12/lb; yield of 800 lbs/acre green leaf.
5/ Family labor only.
6/  Rs 3/AU plus Rs 2/lactating cow before development; Rs 10/AU plus Rs 10/lactating cow as of Year 1.
7/  Rs 600/lg ton; 4 lb/AU daily before development; 1 lb/AU daily plus  lb/pt of milk sold from Year 1 onwards.
8/  Nil before development; Rs 120/ac (300 lb urea/ac) annually starting year after establishment.
9/ Starting in year after establishment; 3% on buildings, 5% on water, 20% on equipment.
10/ Share of communally used bulls purchased at Rs 2,000.
February 2, 197h.                                                                                                                                                        o
m x



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development Projections
Model 4:   Mid-Country  -  8 Acre Farm
Financial Projections
Farm Year
1          2            3           4            5            6             7-15
(------------------------------ Rs '000 --------------- -----------------
Cash Inflow
Sales                       3.0         4.3         6.4          7.3         7.3          7.4           7.4
Subsidy -                   1.6        0.4
Loan:
Long-term                 3.2         -
Medium-term
Farmer's Contribution       1.1        0.2
Total            8.9         4.9          6.4         7.3          7.3          7.4           7.4
Cash Outflow
Investment                  7.2        1.3
Operating Expenses          1.4         2.7         3.2          3.4          3.4         3.4           3.4
Total            8.6         4.0          3.2         3.4          3.4          3.4           3.4
Annual Cash Balance
Before Debt Service         0.3        0.9          3.2          3.9         3.9          4.0           4.0
Debt Service
Long-term:
Interest (10%)            0.2        0.3          0.3          0.3          0.2         0.1            _
Principal                  -          -           0.2          1.0         1.0          1.0            _
Medium-term
Interest (12%)
Principal
Total            0.2         0.3          0.5         1.3          1.2          1.1            -
Annual Cash Balance
After Debt Service          0.1         o.6         2.7          2.6          2.7         2.9           4.0
I/ Total of Rs 500/acre for tea up-rooting, pasture establishment and pasture maintenance.
February 2, 1974|



SRI _.55405                                                                                ANNEX 7
SRI LASiA                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 17
DAIRY DEVELCI22fNT 0R2172J
1MODEL 5   MHID-CfL7RY - S ACPE_ AR
1:erd Deeelopsleoc Prcjecctons
Before         Yr 1         Yr 2          Yr 3         Yr 4           Yr 5        YrS.          Yr 7           Yr 8
Developient                                                                                                      and onwards
--                                  N' ,bers of Head -        -
A - Parameter  of Herd Perfo.,ance
,alvin   Ratei                                                            65            .S            70 15                                    75           7'             75             75
Mort.ality Adollts 2.                                                     10            10             5            3              3            3             3              3              3
lMortality Birth -   yr 40                                                               0            1                            H '          3                           H1  8           8
C-' 10111i-. 1. 21                                                                                    25 ^?                      1S            15           15             15             15
'-' yr Holler Culling 1                                                    3           10            15           15             15            15           1'1            15             15
dI i,l5.1e^                                                            2400          ?400          2853         2300           3600         3600         3600            3620          3600
.1-e  eights (lb liveweight)
Cull Cows                                                        700           70C          70"          723            750           775          800            8D0            800
Cull Heifers                                                     500           500            -          5-      f                    575          60r            600            600
Ca Les                                                           120           120          130          140           510            150          15(1           150            150
H1a1s over 2 yr                                                  300           800           800         825            8s0           875          873            875            875
Age at First alving  (osonths)                                            33            33            33          31             29            27           2'             27             27
-arrying  lapasityr/fart. (AUV                                             1.5           3.0           3.75        3.75           3.75          3.75          1.75          3.75           3.75
B - Herd Development =r_ jcticns  (100 Units)
COWs   Oln hand                                                          119           119           105         1 6            163           182          220            229            229
Plus in-calf heifers                                              31            31          118           30             49            73           50             41             41
Tftal mated                                                      150           150           223         216            212           255          27()           270            270
Less deaths                                                       15            15            11           6              6             3            8              8              8
Less sales                                                        16            30           26           47             24            27           33             33             33
On hand at sod                                                   119           105          186          163            132           22D          225'           229            229
!eifers 2-3 yr on hand                                                    26            26            26          28             39            27           2'             44             50
Plus rurchases                                                    -            100                        -              -             -
Sub-total                                                         26           126           26           28             39            27           21            46              50
Less deaths                                                        3            13             1            1              1            1            '              1              2
Less saLes                                                         1             4             4           4               6           26           20)            43             48
On hand at md                                                     22           10,            21          23              32           -            -              -              -
'eifers 1-2 yr on sand                                                    39            32            39          67             71            73           89             94             94
Less deaths                                                        4             6             2           2               3            2            7              3              3
on hand at end                                                    35            35            33 65                      68            71           85             91             31
'alves Horn durang Year                                                   90            98          156          190            159           191i         203     ~      203            203
Less deaths                                                       2'            90            23          16             13            15           15             15             15
Male calves sold                                                  39            35            66          71              73           38           9',            94             94
On hand at end                                                    39            39            67          71             73            88           94             94             94
ulls  Cn hand                                                             2             2             4           6              4             4            4              4              4
rLUS purchases                                                     1             3             1           1              1             1            1              1              1
Sub-total                                                          3             5             5           5              5             5            5              5              5
Less deaths
Less sales                                                         1             1             1            1              1             1           1              1              1
On hand at end                                                     2             4             4            4              4            4            3.             4              4
Total animal units                                                       213           320           293         316            327           358          386            413            419  1/
Total cows calving                                                        98            98           156         158            159           191          20:;           203            203
1/  l-cce-osntol berd gro-th = 201 AL'



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 5: MID-COUNTRY - 5 ACRE FARM
Investment Projections
Year 1                    Year 2                        Total
Units    Cost Rs        Units    Cost Rs          Units    Cost Rs            Units      Cost Rs
Forage Development  1/                   ac        450            2.5        1,125           -          -              2.5        1,125
Buildings   2/                       AU         400           4          1,600            -          -              4.0        1,600
Water supply   3/                     farm      500            1            500           -          -              1            500
Dairy Equipment   4/                  farm      100            1            100           -          -              1            100
Livestock purchases                      head    1,300            1          1,300           -          -               -         1,300
Total                                                                   4.625                                                 4,625
1/ Land preparation (Rs 70/ac); grass cutting and planting (Rs 60/ac); fertilizer at establishment: 250 lbs urea/ac (Rs 100),
125 lbs triple superphosphate/ac   (Rs 50), 50 lbs potash/ac (Rs 10); fertilizer for pasture improvement: same as
at establishment (Rs 160/ac).
2/  35 sq  ft stable plus 5 sq  ft storage/AU at Rs 10/sq ft (Rs 400); 15% of facilities already existing.
3/ Water supply to dairy barn.
4/ Churns, buckets, etc.
'itc a-ry 2, ?
FeD
a) Z
X x



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 5: MID-COUNTRY - 5 ACRE FARM
Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
(Rs '000)
Before     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8
A. Sales Projections
Milk sales   1/                         1.25         1.25        2.36       2.76        3.03        3.64        3.87       3.87        3.87
Cattle for beef   2/                   0.13         0.22        0.22        0.35        0.25        0.28        0.32       0.34        0.34
Breeding heifers  3/                     -            -           -           -          -          0.15        0.12       0.25        0.25
Total livestock sales                   1.38         1.47       2.58        3.11        3.28        4.07        4.31       4.46        4.46
B. Operating Expenses Projections
Labor   /                                -            -           -           -          -           -            -         -           -
Disease control and Al  5/              0.01        0.04        0.04        0.05        0.05        0.05        0.06       0.06        0.06
Concentrate feed  6/                    0.64        0.64        0.89        1.01        1.09        1.28        1.37       1.40        1.40
Forage maintenance  Y/                   -            -          0.38       0.38        0.38        0.89        0.50       0.50        0.50
Maintenance of structures  8/            -            -          0.10        0.10       0.10         0.10       0.10        0.10        0.10
Total Operating Expenses                0.65        0.68         1.41       1.54        1.62        2.32        2.03        2.06       2.06
1/  Rs 0.53/pt of milk with 3.8% fat, assuming Rs 0.05/pt transport cost.
2/ Rs 0.70/lb liveweight.
3/ Rs 700/heifer.
4/ Family labor only.
5/ Rs 5/AU plus Rs 2/lactating cow b6fore development; Rs 10/AU plus Rs 10/lactating cow as of year 1.
6/ Rs 600/lg ton; 3 lb/AU daily before development; I lb/AU daily plus i lb/pt of milk sold starting in year 1.
7/ Nil before development; Rs 150/ac (400 lb urea/ac) annually starting year after establishment; additional 0.8 acres
forage establishment in year 5.
8/  Starting in year after establishment; 3% on buildings, 5% on water, 20% on equipment.
February 2, 1974
'0



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development Projecticus
Model 5:  Mid-Country  -  5 Acre Farm
Financial Projections
Farm Year
1          2           3           4              7         6             7           8            9-15
-E------------------------------------- Rs '000 ------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Sales                    t.5          2.6         3.1          3.3         4.1         4.3           4.5          4.5         4.5
Subsidy
Loan:
Long-term              3.3
Medium-term
Farmer's Contribution    0.7
Total          5.5          2.6         3.1         3.3          4.1         4.3           4.5         4.5          4.5
Cash Outflow
Investment               4.6
Operating Expenses        0.7         1.4         1.5          1.6         2.3          2.0          2.1          2.1         2.1
Total          5.3          1.4         1.5         1.6          2.3         2.0           2.1         2.1          2.1
Annual Cash Balance
Before Debt Service      0.2          1.2         1.6                      1.8          2.3          2.4          2           2.4
Debt Service
Long-term:
Interest (1i%)         0.2          0.3         0.3          0.3         0.3         0.2           0.1          0.1          -
Principal               -                       0.3          0.4         0.5          0.8          1.0          0.4          _
Total          0.2          0.3         0.6         0.7          0.8         1.0           1.1         0.5           -
Annual Cash Balance
After Debt Service         -          0.9         1.0          1.0         1.0          1.3          1.3          1.9          2.4
February 2, 1974



SRI 1ANKk
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Star Yf  Velhicle Requirements of Project Technical Unit
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Sta P
Technical Specialists
Technical Director                      1           1               1 
Tropical Pasture Expert                  1          1         1          -          -           -         -
Call Raising Expert                                 1                   -         _            _        _
Local
Project Director               1/       1           1         1          1          1           1         1
Planning and Appraisal Teams
Farn Planning Technicians            10          15        15        15         12            9        5
Agricultural Technicians             10          15        15         15         12           9        5
Extension Advisors                     10          35        75         45         45          45        45
Drivers                                1)4         20        20         16         16          16        16
Secretaries                              5          8         8          8          8           8         8
Vehicles 2/
Four-wheel passenger                   13           6         -          -          -           -         -
Motorbikes                              20         30        40          -          -           -         -
]/  Each team to plan and appraise 40 Carms in Year 1, 60 in Year 2 and 80 in Year 3.  It is assumed
that the teams would gradually shirt to employment with banks after Year 3; those remaining with
PTU to strengthen the extension/supervision staff.
2/ Number to be purchased annually.
February 8, 1974                                                                                                                  613
H1c



ANNEX 8
Table .2
SRI LAWA
DAIRY LEVELP}ENT PROJECT
YANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL SERVICES AND PILOT UNITS
Proi-eted Co-t, Foreign Exchaane Coanonent and Ccntingencies
Pro'e t Year                                   Total Coot         __
c3           e                              Lesn                With
(Rs T0o0)                           Contingencie3       ContinROoiiS
FOREIGN ElRHAINE
A. Tenhioiu Unit
SAIorien:  Spenialni              675        e00       675                                  2,150                2,893
Lanai Sta0f                       -          -                                      
Vehiclen:  Purohase               h95        1,10      350                                  1,255                1,689
Operation              120       210        290     290       290                1,200               1,615
Sub-Total                   1,290      1,420     1,j15      290      290                1,60                6,197
B.  Calf-Rearing:  lnvest-er.t                    35        -                                      35                    4
Op-ratin-.                    45                                         '       5                  61
Sob-Total                                 S0 C        )               -                    80                  lob
C.  Dry-Load Pilot:
Investment                    5         So      -        -                    100                 135
Operation                     10         10      -                              20                   27
Suab-Total                     _-         60         c       -        -                   120                  162
Sub-Total:  Foreign Exchange   1,290       1,560     1,375      290      290                4,805-               6,467
Contingenaies:  Physi-al (5%)      65         00        70       15       15                  245                   -
Sub-Total              y    1,355      i,6bC     1,415    301        305                5,0950
Friae  (5%)            _       7 33 9  45_21             .                  1,417 ,
Total Foreign Eoahnge           1,531      1,979    1,396       508      553                 6,4W                6,467
LOCAL CURPENCY
A. Tecbhnial Unit
,si,ries:  Zpaeoi..lla            aDl075     Uo        675      -         -                 2,15u               2,716
Local Staff            638     1,240      1,840   1,375    1,370                 6,463               8,i64
Vehitles:  Parehase               632        525        450      -        -                 1,607                2,030
Operation              120       210        290     290       290                1.200               1.516
S.,h-Tot-i1                 2,^65      2,775     3,255   1,665    1,660                11,420               14,426
B.  Calf-Rearing:  Investment          -         100         -       -                             100                 126
Operation           -               _ 44 -                               - --__ _- 4   -
5ab-Total                                 40        -                                     540                  662
C. dry-La-d Pilot:
In-vtment          -         150       150       -        -                    300                 379
Operation           -         io        10        0        30260                                   ~320
Sob-Total                      -         250       250       30       30                  560                  707
Sub-Total:  Local Currenoy      2,065      3,565     3,505   1,695    1,690                12,520               15,d15
Contingencies: Physiaal (5%)      iO5        180       175       35       85                   630            ,
Sob-Total                   2,170     3,745      3,660   1,780    1,775                13,150
2/
Price (6%)5     _0          573       080       7h       605                2,665                   -
Total Local Currency            2,375 7    ,31j    ,4a8    ,2%5.    2300                   15,815                15,815
TOTAL FOREIGN AND LOCAL
A. Technical Unit
Saladeis:  Speoialists          1,350      1,600     1,350       -        -                 4,300                5,o09
Loana Staff            630     1,240      1,840   1,375    1,370                 6,463                8,161,
Vehileao:  Purohase             1,127        935        000      -        -                 2,862                 3,719
Operation              240       420        580     580       580                2,400           - 3131
Sub-Total                   3,355      4,195     4,570   1,955    1,950                16,025               20,623
3.  Co-11-earing: Investrent            -        135         -       -        -                   135                   173
Opsrstion           -        48          -               _ -            _          486 17
Sub-Total                      -         620        -        -        -                   620                  72O
C. Dry Land Pilot:
In-stment          -        200        200      -        -                    400                 51u
Operation           -        110        110      30       30                   280                  355
SAt-Totl                       -         3100      311       3         30                  689 -                69
Sub-fatal.  Foreign a.d lcca  3,355        5,125     4,588   1,905    1,9L1                17,325               22,282
>nn;innnr.tlnn:  Pbalc'      ll          0261     2745      11O      11                   875                   -
oloI s   'rlce  1.:w        112      ^25 0_-  677       95fi3              4.092
Sub-Total                      1      0,l72      1,501     77        953                4,957
outa: Foreti-n, _ooal and
Contingencies          32906      6.297      6.38h   2,762    2,931                222.L..22.282
1/ Reflecting projeated rate of inflation inountries of ioport, plas rounding.  For  ehibiles and The1 a
contingency hbo baen added of 14 and 11% for 1974-75 and 7.5% for 1976 and the.rafter.
2/ Reflecting projected loca1 rae of Inflation, plan ounnclag.
Souoe: Bank Staff
February 12, 1974



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Specialists
1.        The Technical Director would have at least 5 years experience in
dairy production under tropical or subtropical conditions similar to those
of the Project Areas. He should also be experienced in tropical pasture
management and establishment and including the use of tropical legumles.
A degree in Agricultural Science or Veterinary Science or equivalenl: would
be preferred but this could be overlooked for a person with wide experience
but lesser qualifications.
2.        Under the direction of the Project Director he would be responsible
for all technical aspects of the project during the first three years.
He would be the chief technical advisor of the Director and be attached to
the PTU headquarters staff. Including, but not limiting the generality
thereof, he would have the following minimum specific duties, responsibilities
and powers, which he might delegate in whole or in part to assigned technical
staff:
(a) advising the administrative officials on major policy
decisions in respect to the Project;
(b)  supervising the technical aspects of the project in accordance
with policies and procedures agreed to with the members of
the Project Committee of which he would be an ex-officio
member;
(c)  recommending to the Minister of Agriculture and Lands
through the Project Director the employment of livestock
technicians needed to carry out the project activities;
(d) prescribing the duties and responsibilities of the live-
stock technicians and training them in the technical and
economic aspects of livestock production and dairy farm
development plan preparation;
(e) on behalf of the Project Director review dairy farm
development plans prepared by PTU and recommend approved
plans to on-lending banks;
(f) inter alia, providing guidance on farm buildings, feeding
arrangements, milking practices, hygienic milk production
including identification and control of mastitis; approving
the selection of imported female dairy stock and their



ANNEX 9
Page 2
distributiorn to participating farmers; and assisting in
the organization of artificial insemination field services
and in establishing monthly cattle markets in the Mid- and
Up-Country;
(g) organizing and supervising the technical assistance
necessary to ensure successful completion of each dairy
farm development pian and lcan;
(h) training of a counterpart replacement;
(i) organising training programs and in-service training for
PTU technicians;
(j) establishing a farm accountiing system, with particular
attention to maintaining a recording system suitable for
the evaluation of Project resuzs;
(k) giving assistance and cooperation to the tropical pasture
expert and the calf raising technician in carrying out
their assignments.
3.        The Tropical Pasture Expert - would be a graduate in Agricultural
Science with at least five years experience in Tropical pasture agronomy
and extension with emphasis in the use of tropical legumes. This
experience would include, species selection and establishment including plant
nutrition, seed production and management. He would be attached to the PTU
and be responsible to the Project Director. Including, but not limiting
the generality thereof, he would have the following minimum specific duties
and responsibilities:
(a) carrying out investigational work on participating farms
to determine the most suitable grass, forage and legume
plants for different ecological conditions, including:
(i) methods of establishment and cultivation techniques;
(ii) seeding and planting rates;
(iii) response to fertilizers; and
(iv) grassland and forage management, stocking rates
and possibilities to develop year-round forage
supplies;
(b) investigating methods of minimizing the cost of establishing
pasture and fodder grasses under coconut palms, in up-rooted
tea gardens and on wastelands, with particular attention to
the timing of various operations and the effect of planting
time on forage productivity after establishment;



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(c) planning the dry-land pilot project, including investigating
techniques for establishing rotational ley-farming systems
in the Dry Zone including attention to suitable rotations
of field crops, as well as suitable grass and legume species
for the pasture phase; giving attention to the development of
a pastoral system which, with the utilization of crop by-products,
would provide sufficient year-round fodder;
(d) participating in the technical appraisal of dairy farm develop-
ment plans and in the in-service training of PTU planning
and appraisal teams;
(e) formulating and supervising schemes for pasture/forage
seed multiplication with participating project farmers
using, where necessary, imported foundation seeds;
(f) cooperating with the FAO/UNDP Project "Agricultural
Diversification of Uneconomic Tea and Rubber Lands".
3.        Calf Raising Technician - would be attached to the PTU and be
responsible to the Project Director. Including, but not limiting the
generality thereof, he would plan the pilot calf-raising project and have
the following minimum specific duties and responsibilities:
(a) determining the most economic feeding system for
raising calves up to the age of two years, including:
(i) the concentrate ingredients of local origin
most suitable for raising calves below
six months of age;
(ii) the response of calves to different
locally available legumes and grasses when fed
either as hay or fresh and;
(iii) developing feeding systems which can be applied on
a year-round basis;
(b) evaluating the financial viability of calf raising using
different methods of feeding;
(c) developing an organizational structure of calf raising
which would be applicable for village cooperatives;
(d) participating in the technical appraisal of dairy farm
development plans and in the in-service training of PTU
planning and appraisal teams.






ANNEX 10
Page 1
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Milk Collection and Transport Consultancy
Background
1.        The National Milk Board (NNB) proposes to increase its network
of milk collection centers to (a) accommodate the increased production of
milk in the Coconut Triangle and Mid-Country expected to result from the
proposed Dairy Development Project to be carried out in those areas and
(b) enable NMB to increase its collections from other (non-Project) milk
producers in the areas. NMB also proposes to increase the efficiency of
milk collection and transport to its processing plants by rationalizing
its milk to transport routes and procedures.
2.        It has been estimated that about 66 new collection centers --
approximately 38 located in the Coconut Triangle; 28 in the Mid-Country --
will be required to handle the increased output of milk under the proposed
Project (however, this will provide some surplus capacity available for
milk produced outside the Project). Storage tanks and chilling units
would be purchased by NMB and installed in buildings provided by coopera-
tives, who would then operate the collection centers.
Responsibilities
3.        In the context of the foregoing the consultants will collect and
assemble such information as is required with respect to (a) present and
prospective patterns of milk production and supply, (b) locations, capa-
cities and utilization of existing collection, storage and transport facil-
ities, (c) roads, routes and distances and (d) processing facilities. In
this regard they will work closely with, in addition to NMB, the Director
and staff of the Animal Production and Health Division (APHD) of the De-
partment of Agriculture at Peradeniya, particularly with respect to milk
production patterns under the prospective Dairy Development Project. On
the basis of this information the consultants will:
(a) determine the optimum number, sizes, locations
and other pertinent specifications of milk
collection facilities required in the Coconut
Triangle and Mid-Country;



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(b) determine and produce detailed specifications
for the most suitable equipment and procedures
for transporting the milk from collection centers
to processing plants, this to include but not be
limited to specifications of routes and scheduling;
and
(c) review in detail their recommendations with NMB
and the Director of the Project Technical Unit
in APHD and obtain concurrence of both with the
recommendations before leaving the country.



AN5EX 11
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pe.ejot Costs by Investment Categoies
(R. '800)
Percent
Year        1           2          3           4           5            Total        Foreign Exchange
Category
A. On FPrn Dev-lop-ent
1.  Past-ro EctablIuhsent                                     2,155       5,675      9,004        4,986       455           22,275             57
2.  Feucing and Buildings                                     1,948       4,311      6,763        2,682        -            15,704             20
3. Water Su,pply                                                262         488        750          -          -             1,500             80
4.  Daity Equip-eot                                              54          117       179           50        -               400             80
Sub-total                                             4,419       10,591    16,696        7,718        455           39,879             42
5. Contingeuoieu
Physical (5%)                                             217         526        831          394        26            1,994
Price 1/                                                 795        2,321     4,109        2,377        201            9.803
Sub-total                                             1,012        2,847     4,940        2,771        227           11,797             55
Total Os FPar                                                 5,431      13,438    21,636       10,489        682           51,676             45
B. Livestock Purchase
1.  Iuported                                                  1,533       3,163      5,362        3,284     1,123           14,465             92
2.  Local                                                       865       2.271      4,000        2,704       975           10815-
Sub-total                                              2,398        5,434      9,362       5,988      2,098           25,280             57
3. Coutinge-cies
Physical                                                  119         272        468         300        105            1,264
Price                                                     364         856      1,507         991        377            4,095
Sub-total                                                 483       1.128      1.975       1.291        482            5.359             57
Total Licostock P-rcho.e                                      2,881       6,562    11,337         7,279     2,580           30,639             57
C. Milk Callectio- a-d Transport
1.  Tacks and cooling equipetut                                 -         3,818      3,817          -          -             7,635             49
2.  Teotiag Units                                               106         -          -            -          -               106             57
3.  Tr-osport Equipment                                         -         3.538        -            -          -             3,538             48
Sub-total                                                106       7,356     3,817          -            -           11,279             49
4. Coutingencies
Physical                                                    5         368        191         -           -               564
Price                                                     22        2.295     1.569          -           -             3.886
shb-totul                                                27        2,663     1,760          -           -            4,450             49
Total Collection cud Tran-port                                  133      10,019      5,577          -          -            15,729             49
D. Collection Center Buildinng
1.  Tasku:  1,000 and 1,400 pints                               -           315        315          -          -               630             15
2.  Tanks:  1,800 pints                                         -           225        225         -           -               650             15
Sob-total                                               -            540        540         -           -             1,080             15
3. Coetingentiee
Physical                                                  _            35         35         _           _                70
Price                                                    -             70        135         -            -              205
Slb-total                                               -            105        170         -           -               275             15
Total Callection Cectera                                        -           645        710          -          -             1,355             15
E.  M.naunuent aud Technical Services
1.  Technical Unit                                            3,355       4,195      4,570        1,955     1,950           16,025             50
2.  Calf Rearing                                                -           620        -            -          -               620             16
3.  Dryland Pilot                                               -           310        310           30        30              680             18
Sub-total                                             3,355        5,125     4,880        1,985     1,980            17,325             28
4. Continenc-ies
Physical                                                  170         260        245          100       100             8u7
Price                                                    381          912      1.259         677        853           4.082
Sub-total                                               551        1,172     1,504          777        953           4,957             31
Total Mlinageuent and Technical Secvice-                      3,906       6,297      6,364       2,762      2,933           22,282             29
F. Working Capital                                                  400          830     1,500        1,370       400            4,500              -
1. Centingeucies
Physical                                                   20          40         75          70         20              225
Pricu                                                      30         110       300          360        140              940
Sub-total                                                 50          150       375          430       160            1,165
Total Working Capital                                           450         980      1,875        1,800       560            5,665              -
G. Project Costs
1. Without C50tingeocies                                     10,678      29,876    36,795        17,061     4,933           99,343             42.2
2.  Contingencies
Physical                                                 531        1,501      1,845         664        251            4,992             41.0
Price                                                  1,592        6,564     8.879        4,403      1,571           23,011            47.0
Sob-total                                             2,123        8,065    10,724        5,269      1,822          28,003             46.0
Total Project Costs                                          12,801      37,941    42,519       22,330      6,755          127,546             4.,0
1!  Pcice contingencies have been applied us follows:  inputted cattle 5% pe- ann= dif; local cattle, fern developneut and
techbical services 6% p,a,; eqoipnent, fertili-er and fael 14% and 11% for 1974-75 and 7.5% for 1976 and thereaftar.
There ore uo civil weeks corponents nuder the Project.
Source: BRok Staff
Febrpary 12, 1974



ANNEX 12
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(us$ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter          Quarterly Disbursement    Cumulative at End of Quarter
1274/75
March 31, 1975                            197                           197
June 30, 1975                             277                           474
1975/76
September 30, 1975                        450                            924
December 31, 1975                         274                         1,198
March 31, 1976                          1,130                         2.328
June 30, 1976                             470                         2,,798
1976/77
September 30, 1966                        641                         33439
December 31, 1976                         847                         4,286
March 31, 1977                            398                        4h684
June 30, 1977                           1,141                         5:825
1977/78
September 30, 1977                        532                         6,357
December 31, 1977                         647                         7,004
March 31, 1978                            169                          7,173
June 30, 1978                             648                          7,821
1978/79
September 30, W78                        169                          7,990
December 31, 1973                         253                         8,243
March 31, 1979                            253                          8,L4.96
June 30, 1979                             252                          8,748
1979/80
September 30, 1979                        252                         9, 'Doo
May 29, 197h



SRI LANKA
IAIRY DEVELOPffENT PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return
(RS '000)
Before         ----- - --------------------------------- Farm Year -----------
MODEL                       Development       1       2       3        4       5       6       7        8       9       10        1 51-4
COCONUT TRIANGLE
MODEL 1 - 50 Acre Farm
Sales                                   3.9          4.0    8.2   13.9   20.9   25.1    29.3    29.2    29.1    29.1            29.1      29.1       29.1
Incremental Herd Value                   -                                                                                                           19.3
Operating Expenses                      4.7          5.2     7.9   11.9   13.2   124.3   15.0   15.0    15.0    15.0            15.0      15.0       15.0
Investment                               -          22.7   21.0      3.2
Incremental Financial Balance            -         (23.1)  (19.9)   (0,4)    8.5    11.6   15.1    15 0    14.9   14.9         14.9       1IJ9       34.2
Financial Rate of Return:    21%
MODEL 2 - 10 Acre Fam
Sales                                   0.9          1.0     1.4     2.5      3.1     1o2    5o7      5     5.9        5.9      5,9        5.9        5.9
Incremental Herd Value                   -                                                                                                            3.1
Operating Expenses                      0.7          1.0     1.6     1.9      2.1     2      2,7     2        2.6     2,5       2.5       1U5        2.5
Investment                               -           5.7     2.1
Incremental Financial Balance            -          (5.9)   ( .5)    0.4      0.0     1G8     2,8      3.2     3.1     32        3.2       3.2        6.3
Financial Rate of Return:    20C%
NID-COUNTRY
MOIDEL 3 - 40 Acre Farm
Sales                                   7.5          7.5    16.2    32.4    43.6   >!) 3    51.4   'e,1    52.1    542-1        52.1      52-1        52.1
Incremental Herd Value                                                                                                                                39.9
Opersting Expenses                      6.6          7.3    15.6   24.6   29.,          13   32,8      e N    32.3    52.8      32.8     .Ja          32e8
Investment                               -          32.0    32.0      9.7
Incremental Financial Balance            -         (32.7)  (32.3)   (2.8)  1<2       jc, 6    1o7    t8 84 i8.h    182          ,R74      18.24       58.3
Financial Rate of Return:    18%
MODEL 4 - 8 Acre Fan,
Sales                                   3.3          3X        . 3    6,24    7r3    ?(.4      7.4     7, 24   7,24     7 J4     7,24       7c24       7.24
Incremental Herd Value                   -                                                                                                             1.9
OpereRting Eapenses                     2.1          1.4     2.7      3.2     3.4     5,24    3,4      3.4     3.4      3.4      3.4        3e4        3.4
Investment                               -           7.2      1.3
Incremental Financial Balance            -          (6.8)   (0.9)    2.0      2.7     2.7      2.7     2.1     2,7      2.7      2.7        2.7        4.6
Financial Rate of Return:    26%
MODEL 5 - 5 Acre Farm
Sales                                   1 .4         1 .5     2.6     3.1     3.3     4.1      4.3    2l.5      4.5     4.5      4.5        1.5        4.5
Incremental Herd Value                   -                                                                                                             2.0
Operating Expenses                      0.7          0.7      1.4     1.5     1.6     2.3      2.0     2.1     2.1      2.1      2.1        2.1        2.1
Investment                               -           4.6
Incremental Financial Balance            -          (4.5)    0.5      0.9     1.0     1.1      1.6     1.7     1.7      1.7      1.7        1.7        3.7
Financial Rate of Return:    23%
Source: Bank Staff
January 31, 1974



SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Tests of Financial Rates of Return
Financial Rate of Return
With Operating          With Benefits
At Project       Costs Increased            Decreased
MODEL                                     Prices          +02                               -
COCONUT TRIANGLE
Model 1 - 50 acre farm                                21            19          18           17        13
Model 2 - 10 acre farm                                20            19          17           17        14
MID-COUNTRY
Model 3 - 40 acre farm                                18            15          12           13        7
Model 4 - 8 acre farm                                 26            25          24           22        18
Model 5 - 5 acre farm                                 23            21          19           18        14
Source: Bank Staff
January 31, 1974



ANNEX 14
Page 1
SRI LANKA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
1.        Primary project benefits would be (i) increased domestic milk
production resulting in reduced level of imports, (ii) meat production
from project farm cull animals, and (iii) surplus good-quality breeding
heifers from project farms.
2.        Key assumptions and adjustments that were made are:
(a) an average FhEC rate of Rs 10 to $1 (US$) was used;
(b)  pure bred heifers procured from Government farms were
valued at the CIF prices for imported pure-bred heifers;
local cross-bred heifers procured from mid and up-
country where they are surplus, were valued at the
domestic market price;
(c) domestic milk production was valued at the CIF price
(liquid milk equivalent) of milk powder and butter fat
imports displaced; similarly for other project outputs;
(d) all operating costs, including collection, transport,
and processing, associated with the substitution of
imports by domestic production were charged to the
project;
(e) the labor component was costed at the market wage rate;
(f) costs of technical service, extension and pasture research
were charged to the project;
(g) the prices of outputs, operating inputs, and investment
items, in real terms, were assumed to remain at the current
levels; and
(h) in the basic economic analysis, fertilizer was valued at
its July, 1973 international price (price increases
estimated at 150% after that date were not included
since their impact upon commodity prices has not been
quantified); however, the sensitivity of the project to
the fertilizer price increase has been tested (para 5).
i3.       Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return is
projected at 18%. Under the most conservative approach, costing the input
pure-breds at the import price (Rs 4,800) rather than the domestic subsidized



ANNEX 14
Page 2
price (Rs 1,300) and, at the same time, valuing the output at the lower
price, the economic rate of return would be 15%. The project output uses
about 15% of the already installed processing capacity and if part of the
investment in NMB's processing capacity is charged to the project, the
return to the economy would be 16.5%.
4.        A sensitivity analysis has been carried out with respect to
investment cost, operating cost and benefits. By increasing both investment
and operating costs by 20% without changing the operating results, the return
tu the economy would drop to about 13%. Similarly, by reducing benefits
by 20% without changing costs, the rate of return would be 12%. This is
considered satisfactory, in relation to the opportunity cost of capital in
Sri Lanka. As can be seen from Table 2 to this Annex, when a 20% reduction
in benefits is combined with a 20% increase in costs, the rate of return
drops to about 7%. The risk of such a combination of events is not great.
5.        If dairy farm investment and operating costs are increased to
include the full increase in fertilizer prices since July 1973 (reflecting
a projected farm gate price of urea of US$225 per m ton), and with no
change in commodity prices, the economic rate of return would be 15%.



SRI LANkSA
DAIPY MVELOPViL0i.T PROJECT
Rate of Return to the Economy -
(Rs '000)
Year         1        2         3        4         5        6        7         8         9         10-16         17
A.   I1iCR4E-OOTAL I14VLSTIPANT  /
1.   N'ational J-ilk Toard                              110       7100     3927       -         -
2.   On - Farm                                         7847      17811    29256      15655    3580
3.   Froject Technical Unit                            1230       1335     1050       -         -
4.   5eoperative Investment                            -           575      5"s       _        _
TOTAL INCRN2IT.TAL I1E3ST717T                9187      26821    34807      15655    3580
T.   LNCUTZIIITAL OtTiP'I?
1.   ,kim .'iLk Powder (000 lbs)                        -         329      1,224     2,965  4,740      5,568   6,965   7,396    7,396          7,396       7,396
Value at Rs 4.40/lb                              -       1,440     5,335    13,045 20,855    24,500  30,645  32,540   32,940           32,540      -1,540
2.   ratter Fat  (ooo its)                                         12         47       114    182         214     267      284       284          234         284
Value at Rs 9.10/lb                                        110       430      1,035  1,655      1,945   2,430   2,585    2,589          2,53 5      2585
3.   Incremental Ieef Output                            112       309      1,200     2,442  3,972      4,672   4,296   4,04'j   4,130          4,130       L,130
4.   Surplus  reeding Nleifers                          -          -         -         242  1,012       3,004   5,327   7,357    7,885          7,785       7,785
5.   Residual   Ilerd Value                             _-                                     -          -       -        -         - _                  57_0
~0TO1 TNC1a~30iL 0TA1 O1                       112    1,859      7,015    16,764 27,494    34,121  42,698 4',531   47,06             4          104,940
C.                CG1 2 T TS 0 /
1.   'lational   ilk Board
(a)   Pranstort                                    -         30        120        290    460        550     640      740       740          740         740
(-)    Lve_>-lli  -  80  330  790   1240       1370    1650    1980        1980         1980        1980
_        110          450    1080   1,700      1920    2290        20        0         2720        2720
oc,ervative  olle.t1on                            _         212       424        424    424        424      404      424      4-4          41          424
,  n -ar                                            97    1.274      4,056      8.210 11.729    13,237  14,111  14 ,239    4,238         14,23C      14,'-3
rollct  echnicc.l Unit                           2223    4,005        515       2,627 2 622       1,400  1,400      -          -            - _
TOTAL I12111= L  0021                       2320    5,601       9,445     12,541T 1,475    16,981  18,225  17,383   17 ,382         17,382      17,382
*  i-T0 0    1=3_l` T                                    (11,395) (30,563) (37,237)   (11,432) 7439        17,140   24,473 29,148   29,678        29, 65-    87,558
.;.  .OQIT 'IC UL 01TE Of -TIT?. -  = 19'
1/ An average FtEC rate of exchange of Rs 10 to US$ 1 has been used for the economic analysis.
2/  Pure bred heffers procured locally, mainly from Government farms, are valued at cif price of imported pure breds (Rs 4,800/head); cross brds,  available
in surplus in the Up-Country are valued at the market price (Rs 800/head).  Fertilizer for pastuire establishment valued at July, 1973 prices.
3/  The project milk production becomes a part of NMB inputs while the output remains the same with and without the project.  Increiaental project production
is valued at the cif price of dairy imports displaced (mainly powder and butter fat); beef is valued at Rs 1.50/lh, the cit price for equivalent quality;
surpluis breeding beifer output is valued in the same manner as the input.
4;  Incremental costs of collection, tran-ortation and processing into powder end butter fat associated with milk substitution of imports with local  Ml,id
milk. All labor is costed at the market wage and fertilizer imports at the sverage FEEC rate.
5/  If the pure bred heifer output is valued at the domestic subsidized price of Rs 1,300/head while the input is valued at-the cif price of Rs 4,800/head
the rate of return is projected at 15%.  If a part of the investment cost of the Ambewala spray power plant is assigned to the Project in proportion
8o the use to be made of it by the Project, the rate of return is projected at 16.5%.
Source: Bank Staff.
January 25, 1974



SRI1 lANXA
*     n~DIR Du          PROJT
Economic Rate of Aiurn: Sensitivity AnP1yl5s
|lommic Rt. @1 Retumn Asrnuing that
S ARE                       ARE BD5  S 
Standard       - 10%         - 20%
StandArd          18.6          15.4          12.0
+ 1%             15.7          12.7           9.3
+ 20%            13.2          10.2           6.9
Source: Bank Staff
January 25, 1974



IBRD 109
,2    71- > w                                  eP                        ,                                                                                                     E -  k  ,0  B RFRu"  190Y
SRt LANKA
-UVE0 . R6C  .    T ION ZONES AND PROJECT AREA
LMAGRIZOLTURAL ZONJE  1fMIO-CoUCHTRY
.JCY''. AREA      I    DRY ZONE :                 UPCOUNTRY
C .OCONUT TRIANGLE         V   OTHER WET AREAS
U EANGIRRO MCLKPROCENFCNKUEMTER
1 -  d<Z ! m,   2 ~ACELA         3 PALL.eLLEK 4KNOAE
4 PARLCA   5 oALLe               6 AMBEWELA
-                             A>   'RL |*  TION CENTERS   AND f OVERMNNT LIVESTOCK FARMS
1 ;M            2 NmfWAGaOA       3 GORCULLA
4 NfFwiWYA    5 fILNAW.           6 KURUNEGALA
7    m _/o\  7   8 O0OAGASLANDA  9 KOTAGALA
10 'AMNfTIYA     11 SALHNROD      12 RAGALC.A
;l.       <     n    t           /            UJ          Mankul(lm              <                13 imuNtAN    14 mAuTE             15 AGPARAt
m ^    ~ >    ,  \   /   /  \   VAV U N I YA  \   16  K*GEAK,AE  17  oEYNAuwR   18 mIIUWALA
AK9   wAuo 20 CCu4tvAFCTYA    21 ROPATLAWA
22 mS ",4A("1  23 vAVAoAnk        24 NEW ZEALANO FARM
IM i P>   M A N N_AR                                                                                                     RONaAL RODSS                   D RISTOI SACRIE
-.--V---- -RAfLRlA                    RIVERS
.  - ->INTRNATIONAL                   IS \o  HYETIN INCHES
4; .                                                                                                         S 0 : g _ / :t Bray  of Bengo/l
,.,Y <r ~~~~~,     d      X     S ~~~Anura                   dh                            2i            ( 
PUTTALAM  ~6
barNOLONARW
*wt-dico*SatWV ; /Y                                                           Pelmadulla     /  /   il 
RAK STAN    SIYION <K SA                                       \ E EX                                  2,     
PAKISTANJ  TIRET)                               V~~~~~~~~~~~~ATICLO
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y   I     N DIA 1 <_JAAA / E 1
A   2#t;e  { O Fq C C @  7 
-wiya~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



