CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 504 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
SRI LANKA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 9, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 504 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
SRI LANKA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 9, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1974, between SRI LANKA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank established under the
Monetary Law Act No. 58 of 1949, as amended, of the Borrower;
(b)   "BC" means the Bank of Ceylon established under the Bank of
Ceylon's Ordinance No. 53 of 1938 of the Borrower;
(c)   "PB" means the People's Bank established under the People's Bank
Act No. 29 of 1961 of the Borrower;
(d)   "NMB" means the National Milk Board established under the Milk
Board Act No. 12 of 1954 of the Borrower as amended by the Milk Board
(Amendment) Acts No. 28 of 1955, No. 9 of 1957 and No. 18 of 1964;
(e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower, BC and PB pursuant to Section 3 J(a)(ii) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
thereto;
(f)   "Project Area" means the area comprising the Coconut Triangle and
Mid Country.


﻿4
(g)   "PTU" means the project technical unit referred to in Section 3.06
of this Agreement;
(h)   "Project Account" means the account to be established by the
Borrower in the Central Bank pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(i) of this Agreement;
(i)   "Sub-loar" means a loan made or proposed to be made by BC or
PB in accordance with this Agreement;
(j)   "CRB's" means the Cooperative Rural Banks established under the
Cooperative Societies Law No. 5 of 1.972 of the Borrower;
(k)   "MPCS" means the Multipurpose Cooperative Societies established
under the Cooperative Societies Law No. 5 of 1972 of the Borrower; and
(1)   "DCS" means the Dairy Cooperative Societies established under the
Cooperative Societies Law No. 5 of 1972 of the Borrower.
ARTILLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Imb


﻿5
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1984, and ending June 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2,08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out and shall cause the Project to
be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, economic, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)        (A) establish and maintain in the Central Bank a special project
account to be used exclusively for the Project; (B) credit to
said ,,ccount: (1) the proceeds of the Credit; (2) any other
payments made by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 of
this Agreement; and (3) any payments received from BC or PB
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement provided for herein below;
and (C) debit said account for any payments made to BC and
PB under said Subsidiary Loan Agreement and any expenditures
under Parts C and D of the Project.


﻿6
(ii)        enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with BC and PB, on terms
and conditions which shall have been agreed with the
Association, including, inter alia, the principal terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, whereby
the Borrower shall undertake to refinance through the Central
Bank: (A) 90% of Sub-loans under Part A of the Project made
by BC to farmers and by PB to CRB's to refinance Sub-loans
made by them to farmers under the Project; (B) credits under
Part B(1) of the Project made by BC to NMB; and (C) 90%
of Sub-loans under Part B(2) of the Project made by PB to MPCS
and DCS.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree the Borrower shall not assign nor amend, suspend,
terminate, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provisions
thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause all lending under Parts A and B of
the Project to be made in accordance with the lending policies and procedures
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause NMB to carry out a study, tinder
terms of reference which shall have been agreed with the Association, of milk
collection and transport in the Project Area and shall furnish to the Association,
as soon as they become available, the findings of said study.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NMB to employ, in consultation with the
Association and not later than sixty days after the Effective Date, or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association, qualified milk collection and transport
consultants in order to assist NMB in the carrying out of the study referred to
in Sub-section (a) above.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause NMB to prepare, on the basis of the study
referred to in Sub-section (a) above, and furnish to the Association for its approval,
the specifications for the milk storage and transport facilities provided under Part
B of the Project and a list of the sites proposed for the installation of said storage
facilities.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of overall coordination and supervision in
the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish, within its Ministry


﻿7
of Planning and Economic Affairs, a project committee, under terms of reference
which shall have been prepared in consultation with the Association, which shall
include representatives of the Central Bank and of the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture and Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Commissioner of
Cooperatives, of BC, of PB and of NMB.
Section 3.06. (a) For the purposes of the execution of the on-farm
development under Part A of the Project and the procurement of livestock
thereunder, and of the carrying out of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish, within the Animal Production and Health Division of its Ministry of
Agriculture and under terms of reference which shall have been prepared in
consultation with the Association, a project technical unit.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PTU to be at all times headed by a competent
project director. The project director shall have such qualifications and experience
as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association and shall be made
directly responsible to the Deputy Director of Agriculture in charge of the Animal
Production and Health Division.
(c)   The Borrower shall appoint to the staff of PTU, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, a technical director, acceptable to the
Association, who shall be experienced in dairy development and management of
pastures under tropical conditions.
(d)   The Borrower shall not later than six months after the date of this
Agreement, appoint to the staff of PTU, upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association: (i) a livestock specialist acceptable to the Association; and (ii)
a tropical crops and pasture specialist acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause BC, PB and NMB to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods, including
livestock, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by BC, PB and NMB, respectively, to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications


﻿8
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, or shall cause NMB to, keep milk
procurement prices continually under review and adjust said prices when necessary
in light of said review to ensure that production incentives for dairy farmers shall
be maintained. The Borrower shall consult with the Association semi-annually on
the suitability of production incentives for dairy farmers.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure the financial
viability of NMB and to enable NMB to realize, by the end of its fiscal year 1977,
or such other date as shall be agreed by the Borrower and the Association, and
maintain a rate of return of 8%, or such other rate as shall be agreed by the
Borrower and the Association, on NMB's total capital employed.
For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         The rate of return shall be calculated on the basis of a ratio
the numerator of which is NMB's operating income for the
respective fiscal year and the denominator of which is NMB's
total capital employed during the same period.
(ii)        The term "total capital employed" shall mean the sum of the
following:
(A)   Fixed Assets (less depreciation) as valued from time to
time in accordance with methods acceptable to the
I


﻿9
Borrower and the Association, to reflect material changes
in price levels, currency valuation and similar factors; and
(B)   Net Working Capital, as determined from time to time
in accordance with methods acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association, up to, but not exceeding in total,
one sixth, or such other proportion to be agreed to by
the Association and the Borrower, of the total amount
of operating cost (excluding depreciation, duties and
taxes), incurred during the preceding twelve months;
(iii)       The term "operating income" shall mean the value of sales less
operating costs (including depreciation and taxes but excluding
interest on long-term debt) as recorded from time to time in
the audited accounts of NMB.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts
C and D of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out Parts C and D of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BC, PB, NMB, MPCS and DCS, respectively,
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of BC, PB, NMB,
MPCS and DCS, respectively.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Central Bank to,
establish and maintain within the Project Account separate accounts for each of
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, respectively.
(b)   The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Central Bank to: (i) prepare
and furnish to the Association quarterly reports in respect of the separate accounts
referred to in sub-section (a) hereof within thirty days after the end of each quarter;
(ii) have the Project Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of the Project Account for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the Project Account and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿10
(c)   The Borrower shall cause NMB to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of NMB and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause BC and PB to: (i) maintain separate
accounts of their respective lending operations under the Project; (ii) have said
accounts and related financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of such year: (A) certified
copies of their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time request.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause BC, PB, NMB, MPCS and DCS to
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause to be established in the Project Area,
not later than December 31, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed with
the Association, about ninety branches of BC and about one hundred CRB's and
shall thereafter take all necessary measures to ensure that additional CRB's and
branches of BC shall be established in the Project Area by MPCS and BC,
respectively, promptly as needed for the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause NMB to appoint to its staff a
competent finance manager who shall have such qualifications and experience as
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
IN


﻿11
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BC or PB shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of BC or PB respectively under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   the People's Bank Act, the Bank of Ceylon Act and the Milk Board
Act of the Borrower referred to in Section 1.02 of this Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of PB, BC, or NMB, respectively, to carry out
the Project; and
(c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BC, PB or NMB, respectively,
or for the suspension of their respective operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower, BC and PB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;


﻿12
(b)   the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association acceptable forms
of the proposed lending agreements between: (i) BC and farmers; (ii) PB and CRB's;
(iii) CRB's and farmers; (iv) PB and MPCS; (v) PB and DCS; and (vi) BC and
NMB;
(c)   the project committee referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement
has been established pursuant to the provisions thereof;
(d)   the PTU referred to in Section 3.06(a) of this Agreement has been
established pursuant to the provisions thereof, and the project director referred
to in Section 3.06(b) of this Agreement has been appointed pursuant to the
provisions thereof;
(e)   the technical director referred to in Section 3.06(c) of this Agreement
has been appointed pursuant to the provisions thereof; and
(f)   the finance manager referred to in Section 4.07 of this Agreement
has been appointed pursuant to the provisions thereof.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower, BC and PB, respectively, and is legally binding upon
the Borrower, BC and PB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 10, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.08(b), 4.01,
4.02, 4.03(b) and (c), 4.05 and 4.07 of this Agreement and the provisions of
paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement and those of paragraph (b) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿13
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary
Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
Colombo
Sri Lanka
Cable address:
SECMINPLAN
Colombo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
SRI LANKA
By /s/ N.T.D. Kanakaratne
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / William Diamond
Director, South Asia
Country Programs Department


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % Of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   Imported live-                1,430,000           100% of foreign
stock under                                      expenditures
Part A of the
Project
II.  Milk storage                    550,000           100% of foreign
and     an                                       expenditures
equipment and
mobile testing
units under
Part B(1) of
the Project
III.  Sub-loans under              3,875,000           90% of amounts
Part A of the                                    disbursed under
Project other                                    Sub-loans
than for imported
livestock
IV.   Sub-loans under                100,000           90% of amounts
Part B(2) of the                                 disbursed under
Project                                          Sub-loans
V.    Management, technical
services and pilot
units
(1)  Pilot unit opera-        1,160,000           100% of foreign
tions, special-                             expenditures and
ists' services                              80o of local ex-
and PTU admini-                            penditures
stration costs
under Parts C
and D of the
Project
(2)  Vehicles for              125,000            100% of foreign
PTU under                                   expenditures
Part C of the
Project
Vt. Unallocated                    1,760,000
TOTAL        9,000,000
Sbw
90% ofamount


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A
The provisions of sub-loans to farmers for the purchase of livestock
and for on-farm development of: (i) about 800 farms of approximately 5
to 10 acres each and about 400 farms of approximately 40 to 50 acres
each in the Coconut Triangle; (ii) about 1,000 farms of approximately 5
to 10 acres each and about 200 farms of approximately 40 to 50 acres
in the Mid Country; and (iii) such other numbers of farms in such other
areas as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association
from time to time.
Part B
1.   The provision of credit to NMB for the purchase and installation of
equipment for the expansion and improvement of milk collection and
transport services of NMB.
2.   The provision of sub-loans to MPCS and DCS for the construction
or improvement of facilities to house milk collection equipment.
Part C
The provision of specialists' services and the establishment of a
technical unit within the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower to execute
Parts A and D hereof.
Part D
1.   The establishment of a pilot calf-rearing unit near Peradeniya with a
capacity of 500 heifer calves per year.
2.    The establishment of a pilot unit to develop pasture management
systems for dairy production in the Dry Zone.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 1979.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for milk storage and transport equipment and mobile testing units
shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts for the purchase of imported dairy heifers under Category I of
paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement shall be let by inviting quotations
from at least three countries free from foot-and-mouth disease, to be selected in
agreement with the Association. All purchases under said Category I shall be subject
to the approval of the Association as regards age, price, quality, source and
suitability.
3.    Procurement of heifers locally under Category III of paragraph I of Schedule
I to this Agreement and contracts for goods other than those mentioned or referred
to in Parts A.1, A.2 and A.4 hereof shall be in accordance with the Borrower's
procurement procedures.
4.    Contracts for vehicles under Category V(2) of paragraph I of Schedule 1
to this Agreement shall be let on the following basis:
(i)         bids shall be obtained from local suppliers; and
(ii)       the contract shall be let to the bidder whose bid is the lowest
evaluated bid.
5.    Civil works under Part B(2) of the Project shall be ca-ried out by MPCS
and DCS by force account or under contracts to be negotiated with domestic
contractors.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts with
respect to the equipment referred to in Part A.1 of this Schedule:


﻿18
1.    With respect to all contracts for such equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
IO


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Policies and Procedures
I.   Investments to be Financed
1.   Sub-loans under Part A of the Project shall be granted to finance the
acquisition of dairy cattle, land clearing, pasture establishment, construction of
buildings to raise cattle and store animal feed, erection of fences, procurement
and installation of small dairy equipment, and construction of water supply
facilities.
2.    Under Part B(l) of the Project credit shall be provided to NMB for the
purchase of storage tanks and chilling units for about 70 new milk collection
centers, two mobile testing units and about 15 bulk milk tank trucks.
3.    Under Part B(2) of the Project Sub-loans shall be provided to MPCS and
DCS for the construction or improvement of about fifty facilities to house the
milk collection equipment to be provided under Part B(1) of the Project.
11.  Lending Terms
A.    Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
following lending terms and conditions shall be used in implementing the Project:
(1)   Lending Terms - the Borrower to BC and PB
(a)   Term:            12 years including a three-year grace period
(b)   Interest:        6% per annum on outstanding balance
(c)   Repayments to be in installments set to coincide with scheduled
collections of sub-loans made by BC and PB
(2)   Lending Terms - BC or CRB's to Farmers
(a)   Term:            12 years including a three-year grace period
(b)   Int-rest:        10% per annum   on outstanding balance
(c)   Sub-loans shall be made to finance not more than 90% of the
total cost of the proposed investment exclusive of pasture
development subsidies. The balance of the cost shall be provided
in cash or in kind by the borrowing farmer.


﻿20
(3)   Lending Ten-ns - BC to NMB
(a)   Term:             10 years including a three-year grace period
(b)   Interest:         8% per annum on outstanding balance
(4)   Lending Terms - PB to CRB's
(a)   Term:             12 years including a three-year grace period
(b)   Interest:         7-1/2%  per annum   on outstanding balance
(c)   Repayments to be in installments set to coincide with scheduled
collection of sub-loans made by CRB's to farmers.
(5) Lending Terms - PB to MPCS and DCS
(a)   Term:             12 years including a three-year grace period
(b)   Interest:         8%  per annum   on outstanding balance
B.    The interest rates specified under paragraph A above may be increased by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association to reflect future increases
in the interest rates charged by banking institutions in Sri Lanka on loans for
agricultural purposes.
11I.  Procedures for Processing Sub-loans to Farmers
1.    PTU staff shall assist farmers in preparing farm plans and budget, appraise
proposed investments, provide supervision during the carrying out thereof, and shall
regularly, thereafter, provide consultation to farmers until sub-loans shall have been
fully repaid.
2.    All sub-loans to farmers shall be appraised in terms of incremental returns,
and particular consideration shall be given to repayment capacity of the borrower.
3.    Sub-loans shall be made only to such farmers who:
(a)   are in areas where satisfactory milk collection, storage and transport
facilities shall exist;
(b)   are eligible for payment by the Borrower of the appropriate pasture
development subsidy; and
I


﻿21
(c)   have farm development plans approved by the PTU Technical Director
(or his designated representative).
4.    BC and CRB's shall accept PTU's approval as satisfactory evidence of the
technical adequacy of farm development plans submitted to them for sub-loans,
and shall base their approval of applications only upon applicants' creditworthiness.


