Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15073-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
(BARNAMAJ AL AOULAOUIYAT AL IJTIMAIYA)
BASIC HEALTH PROJECT
May 9, 1996
Human Resources Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Dirham (DH)
US$1.00 = DH8.3 (as of April 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31 (until 1995)
July 1 to June 30 (as of 1996)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
BAJ           Barnamaj al-Aoulaouaiyat al-Ijtimaiya (Social Priorities Program)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CNSS          Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
CSSS          Comite de Suivi de la Strategie Sociale (Social Strategy Steering Committee)
DALYs         Disability-Adjusted Life Years
EPI           Expanded Program of Immunization
ESSB          Etablissements de Soins de Sante de Base
EU            European Union
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
HIV           Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
IEC           Information, Education, Communication
LSMS          Living Standards Measurement Survey
MSP           Ministere de la Sante Publique
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
PAS           Programme d'Action Sectoriel (Sectoral Action Program)
PDP           Programme de Depenses Publiques (Public Expenditure Program)
PECS          Plan d'extension de la couverture sanitaire
PMIS          Program Management Information System
PPS           Programme de Priorites Sociales (Social Priorities Program)
SAP           Sectoral Action Plan
SDS           Strategie de Developpement Social (Social Development Strategy)
SEGMA         Service g6re de maniere autonome
SPP           Social Priorities Program
STD           Sexually Transmitted Disease
TB            Tuberculosis
TFR           Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA         United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
ZIP           Zone d'intervention prioritaire (Priority intervention area)



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
BASIC HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project and Loan Summary
Borrower:                 Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing
Agency:                    The Ministry of Public Health (MSP)
Poverty:                   Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                    US$68.0 million equivalent
Terms:                     Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the IBRD
standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:           0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Foreign             Local                Total
IBRD                   68.0                -                  68.0
Government              0.2               50.6                50.8
Total                  68.2               50.6               118.8
Net Present Value:         N\A (cost-effectiveness calculations)
Environmental Rating:      C
Staff Appraisal
Report:                    No. 15073
Map No.:                  IBRD 27639
Project ID No.:           42415






BASIC DATA
Indicators                                                     Measure      Date
National Wealth
GNP per capita (US$)                                           1040     1993
Population
Total population (million)                                   26,073     1994
Rural population (% of total)                                  48.6     1994
Population growth rate(%)                                       2.1  1982-94
Poverty
Head-count Index
poor (%)                                                    13.1  1990-91
very poor (%)                                               7.0  1990-91
Poverty line (annual DH per person)
very poor (rural)                                         2,040   1990-91
poor (urban)                                              2,730   1990-91
Education
Adult literacy (% of population, age 15+)
Total                                                        45      1991
Female                                                       32      1991
Net School enrollment (% of total)
Primary                                                      58  1991-92
Secondary                                                    28      1992
Health
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                 62     1992
Infant Mortality Rate (per thousand)                             62     1995
General malnutrition (%)                                         15     1992
People per physician (number)                                 2,760     1995
Married women using contraceptives (%age)                        42     1995
Employment
Minimum wage for nonagricultural sectors (DH per day)            50     1995
Minimum wage for agricultural sector (DH per day)                38     1995






TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. SOCIAL SECTOR BACKGROUND  AND  ISSUES .............................................                                1
A. Economic Context ............................................ I
B. Poverty .............................................1
C. Population, Health, and Nutrition .............................................              :     . 2
II. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY  AND  BANK  RESPONSE ........................................... 7
A. Govermnent Strategy ............................................ 7
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement .............................................                             8
C. Bank Experience and Lessons Learned ............................................                        9
III. THE PROJECT ..............................................                                                     10
A. The Social Priorities Program  ............................................ 10
B. Project Objectives ............................................ 11
C. Project Description ............................................ 12
IV. COSTS, FINANCING, AND  MANAGEMENT ............................................ 15
A. Summary of Project Costs ............................................ 15
B. Financing ............................................                                                 16
C. Economic Analysis ............................................ 17
D. Management and Implementation ............................................                             19
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND  RISKS .............................................                                        25
A. Benefits ............................................ 25
B. Risks ............................................                                                     26
C. Stakeholders' Participation ............................................                               26
D. Poverty Category ............................................                                          27
E. Environmental Assessment ............................................                                  27
VI. AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................... ... 27
This report, prepared by Mrs. Maryse Pierre-Louis (MNIHR), is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Morocco in June 1995, led by Mr. Benoit Millot (MNIHR), and comprising Mrs. Maryse Pierre-Louis and Mr. Jean Christophe
Laederach (MNIHR). Mrs. Dung-Kim Pham, (MNIHR) assisted in preparing the project costs and financing tables. Ms.
Elizabeth Sherman edited project documents. Peer reviewers are Mr. Alexandre Marc (EC4MS), Mrs. Dominique Van de Walle
(PRDPE). Mr. Jean Francois Dupuy is the lawyer for Morocco, Mrs. Roslyn Hees is MNIHR Division Chief and Mr. Daniel
Ritchie is MNI Department Director.



ANNEXES
1.   Basic Sector Information
2.   SPP/BAJ: Organizational Structure
3.   Provinces Selected for the Program
4.   Selected Project Data
5.   Summary Cost Tables
6.   Procurement and Disbursement Data
7.   Project Implementation Monitoring: Key Indicators
8.   Selected Information in the Project File
MAP Map No. IBRD 27639



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
BASIC HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SOCIAL SECTOR BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
A. Economic Context
1.01   Over the past decade, Morocco has instituted reforms designed to achieve macroeconomic
stability and to liberalise the economy. Wide-reaching and comprehensive, the reforms have
gradually moved Morocco away from a predominantly state-administered economy towards one that
is more market-driven and outward-oriented. Yet, progress achieved on the macroeconomic front
remains fragile, as demonstrated by the continued indebtedness, and the deterioration in the fiscal
and external accounts which were exarcerbated by the 1995 drought.
1.02   Morocco's growth rate, which averaged about 4% annually during the last decade, fell well
below expectations and was too low to absorb the country's growing labor force.  Private
investment and domestic saving rates remain modest; labor productivity is not increasing; and
international competitiveness has recently eroded. The situation has been further exacerbated by the
recent drought, but prospects for 1996 are brighter. Despite significant recent progress,
performance has also been disappointing in the social sectors. Morocco's indicators in health,
education, literacy, and access to safe water continue to lag behind those of economically
comparable countries.  A fifth of the population still lives in poverty or near-poverty, urban
unemployment rates have reached 20%, and rural women are still economically and socially
marginalized.
1.03   Morocco's low social performance and its relative economic success are intimately related.
For even with constructive political and economic reforms in place, the country cannot reach and
sustain higher economic growth rates without a substantial accumulation of human capital. To
achieve such a reserve, it must boost its investment in the provision of basic social services.
Conversely, without sustained economic growth, it will be extremely difficult to improve
substantially employment opportunities and living conditions of its population, which already stands
at 26 million and is growing apace.
B. Poverty
1.04   Data gathered from  the 1985 Household Consumption Survey and the 1991 Living
Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) showed that the share of Morocco's population living
below the poverty line fell from 21 to 13% in those six years, while the GNP per capita rose by
about 30% (and presently hovers at around US$ 1,1 00). This performance was achieved during the
period of structural adjustment. Adding the number of those whose expenditure levels are just
above the poverty line to the number of those who live below it, more than 3.3 million Moroccans
are poor enough to be isolated from the mainstream economy.



- 2 -
1.05   Urban, rural, and regional variations are also striking, and the gap dividing them  is
deepening. In 1991, 72% of all poor lived in rural areas as compared to 70% six years earlier.
Likewise, while a quarter of the population lived in poverty in the Center-North, East, and Center-
South regions, the poverty rate was below 5 % in coastal areas. In rural areas, the poor are typically
either seasonally underemployed wage-earners or small-scale farmers. In urban areas they are
mostly self-employed people who work in the informal sector, underpaid (often temporary) wage-
earners, or are unemployed. If access to basic social services is taken into account, still more
differences between urban and rural areas come to light.
1.06   Along with low pay, unemployment and underemployment are major determinants of
poverty. In the early 1990s, the aggregate unemployment rate in urban areas was estimated at 16 to
20%, but among the urban poor the unemployment rate reached 30%. Unemployment rates are
much lower in rural areas, but these areas suffer substantial, chronic underemployment.  Not
surprisingly unemployment is most widespread among those with little or no education, but neither
are those with a secondary education immune. Unemployment rates are higher for women overall.
1.07   The growing importance of the informal sector--although a sign of the economy' s
dynamism and ability to absorb excess labor supply and react to demand--reflects an increase in the
reservoir of persons prone to fall below the poverty threshold.  The poverty assessment report
(World Bank 1994) found a strong link between poverty in economic terms and such social ills as
low literacy, education, health, and nutrition levels and high fertility rates. That report, and other
studies, also found a strong correlation between income levels and degree of access to basic social
services. In light of these findings, the report strongly recommends the rehabilitation of basic social
services as a necessary prerequisite for the durable alleviation of poverty. Yet, until recently the
various social policies and programs were not strongly coordinated, and the link between this
disparate set of sectoral actions and the macroeconomic framework was loose.  There was,
moreover, no visible political will to address the problem of lagging social sector performance.
C. Population, Health and Nutrition
Population and health
1.08   As the other countries of the Maghreb, Morocco is in the midst of a demographic,
epidemiologic, and social transition resulting from the diminution of the mortality rate from 19 per
1,000 in the 1960s to 7.3 per 1,000 in 1992 and a diminution in birth rates to 28.1 per 1,000. The
annual population growth rate slowed from 2.8% for 1955-60 to 2.06% in 1982-1994. On the
health front, transmissible diseases and maternal and child-related health problems are coming
increasingly under control but still represent* an important burden of disease ("the unfinished
agenda" as it is referred to in the epidemiologic transition), while the impact of chronic diseases is
rising. In 1989, for instance, cardiovascular diseases caused one out of five deaths in Morocco.
The country's successful priority health programs and improved lifestyles are responsible for these
significant health gains. Over the last thirty years infant mortality has decreased from 119 to 61.6
per 1,000 and life expectancy at birth has increased from 45 to 65 years.
1.09   But despite these significant achievements, key indicators remain low.  The maternal
mortality rate is among the highest in Africa, averaging 332 per 100,000 as compared to 50 in
Tunisia and 140 in Algeria. Inadequate handling of complicated deliveries is the main cause of
death--not surprisingly, since only 40% of all deliveries take place in a medical setting (compared to
76% in Tunisia). Access to health facilities, evacuation procedures, and the medical referral system
are deficient. Survey results also suggest that the prevalence of male health personnel is a possible



-3-
factor in Morocco's low use rates of maternal medical services. In addition, the fact that early
neonatal deaths account for half of the infant mortality rate reflects the poor quality of services
offered. Such potentially controllable infectious diseases as acute respiratory infections, diarrhea,
measles, and meningitis are also among the leading causes of mortality and morbidity in children
aged one to five. Tuberculosis, malaria and schistosomiasis are still non-negligeable features of
morbidity, and poor hygiene and sanitation in the rural areas are a cause of serious concern.
Although acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( HIV/AIDS) is not yet a major problem, sexually
transmitted diseases (which increase the risk of HIV infection) affect more than 7% of the
population, according to a recent survey.
1.10   Morocco's population is expected to grow from 26 million currently to 33 million by 2007.
At that time, the natural rate of increase will be 1.30%. The population under 15 would then
represent a quarter of the population as against 38% now. Since 1968, family planning has been
integrated into all development plans. In 1976 a division was created within the Ministry of Public
Health (Ministere de la Sante Publique, MSP) to launch the VDMS program (visite a domicile de
motivation systematique)--a major community outreach effort that subsequently led to the rapid
development of family planning activities. This program and the increase of age at marriage, from
17.3 years in 1960 to 24 years in 1987, are responsible for the decrease in the total fertility rate
(TFR) in Morocco from 7.4 to 3.6 children per woman. The modern contraceptive prevalence rate
is now estimated at approximately 43%, with the pill being the most widely used method. The
Government's objective for the year 2000 is to decrease the TFR to 2.6 children per woman.
1.11   Seven separate surveys have been carried out over a twenty-year period regarding the
nutritional status of the population and Morocco has made significant efforts to deal with problems
of food insecurity. The typical Moroccan diet's daily supply of calories (essentially from sugar,
cereals, oils and other fats) would be adequate if food were equitably distributed. But as it now
stands approximately 17% of children are wasted, stunted, or both. Children in the rural areas are
at a clear disadvantage, and acute and chronic malnutrition are most prevalent in the South and
Tensift regions. A 1989 infant mortality survey showed that malnutrition, associated with diarrhea,
was the leading cause of death for children aged twenty-eight days to five years. It also showed
significant gaps in the nutritional status of the urban versus the rural population, and men versus
women. A 1994 national survey on iron and iodine deficiency found that 22% of children aged six
to twelve were iodine deficient. Even more strikingly, 35.5% of children aged six months to five
years and 45.5% of all pregnant women suffered from iron-deficiency anemia. A strategy to deal
with iodine deficiency is presently being implemented with the assistance of the United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the African Development Bank (AfDB), and a strategy to address
the problem of iron deficiency is being discussed (Annex 4).
Organization of the health system
1.12   The national health system is organized around three sectors: public (MSP and Royal Army
structures), semiprivate (mutuals and the CNSS, Caisse nationale de securite sociale, a network of
twenty-three hospitals and clinics for government employees and their dependents) and private
(about 2,550 private doctor's offices and 110 clinics). The private sector tends to be concentrated in
major urban areas. The rural population relies almost entirely on the public sector for the provision
of health care.
1.13   The MSP was reorganized in December 1994 and now includes seven directorates at the
central level and sixty provincial delegations headed by physicians (Annex 1). Each provincial
delegation includes an ambulatory unit staffed by a physician and nurses. This structure is



-4 -
responsible for all preventive and ambulatory care. But given the fact that MSP has until now been
a highly centralized organization, the provincial level's actual contribution to planning has been
quite limited so far, with the exception of some pilot experiences.
1.14    The public sector network includes about 1,650 basic health facilities (E0tablissements de
Soins de Sante de Base, ESSBs), and 98 hospitals (provincial, regional, and university). The ESSBs
include urban and rural dispensaries and health centers and represent the first interface of the
population with the fixed facility system. They provide primary health care and handle deliveries,
and all services are free of charge. In addition to the ESSBs, service coverage is provided by
mobile clinics, outreach health workers, and in some remote areas, by traditional birth attendants
(kablats).
Major sector issues
1.15   Major sector issues include the inequity and inefficiency of the health system; the
insufficient coverage of the rural population; the poor performance of the public health system,
especially at the basic level; the situation in the pharmaceutical industry; insufficient financing to
cover the rising cost of health care; and the centralization of management.
1.16   Inequity and inefficiency of the health system. Discrepancies between urban and rural
areas and among regions are striking. The infant mortality rate is 65 per thousand in rural areas as
opposed to 44 per thousand in urban areas; total fertility is 4.9 children per woman in rural areas
compared to 2.2 in urban areas; and the under five mortality rate is 160 per thousand in the south,
the poorest region of the country, as opposed to 66 per thousand in the center. Three-quarters of
health personnel are concentrated in Rabat and Casablanca, where their services are underused.
Morocco's better off citizens receive 40% of the MSP budget, the poorest receive less than 20% of
this budget--translating into a per capita health expenditure which is 2.6 times greater in urban
areas. The former therefore benefit more from the system. The hospital network, moreover, is
mostly concentrated in the northeastern and central regions, and while all categories of health care
personnel have significantly increased since 1960, 63% of physicians in the public sector are
assigned to hospitals, with only 30% working in the ESSBs. The sector as a whole is poorly
managed (as can be seen from its record of poor maintenance of equipment and infrastructure,
waste, inadequate management and deployment of human resources, and poor logistics).  By
targeting Morocco's needy, the project would address the issue of inequity. It would also address
the problem of inefficiency at the basic health level, since the hospital level is being dealt with by a
separate Bank-funded project, under preparation (Health Management and Financing Project,
FY97).
1.17   Insufficient coverage of the rural population. It is estimated that 37% of Moroccans use
fixed public sector health facilities, and this number reaches 79% in lower-income groups and rural
areas. By comparison, 52% of consultations are handled by private sector physicians. Data from
the 1991 LSMS show that health care consumption is income elastic: the use rate is 64% among the
20% richest of the sample, as against 32% for the 20% lowest income group. While the coverage
provided by the basic health network has significantly improved during the last decade, only 47% of
the rural population now has access within six kilometers to fixed primary care facilities provided
by the public sector, and no private facilities exist in the rural areas. Fourteen percent of rural
people have no coverage, even in theory. This situation is not only caused by the inadequate
distribution of health facilities and manpower between regions and in rural areas but also by their
insufficient number overall. Approximately 53 % of the rural population, moreover, lives more than
six kilometers away from an existing health care facility, which represents a major constraint to



-5-
access, especially that the private sector is not likely to expand significantly into the rural areas. The
coverage provided by the mobile teams and outreach health workers (infifrmiers itinerants) is not
functioning well, and the number of such workers has been diminishing significantly. The project
would address these issues in the provinces targeted.
1.18   Poor quality within the basic health care system. The low credibility of the public health
system largely explains its low rate of use. Curative care is virtually nonexistent, and visible and
sustainable improvements in essential service delivery would be necessary to build the public's
confidence in the ESSBs. During project preparation, a beneficiary assessment carried out in a
sample of five of the provinces targeted under the project indicated that approximately half of the
sample population was unhappy with the overall performance of public health facilities because of
the lack of drugs, long waiting time, and poor staff attitude. As confirmed by surveys undertaken
during project preparation, many facilities lack basic equipment and are poorly maintained. This
accounts mainly for the low utilization of these services. Two-third of all public facility medical
equipment have not been replaced in the last fifteen years. As confirmed by surveys undertaken
during project preparation, the mobile clinics, too, are poorly equipped and organized, are not
supervised, are poorly maintained, and resources to supervise and keep them functioning properly
are lacking.
1.19   Health personnel, moreover, are not adequately deployed, are poorly motivated, and are not
properly trained to deliver services. Because of lack of support from the MSP at the central and
provincial levels, the number of outreach health workers is decreasing rapidly (there are barely a
thousand left in the country). Mobile clinics and outreach workers, moreover, are not well
integrated in the system and deliver in fact only a small portion of the essential services they are
supposed to provide. Morocco's priority health programs are suffering from this situation. To give
a few examples, the safe motherhood program is clearly lagging behind with only 45 % (as opposed
to almost 60% in Tunisia) of pregnant women seeking prenatal care. Immunization coverage in rural
areas has improved (to around 78%) but is still very insufficient. Emergency evacuations still do
not exist, a situation which contributes to unacceptable levels of maternal, neonatal and infant
mortality rates for a middle-income country such as Morocco.
1.20   Insufficient financing and rising cost of health care. Public sector financing accounts for
34% of total health expenditures in Morocco, NGOs and international aid for 4% and the private
sector for 62%. Total health expenditures represent 3.8% of GDP (as compared to 4.9% in Tunisia
and 7% in Algeria). Approximately 92% of public sector financing comes from MSP budget,
which grew in real terms by 3.7% annually from 1960 to 1994. But if the effect of population
growth is added to inflation, MSP's budget has been virtually stagnant during that period, averaging
increases of only 1.3% a year. The MSP's share of government expenditures, moreover, decreased
from 7.8% in 1960 to 2.9% in 1975, then rose again to 4.6 in 1994. About 75% of the MSP
recurrent budget, moreover, goes to hospitals, which have no mechanisms to ensure better targeting
of the needy population, which is eligible for free care. Expenditure on personnel represent 55 % of
the MSP total budget. Health costs are defrayed by households, which contribute up to 50% of
expenditures
1.21   Per capita health expenditure (less than US$40) is relatively low in Morocco when
compared with that in other countries of similar economic development (such as Tunisia's US$100).
Public expenditure is also distributed poorly within the sector and across regions and milieus. As
Morocco enters an epidemiologic, demographic, and social transition, and as income increases, the
demand for health care will be even greater. An aging population will demand more sophisticated
medical technology and long-term care, both of which are costly. It will therefore be even more



-6 -
difficult for the Government to sustain the rising cost of health care. The MSP is presently
conducting a study to analyze the changing situation in the sector (Maghreb Health Priorities Study
FY96). At the same time a Health Management and Financing Project is being prepared in
collaboration with the World Bank which will address financial as well as managerial issues.
1.22   The situation in the pharmaceutical sector.  Morocco has a thriving pharmaceutical
industry that produces a large quantity of drugs, covers over 80% of the country's pharmaceutical
consumption and has started to export to other countries in the Region. The Moroccan industry,
however, has been partly protected from international competition by high tariffs that have increased
the cost of drugs to the population, and some firms have not achieved the level of quality of
production that should be expected. Most of the pharmaceutical market is in the private sector, and
serves wealthy and middle-class populations, as essential drugs often prove too expensive for the
poor. The small public sector takes care of drug supply to primary care facilities and hospitals.
Because of severe budget under-funding for essential drugs, Morocco has relied on external
financing, including Bank loans, to finance a large share of public sector drug provision. This
policy of financing basic operating costs through external assistance has proved a major disincentive
for exploring other financing avenues, such as cost recovery, and has created a serious issue of
sustainability in the medium and long term.
1.23   Morocco does not have a comprehensive pharmaceutical policy which guarantees reasonable
access to essential drugs to the poor. Quality control and inspection have not performed adequately,
and the drug pricing policy has favored the distribution of relatively expensive drugs in the private
sector over that of cheap products. The recent reorganization of what used to be the Pharmacie
Centrale (Central Pharmacy), under the umbrella of the MSP, has improved the overall management
of stocks and MSP is committed to pursue this effort. However, logistics is still deficient and delays
in the delivery of drugs to hospitals and the peripheral level are still more than a month, except for
emergencies. Despite noticeable improvement in the procurement of drugs, the annual unique
bidding process limits the possibilities to negotiate interesting prices. Because of these shortcomings,
health facilities often face shortages and have to buy directly from local suppliers at a high price.
The most serious problems in the public sector are the insufficient funding allocated through the
budget and the inadequate intrasectoral allocation of resources for drugs among the different levels
of health care, with hospitals taking the lion's share of drug allocations. In the early 1990's, the
annual budget allocated to drugs and consumables was approximately 200 million of dirhams. This
number has been decreasing recently, and hospitals use 36% of this budget. Per capita expenditures
on drugs is estimated to US$23 of which US$1 comes from the public sector. During project
preparation, the Bank funded a major pharmaceutical study. Agreement on actions to be taken in
the sector was reached at negotiations [para.6.03 a(ii)].
1.24   Centralization of management. An effective partnership between the central and provincial
administrations does not currently exist. The provincial level, perceived as the implementing arm,
has traditionally enjoyed little decisionmaking power, leaving little room for the initiatives and local
adjustments necessary for the development of programs. Key aspects of personnel management are
also centralized, an issue that will need to be dealt with if peripheral units are to manage their own
personnel. The performance of rural health programs and services is also hampered by the lack of a
locus for managing local health systems. Under the current arrangements, districts are widely
dispersed and no intermediate level between province and district exists.  With the recent
reorganization (December 1994), the MSP is in the process of redefining the respective mandates of
the central and provincial administrations, and defining the role of the MSP at each level of health
care would be an important outcome of the Sectoral Action Plan. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that mechanisms to strengthen provincial participation to planning of and decision-



-7 -
making for sector activities would be identified, submitted to the Bank and implemented by
December 31, 1997 [para 6.03a (iii)].
II. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND BANK RESPONSE
A. Government Strategy
2.01   For a long time in Morocco, spending to promote human capital was not considered an
investment that would ultimately lead to greater and more sustainable economic growth, and instead,
economic growth was perceived as the only engine of social progress. Therefore, social concerns
were not a top Government priority, and--despite indisputable sectoral improvement during the
1980s and 1990s--there was no comprehensive, long-term plan for the social welfare of the country.
2.02   But following an era of thorough macroeconomic adjustment and worrisome decline in
social conditions throughout the Kingdom, the Government has started to focus on social issues in a
more concerted manner.  In 1993 it issued the Social Development Strategy (Strategie de
Developpement Social pour la Decennie 1990, SDS), which sets forth clear directives aimed at
reversing past trends and establishing the framework for a sound social policy. Based on the 1991
Living Standards Measurement Survey, the Government strategy made extending basic social
services to the poor and increasing their participation in economically productive activities its
highest social goals. Such extended coverage would include access to safe water, sewage facilities,
health care, family planning services, nutrition, primary education, literacy programs, and
subsidized public housing. But recognizing prevailing budgetary constrainEs, the strategy stresses
the inter- and intra-reallocation of resources and introduction of cost-recovery mechanisms. It also
advocates action to promote employment and bolster social protection. Finally, the SDS emphasizes
that a strong and appropriate administrative vehicle and reliable statistical monitoring system are
required for the implementation of its recommendations.
2.03   The Government gave the first version of the Strategie de Developpement Social pour la
Decennie 1990 to the Bank in the context of the second adjustment program. Following the
appraisal of the Social Priorities Program, the strategy was updated, formally reendorsed by the new
Government, and officially conveyed to the Bank [para. 6.01b]. Its internalization throughout the
relevant agencies is now underway. Specific Sectoral Action Plans (SAPs) are being developed for
the education and health sectors as part of the preparation of the Social Priorities Program. The
recent creation of the Ministry of Population, which has the responsibilities of a ministry of
planning, and should be able to coordinate actions throughout the social sectors within a unifying
framework, is another signal that the Government is taking social concerns seriously and is adapting
its institutions accordingly. Finally, the King's address to the Parliament of Morocco in October
1995 shows that concerns for the social situation now emanate from the highest levels of the power
hierarchy.
2.04   Public resources for health are limited, and competition with other sectors for these
resources is great. Moreover, considerable deficits have accumulated in the sector, and projected
growing needs in the future (given population and demographic trends) will have to be addressed,
while at the same time promoting efficiency and equity.



-8 -
2.05  The Government has already taken a number of strategic measures to deal with these
challenges:
(a) resources will be targeted toward priority rural areas. The latest investment program
already reflects this new policy, and the MSP's Programme de Medicalisation du Monde
Rural is staffing rural health centers with physicians.  Four-hundred physicians have
already been deployed to priority districts;
(b) the Government is also working on a health financing reform plan that would introduce
compulsory health insurance. Discussions on establishing a fund to subsidize health care
for the needy are also under way, but no agreement has as yet been reached on this
important issue. At the same time, greater efficiency is being sought by reorganizing
hospitals, granting them autonomy (SEGMA) and integrating priority health programs.
These measures should also make it possible to channel more resources to the primary
health level, as required in the SAP;
(c) priority health programs will be strengthened, with special emphasis on programs in
maternal and child health; and
(d) roles and functions of the central and provincial levels will be redefined in the context of
the recent reorganization of the MSP in order to give more autonomy to the provinces. The
submission of the SAP was a condition of negotiations [para.6.02a].
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.06   The severe state of degradation of Morocco's social sectors underscores the urgent need for
intensive, durable action. Bank support for such action is called for both by the present climate of
support in the Government and by the Bank's own Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), currently
under preparation, which puts investing in people as its first priority. Bank support for the social
sector would also accord with its parallel efforts to strengthen macroeconomic performance and
encourage growth through private investment. Other donors have viewed the goals of the Strategie
de Developpement Social pour la Decennie 1990 (based on the Living Standards Measurement
Survey and confirmed by the World Bank poverty assessment) as a rallying point, and support for
SDS policies is fully in line with the Bank's strategy of poverty alleviation and Morocco's overall
plan to develop its human resources. Since the Bank has already financed several projects in
Morocco's social sectors--especially in health and education--the proposed project would be an
extension of earlier Bank involvement. The Country Economic Memorandum (World Bank 1995a)
provides a solid body of evidence that programs whose aim is to improve Morocco's human capital
base and to increase labor efficiency and productivity warrant reinforcement of present Bank
support. Finally, a recent study of the region's present situation and long-term prospects (World
Bank 1995b) shows that Morocco, along with its neighbors, is experiencing high unemployment and
now feels an especially urgent need for bold programs aiming for both economic growth and
poverty alleviation. The Bank's role in promoting the Government's social strategy and marshaling
international and bilateral support for social programs will be critical if Morocco is to succeed in the
fight it is waging against poverty, both in terms of equity and of economic growth.
2.07    In its SDS, the Government of Morocco identified inequity in the health 3ector as a major
impediment to socioeconomic development and committed itself to channel more resources to rural
areas, especially for the priority health programs (basic curative and preventive care, safe
motherhood, transmissible diseases, nutrition). The proposed project would help the Government to



-9 -
close the gap between rural and urban health indicators by better targeting of the needy population.
The project fits into the Bank's human resources development strategy, which supports efforts to
improve the quality and relevance of social services, to increase public spending on basic services
and improve targeting to underserved groups and areas and to increase internal efficiency overall
within the human resources sector. Project preparation was instrumental in getting the MSP to
develop its Sector Action Plan, which will provide a framework for all interventions in the health
sector, facilitate coordination, and stimulate additional grant funding from other donors.
C. Bank Experience and Lessons Learned
2.08   In the past, the Bank has supported several operations in Morocco's social sectors, and
three such projects are currently being implemented (Rural Primary Education Project, Loan 3026-
MOR; Rural Basic Education Development Project, Loan 3295-MOR; and Health Sector Investment
Project, Loan 3171-MOR). The main general lessons to be drawn from these operations are as
follows: (a) reforms in the social sectors should not be overly ambitious because of their immense
impact on large groups and the political risks attached to them;  (b) a good management
information system and simple and transparent management, procurement, and disbursement
procedures must be in place for all Bank-financed activities. Such measures are also meant to offset
cumbersome local financing circuits, which tend to delay execution and slow down disbursements,
especially for decentralized project activities.  A study is currently being conducted by the
Government to identify precisely the bottlenecks and the sources of delays; (c) to ensure full
acceptance of the project, it is critical to seek the early involvement of all constituents--in particular,
employees of line ministries at the provincial and local level who will play a crucial role during
project implementation. It is equally important to involve other government constituencies (such as
the Ministry of Finance) and other donors early enough in the process to guarantee successful future
collaboration; (d) finally, realistic budgetary envelopes have to be projected (and committed) to
ensure the sustainability of sectoral programs and actions.
2.09   The Health Development Project (HDP, Loan 2572-MOR, US$28.8 million, 1986-93), was
the first major Bank loan in the sector. Prior to this loan, Bank involvement in the sector was
limited to a component of an agricultural project (Loan 1201-MOR) and to a health worker training
component in the Third Education Project (Loan 1220-MOR). The HDP was designed to support
the MSP primary health care program in three provinces on a pilot basis, to improve the drug
supply system, and to enhance the MSP's management capacity.  The primary health care
component was fully implemented and had a significant impact on access to health care. Some
aspects of MSP management capacity have improved, but others (program budgeting, resource
allocation, availability of drugs) remain serious concerns.
2.10   The second Bank supported operation in the sector was the Health Sector Investment Project
(HSIP, Loan 3171-MOR, US$104.0 million, 1990-96) which is still being implemented. Its
objectives are to reestablish sustainable health programs nationwide and strengthen the
administration and management of services. Given its slow start, and although its disbursement
profile has significantly improved, the project may not achieve all of its stated objectives. Its
closing date has been extended to December 1997.



- 10-
Lessons learned in the health sector
2.11   Evaluations of the Health Development Project (ICR) and of the ongoing Health Sector
Investment Project have underscored the importance of taking certain key areas into account during
project preparation and design:
(a)    The question of the financial sustainability of the system must be addressed. An agreement
with the Government is already in place for the preparation of the Health Management and
Financing Project which would address the question of health financing, sector efficiency,
and hospital management.
(b)    The provision of drugs to the public sector need to be reviewed. In May 1995, during
project preparation, the Bank's Human Development Department sponsored a major study
of the pharmaceutical sector whose conclusions have been integrated into the proposed
project [para. 1.23 ].
(c)    The different strategies for delivering services need to be analyzed carefully and adapted for
each region.  During project preparation, the National Institute of Health Management
(INAS) conducted such an analysis in a sample of the provinces where the project would be
implemented (Annex 8). The provincial medical officers of these provinces have also been
involved in the selection of districts within their provinces that would benefit from various
different types of coverage (such as health centers, mobile teams, outreach health workers).
(d)    Provincial health officials should be accorded more power to make decisions so as to ensure
that project activities are suited to local conditions. During project preparation the medical
officers of the targeted provinces attended three workshops to discuss project objectives and
agree on which priority activities needed to be developed. The MSP is also reviewing its
provincial organization plan [para. 1.24] to ensure that activities are tailored to local needs
and to stimulate initiative at the local level.
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Social Priorities Program
3.01   The proposed project is part of the Social Priorities Program  I (SPP l; Barnamaj al-
Aoualaouiyat al-Ijtimaiya, or BAJ I, in Arabic; Programme Priorites Sociales, or PPS I, in
French), initiated to assist the Government in the implementation of its strategy to increase the
poor's access to basic social services, enhance basic social protections, and create new opportunities
for the unemployed to participate in economically productive activities. The program would also
bolster Government awareness of poverty-related and social issues and catalyze efforts to rehabilitate
Morocco's social sectors. While the SPP would entail a series of consecutive programs following
one another at a rapid pace, SPP/BAJ I was conceived as a set of three complementary projects to be
negotiated and implemented simultaneously (Annex 2). All three share the same broad objectives,
were developed within the same framework, and would be implemented independently within the
same geographical area.
3.02   By using a multisectoral approach--which is expected to yield more significant and durable
results than serial, strictly sectoral projects--this tripartite program would help to guarantee



- 11 -
flexibility in execution and should therefore be a more efficient way to channel energies and
resources. The SPP/BAJ would target Morocco's thirteen poorest and least urbanized provinces,
where 27% of the total population, or 7,054 million people, currently live (provinces and selection
criteria are listed in Annex 3). By involving provincial authorities in project monitoring, moreover,
the SPP/BAJ should achieve the integration needed to reinforce its impact. The objectives of the
three projects are: (a) to increase the quality and quantity of basic education while at the same time
making the education system more efficient and equitable; (b) to improve access to basic health
services and improve their quality while bolstering performance and managerial capacities within the
health care system; (c) to enhance basic rural infrastructure through labor-intensive techniques; and
(d) to establish a permanent apparatus for data collection and analysis that would strengthen the
government' s ability to galvanize support for SDS activities and monitor their impact.
B. Project Objectives
3.03    Specific objectives of this project are: (a) to provide better access to essential preventive
and curative care from 47% (population currently living within 6 kms of an ESSB) to 60% of the
targeted population, including equitable access to essential drugs; (b) to reduce maternal and
neonatal mortality in the targeted areas by increasing the coverage of prenatal visits from 28 to 50%
and assisted deliveries in a medical setting from 18.5 to 30%, and by making available modern
family planning methods; and (c) to maintain the performance of priority public health programs at
the national level. For key project indicators, see Annex 7.
3.04   The innovative aspect of this project in Morocco stems from the fact that: (a) it will target
the poorest population in the country; (b) the project was designed and prepared in closed
collaboration with the local staff who would be involved in its monitoring and implementation; (c) it
would be a major support for the development of the MSP Sectoral Action Plan and would
stimulate the implementation of many activities with pay-offs in the medium-term; (d) it would be
flexible enough to allow for adjustment to the local situation; (e) it would hold provincial health
officials responsible for the planning, implementation, and monitoring of project activities in the
thirteen provinces; and (f) it would require providing drugs while implementing important actions in
the pharmaceutical sector.
3.05    The project would concentrate on specific districts in the targeted provinces. These districts
were selected as priority intervention areas (Zones d'Intervention Prioritaires, ZIP) in collaboration
with provincial medical officers according to the following criteria: demographic data, existing
access to health services, coverage, epidemiologic profile, and use of services. Most of the districts
chosen were rural.
3.06   Infant mortality and maternal and neonatal mortality are well above national averages in
these districts, and the health infrastructure there is both quantitatively and qualitatively inadequate.
The mortality and morbidity pattern is dominated by infectious diseases (measles, diarrhea, typhoid
fever, tuberculosis). Access to safe water is a major issue, and in some areas, literacy rates only
reach 20%. In addition to health coverage being insufficient in those areas, the people rarely use
the services that are available, mainly because of their poor quality. While the project would focus
most of its activities on these selected areas, moreover, certain interventions would be carried out
nationally (such as the transmissible disease control programs already being supported under the
PRISS project). In fact, most of these activities, under the third component, will concentrate
primarily on the thirteen provinces, given their mortality and morbidity patterns.



- 12 -
C. Project Description
3.07   The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period plus one year to
complete disbursements, at an approximate total cost of US$118.8 million equivalent and would
complement donor intervention in the sector (Annex 1). It would consist of three components:
(a)    Improving access to essential curative and preventive health care in the thirteen provinces
targeted under the project.
(b)    Strengthening the safe motherhood program in all its aspects within the thirteen provinces.
(c)    Maintaining support for priority health programs nationwide.
Improving access to essential curative and preventive health care services (US$45. 1 million)
3.08   The project would strengthen  the capacity of the ESSBs, mobile clinics, and outreach
workers to deliver effective basic curative and preventive care. Special emphasis would be placed
on rehabilitating curative services to restore public confidence in the services offered and in the
efficacy of preventive care. This component would finance activities aimed at strengthening the
physical infrastructure, the specific technical functions, the overall organization and delivery of
services within health centers and the mobile clinics and the availability of drugs in health facilities.
3.09   During project preparation, the functions of each type of ESSB were reviewed so that the
technical capacity and personnel requirements could be accurately estimated. The functions of
mobile clinics and outreach workers were also assessed.  It was also agreed during project
preparation that--during the first phase of the project--resources should be used first to improve
existing health care facilities. Once these facilities were fully operational the system would be
expanded. This decision was taken to avoid another situation such as that which arose under the
Health Development Project, when twenty health centers built and equipped in 1992 and 1993 had
to remain closed until June 1995 for lack of personnel . During negotiations, agreement was
reached that a human resources development plan would be discussed and agreed upon by December
31, 1997 [para 6.03 (a)i]. This plan will take into account the mobile strategy. It will include
redeployment mechanisms, the profile of personnel to be trained, training strategies, and staffing
plans for new health centers under the project. The standards for infrastructure expansion and
rehabilitation prepared by MSP in 1994 (PECS, Plan d'extension de la couverture sanitaire) would
apply under the proposed project. The conclusions of an analysis of the mobile strategy (clinics and
outreach health workers) carried out during preparation have been taken into account in the project
design. The provincial health administration and the physician in charge of the health center would
have primary responsibility for ensuring that the different types of ESSBs deliver the relevant
package of services agreed upon. The central Directorate of Hospitals and Ambulatory Care would
coordinate the effort. In the public pharmaceutical sector, activities proposed are based on the
conclusions of a major sector study carried out during project preparation.
3.10   This component would finance the following elements:
(a)    The  construction  of  about  80  communal  health  centers  and  the  renovation
rehabilitation/reconstruction of 160 health centers, 25 rural dispensaries, and 15 rural
hospitals;



- 13 -
(b)    The purchase of about 340 motorcycles for outreach health workers (to complement the
USAID intervention, which would provide the mobile clinics in the selected areas);
(c)    The provision of medical and non-medical materials and equipment necessary for the
delivery of essential curative and preventive services at the clinic, by the mobile team, and
by the outreach worker. (The in-country training of health personnel in technical matters
related to service delivery, as well as in management and planning of activities, would be
financed primarily by USAID and UNFPA);
(e)    The reorganization of services to be delivered by health centers, mobile clinics, and
outreach workers would necessitate the organization of workshops at the local level and
additional recurrent costs for follow-up, supervision, and the strengthening of the capacity
of provincial health care workers. Provincial officers would be given more flexibility to
plan and organize their work in order to tailor services, including outreach activities, to
local needs; and
(f)    a set of activities aimed at improving the access of the rural population to basic curative
drugs, including: (a) the purchase of drugs according to a list agreed upon by type of health
facility; (b) the strengthening of the information system and the purchase of 6 vehicles at
the procurement unit of Berrechid in an effort to improve the management and the
distribution of drugs; and (c) the strengthening of the national laboratory for quality control
(Laboratoire National de contr6le de Medicaments/ LNCM), mainly through the
improvement of its infrastructure, the purchase of technical materials and equipment.
Unlike what was done under the HDS and the HSIP projects, the financing of drugs by the
Bank under this project will be linked to the implementation of these above-mentioned
actions in the public pharmaceutical sector on which agreement was reached at negotiations
[(para.6.03 a(ii)].
Strengthening the Safe Motherhood Program (US$30.8 million)
3.11   This program will be one of the highest priorities of MSP over the next five years. A
strategic document on the subject being prepared will outline several specific actions the MSP is
planning, both at the national level and in targeted regions where the need is great. There is already
agreement that in the proposed project's targeted districts, all aspects of the safe motherhood
program would be addressed (except information, education, and communication (IEC) financed by
USAID [US$6 million]): the availability of modern FP methods, the reorganization of prenatal
services including support to the iron-deficiency anemia program, the improvement of maternity
wards, the use of community health workers (such as traditional birth attendants/Kablat) where
needed, and the establishment of a sound evacuation and referral system to transfer women in
danger from communities and ESSBs to the maternity wards of provincial hospitals. Maximizing
the impact of these activities would require a high degree of initiative and commitment by competent
provincial officials, who would have to organize and monitor service delivery.
3.12   Available resources (human, material, and financial) in the thirteen provinces would also
have to be concentrated in strategic areas, which would be chosen according to specific criteria.
Some maternity units would therefore be closed, while other delivery units in strategic areas (health
centers with maternity beds, rural maternity wards) would be reinforced. Equipment and personnel
would be redistributed and redeployed in these reinforced units. But this approach will necessitate
the implementation of a performing emergency referral system and well-trained personnel. These
activities would complement EU and UNFPA Safe Motherhood interventions. Provincial health



- 14 -
officials would have the primary responsibility for the implementation of this component, which
would be coordinated by the MSP's Directorate of Hospitals and Ambulatory Care and the
Directorate of Population.
3.13   This component would finance the following interventions:
(a)    The purchase of contraceptives.  USAID has officially informed the Government that,
beginning 1999, it will no longer finance these purchases.  The MSP has therefore
requested that the proposed project bear these considerable costs toward the end of the
project, given contraceptives proven effectiveness for reducing rates of fertility and
maternal and infant mortality.
(b)    Reorganizing the provision of prenatal services to increase the coverage of pregnant
women. This reorganization would require greater physician involvement at the health
center level, improved waiting areas (an aspect already taken into account under the first
project component), and trained personnel able to detect high-risk pregnancies and to make
the necessary referrals'; the provision of iron in the context of the iron-deficiency anemia
program;
(c)    Renovating and rehabilitating 55 rural maternity wards (health centers with maternity
wards), and 13 obstetric wards within selected provincial hospitals in the priority zones.
(d)    Purchasing materials, equipment, and drugs to meet the minimum requirements needed to
handle basic obstetrical emergencies.
(e)    Setting up a medical evacuation system, including defining referral norms and purchasing
126 ambulances.
(f)    Training, where needed, of traditional birth attendants (Kablats) to handle home deliveries
better.
Maintaining support for selected priority health programs nationwide (Base cost US$ 41.9 million)
3.14   The project would support Morocco's Transmissible Disease Program, including efforts to
control those diseases targeted under the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI). This support
was initiated under the Health Sector Investment Project (HSIP) project. At the time of the mid-
term  review of this project (May 1994), the Government formally requested Bank support to
maintain the performance of these priority health programs nationwide. Given their public health
implications, the Bank felt that it was appropriate to provide such support to these programs and
not only to the thirteen provinces. This decision was also based on the fact that in the Middle
East/North Africa crescent, transmissible diseases account for 51% of the burden of diseases. The
EPI--along with the Tuberculosis Control Program--would be the major beneficiary of this support.
Other programs would include the Acute Respiratory Infections Program (ARI) in the areas not
supported by AfDB as well as programs to combat schistosomiasis, infectious ocular diseases,
I The recruitment and training of midwives and obstetrician-gynecologists will be part of the
human resources strategy MSP will develop. These categories of personnel are in very short supply
in Morocco and are concentrated in major urban areas. Most of the targeted provinces have fewer
than one obstetrician-gynecologist for every 10,000 expected births.



- 15 -
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), leprosy, malaria, and hygiene and sanitation programs. As
mentioned in para. 3.06, it is expected that approximately half of the resources under this
component would be concentrated in the targeted provinces, given their mortality and morbidity
patterns. (For objectives of these various health programs, see Annex 4). The MSP directorate of
Epidemiology and Prevention of Diseases, in collaboration with provincial health officials, would
have the responsibility for implementing this component.  The high cost of drugs for these
programs, especially the tuberculosis control program, EPI, ARI and STDs partly explains the high
cost of this component.
3.15   Under this component, the proposed project would finance:
(a)    The provision of drugs and vaccines, essential materials and equipment relevant to the
different programs. The financing of drugs and vaccines under this component will also be
linked to the implementation of the set of activities described in para.3. 10(f).
(b)    The purchase of 7 vehicles and 32 motorcycles which will replace partly the deficient
logistic system and will strengthen supervision and monitoring of programs.
(c)    IEC activities to motivate the population, enroll their support and induce behavioral
changes.
(c)    Additional recurrent costs for the integrated monitoring, supervision, on-the-job training
necessary to carry out these programs, improving their performance, and for their
evaluation. These resources will help strengthen the provincial level which depends on
them to implement these programs successfully.
IV. COSTS, FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT
A. Summary of Project Costs
4.01   Total costs of the three projects which, together, constitute the SPP/BAJ are estimated at
US$266.0 million. Total project costs are estimated at US$118.8 million equivalent, including
US$20.8 million for contingencies (17.5%) and US$10.4 million for taxes (9%).  The foreign
exchange component is equivalent to US$68.2 million, representing 63% of total project costs
excluding taxes. A summary of project costs appears in Table 4.1 and in Annex 5.
4.02   Contingency allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance--for unforeseen
physical variations--equal to US$9.7 million (9%  of total project cost excluding taxes).  Price
contingencies between negotiations and project completion are estimated at US$11.1 million (10%
of total project costs excluding taxes). The following annual rates have been applied: 5% per year
for local costs, 2.6% per year for foreign costs.
4.03   Foreign exchange component. The foreign exchange component is estimated as follows:
construction: 25%; medical supplies, equipment, computers and vehicles: 70%; furniture: 25%;
foreign specialists and training abroad: 90%; locally recruited specialists, local training, local
seminars: 10%. The resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at US$68.2 million.



- 16 -
Table 4.1. Project cost summary by component
Cost                              (DH million)                 (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Component
Access                      142.7    164.3    307.0      17.2     19.8      37.0
Safe Motherhood              80.7    127.7    208.4       9.7     15.4      25.1
Priority Health Program    107.4    183.4    290.8       12.9     22.1     35.0
Management                    3.8      2.8      6.6       0.5      0.3       0.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS            334.6    478.3    812.9      40.3      57.6     97.9
Physical                     32.8     47.8     80.6       3.9      5.8       9.7
Price                        52.5     39.9     92.4       6.3      4.8      11.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS'        419.9    565.9    985.8       50.6     68.2    118.8
* Figures have been rounded off and may not add up to totals shown.
4.04   Customs duties and taxes. Directly imported goods and goods procured locally average an
import duty and taxes of 20%. Indirect taxes on civil works are estimated at 15%.
B. Financing
4.05    The financing of the project would consist of (a) a Bank loan of US$68.0 million equivalent
(63% of total project costs excluding taxes), and (b) a Government contribution of US$50.8 million
equivalent, which includes US$10.4 niillion in taxes (see table 4.2). The Bank loan would cover
100% of foreign expenditures. The Govermment would finance the small balance of foreign costs,
the local costs, taxes and operating costs associated with the implementation, administration, and
supervision of the project, including staff salaries and architectural and engineering services.
During negotiations, assurances were given that the Government take all necessary measures to
ensure that adequate and timely financial arrangements were in place at all times for the continued
and successful operation of the project. These would include provision for counterpart funds and
the establishment of individual project line in the MSP budget of July 1st, 1996 [para. 6.03b(ii)].
During negotiations, retroactive financing up to 10% of the loan amount was agreed upon,
excluding drugs [para. 6.036 (iii)J.
4.06   Although UNFPA, EU. USAID and UNICEF have expressed their interest in participating
in BAJ I Health, no formal cofinancing has been secured at this stage. However, the project design
has taken into account actions already undertaken by these agencies in the targeted provinces.



- 17 -
Table 4.2. Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
% of Total
Project Costs
Funding Source      Total      excl. taxes
IBRD                68.0          63
Government          40.4          37
taxes               10.4           -
Total              118.8
C. Economic Analysis
Alternatives and effectiveness
4.07    The project is part of a major social program which is the backbone of the latest country
assistance strategy (CAS). It involves the provision of essential public goods, and addresses equity
issues in the distribution of these goods. In the rural areas of Morocco, the public sector is in a better
position to deliver these goods since the private sector is basically concentrated in major urban areas
and given the fact that no incentive system has been created to encourage its involvement in the rural
areas. The decision was made by the Government to target the poorest areas of the country, in an effort
to maximize the impact of project inputs on vulnerable groups. The benefits and the number of
beneficiaries are stated in para. 5.01. In the absence of this project, health indicators would only
worsen in the targeted where infant mortality already peaks at 145 per 1,000 in some districts (more
than twice the national average). Cost recovery at the basic level is being envisaged and MSP is about
to implement actions over the next five years, to improve the overall sector efficiency, in order to protect
core programs which will be implemented under the project and the PAS. The increase in the MSP
budget for basic services will be monitored annually through the PEP process, [para. 4.111.
4.08   The study being carried out in Morocco and other Maghreb countries in collaboration with
the Bank to determine the burden of diseases of a broad variety of health problems will permit cost-
effective packages of health interventions to be defined for these countries. Such studies have been
carried out in other similar countries and give some order of magnitude of the expected benefits of
the project:
(a) The prevention of one case of tuberculosis (TB) prevents 20-28 new infections over the
approximate two-year course of infectious TB. TB tends to burden one of the most productive age
groups of society and these deaths affect the family unit significantly. In Morocco, the incidence of
TB per year is still high (30,000 new cases per year). The unit cost of adding BCG vaccine to an
immunization program is estimated to be under US$10 as opposed to US$160-217 for the treatment
for a TB case. It should be noted however, that BCG vaccine is effective mostly for the 0-15
years of age. Therefore, short-course chemotherapy needs also to be considered and has one-third
greater benefit in term of cost-effectiveness as compared to standard chemotherapy.
(b) An integrated antenatal/delivery care program can induce a reduction of 25-50% in maternal
mortality, of 12.5-25% in perinatal mortality and 1 % in low birth weight.



- 18 -
(c) In addition to maternal morbidity and mortality, FP programs have economic and welfare gains
from improved control of level and timing of fertility.
(d) It was estimated that iron deficiency anemia (the most prevalent nutrition problem in Morocco)
costs the economy well over $200 million per year in lost work productivity and in excess health
and education expenditures. The cost of a national iron supplementation program (fortification of
wheat and iron pills for pregnant women) would be about US$5 million per year. The payoff is
clearly high.
(e) Preliminary results of the Maghreb Health Priorities Study for Morocco (based on mortality data
only) show that infectious diseases represent 45% of the Burden of disease. These data reinforce the
decision taken by MSP to give priority to these diseases under the project. The project is also
expected to improve access to basic care (defined as less than 5 kilometers from an ESSB) from 47
to 60% --currently more than half of the targeted population live at more than 6 kilometers from an
ESSB and 43% at more than 10 kilometers.) The number of visits to an ESSB would grow from
0.32 to 0.97 in those provinces.
Incremental recurrent costs
4.09   Incremental recurrent costs. The proposed project would generate additional recurrent
costs for the recruitment of medical and administrative staff for the proposed new facilities. But the
redeployment of existing staff and other cost-saving measures would reduce the cost of new
recruitment substantially. Other incremental recurrent costs would include additional health related
materials (drugs, vaccines, medical materials), the maintenance of the new facilities, and costs
associated with operating medical equipment, vehicles, and ambulances.  The total additional
recurrent base costs generated by these items would reach by the end of the project an estimated
US$16 million equivalent (or 3% of the Ministry of Public Health's recurrent budget projected for
year 2000). Detailed incremental costs are presented in the project implementation manual.
Cost recovery
4.10   Until recently, cost recovery schemes were not officially envisaged at the basic health care
level. However, given the insufficient amount allocated to drugs in the rural areas and the
budgetary constraints, MSP officials have agreed to launch a cost recovery study for drugs at the
basic level, and to integrate the conclusions of such a study in the project [(6.03a(ii)]. UNICEF will
participate in the implementation of this study.
Sustainability
4.11   The project is part of the SAP which be monitored through the PEP process. Recurrent
costs induced by the project [para. 4.09] will have to be addressed by the corresponding annual
increase in expenditures at the end of the project. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
the undertaking and updating each year a multiyear rolling public expenditure program for the health
sector and transmittal of the program to the Bank by July 31st of each year beginning in 1997 [para.
6. 03b(i)].  It is therefore unlikely that project activities will stop at the end of project
implementation. In addition, agreement on a set of dated covenants regarding the pharmaceutical
sector were reached at negotiations [para 6.03a(ii)].



- 19 -
D. Management and Implementation
Program implementation
4.12   The national Social Development Strategv (SDS) and the SPP/BAJ would be monitored by a
steering committee made up of all concerned ministers. Such a committee, the Comitl de Suivi de la
Strategie Sociale (CSSS), already exists, it is assisted by a Secretariat. which is housed in the Ministry
of Population's Department of Planning, and is already in place. The Secretariat would be responsible
for monitoring the objectives of the SPP/BAJ and would also be the liaison between technical
ministries, the CSSS, and the donor community (Annex 2). In parallel, an Observatory for Monitoring
Living Conditions was created to monitor social conditions in the Kingdom. The formal establishment,
vwithin the Ministry of Population, of the Observatory was a condition of Board presentation [para.
6.04a].
4.13   To simplify implementation and avoid the creation of an overall project implementation and
coordination unit, program activities would be implemented under three distinct projects and
financed by three distinct loans. The first loan, for the Basic Education Project, would comprise the
activities to be implemented by the Ministries of Education, and Employment and Social Affairs.
The second loan, for the proposed Basic Health Project, would comprise the activities to be
implemented by the Ministry of Public Health. The third loan, for the Coordination and Monitoring
of Social Programs and Labor Promotion Project, would comprise the activities to be implemented
by the Ministries of Interior (Promotion Nationale), and Population.
4.14   The multiple activities included under the SPP/BAJ will require careful programming and
coordination of inputs from the various implementation agencies at the central, provincial and
community levels. The individual impact of the three projects, too, could only be measured if
implementation were sufficiently well-coordinated for each to build on the efforts of the others. To
ensure that SPP/BAJ activities were implemented in a coordinated manner, both at the grass-roots
level and in the central ministries, the Government would be asked to commit itself to the setting up
of a Program Management Information System (PMIS) by the Secretariat, and to the
implementation of the PMIS by the line ministries. The staff needed to run the PMIS in the
Secr&tariat and in the MSP should be in place in time so that the PMIS could be launched in place
no later than December 31, 1997 [para. 6.03c(i)]. The data input would be performed by the
implementation staff at the provincial level and at the departmental and division levels in the
ministries.
Proiect implementation
4.15   Project activities would be implemented at two different levels: (i) at a central level, by the
ministry's departments, and (ii) at the provincial level by  Provincial Medical Officers.
Implementation coordination would be performed by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) located
within the Ministry of Health' s Planning and Financial Resources department.  The Project
Coordinator would be appointed by December 31, 1996 [para. 6.03c(ii)]. While the implementation
record of the MSP is mixed, a reorganization of the ministry and a change in key staff improved its
implementation capability. Moreover, various departments within the Ministry of Health have
developed expertise with procurement and disbursement procedures related to Bank-financed
projects. As experienced with previous Bank financed projects, implementation of the proposed
project would also be hampered by generic, country-wide problems such as cumbersome
administrative procedures and the requirement that all documents pertaining to contracts and
payments be reviewed in advance. An ongoing study of reasons for delays in the payment of



- 20 -
suppliers should help to improve some of these generic problems [para. 6.01c]. The Government
would ensure that an action plan to improve the management of the proposed project, based on
results of the study be presented to the Bank for discussions before March 31, 1997, and that
implementation of the recommendations be launched no later than October 31, 1997 [para.
6.03(c(iii)]. A project implementation volume has been prepared, which will be used as a reference
during the project's execution.
4.16   Project Coordination Unit (PCU). A PCU, located within the Planning and Financial
Resources Department of the Ministry of Health, would be responsible for overall project
programming, coordination, and reporting. While implementation would be carried out by the line
departments, the PCU would oversee the performance of such specific administrative tasks as
programming, accounting, and monitoring. By December 1996, therefore, the PCU would need at
least two additional persons to make sure that project programming and monitoring tools are being
properly used, plus a qualified accountant to monitor the accounting records procedures in use in
various implementing departments [para. 6.03c(ii)].
4.17   Department of Equipment (DEM). This department would delegate the procurement of
civil works contracts to the MSP's provincial officers. To oversee civil works implementation and to
coordinate the delegated activities, the DEM would need at least three technical staff members. This
staff would need to have experience in monitoring such type of contracts and to be well-acquainted
with both the technical and financial aspects of Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.
The technical team would be headed by a senior implementation specialist with experience in
handling complex projects.  The project's technical team  would have to be established by
December 1996. Most equipment would be procured directly by the DEM, with only a few items
being procured at the provincial level. The DEM already has sufficient know-how and expertise to
manage the procurement of equipment.
4.18   Concerned line departments would handle procurement for all project activities related to
health programs (immunization, tuberculosis control, acute respiratory infections, leprosy, etc.).
These departments have implemented similar activities under earlier Bank-financed projects and
have the necessary procurement expertise. But like the DEM, they lack systematic planning skills.
The PCU, using the PMIS tool,  would help line ministry departments to set up adequate
programming, accounting, and monitoring tools and would recommend corrective measures where
needed to ensure that project programming, accounting, and monitoring were up to standard.
4.19   Activities delegated to Provincial Officers of the Ministry of Health. Provincial MSP
officers would be responsible for the implementation of smaller scale civil works, such as the
building of rural clinics, for which procedures are well known and decentralized services are
sufficiently staffed.
4.20   Program   Management  Information  System  (PMIS). The  responsibilities  for
administering the PMIS would be divided as follows:
(a) Provincial level. By December 31, 1996, a SPP/BAJ focal point would be appointed in
each province to coordinate and monitor the implementation of all of the SPP/BAJ activities
delegated by the various line ministries and to ensure that the PMIS data and information
was kept up to date [para. 6.03c(ii)]. The various provincial delegates would provide the
provincial SPP/BAJ focal point with all pertinent information about project activities. The
provincial focal point would ensure that the data was entered into the system and
would--with the assistance of this tool--prepare the annual provincial implementation



- 21 -
program.  The PMIS would generate implementation progress reports and reports on
various indicators and financial benchmarks. The PMIS would be linked to a Geographical
Information System. The PMIS would be designed in such a manner as to allow for the
gradual expansion of the system to include other data required by the Governor or other
users.
(b) Mlinistry department or division level. Each department involved with the SPP/BAJ
would be responsible for managing the implementation of its respective project activities
using the PMIS. To that end, each concerned department would appoint a staff-member to
manage the PMIS. Several different departments and divisions within the Ministry of
Health would be responsible for project activities under a ministry-appointed SPP/BAJ
coordinator. This ministry-level health coordinator would oversee and coordinate the work
of the departmental and divisional SPP/BAJ coordinators and would be expected to ensure
the proper use of the PMIS.
Procurement
4.21   All goods and services to be financed by the loan would be procured in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. For ICB procedures, the Government would use the Bank standard bidding
documents, available in French at the time of project negotiations (March9s de travaux--Taille
Moyenne et Marches de Fournitures). Procurement of goods and services would be undertaken by
the concerned line ministries at the central level, by provincial representatives delegated by the line
ministries, and by the communities themselves. NCB procedures at these three levels have been
reviewed by the Bank. The procedures agreed upon are in conformity with general Bank procurement
guidelines with respect to economy, efficiency, equal opportunity to all eligible bidders, development of
local industry, and transparency (Table 4.3 below summarizes the procurement arrangements for
goods and services).
Table 4.3. Procurement arrangements
(total including contingencies in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Goods and Services
ICB      NCB        Other    NBF  Total
Civil Works              -        17.8        --        --   17.8
(7.0)                      (7.0)
Equipment               24.8      8.8         1.8       --   35.4
(17.0)    (5.0)       (1.0)          (23.0)
Drugs                   46.8      2.8         5.5            55.1
(32.0)    (2.0)       (3.3)          (37.3)
Technical assistance    --        --          0.2      0.9   1.1
(0.2)          (0.2)
Training                 --       --          1.0       --   1.0
(0.5)          (0.5)
Operating costs      --                              8.4   8.4
Total financed costs    71.6      29.4        8.5       9.3  118.8
IBRD financing          (49.0)    (14.0)     (5.0)       -   (68.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis represent amounts to be financed by the loan.



- 22 -
4.22   Civil works.  The project would include the construction and rehabilitation of over
400 facilities (health centers, dispensaries and rural hospitals). Works contracts would be of small
value (from US$8,000 to US$100,000 equivalent per facility), and would be distributed over a large
rural area. As demonstrated under previous and ongoing loans, such contracts do not normally
attract foreign firms or local funds. The implementation of those small works would be delegated to
provincial delegations and all civil works would be carried out in accordance with NCB procedures.
NCB procedures at the central (ministry), and provincial levels have been reviewed by the Bank and
found acceptable. Civil works contracts of less than US$20.000, up to an aggregate of US$500.000
equivalent, for the remodeling of small health facilities in remote areas may be carried out by force
account with the Bank's prior approval.
4.23   Goods.
(a) Contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$500,000 equivalent each would be
procured through ICB (US$24.8 million plus US$46.8 million for drugs), with the
exception of furniture which could be procured through  NCB.   Such furniture,
manufactured by local suppliers, is of excellent quality, below international prices, and
delivery and supply would be appropriate for this project.
(b) Contracts for goods costing US$100,000-500,000 equivalent would be procured through
NCB. (US$11.6 million).
(c) Contracts for goods that the Bank agrees to be of proprietary nature (such as computer
software, books, and reference materials) could be awarded through direct contracting after
negotiations with proprietors or publishers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank. (US$6.2 million).
(d) Contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each could be awarded
through shopping procedures on the basis of three price quotations from suppliers.
(US$1.1 million)
4.24   Consultant services.  Consultants financed under the project would be selected in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for consultants. Consultant services would consist of foreign
or local specialized services to conduct specific studies or to offer short-term advice. The project
would also finance local seminars. A large number of consultant contracts would be related to civil
works (architectural and engineering services).  The procedures under which such services are
engaged are well-known and efficient.
4.25   Contracts and contract review
(a)    Items to be disbursed on the basis of proof of services would be subject to Bank
review as described in Annex 6.
(b) Works. Contracts exceeding US$500,000 equivalent would be subject to prior Bank
review.  Contracts below  US$500,000 equivalent, exept for activities subject to lump sum
disbursement, would be subject to ex post Bank review.
(c)  Goods.  To ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines, procurement
documentation for all contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000 or more



- 23 -
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Contracts below US$500,000 in value would be
subject to ex post review by Bank missions.
(d)    Consultant services and training. Procurement documentation for all contracts
for consulting firms, estimated to exceed the equivalent of US$100,000 would be subject to
prior review by the Bank. Procurement documentation for all contracts for the employment
of individuals or single source selection of firms estimated to exceed the equivalent of
US$50,000 would also be subject to prior review by the Bank. Procurement documentation
for all contracts for consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent and
US$50,000 for all contracts for the employment of individuals or single source selection of
firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 would be limited to terms of
references only.
(e) Contracts and financial data related to activities subject to lump sum disbursement
procedures will not be subject to post review but will be subject to technical audit (para. 4.29).
4.26   Disbursement. The project would be implemented over a period of five years. Including a
12-month disbursement lag, the closing date would be December 31, 2003. The loan would
disburse according to the categories and schedule shown in Tables 4.4, 4.5 and 4.6.
Table 4.4. Disbursement by category
Category                                       Schedule
Category 1
Civil Works    (a) lump-sum for items listed in table 4.5;
(b)100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for items
not listed.
Category 2
Equipment      100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures.
Category 3
Drugs          100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures.
Category 4
Consultants    100%
Services and
Training



- 24 -
Table 4.5. Disbursement by lump sum:.
Lum sum disbursement amounts by activities (DH).
Activities                                            lump sum
disbursement
................................ ............. .... .......................    ........... ....................  ...... ...... .. .......... ......
CSC (rehab.)                                               200 000
Rural Dispensary (rehab.)                                    50 000
Table 4.6. Proposed disbursement schedule
(US$ million)
Disbursement Plan                           Project Year
1         2         3         4          5         6
Annual                3.0      10.0       15.0      15.0       15.0     10.0
Cumulative            3.0      13.0       28.0      43.0      58.0      68.0
4.27    Documentation. In accordance with regular Government procedures, the required supporting
documents would be retained by the implementing agencies for at least one year after the Bank received
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be
made available for review by auditors and visiting staff upon request. Documentation for contracts
subject to lump sum disbursement would consist of a "proof of services". This is a certificate
established by the borrower, confirming that the specific activity has been implemented in accordance
with agreed standards and criteria. (Annex 6). The content and procedure to establish a proof of service
was presented in a format agreed upon during negotiations [para. 6.03c(iv)]. Both the disbursement by
lump sum and the documentation by proof of services are innovative, result oriented methods aiming at
simplifying procedures and accelerating project disbursement, while giving more initiative to the
beneficiaries (especially communities); they concur with the directions set in the new Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. For expenditures under contracts above the prior
review thresholds, full documentation would be required. All other expenditures would be disbursed
based on statement of expenditures (SOE).
4.28   Special Account. To reduce the number of claims submitted to the Bank, the Governrent
may establish, maintain, and operate--under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank--a Special
Account, in which the Bank would make an initial deposit of up to US$5.0 million. This special
account would be located in the General Treasury of the Ministry of Finance and would be
replenished every month, or whenever the undisbursed balance of the account would fall below an
amount equal to one third or less of the amount of the initial deposit, whichever came first.
4.29   Accounts and audits. Each department responsible for the implementation of the project in
the Ministry of Health would maintain separate accounts for all project activities in conformance with
international accounting practices.  Project accounts would be audited in accordance with the
Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (World
Bank, March 1982). Activities subject to reimbursement on the basis of proof of services rendered
would be audited in accordance with OD  10.60, para. 48.   For technical audits,   both



- 25 -
reimbursement claims using SOEs and applications for replenishment of special expenditures from
the Special Account would be required to be certified by an independent expert rather than by an
independent auditor. The Bank would be provided with an audit report of such scope and detail as the
Bank might reasonably request (including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursement against a
certified statement of expenditures and a certified statement of proof of service rendered) within the six
months following the end of each fiscal year.
Supervision. monitorinR. and evaluation
4.30   Project preparation.  The Secretariat has de facto taken over the responsibility for
coordinating the preparation of the three projects. The Secretariat has convened a number of meetings
with other concerned ministries, and has organized a workshop on monitoring the implementation of the
SDS. Bids would be launched as soon as the corresponding budgets were available. Provincial
delegations would start preparing bid documents as soon as the ministries delegated the implementation
of those activities and provided corresponding budgets. But because of budgetary planning, payment,
and disbursement lags, during the first year of implementation the loan would disburse only the amount
corresponding to the initial deposit to the Special Account.
4.31   Project implementation review.  The Ministry of Health would prepare an annual
implementation progress report of a scope and in the detail agreed upon by the Government and the
Bank and including (a) a review of progress achieved in the implementation of the project based on
selected monitoring indicators agreed upon, (b) projected sector and project expenditures for the
year, and (c) programs for project activities in the selected provinces. The report would be
submitted to the Bank not later than September 30 of each year, beginning in 1997 [para. 6.03d(ii)]
and reviewed jointly. The Secretariat would collect and review sectoral reports issued for each of
the three BAJ projects, and incorporates them in an annual program implementation report. A
midterm project implementation review would be conducted by December 31, 1999 [para. 6.03d(i)].
This midterm review would not only assess the project's implementation progress in greater detail
but would also assess the extent to which project activities might need to be redirected to achieve the
objectives of the program. The review would also include a discussion of the follow-up to the study
on cost recovery for drugs [para. 4. 10].
4.32   Monitoring indicators. The Government has developed, in coordination with the Bank, a
list of program and project indicators to follow both the process and the impact of the operations.
This list of indicators was agreed upon before negotiations [para. 6.02b], and a final agreement on
baseline values and target values was reached during negotiations [para. 6.03d(iii)]. The list of
indicators is presented in Annex 7. The value of these indicators would be updated each year and
incorporated  in the annual implementation report submitted to the Bank each year by the
Secretariat.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01   This project specifically targets the needy--especially women and children--and should
therefore help transfer resources to those who need them most. Improving primary health care
services in the target areas would benefit some 27% of Morocco's population, including 1.4 million



- 26 -
children under five and 1.05 million women of childbearing age. In addition, the overall population
would benefit from the improved implementation of public health programs to control tuberculosis,
malaria, cholera, leprosy, STDs, infectious ocular diseases as well as to improve hygiene and
nutrition and to expand immunization coverage. Basic curative and preventive health coverage will
increase from 47 to 60% in targeted areas. If adequately implemented, the project would
significantly reduce the burden of disease in Morocco and would help reduce the number of
maternal and child deaths and ensure more equity throughout the health system.
5.02   Following the burden-of-disease approach recommended in the World Development Report
1993: Investing in Health, a study is now being carried out in Morocco to assess the number of
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) that could be saved by the implementation of priority health
programs [para. 4.08] and to identify cost-effective interventions. Rehabilitation of the primary
health care system would also improve its quality, which would help to restore public confidence in
the system. In the medium term this would stimulate demand for preventive care services. In
addition, the reorganization of health administration and services already agreed upon [para. 6.01a]
would improve the efficiency of the MSP and maximize the impact of the proposed project's health
activities. The implementation of the Sector Action Plan initiated during project preparation would
further help to ensure better coordination of aid, and would provide a planning and monitoring tool
for the MSP. Finally, the integration of health with education and other basic services would result
in cross sectoral synergy.
B. Risks
5.03   The first risk relates to the potentially weak implementing capacity of MSP, especially at the
provincial level, given the fact that, under the proposed project, provincial health officials would
have the primary responsibility for planning, implementing and monitoring activities in the targeted
provinces. To address this risk, MSP is currently in the process of reorganizing the provincial level
in order to strengthen its managerial capabilities. In addition, during negotiations, agreement wa
reached on identification and implementation of mechanisms which will strengthen provincial
participation to planning and decision-making [para. 6.03a(iii)]. The second risk relates to the
possibility that Morocco may fail to implement the hospital reforms and the financing strategy being
developed under the Health Management Project, to reorganize at the provincial level and to
implement the actions proposed for the public pharmaceutical sector. Such situation would threaten
the sustainability of the entire health system over the long term, since it would effectively prevent
adequate shifting of resources to the needy, rural population and to more cost-effective
interventions. These activities are well underway and unlikely to be stopped. In addition, financing
of drugs under the project is linked to a set of dated covenants [para.6.03a(ii)]. The third risk is
linked to the lack of adequate counterpart funding, especially for recurrent costs. Discussions and
agreement with the Ministry of Finance on the Sectoral Action Plan, the flow of funds study and the
preparation of sectoral public expenditures programs, however, should reduce this risk, which is of
a generic nature.
C. Stakeholders' Participation
5.04   Project preparation has drawn directly or indirectly on the input of final beneficiaries and
users, including the results of the Bank participatory study on rural women which has suggested that
maternity related and preventive health care programs should be part of the first cluster of actions to
improve the daily life of women (World Bank 1995c). During project preparation, provincial
medical officers of the targeted provinces were involved in the definition and planning of activities
to be financed under the project. Three regional workshops were organized between November 1994



- 27 -
and January 1995 to discuss with them the project objectives and the priority activities it should
address.  Different surveys were carried out in five of the targeted provinces, including a
beneficiary assessment and a survey of the concerns of medical and paramedical personnel (see
Annex 8 for list of studies carried out). They were financed under a Japanese Grant.  The
conclusions of these surveys have been integrated into project design.  Finally, the other two
projects of the SPP/BAJ Program have also been prepared with the participation of actual actors and
potential beneficiaries, thus ensuring that the integrated activities envisaged under the program
would coincide with real needs perceived by the targeted population, and would mobilize those in
charge of implementing the measures aimed at meeting these needs.
D. Poverty Category
5.05   The proposed project is part of the SPP program whose entire justification and overarching
objective is poverty alleviation. Because the proposed Project would target the poorest population of
the country, especially women and children, it falls squarely in the "Program of Targeted
Interventions".  It would also contribute significantly to the reduction in the global burden of
disease in vulnerable populations and would help close the gap between urban and rural areas,
thereby addressing the issue of equity. It is therefore part of the programs of targeted interventions.
E. Environmental Assessment
5.06   The proposed project was determined to be in screening category C and would therefore not
normally result in significant environmental impact. No Environrmental Assessment (EA) is expected to
be conducted for this project.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01   During preparation of the project, the following actions were taken:
(a)    A commitment was made for the operationalization of the new MSP organizational
chart [para. 5.02];
(b)    The Strategie de Developpement Social was reendorsed [para. 2.03];
(c)    The contract for the study on financial circuits was signed [para 4.15];
(d)    The Secretariat was informally installed [para 4.12];
6.02   Before negotiations:
(a)    The health sector SAP was officially transmitted to the Bank [para. 2.05d];
(b)    The final list of selected project indicators was officially transmitted to the Bank
[para. 4.32];



- 28 -
6.03   During negotiations, agreement was reached regarding:
(a)    Sector specific actions
(i)    A human resources development plan to be reviewed by December 31,
1997 [para. 3.09];
(ii)    Actions to be taken and activities to be implemented in the pharmaceutical
sector during project implementation [paras. 1.23, 3.10, 4.10 and 5.03];
(iii)   The mechanisms to strengthen provincial participation in planning and
decision-making for sector activities to be identified, submitted to the Bank and
implemented by December 31, 1997 [paras. 1.24 and 5.03].
(b)    Financing
(i)    Undertaking and updating each year a multiyear rolling public expenditure
program for the health sector and transmittal of the program to the Bank by July
31 st of each year, beginning in 1997 [para. 4.11];
(ii)    Provision of counterpart funds, and establishment of individualized project
lines in the budget of the MSP, starting July 1st, 1996 [para. 4.05];
(iii)    Retroactive financing within the limit of 10%  of the loan amount, and
excluding expenditures on drugs [para. 4.05].
(c)    Project implementation
(i)    Setting up by the Secretariat of a Program  Management Information
System, and staffing the MSP for implementation of such a system by December
31, 1997 [para. 4.14];
(ii)    Appointment of a SPP/BAJ health coordinator in the MSP and of the
project technical team, and appointment of a SPP/BAJ focal point in each target
province by December 31, 1996 [paras. 4.15, 4.16 and 4.20];
(iii)   Presentation to the Bank of an action plan to improve procurement,
payment, and disbursements, based on the results of the study on fund flows,
before March 31, 1997, and launching implementation of the plan after discussion
with the Bank, no later than October 31, 1997 [para. 4.15];
(iv)    Procedures to establish a proof of service, and format of such a certificate
[para. 4.27].
(d)    Project review
(i)    Organization of a joint project midterm review by December 31, 1999
[para. 4.31];



- 29 -
(ii)    Submission to the Bank of an annual implementation report that would
include a review of project implementation progress based on selected project
indicators, projected sector and project expenditures for the year, and programs for
the project activities in the selected provinces by September 30 of each year,
beginning in 1997 [para. 4.31];
(iii)    Baseline and target values of the project indicators [para. 4.32];
6.04   The Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions has been formally established,
as a condition of Board presentation [para. 4.12].






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
BASIC HEALTH PROJECT
DEFINITIONS
Contraceptive Prevalence    --  Percentage of married women of reproductive age
using, or whose husbands use, any form of
contraceptive.
Crude Birth Rate          --  Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Infant Mortality Rate      --  Annual deaths of infants younger than 1 year old per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth   --  The number of years a newborn child would live if
subject to the age-specific mortality rates prevailing at
time of birth.
Low Birth Weight          --  Infants whose weight at birth is less than 2,500 grams.
Maternal Mortality Rate   --  Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in a
given year attributable to pregnancy, chilbirth, or post-
pactum.
Neonatal Mortality Rate   --  The number of deaths to infants under 28 days of age
in a given year per 1,000 live births in that year.
Rate of Natural Increase   --  The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to surplus (or deficit)
of births over deaths expressed as a percentage of the
base population.
Rate of Population Growth   --  The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to natural increase and
net migration, expressed as a percentage of the base
population.
Total Fertility Rate       --  The average number of children a woman will have if
she experiences a given set of age-specific fertility rates
throughout her lifetime. Serves as an estimate of the
number lof children per family.
Disability Adjusted Life Years --  Is an indicator of the time lived with a disability and
(DALYS)                        the time lost due to premature death.






Annex 1
Page 1 of3
KINDGOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
BASIC HEALTH PROJECT
SECTOR DATA SHEET
A. DEMOGRAPHIC
1. Crude Birth Rate (per 1000)                       28.1       1991-1992
2. Crude Death Rate (per 1000)                        7.3       1991-1992
3. Population Growth Rate (%)                        2.06            1994
4. Population in Age Groups (%)
0- 14                                    34.8            1994
15 - 64                                  55.6            1990
65+                                       4.5            1990
5. Population Projection (rnillion)            32.918.000            2007
6. Mean Female Marital Age (years)                    24             1987
7. Total Fertility Rate
Average No. of Children per Woman                3.6            1995
8. Women of Chilbearing Age Using Modem
Contraceptives (%)                              42.4            1995
9. Phannacies per inhabitants                    1/12.031            1995
B. HEALTH AND NUTRITION DATA
1. Public Health Care Expenditures as % of            3.8            1994
GDP
2. Health Expenditures as % of
Total Government Budget                         4.6            1994
3. Population of Physician                         1/2756            1995
4. Total number of physicians
Generalists - Private sector (56%).           2462             1995
- Public sector (44%)               2088            1995
5. Population per Hospital Bed                      1/889            1995
6. Access to Health Care (% of pop.)                  47             1993
7. Maternal Mortality
(per 100.000 live births)                      332            1992
8. Infant Mortality Rate
Both Sexes (per 1000)                        61.6            1995
9. Under Five Mortality (per 1000)                   80.4            1995
10. Births Attended by Health Staff (%)                40            1995
11. Immunized--Under five                              88            1992



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
MSP ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
General Inspection             Minister                     Cabinet
wwsww w ww ~~~~~~~~..........................  .................  t.............................5z9    .w..
. General Secretariat  ]
Procurement Division                          Directorate of
Procurement Division   -                                       Population
Division of General |                                Direct. ofEpidemiology
Services Administratiorj                          -    and Disease Prevention
Provinces
Division of Informatics       (medial officers)        Direct. of Hospitals and
Hivision oflInformatics 1 __ _________________             Ambulatory Care
[  National Institute    |                                Directorate of Drugs
Health Management  |                                       and Pharmacy
Direct. ofEquipment
and Maintenance
Directorate of
Human Resources
Directorate of
Legal Matters
Direct. of Planning
_nd Financial Rresources



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
DONOR INTERVENTION IN THE HEALTH SECTOR*
DONORS   }               AREAS                 PERIOD    AMOUNT
AfDB                Basic Health                 1993-1997      430 million DH
USAID               MCHIFP                       1993-1999      US$ 52 million
UNFPA               Population MCHIFP            1992-1996      US$ 7 million
UNICEF              Women and Children survival   1992-1996     US$ 5 million
EU                  MCH - neonatal               1994-1997      5 million ecu
FP - Northern Provinces      1995-1998     9 million ecu
FRENCH              Training, documents, technical  Annually    Non quantifiable
COOPERATION         assistance
WHO                 Technical Assistance         1994-1995      US$ 3 million
UNDP                Maintenance                  1992-1996      US$ 1.5 million
* Source: MSP, 1995



I



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
SPP/BAJ: ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Table 1. Ministry-Level Responsibilities for the Three SPP Projects
MEN         MSP         MEAS           ml            MP
(1) Primary                ~~~~~(3) Primary
I. BASIC EDUCATION  (1) Primary               (2) Literacy    School
Education*                ~~~~~Construction**
11. BASIC HEALTH                    Health
III. COORDINATION                                                         (6) Statistical
AND MONITORING                                            (5) Employment  Monitoring
OF SOCIAL                                                 (5)omplioymnt  (7) Program
PROGRAMS, AND                                                romotion    Coordination
LABOR PROMOTION,                                                          (Secr&tanat)
MEN: Ministbre de I'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
MSP: Ministere de la Sante Publique (Ministry of Public Health)
MEAS: Ministere de I'Emploi et des Affaires Sociales (Ministry of Labor and of Social Affairs)
MI: Ministere de l'Interieur (Ministry of the Interior)
MP: Ministere de la Population (Ministry of Population)
* school construction not included
** supervised by local collectivities



Table 2. SPP/BAJ Organizational Chart
C ~~Secr&eariatD
Basic Education                                                      Basic Health              Employment Promotion and
Project                                                              Project                   Poverty Monitoring Project
S  EMEN |EN                                MEAS   l             l | MSP    ll MP                                        M
SSP        ~~TechnicalSSSPSSSP
4)     Coordinator        Comm ittee    Coordinato                          Coordinator          Coordiato             Coordiator
ut 1
II
0



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
PROVINCES SELECTED FOR THE SPP PROGRAM
Rural    Share in     Total    Share in
population, total rural population,   total
1994    population    1994    populabon   Ratio
Rank  Province           (000)      (%)        (000)       (%)    ruraVtotal
Saharan provinces       1.    Ouarzazate              553       4.4%        695      2.7%       80%
2.    Taroudant              560       4.4%         694      2.7%      81%
3.    Tiznit                 278       2.2%         348      1.3%      80%
Wilaya of Marrakech     4.    Ai Haouz                402       3.2%        435      1.7%       92%
5.    Chichaoua              280       2.2%         312      1.2%      90%
6.    El Kelaa Sraghna       551       4.4%         682      2.6%      81%
7.    Essaouira              358       2.8%         434      1.7%      82%
8.    Safi                   447       3.5%         823      3.2%      54%
Wilaya Grand Casablanca  9.    Azilal                 393       3.1%        455      1.7%       86%
Wilaya of Tetouan       10.   Chefchaouen             396       3.1%        439      1.7%       90%
11.   Sidi Kacem             471       3.7%         646     2.5%       73%
Wilaya of Fes           12.   Al Hoceima              270       2.1%         383     1.5%       70%
13.   Taza                   502       4.0%         708     2.7%       71%
Total, selected provinces                           5,461     43.1%        7,054    27.1%       77%
Total Morocco                                      12,659    100.0%       26,074   100.0%       49%
Source: Minist6re de l'incitation de l'Economie - Direcbon de la Stabtsque.
R6sultats provisoires du Recensement G6neral de la Population. February 1995.
Note: Criteria for the selection of provinces
1. Living standards indicators
1.1 Annual per capita expenditures
1.2 Urbanizaton rate
2. Educaton sector indicators
2.1 Illiteracy rate
2.2 Admission rate in first year of primary education (children aged 7)
3. Health sector indicators
3.1 Under-5 mortality rate
3.2 Popubtion per physician
3.3 Popubtion per paramedical staff
3.4 Popubtion per healt center



I



Annex 4a
Page 1 of 2
SELECTED PROJECT DATA
Specific Objectives of Selected Priority Health Programs (Third component), by
year 2000.
1. - Tuberculosis:
- Decrease incidence of Tuberculosis by 10% a year.
- Cure 90% of identified cases.
- Identify every year 80% of infections sources in the community.
2. - Leprosy
- Identify 90% of leprosy cases.
- Examine 70% of the population living in areas where the prevalence is between
0.5 and 1%o.
- Examine, once a year, 90% of family contacts.
3. - Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI)
- Decrease the mortality rate due to ARI by 25%.
- Implement the program national.
- 80% of health facilities will be able to manage adequately ARI cases.
4. - Infections Ocular diseases:
- Decrease the prevalence rate of blindness to <0.5% of the population.
5. - Malaria:
- Decrease incidence rate in high risk areas to <10 cases for 1 million inhabitants.
6. - Schistosorniasis
- Eradicate schistosomiasis in Agadir, Assa Zag, Beni Mellal, Essaouira, Figuig,
Kenitra, Larache, Marrakech, Nador, Ovarzazate, Tanger and Tiznit.
7. - Hygiene and sanitation
- Surveillance of 659 of "water points" identified.
- Achieve 70% of control of recommended desinfection.
- Achieve 100% of bacteriological analysis, according to the norms.
- To prevent food intoxication, ensure 80% of analysis of some type of goods
("denrees perissables").
- Decrease the incidence rate of cholera cases to <5 per 100,000 inhabitants.
- Decrease the incidence of Typhoid fever to <10 per 100,000 cases.
- Decrease the fatality rate: for cholera to <1% and typhoid fever to <0.5%.
9. - STDs (Sexually Transrnitted Diseases)
Decrease the incidence of STDs in the country.



Annex 4a
Page 2 of 2
10. - EPI
- Increase and maintain coverage to >90% of <1 year old children for the diseases
targeted under the program: Tetanus, Poliomyelitis, Measles, Diphteria,
Whooping cough.
11. - Nutrition
- Prevention of non-deficiency anemia in pregnant women and <5 year old
children.
- Decrease by 50% the number of acute malnutrition and by 10% the number of
chronic malnutration
12. - Oral Rehydration Therapy: (ORT)
- Increase and maintain the utilization rate of ORT to 80%.
- Improve case-management of diarrhea in health facilities.



Annex 4b
Page 1 of 2
SELECTED PROJECT DATA
Pharmaceutical Sector: Main Recommendations based on the conclusions of the
major study:
Main features
1 Improvement of the operation of the Central Medical Stores (Pharmacie Centrale)
2. Improvement of budgetary mechanisms for drugs (weaning out of Bank funds)
3. Study of a cost recovery scheme for essential drugs in primary care facilities
4. Upgrading of the National Control Laboratory
5. Pharmacie Centrale (PC)
6. Procurement:
The Procurement Unit (PU) would modify its procurement and distribution
practices to increase their productivity: The PU would start tendering for essential
drugs with contracts expected to cover two years of consumption, with staged
deliveries to Berechid (preferably on a monthly basis). The PU will also determine
a list of products for which deliveries would be undertaken directly by the suppliers
to the regional warehouses and the SEGMAS. Finally, the PU would experiment a
system by which the PU would determine the level of prices of drugs for the CHUs
through tenders, but would leave the purchasing and organization of deliveries to
the CHUs (i.e. the drugs would not physically enter the PU at any time. These
various new mechanisms are expected to (a) improve the lead time between
procurement and distribution of drugs, (b) improve the lead time between
procurement and distribution of drugs, (b) improve the logistics of drug
distribution in the public sector, (c) reduce the level of stocks (and the drugs
reaching their shelf-life) in public sector facilities and (d) improve the adequacy of
procurement to actual needs.
7. Improvement of budgetary mechanisms for pharmaceuticals.
The Ministry of Public Health would increase the budget allocated for drugs over
the duration of the project, to make sure that public sector financing for
pharmaceuticals becomes sustainable once Bank financing is over. The Ministry of
Health would undertake a study of actual needs for essential drugs (including
contraceptives and micro-nutrients), based on actual consumption rather than
historical procurement, using the methodology developed by WHO to assess
pharmaceutical requirements. This study woudl also take private sector supply and
logistics in consideration to determine the adequate level of budget necessary to
finance these requirements. The services of Moroccan and international
consultants to undertake this study would be needed and the Ministry of Public



Annex 4b
Page 2 of 2
Health would submit detailed tables to the Ministry of Finance to improve financial
mechanisms for essential drugs.
8. Study of cost recovery in primary care facilities
It is agreed that the availability of drugs in primary and secondary care facilities is
low, and that many patients who receive a prescription in these facilities actually
have to purchase drugs from private pharmacies. These patients, who are usually
the less well-off cannot take advantage of the cheap procurement prices of the PC
and have to pay a much higher price for equivalent products, or to remain without
a treatment. Although it is not possible for the moment to envisage full cost
recovery of drugs in Moroccan public health facilities at the peripheral elvel, the
issue of the financial sustainability of pharmaceutical supplies at this level requires
that a study be conducted on the feasability of partial cost recovery of
pharmaceuticals. The study would explore the willingness to pay of the
population, the level of actual expenditures incurred at present in poor rural and
urban areas, the level of drug budgets likely to be available in the future, and the
technical feasibility (including the legal conditions) of charging for drugs in public
sector health facilities. The study would also review the conditions for a
participation of the private sector of pharmaceutical distribution in a scheme that
would involve partial cost recovery for drugs, and the implications that the
implementation of the national health insurance have would have on a cost
recovery scheme. The services of an international consulting firm would be neded
and would participate with the Government of Morocco in the analysis of the
results of the study.
9. Upgrading the National Drug Control Laboratory
The Laboratoire National de Sante Publique (LNSO) is in charge of the quality
control of drugs, in particular drugs in the public sector. The LNSP needs to be
upgraded to take care of the growing needs for quality control of both imported
and locally produced drugs, and to meet international quality requirements for
exports (equipment), reagents and basic supplies and training of personnel. By the
end of the project, the LNSP would be expected to perform high quality controls
and batches of imported drugs and before release of exports, supervise and control
the QC laboratories of all Moroccan pharmaceutical manufacturers, and to
participate in international networks of quality control laboratories.



Annex 4c
Page I of I
SELECTED PROJECT DATA
Strategy Proposed for the Prevention of Iron Deficiency and Anemia
(being reviewed by MSP)
PHASE ONE:
Nutritional Supplements
*   Target population: all pregnant women
*   Prescription: 1 tablet per day, starting in the fourth month of pregnancy. Each pill
contains 60 mg of iron and 250 mg of folates.
*   Coverage discount for pregnant women = fifty percent
IEC
*   Study the acceptance of iron tablets among the local population
*   Increase awareness of the problems of iron deficiency and anemia among the
population
-   Educate the public about solutions to the problems of iron deficiency and anemia
*   Develop and test educational support
-   Marketing/ Choice of iron to be distributed
v   Identify limitations of the program
Training of Personnel
*   Seminars for the benefit of MCH nurses and doctors
Follow-up and Evaluation
*   Implementation of information system
Logistics and Mobility
*   Improvement of the distribution of medication
PHASE TWO:
Fortification offood stuffs
*   Chosen food: national flour
*   Feasibility study (technical)
*   Feasibility study (industrial)
*   Regulatory study
*   Impact study



Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(US$ Million)
II. BASIC HEALTH
IIA      IIB       IIC        lID
Acces   Maternity  Priority Follow-up
-          -   Program   Manag.  Total
Investment Costs
WORKS
New Construction                 5.3         -         -         -     5.3
Extension                          -        0.6        -         -     0.6
Development/Rehabilitation       7.1        1.2        -         -     8.3
Subtotal                          12.4        1.8        -         -    14.2
EQUIPEMENTS
Machinery/Tools                  8.7        5.6      8.9         -    23.2
Vehicules                        1.3        2.9      0.3       0.1     4.6
Data Processing                  0.1         -       0.0       0.3     0.4
Pharm. Products                 13.8       11.7     20.3         -    45.8
Office Supplies                    -        0.3      1.1         -     1.4
Subtotal                          23.9       20.6     30.6       0.4    75.3
EXPERTISE
Studies                            -         -       0.1         -     0.1
Local Consultants                0.7         -         -        -      0.7
Subtotal                           0.7          -      0.1         -     0.9
FORMATION
Local/a                            -         -       0.9        -      0.9
Total Investment Costs              37.0       22.3     31.6       0.4    91.3
Recurrent Costs
Operating Costs                      -        2.8      3.0       0.4     6.2
Salaries                             -          -      0.5         -     0.5
Total Recurrent Costs                  -        2.8      3.4       0.4     6.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                37.0       25.1     35.0       0.8    97.9
Physical Contingencies             3.7        2.5      3.5       0.1     9.7
Price Contingencies                4.5        3.2      3.4       0.1    11.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                 45.1       30.8     41.9       0.9   118.8
Taxes                              4.0        2.7      3.7       0.0    10.4
Foreign Exchange                  23.5       18.4     26.0       0.4    68.2
\a Including information and awareness campaigns



Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT UNDER PROOF OF SERVICE
A "proof of service" is a certificate established by the Government confirning that the specific
operation, service or activity has been implemented in accordance with agreed standards, criteria or
terms of references which have been reviewed by the Bank at priori. For a "certificate of proof of
service" (Certificate) to be conform the following procedures would have to be followed:
(a) By June of each year, a yearly program of activities planned to be implemented during the next
fiscal year, will need to be established for each of the concerned communities. This program will be
established by the delegates at the provincial levels, submitted for review and clearance to the
respective line ministries and for approval to the Bank.
(b) Budgets, corresponding to the approved list of activities will be made available by the line
ministries to the provincial delegations. For the construction of primary school facilities, each
community will include the necessary funds in its annual budget.
(c) Activities subject to lump sum disbursement procedures will be procured:
(i) in accordance with National Procurement Procedures
(ii) for civil works: in accordance with agreed standards or architectural drawings
reviewed at priori by the Bank; and;
(iii) for training and seminars in accordance with agreed terms of references established for
each type of training or seminar, and reviewed by the Bank at priori.
(iv) Contracts and financial data related to activities subject to lump sum disbursement
procedures will not be subject to post review.
(d) Upon completion of the activity, the ministry's representative, accompanied by a technical
staff (architect or engineer for civil works, medical doctor for health related activities, etc.) will
inspect the completed facility or review the training/seminar, and issue a Certificate of completion
and/or a Certificate confirming that the training/seminar took place and was delivered as planned.
This technical Certificate will certify that the described activity has been implemented in
accordance with the agreed standards, criteria or terms of references, and will be established in a
format and content acceptable to the Bank. Because the disbursement amount is not a
percentage of a contract amount, and because the item has been procured in accordance with
National Procurement Procedures, it will not be required that the certificate mention the cost of the
operation, nor the procurement procedure.
(e) This certificate will be forwarded to the concerned Ministry which will prepare a monthly
Statement of Expenditures (SOE), listing all completed activities. The cost of each activity will be
the average cost as defined in Table 4.5 of the SAR. The amount to be reimbursed will be the lump
sum amount per activity, as listed in Table 4.5 and in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement. The
certificate of completion may also trigger other activities such as providing staff for health related
facilities.
(f) The annual audit will include an audit (at random) of some of the Certificates. The audit will
also include a technical audit (at random) of the implemented activities.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Proiect Implementation Monitorine:
Key Project Indicators
lodkiw                   Geograki         Ce.ten                 BDe Value                       Source (1)         Target Value         Data
uuit                                                                                                            cdkde . (2)
A  Balic hidict0ra       13 P    Evinm
1. Nonsalary                             - Ratio to non-targetd  20%                      Savice du Budget, 1995    25%                  R
eenditues (%) in the                     prrnca
tht pvviea as
ca.patd to the oher
prvice.
Z Medical and                            - number of MD,          MD: 148                                           500                  R
Pamedical pauel                          auxiliaiiy nuses         Nursa: 43X              SCS, 1995                 750
deployed in H                            deployed in the 13       auxliary-muscs: 1040
infi_ar a.                               prvimc.                                                                    1350
3. Basic Health covcage                  - % of ppulation         47%                     SCS, 1995                 60%                  E
provided in the hwaty                    coavcd by ESSB.
4. Delivcria in health                   % of deliveries         1.5%                    ElnquEte Panel 1995       30%                  E
facilitiea.
B. Proces Indicaton
L Component: Impvving
&cce to cative and
prevention bealth cae
services
    Health              Province        - number of ESSB built                                                     N0                   R
inaictuare                          - nunber of essbe
renovatdAransformed/                                                      200                  R
rebuilt
Medical equipmet   Provincea            - number ofESSB fully                                                      idean                R
equWipped ccording to
their specific fnction
    Emential dnW        National/rtral    - Budgetary aliocatiaw    90 milliox DH        DA. 1995                  105 millions DH      R
to metal dmug for
ESSBL
*    Vebicles            Provincea       - Number of operating                                                      117                  R
anbulances in ESSBs.
- Number of oprating    600                      SCS, 1995                 864                 R
motorcycles.
- Number of operating   69                       SCS, 1995
vehicles.
*    Medical Persoel                     - Number of              0.3                     SCS, 1995                 0.6                  R
& Parmedical                        physiciasw/10,000.
Cap-city deployed                   - Number of              0.                     SCS, 1995                 1.3                  R
in ESSBs                            nurseu/10,000.
- Number of auxiliay    1.9                      SCS, 1995                2.3                  R
nursce/10,000.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Indicator               Geographic     Content                 Base Value                   Source(l)          Target Value       Data
Unit                                                                                                      collection (2)
*   Client satisfaction                - Beneficiary           Baseline in 5 provinces   -                                        E
assessments
II. Safe Motherhood
*   Proportion of                                              45% - National         Survey Panel 1995        N = 60%             R
pregnant women                                            28% - Rural                                     R=50%
who made 2-3
prenatal visits to
ESSBs.
*   Health                             - Number of maternity                                                   13 provincial       R
infrastructure                    wards. rehabilitated                                                    matemity wards
55 rural maternity    R
- Number of midwives                                                   wards
recruited              20                                              200                 R
*   Availability of                    - Number of
referral system                   ambulances.             31                     SCS 1995                 157
*   FP                                 - Contraceptive         N = 42%                Survey Panel 1995        50%                 E
Prevalence             R = 35.6%                                       (13 provinces)
*   Anemia Program                     - % of pregnant women   0%                                              45%                 R
receiving iron
supplementation
Ill. Priority Health    National
Programs.
*    EPI                               - Coverage for diseases   N = 85%              Survey Panel 1995        >90%                E
targeted under the EPI.   R = 78%
*   Tuberculosis                       -Incidence              116                    DELM 1994                Reduction of 10%    E
rate per 100,000                                                       per year
>90%               R
*    Hygiene du milieu                 - Percentage of analysis   21%                 DELM 1994                80%                R
of perishable goods.
- Percentage of        53%                                             80%                 R
surveillance of vector
breeding areas.
C. Impact indicators of
the SAP (National)
*   Crude Birth Rate                                           26%                    M. pop. 1992                                 E
(per 1000)
*   Total fertility rate                                       3.6                    Survey Panel 1995        2.6                 E
*   Crude death rate                                           6.7                    Survey Panel 1995        -                   E
(per 1000)
*   Infant mortality                                          61                      Survey Panel 1995        41                  E
rate by sex (per
1000)
*   Child <5 mortality                                         80                     Survey panel 1995        54                  E
Rate by sex
*   Life expectancy at                                         mas. 63,8              ENDR 1988
Birth by sex                                             fem. 67,1
e   maternal mortality                                         332                    Survey Panel 1995
rate
*   neonatal mortality                                         37 per thousand        Survey Panel 1995        25
rate
(I) SCS: Service de la carte sanitaire           DELM: Direction de l'6piddmiologie et de lutte contre les maladies
M. pop: Ministere de la Population           ENDR: enquete d6mographique a passages reptes
D.A.: Division de l'approvisionnement
(2) E = enquetelsurvey       R = routine



Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
Selected Information Available in the Project File:
1.- BAJ  - Government and consultant documents preappraisal and appraisal mission -
February and June 1995.
2 - INAS - December 1994 - February 1995: surveys in samples of the twenty provinces.
(5 of them)
- Le Profil Epidemiologique dans les zones defavorisees (ZIP)
- La mortalite infanto-juvenile dans les zones defavorisees.
- Les strategies mobiles de couverture sanitaire: evaluation dans cinq provinces.
- Les services de sante de base: analyse de fonctionnement.
- La perception des prestations sanitaires par la population.
- Les structures hospitalieres: analyse de l'utilisation.
- Perception du personnel de sante sur les services de sante de base.
3. - Detailed Tables on the civil works aspects of the project - February 1995.
4. - SAP - Preliminary document - July 1995.
5. - Staff report on Nutrition - November 1995.
6. - Pharmaceutical sector: reports of the three consultants on quality control, inspection,
Pricing Policies and availability of drugs - May 1995.
7. - Detailed description of programs financed under the project.
8. - Specific functions of different types of ESSBs - February 1995.
9. - Strategie de Developpement Social pour la Decennie 1990 - April 1995.



ISRD 27639
MOROCCO                                                  T-ng.,0   !
MAROC                                                 TANGER.-
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM                                                        - TETOUA
PROGRAMME PRIORITES SOCIALES   Lerach.O                                                       /                      Al
BASIC  HEALTH  PROJECT                                                                      l      HOCEIMA   NADOR
PROJET SANTE DE BASE                                                                 -                                            od
SELECTED  PROGRAM  PROVINCES                                      KFNITRAj        ;'j TAOUNATE           .   -
PROVINCES SELECTIONNEES POUR LE PROGRAMME                                       <c SIDI KACEM -J/ .o                                                  d
S K.n,trn     LR)  'N Koc3m         * - STAZA                  OUJDA
Rob6w    r-            -       \.-                             /
*  KHFMIS5E\               FES~\ ~ 
RABAT,                            FF5
Mohon,ned,o     \                               0 nJ2S )|efro ./*> $
Cos...n~ bi   BENI SLIMANEr                                                     /
CASABLANCA@    ) --    SbInSone          !       rC     - -
,* ,  ,    - . J 'IFRANE.    o                                             C,
EI-Jod,do.                                                ..o d  ** -   \ MEKNES\  I  BOULEMANE  ) 
V   Seefd0,*t --
0 13      / KHOURIBGA \        S
EL-JADIDA     SETTAT Kho-b960 -                                                                   FIGUIG -
T.         KHENiFRA           '
32'                                                                                                                E,rK;c,d,o   - -        (
E ._RRACH-IIDLA
Agod.,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~0SHARE OF RURAL POPULATION OF A PROVINCE
SA9ct_ 1                                                                                         " \ OIN THE TOTAL POPULATION OF THE PROVINCE
PROPORTION OF LA POPULATION RURALF D'UNE PROVINCE
A    I                                                                                        PAR RAPPORT A LA POPULATION TOTAtE DE LA PROVINCE
W   BETWEEN 50% AND 7A%
ENTRE 50 FT 74%,
2  ,     w 5o75% AND MORE
75% FT PLUS
TA TA                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
COURS D EAU
PROVINCE CAPITALS
CAPITALES PRO VINCIALES
NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPITALE NATIONALE
L3  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
L      50       100     150                               LIMITES PROVINCIALES
KtLOMETERS                                       INTERNATIONAL BOJNDARIES
GUELMIME         "                                                                                     PFRONTIERES INTERNATIONAIES
To- on    -                                                The bo-ndo'ie. oo-1. onoo.,oo, cdche,nto,mcolon                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TAN-TAN                                               -ho fo                                                            FRONoTIERESpl. o,INpeERNAT w0, BNA GE5 
T Nodgo,oc- Phes mahl ngolmFIy  o,,,    I,,.lonp. or cny .dorse,.n.n  (APPROXIMATION)
BMARCfH 1 06









IMAGING
Report No:      15073 MOR
Type: SAR



