              Document of
          The World Bank




                                      Report No: 28390-MOR

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (CPL-40250 SCL-4025A SCPM-4025S)

                 ON A

                 LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$68.0 MILLION

                TO THE

       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                FOR A

     SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
(BARNAMAJ AOULAOUIYAT AL IJTIMAIYA)

       BASIC HEALTH PROJECT




              June 24, 2004

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective at Project Appraisal in April 1996: US$1.00 = DH8.3)

                                     Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
                                            8.3 DH = US$ 1.00
                                          US$ 1.00 = 8.3 DH

                                           FISCAL YEAR
     July 1 - June 30 during project preparation   January 1 - December 31 (at ICR preparation)

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAJ           Barnamaj al-Aoulaouiyat al-Ijtimaiya
BHP           Basic Health Project
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DALY          Disability Adjusted Life Years
DHSA          Direction des Hôpitaux et Soins Ambulatoires
EOC           Emergency Obstetrical Care
EPI           Expanded Program on Immunization
FP            Family Planning
GOM           Government of Morocco
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IEC           Information, Education and Communication
LSMS          Living Standard Measurement Survey
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MMR           Maternal Mortality Rate
MOH           Ministry of Health
NBF           Non-Bank Financed
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
PAPCHILD      Pan Arab Project for Child Development
PAPFAM        Pan Arab Project
PFGSS         Projet de Financement et de Gestion du Secteur de la Santé (Health Financing Project)
PMU           Project Monitoring Unit
PRISS         Projet d'investissement dans le secteur de la santé
QAG           Quality Assessment Group
QALY          Quality Adjusted Life Years
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDS           Stratégie de Développement Social pour la Décennie 1990 (Social Development Strategy)
SPP           Social Priorities Program
STD           Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TB            Tuberculosis




                                   Vice President:       Christiaan Poortman

              Country Director  Theodore Ahlers
               Sector Manager   Michal Rutkowski
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Daniel Kress/Jean-Jacques Frère

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                             SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
                                BASIC HEALTH PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Additional Indicators                                                   26
Annex 9. Borrower's Report                                                       27

Project ID: P042415                                                  Project Name: SPI - HEALTH
Team Leader: Daniel Kress                                            TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SPI - HEALTH                                             L/C/TF Number: CPL-40250; SCL-4025A;
                                                                                                     SCPM-4025S
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (100%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Population and reproductive health
                            (P); Fighting communicable diseases (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/10/1993                                     Effective: 12/27/1996                12/24/1996
     Appraisal: 02/29/1996                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  06/21/1999
      Approval: 05/30/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF MOROCCO/Government of Morocco/Ministry of Health
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Director:                Michal Rutkowski                               Roslyn Hees
Team Leader at ICR:             Daniel Kress                                   Maryse Pierre-Louis
ICR Primary Author:             Claire Voltaire


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The macroeconomic adjustment instituted in the 1980s by the Government brought relatively good
economic results; however performance in the social sectors was of continued concern. The Government
was committed to focusing on social issues in a concerted manner and, in 1993, issued a social
development strategy, Stratégie de Développement Social pour la Décennie 1990 (SDS). The SDS
established the framework for social policy covering the following main aspects: (i) extending basic social
services to the poor, (ii) increasing their participation in economically productive activities, (iii) efficiently
allocating scarce resources, and (iv) monitoring and evaluation of social actions.

To assist the Government in the implementation of the SDS, the Social Priorities Program (SPP) or in
Arabic, Barnamaj al-Aoulaouiyat al-Ijtimaiya (BAJ) was initiated, targeting the thirteen most
disadvantaged and least urbanized provinces in Morocco. Originally conceived as a single project, Bank
management decided to split the project into three complementary projects to be implemented
simultaneously yet independently in the same poor rural areas: (1) BAJ Basic Health, (2) BAJ Coordination
and Monitoring of Social Programs and Labor Promotion, and (3) BAJ Basic Education, the subject of this
report.

The BAJ Basic Health objectives were to: (i) provide better access to preventive and curative basic health
services to 60 percent of the targeted population, including equitable access to essential drugs; (ii) reduce
maternal and neonatal mortality in the targeted areas by increasing the coverage of prenatal visits from 28
percent to 50 percent, increasing assisted deliveries in a medical setting from 18.5 percent to 30 percent,
and making modern family planning methods available; and (iii) sustain the national-level performance of
priority public health programs.

The objectives were relevant and responded to the most urgent health problems. Lack of facilities and
geographic isolation inhibited access to health services: the project built additional health centers and
provided access through road works via the BAJ Coordination Project. The rate of maternal mortality was
unacceptably high and displayed large urban-rural gaps: the project constructed and equipped maternity
wards in difficult to reach areas. Capitalizing on prior Bank achievements in the sector under the PRISS (
Projet d'investissement dans le secteur de la santé), the project continued to support national level priority
health programs. In hindsight, scrutiny of the utilization rates of existing health facilities and health
outcomes may have exposed more clearly the supply-demand problems in the sector (e.g., infrastructure,
equipment, drugs, and personnel) and facilitated the process of decentralizing the delivery of health services
by allocating greater responsibility to the local level.

3.2 Revised Objective:
None. The number of provinces covered changed from 13 to 14 when one province split into two
administrative entities; the targeted geographic area did not change.

3.3 Original Components:

This project (Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 15073-MOR) included the following three components:

Component A - Improving Access to Essential Preventive and Curative Basic Health Services (US$45.1
million) by strengthening physical and human infrastructure as well as improving technical functions,
organization, service delivery, and drug availability. Specifically, the project was to finance the
rehabilitation of about 160 health centers, 25 rural centers and 15 rural hospitals, the construction of about



                                                       - 2 -

80 communal health centers, the provision of 340 motorcycles, of medical and non-medical equipment, the
purchase of drugs, and the realization of workshops to strengthen staff capabilities. This component also
included the strengthening of the Drugs Supply Unit (information system and provision of six vehicles) and
of the Drugs Control National Laboratory (infrastructure rehabilitation and provision of technical
equipment).

Component B - Strengthening the Safe Motherhood Program (US$30.8 million) through the promotion of
modern contraceptive methods, the reorganization of prenatal services (including a program against
anemia), the improvement of maternity wards, the recourse to community health workers and the
establishment of an evacuation and referring system towards provincial hospitals. These activities implied
the reorganization of services and staff redeployment, provision of contraceptives and rehabilitation of 55
rural maternity wards and 13 hospital obstetrical wards.

Component C - Supporting Select National Priority Health Programs (US$41.9 million) and in particular
the transmissible diseases program (vaccinations, tuberculosis, acute respiratory infections,
schistosomiasis, ocular infections, STDs, leprosies, malaria, etc.). To that end, the project was to finance
the provision of drugs and vaccines, and of equipment including 7 vehicles and 32 motorcycles, the
realization of IEC activities and incremental recurrent costs linked to supervision, monitoring and training.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component; Cost; Rating
A - IMPROVING ACCESS TO ESSENTIAL CURATIVE & PREVENTIVE HEALTH CARE SERVICES IN
SELECTED PROVINCES;             $45,100,000.00;   S
B - STRENGTHENING THE SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROGRAM;                         $30,800,000.00;     S
C - SUPPORT TO PRIORITY PUBLIC HEALTH PROGRAM NATIONWIDE;                          $41,900,000.00;     S

There were no revisions. However, the management structure was modified during project implementation.
The project was executed under the aegis of the Department of Planning of the Ministry of Health (MOH).
In order to improve coordination between the different central departments (pharmaceuticals, epidemiology,
infrastructure, etc.), a Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) was placed under the MOH's Secretary General for
oversight of all activities.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
(S - Satisfactory) - The preparation process is rated satisfactory overall, based on the five quality criteria
below:

Coherence with the Government's Strategy (S ­ Satisfactory). As indicated in paragraph 3.1, the BAJ and
BHP's objectives were coherent with the Government's stated priorities for health, and reflected in the
CAS. Given the current assessment of project outcome, further reforms are necessary to shift away from a
full-fledged supply-driven to a demand-driven system to improve services and provide a sustainable and
efficient health system which promotes quality services.

Coherence between Objectives and Components (S ­ Satisfactory). In terms of health objectives, the areas
and programs covered by the project were consistent with the priorities identified. Though the way the
project was structured did not prejudice how the project was implemented, the assessment notes that the
first component "improving access" overlaps with the other two "Safe Motherhood and Priority Health
Program," in terms of investments, responsibility for implementation, and accountability for results. The
latter two components were structured following the existing vertical programs and continued to be
managed at a central level throughout implementation. The question is whether the implementation outcome



                                                     - 3 -

of the two components might have been further improved had they been more decentralized at the regional
level, particularly the Safe Motherhood Program. 2/

Important policy and institutional changes such as improving technical functions and the organization of
services were overshadowed by the importance given to physical investments, as this was a first priority to
improve access, with the responsibility devolved to the provincial administration. It is interesting to note
that the Direction centrale des hôpitaux et soins ambulatories (DHSA), which is responsible for the
primary component of the Health Financing Project currently under implementation, was also responsible
for ensuring the quality of services in the primary health facilities (which is not unusual but is nevertheless
a less effective mechanism to tackle the specific problems that affect the delivery of services in these
facilities). Specific measures or actions were not defined in the project to support the realization of key
covenants to the loan agreement. However, out of the eight legal covenants, only the human resources
strategy was postponed and finally transferred out of the BHP to the ongoing Health Financing Project
(PFGSS). The third component of the PFGSS concentrates on strengthening policy and decision-making
capacities (of which one of the main aspects is human resources).

Participation and Dialogue during Preparation (S - Satisfactory). Project preparation benefited from an
extensive dialogue between IBRD, the Government (at all levels of the Central ministries and provinces)
and other SPP/BAJ potential donors. Stakeholders and beneficiaries were actively involved in project
preparation. The simultaneous and coordinated preparation of the three SPP/BAJ projects increased
understanding and commitment to the program's objectives.

Concept Development (U - Unsatisfactory) The project concept was, in hindsight, too ambitious. By
tackling both infrastructure and quality issues in parallel, insufficient attention was given to the soft issues.
The first priority was to increase access and therefore proceeding quickly with the infrastructure part of the
project. While the team did make quite a bit of progress on technical issues (pharmaceuticals, and diligence
in improving the Safe Motherhood Program), underlying issues were not sufficiently confronted head on
such as the human resources issue, and increased devolvement to the provinces. Both these aspects were in
the political sphere, and the project should not be so harshly judged for not having made headway in these
areas. Some of the main weaknesses observed are:

l Measures to stimulate the demand for health services.
l Increased attention on quality and client satisfaction to ensure that the newly constructed and renovated
    health centers were actually used.
l The project could not be the only vehicle for an ambitious civil service reform but contributed to some
    extent to the decentralization efforts. However a whole series of interventions are in fact needed such as
    real decentralization policy measures, increased emphasis on quality, as well as different mechanisms
    to allocate and control financial and human resources, etc. Some of the lessons from this experience
    have been learned and the Government is increasing efforts to devolve greater service provision
    responsibility and accountability to the provinces, as exemplified in the budget-program. Under this
    program, provinces are given resources and objectives and are accountable for results to the central
    MOH. Experience shows that effective decentralization of the health sector can be a long and
    complicated process, requiring substantial policy changes, considerable capacity building, and strong
    guidance, contingent upon the implementation of successful civil service reforms.
l Coordination of the three BAJ projects at the level of the Ministry of Planning was not fully successful
    (this is discussed in the ICR for the BAJ Coordination project). The high number of participants in
    program elaboration, management, execution, supervision, monitoring, and evaluation, in particular at
    the MOH level where responsibilities are very fragmented and inter-departmental coordination weak,
    diluted responsibilities and prevented a proactive management of the project.


                                                     - 4 -

Project Readiness (S ­ Satisfactory). The project was prepared in a satisfactory manner, and several
actions were fulfilled prior to negotiations. The implementation schedule was realistic, taking into account
past experience in construction and in financial and procurement management. However, an in-depth
analysis of the existing and expected responsibilities at each level of the system 3/ and between central
departments would have been beneficial to assist the MOH in its capacity-building strategy and the
decentralization process. Finally, the project would have benefited from the development of a strategy for
the Safe Motherhood Program prior to project start-up, as part of a global national policy for mother and
child health.

Indicators. Project indicators for the project amounted to 26 and approved by the Government prior to
project launch. Some of these indicators were to be collected at a national level, rather than specifically at a
BAJ provincial level. As supervision reports highlighted, improvements could have been made in the
quality of data collection. Because certain indicators were collected at a national level rather than at a
provincial level, it is difficult to make a comparison between BAJ and non-BAJ provinces. In addition, it
appears that the definition of these indicators was not always clear for the data collection agencies. The
definition for each indicator should have been explicitly stated, however, these remained unclear for the
provinces as highlighted during a meeting with provincial authorities as late as 2003.

Project Risks (S - satisfactory). Project risks linked to the financing of drugs, to human resources
management and recruitment, and to decentralization towards provinces were correctly identified. The level
at which the regions were to be involved in planning and execution was perhaps overstated given the reality
on the ground, and that decentralization was still a burgeoning effort as opposed to a concrete achievement.
Extensive work was carried out to address price purchase and availability of drugs, which led to reform on
bulk purchases, and to improved drug licensing methods. Similarly, the Government made a significant
effort to assign new doctors recruited to BAJ provinces and resumed the training of midwives. However,
these measures will not provide permanent solutions to address the various health system issues facing
Morocco.

________________________________

1/ The criteria for selecting the provinces for the three projects were the following: (1) standard of living indicators (annual
expenditures per inhabitant and urbanization rate); (2) indicators related to the education sector (literacy rate and admission
rate to first grade); and (3) indicators related to the health sector (mortality rates for children under the age of five years,
number of inhabitants per physician, per medical assistant and per health center).

 2/ It is to be noted that the investment envelope was not disaggregated by component, but managed by the Department
responsible for a particular activity. For example, the Procurement Department was in charge of purchasing drugs for the BHP.
The Department of Infrastructure was responsible for construction and rehabilitation, until this aspect was decentralized to the
regions (with good success). Training was done by several departments: Population, Epidemiology, etc.].


3/ Central, Regional and Provincial.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
(S - Satisfactory) - The recent Poverty Study (March 2004) states that the BAJ was found to be very
pro-poor. The selected provinces look more disadvantaged when basic health, education and infrastructure
indicators are taken into consideration. The program has had exceptional impact on the targeted 37 percent
of Morocco's total poor, and 48 percent of the rural poor.


                                                              - 5 -

The project's first objective -- to improve access -- is measured by the increased number of facilities
constructed under the project in the targeted areas, the increase in the budget for the purchase of drugs and
transportation means (vehicles and motorcycles for outreach programs, etc.). The assessment of the
achievement of those indicators shows an improvement: number of health centers constructed, increase in
the budget line item for drugs by 23 percent, improved transportation means.

For the second objective -- reducing maternal and neonatal mortality in the targeted provinces -- the
evidence is less clear-cut. This objective is measured by the increase in the medically assisted deliveries
from 18.5 percent to 30 percent in health facilities in project areas. The data shows that this coverage has
increased from 18.5 percent to 47 percent. Yet, there are several shortcomings in the achievements of this
second objective. The project tried to influence the outcome through increased technical assistance to
improve the quality of services and assist in concretizing the strategy on human resources deployment to
the peripheral areas. In parallel, several other donors were involved in this effort. The weaknesses are: a
continuously weak referral system and information system at all levels; training was inadequate; little
effort made in attracting clients to the health centers for neo- or post-natal visits; lack of personnel
discouraged mothers from using the health facility (it is important to note that the number of available
positions to each sector, each year, is dictated by the Ministry of Finance); and the definition of "
medically assisted deliveries" also meant that births were assisted by a medical professional in the home,
and not necessarily in the health center. Additionally, research has shown that generally it is not possible to
use MMR as an indicator of progress in reducing maternal deaths as maternal deaths are generally too rare
to enable accurate tracking of MMR (stated differently, the confidence intervals are too large to be sure
that the change, if detected, is real or solely the result of measurement error). The evaluation design called
for the use of a number of process indicators to get around this problem.

The third objective -- to sustain the performance of priority health programs -- was in general achieved
satisfactorily and the prevalence of communicable diseases is stabilizing or diminishing as a result of the
support brought to successful vertical programs such as the immunization, leprosy, malaria, or
tuberculosis control programs. This outcome is measured by the coverage of diseases targeted under the
Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) which was to increase from 85 percent to 90 percent. National
data (reflecting national effort to sustain the performance of priority programs, and not specific programs
within the BAJ provinces) reflects an increase in 11 out of the 14 provinces (on average, the rate was 90
percent). As far as the BAJ is concerned, the 2002 Loi des Finances included an adequate level of
spending for all programs financed under the BAJ and the Government is committed to ensuring their
sustainability. To achieve this objective, the SAR indicated that the project would support the national
program through the purchases of transport means, drugs, Information, Education, and Communication
campaigns, equipment, and on-site training. Given that management for certain parts of the project was
done at a Central level, the drugs for example were purchased for all three components, as well as goods.
However, training was conducted through the Department concerned. Based on budget information from
the different Departments, we can state that these items were delivered as planned.

In order to further substantiate the improvement in access, the PMU was requested to conduct a survey
that would assess utilization rates and beneficiary satisfaction in the context of the ICR preparation. This
has not been carried out to date.

With regard to the SPP/BAJ, the impact as a whole is being discussed in the ICR for the Coordination and
monitoring of social programs and labor promotion project.

4.2 Outputs by components:



                                                      - 6 -

Available statistical data show a favorable trend in the output and process indicators defined to monitor the
project's specific objectives, though in a number of cases, the improvements were somewhat smaller than
anticipated. Part of this can be attributed to the difference between the pre-post differences targeted by the
project logframe which generally was stated in terms of BAJ province averages and the available data
which tend to show only province by province changes. As noted above, all investments were realized
efficiently in advance of schedule. Overall, the project strengthened health coverage and some provinces
registered an increase in their activities.

Component A: (S - Satisfactory) Consistent with project objectives, physical access has improved. Data
on the percentage of the population living within 6 km of a primary health care center increased for all
provinces, though not all provinces attained the target value of 60 percent. Health center construction
decreased from the original figure due to a reallocation of construction efforts towards lodging facilities
needed for doctors and nurses. It is also noted that other donors were financing construction of health
centers during the same period. The output was that over 88 health centers were constructed, another 176
were renovated and equipped, and 282 lodging facilities were constructed for doctors and nurses. Data on
the number of doctors and nurses per 10,000 persons also show evidence of improvement though the trend
is more significant for doctors than for nurses. The management of drugs was an issue, and the project
made good efforts at assisting the Government on reinforcing the Central Drug Purchasing Department,
managing stock, and updating their systems. The purchase of drugs was a plus under this project with the
added benefit of increasing competition to reduce costs through a framework on purchasing drugs through
international competitive bidding. Though a difficult first step, the Government has continued to pursue
this arrangement. With regards to the recurrent budget, BAJ provinces represented 21.8 percent of the
national budget in 1995, against 18.4 percent in 1998/99, which is at odds with the priority defined.
Moreover, recurrent budget allocations do not appear to be correlated with the investment effort in these
provinces, raising the possibility that recurrent allocations may not have been sufficient to capitalize on the
new and upgraded infrastructure. Though all vehicles and motorcycles were delivered, the budget for
gasoline and maintenance is not systematically allocated, which impacts on implementation of the
evacuation and outreach strategies.

The definition of a human resources strategy, which was a covenant of the loan agreement, was not
implemented and was subsequently transferred to the PFGSS project, as it had a component dealing with
capacity building within the Ministry and the health sector overall. Though all centers were built and
equipped, 128 facilities were still closed in February 2003 due to lack of staff (of which 29 financed under
the project). In addition, some centers run with minimal staff and cannot ensure continuity nor quality
services, which results in a low utilization by the population. 4/ Since June 2003, the Ministry has been
trying diligently to resolve this issue by promulgating decrees inciting medical staff to carry out a
"two-year tour of duty" in outlying areas, instituting incentive systems (lodging, hardship-post fees, etc.),
promoting community participation in the maintenance of existing infrastructure, and recruitment under
the PFGSS of a consultant to carry out the study on the human resources strategy. In addition, the PFGSS
is also reviewing the final phase of a report on the reorganization of the MOH and devolution of
responsibilities to the provincial health authorities. The Ministry of Health is currently one of the few
ministries to pilot the result-based budget management.

Component B: (U - Unsatisfactory) The Safe Motherhood Program covers the period 1999-2004 and
focuses mainly on emergency obstetrical care. The approach to Safe Motherhood underwent considerable
changes during the life of the project. Initially reflecting much of the thinking on the best way to reduce
maternal deaths due to pregnancy, the focus of the project was on increasing access to emergency
obstetrical care (EOC) and promoting prenatal visits in the hope that potential high-risk deliveries could be
identified in advance and that better access to EOC would translate into reductions in maternal mortality.


                                                       - 7 -

However, experience in Morocco and research elsewhere indicated that many maternal deaths occur in
women for whom no evidence of high-risk delivery was available during prenatal care and that simple
availability of EOC did not guarantee use. As a result, like many other countries, Morocco modified it's
approach to Safe Motherhood to focus on the three delays model developed by Columbia University.
Important efforts have been deployed to improve emergency obstetrical care (identification of needs,
activity monitoring, initial and continuing training, development of care protocols, and strengthening of
provincial capacities). In addition, the project benefited from expertise from WHO, and their experts
participated in most of the missions. To date, the initiatives have not yet been integrated in a national
strategy for mother and child, and it is too early to evaluate the impact of the change in focus. While some
encouraging improvements can be noted in the percentage of assisted deliveries and in the C-section rate,
the coverage rate of obstetrical complications remains stagnant making difficult a comprehensive
assessment of the impact of this program and the new direction on health outcomes at this stage. Inspection
of the trends for the indicators for this component does provide some cause for optimism. Assisted
deliveries are on the rise in all BAJ provinces (target > 30 percent; achieved > 47 percent). Access to EOC
is certainly improved as a result of construction and equipping of maternities with delivery rooms, but
utilization rates need to be carefully assessed. Potential for evacuation via ambulance is also improved
while iron supplementation for pregnant women is greatly improved (See Annex 1). Specific indicators
concerning maternal reduction fell from 332 in 1995 to 228 in 2002; neonatal mortality fell from 38.8 in
1995 to 19.7. Use of modern contraceptive methods stood at 48.8 percent in 1997, and the Ministry awaits
the finalization of the PAPFAM survey for the current figure.




                                                      - 8 -

Component C: (S - Satisfactory) Realization of this component is satisfactory overall, with the exception
of the nutrition and hygiene programs registering a reduction of activities. The other priority programs
(blindness, leprosy, tuberculosis, malaria, etc.) consolidated results. In parallel, an evolution of the
respective roles of the Central MOH Department and of provinces is apparent, with the creation of regional
epidemiological observatories and a progressive shift in roles.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During project preparation, the economic analysis was limited to a discussion of the cost-effectiveness of
the activities envisaged. This analysis noted that the interventions that were the focus of the project are
generally known to be highly cost-effective and thus no formal economic analysis was carried out.
Conceptually, calculation of economic value would be based first on the epidemiologic and health outcome
changes made possible by the project relative to a counterfactual in the absence of the project. This would
yield the net health benefit due to the project, possibly measured in terms of some kind of summary health
outcome measure such as DALYs averted or QALYs gained. Against this, one would then compare the
costs of the project to calculate a global cost per DALY or QALY. A human capital approach might take a
somewhat different tack and focus on the changes in human capital outcomes made possible by the project
and capture improvements in productivity, wages and income as a means for capturing the economic value
of the improvement in health. Either approach requires careful tracking of health outcome changes in order
to be able to calculate economic valuation for the project. Such data were not collected systematically
during the project.

The economic analysis of the SAR outlined a list of benefits which could be generated from the project.
The main national activities concern tuberculosis, maternal mortality and morbidity, family planning
programs, and reduction of iron deficiency anaemia. However, since SAR did not provide an extensive
economic analysis; therefore, this section updates the data as follows:

a. The prevention of one case of tuberculosis (TB) prevents 20-28 new infections over the approximate
    two-year course of infectious TB. To date, the TB program and the expanded program on
    immunization are performing well. The detection rate is about 80 percent, and the percentage of cases
    treated stands at 80 percent.
b. An integrated antenatal/delivery care program can induce a reduction of 25-50 percent in maternal
    mortality, of 12.5-25 percent in perinatal mortality and 1 percent in low birth weight. To date, the rate
    of pre- and post-natal visits rose to 13 percent over the period 1995-2001, the maternal mortality rate
    and infant mortality rates dropped by 32% and 30%, respectively, during the same period.
c. In addition to maternal morbidity and mortality, family planning (FP) programs have economic and
    welfare gains from improved control of level and timing of fertility. Family planning programs are
    seeing an increase in the use of modern contraceptive methods: the utilization rate has increased by 22
    percent from 1995 to 2001. The figure will be updated once the PAPFAM survey is completed
    (September 2004).
d. The data on iron deficiency anemia is currently being collected under the PAPFAM survey. According
    to earlier data, anemia deficiency costs the economy well over $200 million per year in lost work
    productivity and in excess health and education expenditures. The cost of a national iron
    supplementation program (fortification of wheat and iron pills for pregnant women) would be about
    US$5 million per year. The payoff is clearly high.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A



                                                      - 9 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's contribution to institutional development is modest. The project made an undeniable
contribution in strengthening regional implementation and monitoring capacities and inter-sectoral
coordination. This was further reinforced by the intervention of the Promotion Nationale which built wells,
surrounding walls, roads, etc., which in turn increased access and increased community participation. In
addition, the project supported the Ministry's efforts in transferring certain fiduciary responsibilities to the
provinces (infrastructure management), and put in place a framework to improve the management of drugs
by opening up the competition to international suppliers.

Regarding decentralization, this is a long-term effort, especially in establishing clear guidelines,
regulations, functions, etc. and needs to be implemented by a phased approach. Capacity building is key.
This is best achieved by on-the-ground experience through the transfer of responsibilities, control, and
accountability. Planning and execution is still held by the Central Departments, and devolution to the
provinces will require further commitments by the MOH. Similarly, efforts to staff underserved provinces
in the absence of a global human resources strategy (with its associated recruitment principles, career
plans, and incentives) will have an impact on the future sustainability of the system. Regarding
management of the project, the medical and administrative personnel involved in the project generated
widespread enthusiasm. This has had a positive effect on the potential for decentralized management and
coordination, and the project contributed in creating a real momentum at the provincial level. At the
ministerial level, coordination could have been improved. However, there was better dissemination of
information and improved transparency towards the latter half of the project.

________________________
4/ According to MOH data colleted in the context of the monitoring system developed with UNFPA and Columbia
   University support, 36.7 percent of expected obstetrical complications were being handled by a health center in
   2000, and of these cases, 33.5 percent were being dealt with in an adequate facility.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
l Morocco is going through a demographic, epidemiological and social transition.                  Transmissible
    diseases, mother and child health remain important issues, and the increase in the incidence of chronic
    diseases are at the forefront of its agenda, as well as the problems posed by the aging of the population.
    All these issues are having an impact on the Government's capacity to manage and provide health
    services in a constrained fiscal environment.
l The private sector is in expansion and now has close to half of all general practitioners. Though not
    quantified, their contribution to heath outcomes at the national level, in particular with regards to Safe
    Motherhood, is significant. While the project contributed to reducing the disparities in physical access
    to public services, the growth of the private sector in urban areas is likely to have been faster than that
    of public services in rural areas, thus maintaining the gap between urban and rural areas.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A number of factors have contributed or will contribute positively to the health system:

l The Government's political commitment to the SPP has remained strong over the last 10 years.
l The simultaneous realization of three projects in the same provinces and participation of provinces in
    project preparation is an encouraging first step which created synergies and had a positive impact on
    employment, and on ownership of the health centers by the provinces.



                                                      - 10 -

l Involvement from central ministries (Finance and Planning in particular) in the monitoring of the BAJ
    projects contributed to a better understanding of the projects' objectives and challenges.
l The choice of the MOH as a pilot ministry in the simplification of the budgetary process made project
    disbursement more rapid.
l The recent decision of H.E. the King to bring women's legal age to marry at 18 years will also have a
    very positive impact on maternal health.
l The reform of the health insurance system under preparation will have an impact on sector financing
    and therefore on basic health services.

On the negative side, the project was hampered by:

l The absence of a consensus on the extent of the decentralization/deconcentration within which the
    health system reorganization could be articulated.
l The lack of a clear human resources strategy.
l The fact that public expenditures management is not result- or performance-based so as to evaluate the
    efficiency and relevancy of the actions and programs in relation with the resources deployed. 5/ This is
    particularly important in the health sector due to the low level of health expenditures per capita and of
    public expenditures and the great number of factors affecting health status.
l The high frequency of ministerial changes impeded close monitoring of the project and its overall
    relevance and contribution to the MOH strategy.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
l MOH's organizational structure did not evolve significantly, which impacted negatively on project
    implementation. The current structure is not adapted to the sector's actual needs which require a
    strengthening of the MOH's strategic, coordination and supporting capacity, in parallel with the
    decentralization efforts. The high specialization of MOH departments, which enabled the development
    of expertise in the various programs, has now reached its limits, and the excessive fragmentation of
    responsibilities is a source of redundancy and inefficiency. This translates into a great number of
    sub-programs and sub-objectives, which are not integrated in a national strategic framework for health
    on which regions could base their regional health master plan.
l In the absence of a human resources strategy, it is not feasible at this point to harmonize needs,
    priorities and available resources. Though the project helped restart nursing staff and mid-wives initial
    training, the impact is not yet apparent. Moreover, distribution of human resources should be more
    efficient and greater autonomy given to provinces in staff management. Staffing decisions should be
    consistent with service coverage strategies (outreach, fixed health centers, evacuation means, etc.) and
    take into account potential improvements in work organization to maximize the use of existing
    resources.
l The quality of indicators could have been improved, with a clear definition of how the data was to be
    collected, establishing a clearer line between national-level indicators versus BAJ-level indicators.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At project appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$118.8 million of which US$68.0 million
financed by IBRD (59.4 percent of total), and US$50.8 million by the Government, (40.6 percent of total).
There were no significant variations. The whole loan amount was disbursed close to a year in advance of
the loan closing date (December 31, 2003). In 1996, the Government had asked and obtained the
conversion of the loan into euros. The financial statements of the project are presented in Annex 2.
____________________________________
5/  See "Kingdom of Morocco, Public Expenditure Review", August 2002, World Bank




                                                     - 11 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
(L - Likely) - Morocco's political commitment to SPP/BAJ 's objectives for the last ten years has been
steadily strong and unaffected by the numerous ministerial changes that occurred during project
implementation. It can be expected that this commitment will not waver after the project. The
decentralization efforts continue, and though authoritative powers have not fully been decentralized, the
BAJ experience was positive for a majority of the stakeholders. There are strong indications that the
decentralization trend will continue, with an increased budgetary transfer to the provinces.

It is to be noted that public expenditures in health See Public Expenditure Review, Kingdom of Morocco/The World
Bank, 2003 are increasing but remain below that of comparable countries. Though the budget allocated to
basic health programs in 2003 was maintained at the same level as during the project, available data show
that while BAJ provinces were allocated 21.8 percent of the recurrent budget in 1996, their share was only
18.4 percent in 1999. With the new pilot ­ result-based budgetary management ­ being launched, it is
likely that improvements will be made in the context of efforts being carried out to staff underserved
regions with health personnel, improvements in quality, and further decentralization efforts. The
Government will need to focus on and rationalize their efforts to deal with a number of health facilities,
built under the project, which are not to date fully functional for lack of staff. In addition, transferring
staffing    decisions  to   the   provincial   level would     increase    performance-based     measures    of
retention/replacement. Finally, the implementation decrees linked to the health financing reform law have
not yet been promulgated, and the law will concern a relatively small share of the population. But there
other important non-financial dimensions to sustainability and if the provincial capacity to allocate and
manage resources continues to improve, the provision of health services available to the target populations
is likely to be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All project activities have been integrated in the regular activities of public services so that no particular
transition arrangements need to be developed. However, successful implementation of the PFGSS will be
required to ensure that achievements of the BHP are sustained and furthered. In the short-term, recruitment
of staff for the non-operational facilities and the allocation of appropriate levels of recurrent budget for
these provinces to ensure the functioning and maintenance of equipment will be essential, and the
Government has confirmed its intention to sustain these efforts in several letters to and conversations with
the Bank.




7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
(S - Satisfactory) - The Bank's role during the BAJ's preparation and appraisal process is rated satisfactory
overall. The team contributed actively to close coordination between all BAJ stakeholders and offered
constructive support to the project preparation process, in particular by the active involvement of the
provinces. Financial management and procurement arrangements were developed with realism, relying on
lessons from past projects.

7.2 Supervision:
(S - Satisfactory) - The overall assessment of the Bank's supervision is satisfactory in spite of



                                                    - 12 -

shortcomings identified below which did not affect the achievement of the satisfactory outcome of the
project. It was characterized by good continuity as the same team prepared and supervised the project and
had overall responsibility for the dialogue on health issues in Morocco. Missions were regular,
supplemented by technical experts in the field of pharmaceuticals and Safe Motherhood, and included
in-country site visits and discussions with stakeholders. Meetings were regularly held with the BAJ
provincial delegates, including medical staff, which strengthened the dialogue and relationship. The project
went through an early QAG review that rated supervision "marginal." The QAG report did not provide
substantive recommendations for the team to further-improve implementation. The current assessment
notes that the team made substantial efforts bringing strong technical assistance to bear on problematic
areas, though other areas did not receive as much attention (e.g., monitoring and evaluation).

Certain issues marred project implementation but were not under the supervision team's control. This
relates in particular to the human resources strategy which did not see the light of day, despite repetitive
discussions on the matter with Government officials. The issue was perhaps too politicized and too
ambitious in scope to be undertaken under this project. Other matters that were under the team's control
related to the mid-term review exercise which highlighted weaknesses in the Safe Motherhood Program and
in monitoring and evaluation which could have been improved. As an example, the team could have focused
more on clearly defining the type and level of information needed for data collection (BAJ versus non-BAJ
provinces, urban versus rural). Regarding coordination among the three BAJ projects, the basic health
project was launched with the two other projects, but a coordinated approach and supervision effort was
not undertaken. In addition, the Bank could have provided more assistance to the Borrower on procurement
procedures and the use of standard bidding documents to avoid the delays which occurred.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
(S ­ Satisfactory) - Overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory. The team largely identified
unexpected problems but found them to be primarily of an institutional nature with structural roots, and
resided in domains beyond the scope of the current project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
(S - Satisfactory) - Project preparation proceeded satisfactorily, especially in light of the simultaneous
preparation of three projects. The Planning Secretariat assumed responsibility for coordinating the BAJ.
Several meetings were organized as well as a workshop on supervision and monitoring of the Social
Development Strategy. At the MOH level, the studies to identify needs (i.e., construction and rehabilitation,
equipment and human resources) were carried out as part of the health mapping exercise. With hindsight,
more attention should have been given to building a consensus on the specific and realistic measures needed
to progressively decentralize responsibilities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
(S - Satisfactory) - There was in general good inter-sectoral coordination at provincial level and the
Promotion Nationale made an important contribution to the construction/rehabilitation of health centers.
Physical execution and project financial management were carried out efficiently as reflected by the
excellent disbursement rate. The soft organizational aspects of the project regarding integrated services and
quality of services, however, received insufficient attention. Similarly, decentralization was limited to 20
percent and transfer of some of the civil works execution to the provinces. Measures aimed at better
organization of health care services (e.g., optimal distribution of staff, work-time analysis, supervision, and
in-service training) were not clearly defined. Some of the loan covenants (i.e., human resources strategy)
were not fulfilled.




                                                    - 13 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
: (U - Unsatisfactory) - Performance is mixed. On the positive side, the implementation structure was
maintained throughout the project and fulfilled its mandate despite the great number of entities involved in
the Social Development Strategy and the SPP/BAJ. Initially, the Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) was under
the leadership of the Department of Planning; it was later placed under the leadership of the Secretary
General of the MOH to improve coordination among the different departments. This unit is rated
satisfactory; it fulfilled its mandate to manage the execution of the project's physical and financial aspects
and efficiently disburse funds for project activities. It also supplied capacity-building efforts to the regions
once the management of infrastructure was passed on to the provinces. On the other hand, it was less
proactive when it came to ensuring the validation of the information generated under the project (as
discussed above regarding project indicators). In addition, the fragmentation of responsibilities, attributable
to both the MOH's organizational structure and to the project's implementation arrangements, prevented a
global and coordinated approach to manage issues, in particular with regards to the soft aspects of the
project. Indeed, seven entities as well as the provinces were directly involved in the project, while none were
directly accountable for its implementation and outcome. But it is noted that through parts of the
decentralization process, the provincial institutions proved to be the most effective. The Planning
Secretariat in charge of monitoring and evaluating the three BAJ projects and responsible for inter-sectoral
coordination was rather weak and insufficiently effective in ensuring inter-sectoral coordination among the
three projects.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

(S - Satisfactory) - Despite some of the shortcomings highlighted above, the Borrower succeeded in
implementing the project in an overall satisfactory manner.

___________________________________

6/  See Public Expenditure Review, Kingdom of Morocco/The World Bank, 2003

8. Lessons Learned

The successful execution of the civil works component by the provinces, with support from the Promotion
Nationale, shows the potential benefits of greater decentralization and inter-sectoral coordination. This
arrangement was positive and represented a significant improvement given the difficulties and delays
experienced in previous projects.
l All actions necessary to the success of a component should be included in the project and given the
    weight and attention corresponding to their importance for project outcome: continuity and quality of
    services, which were key elements to attract the population, did not receive sufficient attention in the
    project. Similarly, issues related to the MOH reorganization, decentralization or human resources,
    which were critical to the BHP's success, were relegated to the PFGSS where their relative importance
    were lessened, in light of other important reforms (hospital restructuring, health insurance) needed.
l The lack of attention to the soft aspects (due in part to the project's fragmented implementation
    structure) impacted on the project. The project could have been restructured especially as there was
    little movement on these fronts as outlined during the mid-term review.
l Greater attention should have been given to the links and relationships existing between the BHP and
    the PFGSS, so as to ensure that all activities of both projects were consistent and mutually supportive,
    and promoted a global approach to health care.
l An assessment of existing utilization rates of health services should have been done prior to project
    implementation, or at the early stages of implementation. This would have introduced flexibility into
    project design and allocation of resources to improve the weaker links (improvement of quality and



                                                      - 14 -

    continuity of services, outreach strategies, information and education campaigns, electrical and water
    connectivity, transportation means, etc.).
l A good M&E system could have been established at an early stage of the project cycle which would
    have been useful for assessing project impact.
l The initial expectation that the three BAJs could be implemented in a synergistic manner by three
    different ministries proved unrealistic and did not survive the reality check. A more robust institutional
    capability assessment would perhaps have informed the Bank in calling for revisions in the design and
    the implementation framework to promote better coordination among the different implementing
    agencies.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower did not provide a summary report as requested. However, the most salient conclusions of the
report prepared by the MOH are presenting in Annex 9.

The unofficial translation of the Borrower's main points are:

Planning and execution of the three project components:
l The activities were programmed and executed in collaboration with the departments concerned.
l Planning and availability of funds followed the logical execution of a project, since all the activities
    were launched during the first three years of the project, leaving the last two years to liquidate
    accounts; this enabled the project to close one year ahead of schedule.
l Planning benefited from flexibility. Certain modifications were undertaken as to what was initially
    planned in the project documents.
l Execution of the project was in synergy with other projects launched in the same geographic zone and
    during the same period (African Development Bank, which intervened in 7 of the 14 BAJ provinces).
l Concerning training of health personnel, this was undertaken through other projects financed by
    UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, USAID, GTZ, and NGOs.

The implementation of the project (physical execution, management and monitoring) and its financial
responsibility were executed in a satisfactory manner. All the planned activities were implemented and the
loan amount was fully disbursed, with one year ahead of schedule.

This success is based on:
l Involvement and participation of the implementing structures in program planning.
l Division of labor in the execution of the project which promoted commitment from all stakeholders who
    were responsible for managing the project.
l Planned and active coordination (meetings, supervisions, capacity building).
l Regular monitoring by the structures in charge of supervision and auditing.
l Skilled human resources at the level of the executing agencies, both at the central and provincial level.
    The central administrative departments and divisions have experienced professionals versed in Bank
    project management (PGFSS and PRISS). The provincial managers demonstrated a good
    understanding of project management, particularly for works.
l Flexibility in certain procurement procedures. The decision to apply national competitive procedures at
    the provincial level for works greatly simplified project management.




                                                    - 15 -

The project assisted the MOH in establishing a standard medical equipment list for all Basic Health Care
Centers, which was purchased centrally, thereby ensuring conformity to a national standard. Central
management of this activity has now reached its limit as it needs to take into consideration the specificity of
regional pathologies and ensure a minimum package of health care which responds to population needs.

Above and beyond the efforts made by the project in the purchase of medicine for primary health care
centers, and in contraceptive methods, the project improved management. Purchases are centralized at the
Department of Purchases. Delivery is made at the Central Pharmacy of Casablanca et the Purchasing Unit
of Berrechid which ensures delivery to the provinces. The improvements made to the management of drugs
are: introduction of a purchase-framework, which allowed the participation of foreign firms and their
accreditation; updates on the drug list; database on drug prices; quality control; and management of stock.
However, further efforts need to be taken to reduce the lag of delivery to the provinces.

Bank performance was satisfactory. Mission composition was sometimes difficult to manage with at times
up to 10 experts per mission. The Resident Mission facilitated information exchange.

Borrower's performance was satisfactory. Regular coordination meetings were held with the Ministry of
Plan for all three BAJ projects. The coordination facilitated the social development agenda and employment
creation at the local level. Particular to this project is the decentralization of the management of civil works
to the provinces. This step was fruitful, and highlighted the management capacities of the provinces. The
MOH made great effort in augmenting human resources (doctors, nurses, and mid-wives): Between
1997-2002, 2152 civil servants of which 1222 generalist (doctors), 66 specialized doctors, 243 mid-wives,
and 62 nurses. However, despite these efforts, the needs are still very important and certain health centers
remain under-utilized or not utilized for lack of personnel.

Qualitative appreciation by the BAJ provinces:
l All the provinces feel that they have been implicated in the planning process (92 percent).
l Of those who participated in project planning, only 75 percent of the delegations have a vision about
    the project intervention; dissemination of project objectives and components did not take a privileged
    place.
l The choice of health care centers were justified, and certain sites were modified following re-zoning
    exercises. This also led to the construction of centers which were removed from a population center. In
    addition, the under-utilization of certain centers was highlighted.
l The Delegations feel that the assessment of the performance indicators are satisfactory.
l The Delegations feel that they were adequately assisted by the different executing Departments of the
    MOH.
l Coordination with the BAJ focal point and the Promotion Nationale was appreciated. In the provinces,
    coordination meetings were chaired by the Wali (Governor) and largely contributed in successful
    project implementation.




                                                       - 16 -

For sustainability of project objectives, the provinces have outlined the following measures: deployment of
personnel; equipment and infrastructure maintenance; community participation in purchase of medicine,
ambulances, and maintenance of health centers; and provision of water and electricity to rural areas.

In addition, the PIU sent comments on the Bank's report by email of June 23, 2004: "We note that several
paragraphs     were    revised   following    the   Bank's    last  mission,   and   were    modified   from
`unsatisfactory-mixed' to `satisfactory' following receipt of additional information. We take this
opportunity to comment on the paragraph related specifically to the PIU. We regret that para. 7.6 is
rated as mixed in contradiction with certain contents of the paragraph. (a) Appreciation is noted that the
PIU was transferred under the Secretary General of the Ministry of Health as requested by the Bank and
rated satisfactory. However, you state that the PIU was less proactive when it came to validating project
indicators. We believe that we validated the financial and physical indicators of the project with
certainty. With regard to health programs, these are managed directly by the relevant central
departments. The updating of indicators followed the format provided and was duly transmitted by the
PIU at the start of the project, mid-term, and at the end of the project. These indicators show a marked
improvement. Concerning fragmentation of responsibilities, this is due to the manner in which the
project was structured with the components under the responsibility of the departments concerned. The
PIU does not wish to substitute itself for the responsible departments, and played a coordinating role:
this was in evidence from the meetings held with the central and provincial delegations/departments
during the Bank's supervision missions. These meetings enabled the participants to have a global view of
the project, and integration worked out very well at the provincial level. The sentence on interministerial
coordination by the ex-Ministry of Economy and Plan should be treated outside of this paragraph Their
role was mixed which impacted on the rating of the PIU. We proposed that you split the paragraph into
two, one on intrasectoral coordination related to the PIU, and another on interministerial coordination
under the responsibility of the ex-Ministry of Economy and Plan."

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

A. Beneficiaries: A beneficiary assessment was carried out by the MOH prior to project preparation and
findings were integrated in the project design. In addition, two independent evaluations of the BAJ program
were carried out by consultants recruited by the Planning Secretariat, at mid-term and at the closure of the
three BAJ projects. The report has not yet been validated. Once the report is available, an addendum to
"files" will be submitted.

B. Stakeholder workshop. A one-day workshop was organized by the MOH to discuss the outcome of the
project and lessons learned. This seminar included all the representatives from the BAJ provinces as well as
decision-makers from the concerned MOH central departments, including the Ministries of Plan and
Finance. There was broad consensus on the lessons learned as follows:

l The project undeniably improved physical access to services and was in general executed efficiently,
    though some improvements are needed to improve architectural design of facilities, and provide more
    flexibility in procurement of equipment to enable provinces to better adjust to local needs and priorities.
l In the future, investments in rural areas should aim at maximizing the efficiency of existing resources




                                                     - 17 -

  rather than aim at increasing physical coverage.
l A greater autonomy of provinces in human resources management would greatly improve the efficiency
  of services and encourage staff stability.
l Services remain under-utilised and of low quality. An in-depth analysis would be necessary to help
  develop remedial measures adapted to the specific characteristics of each province (outreach strategies,
  development of communications, etc..).
l Recurrent budgets should be related to the investment effort, and human resources issues resolved so as
  to ensure sustainability.




                                                - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                 Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
1) Medically assisted deliveries in health    23%**                                         47%
facilities in project area: from 18.5% to 30%

2) Improving basic health coverage in project No data                                       No data
area: from 47% to 60%;
3) Improve contraceptive prevalence in        42 (this is data from before the project); 19 23
project area: from 35.6% to 45%;              according to 1995 value of BAJ provinces
4) Coverage of diseases targeted under the    85%                                           90%
EPI: from 85% to 90% +.
Other indicators are discussed in annex 7 of Pls see Annex 8 for additional indicators      See Annex 8 for additional indicators
SAR dated May 9, 1996
                                              No data

** The CPR increased in 10 out of 14 provinces; remained stable in 2; and CPR decreased in 2.
      23% mean of CPRs to all provinces not weighed according to population figures.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                 Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Crude birth rate (per 1000)                1995 > 23.9                                   21.9
2. Total fertility rate                       1995 > 3.6                                    3.1
3. Crude death rate (per 1000)                1995 > 6.6                                    5.8
4. Infant mortality rate by sex (per 1000)    1995 > 66                                     36.6
5. Child < 5 moratlity rate by sex            1995 > 84.6                                   45.8
6. Life expectancy at birth by sex            Female: 70.7                                  No data
                                              Male 67.1
                                              Total 68.8
7. Maternal mortality rate                    1995 > 332                                    228
8. Neonatal mortality rate                    1995 > 38.8                                   19.7

1End of project
The project PSR did not have this data in the system.
1. Number of live births per thousand pop. Statistics Dpt estimates 1992 and 2000
2. Number of children per women of reproduction age. 1995 Panel Survey and Papchild survey 1997 (reflecting
data from years 1993-96)
 3. Number of death per thousand population over one year. Statistics Dpt estimates 1993 and 2001
4. Number of death of under 1 year olds per 1000 live births during one year 1995 Panel Survey and Papchild
survey 1997 (reflecting data from years 1993-96)
5. Per 100 000. 1995 Panel Survey and Papchild survey 1997 (reflecting data from years 1993-96)
6. Per thousand.1995 Panel Survey and Papchild survey 1997 (reflecting data from years 1993-96)
7. Per thousand.1995 Panel Survey and Papchild survey 1997 (reflecting data from years 1993-96)
8. Age. Panel Survey and Papchild survey 1997 (reflecting data from years 1993-96)




                                                                  - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Improving Access                                            37.00           40.20            1.086
Safe Motherhood Program                                     25.10           22.10             0.88
Priority Health Programs                                    35.00           39.70              114
Project Management                                           0.80             0.10             9.6

Total Baseline Cost                                         97.90          102.10
 Physical Contingencies                                      9.70             0.00
 Price Contingencies                                        11.10             0.00
                        Total Project Costs                118.70          102.10
                  Total Financing Required                 118.70          102.10


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             17.80         0.00          0.00         17.80
                                  (0.00)           (7.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (7.00)
2. Goods                          71.60            11.60         7.30          0.00         90.50
                                 (49.00)           (7.00)      (4.30)          (0.00)      (60.30)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.20          0.90         1.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (0.20)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00         1.00          0.00         1.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (0.50)
5. Operating Costs                0.00              0.00         0.00          8.40         8.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          71.60            29.40         8.50          9.30        118.80
                                 (49.00)          (14.00)      (5.00)          (0.00)      (68.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Training                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00

                                                - 20 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   The Project did not disaggregate data by category of expenditure. Therefore, the total figures are as follows
   with the Bank portion indicated in parentheses:
   Works > 15.2 (10.6); Goods > 83.0 (48.5); Services and Training > 1.7 (1.4); Unallocated 1.2. Total >
   102.0 (68.0).

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Improving Access              19.80        15.76                                                         0.0      0.0
Safe Motherhood Program       15.40        10.80                                                         0.0      0.0
Priority Health Programs      22.10        15.00                                                         0.0      0.0
Project Management             0.30         0.34                                                         0.0      0.0
Contingencies                 10.64         8.90                                                         0.0      0.0
TOTAL                         68.00        50.80                    68.00         34.00                 100.0     66.9

   Ministry did not have the data broken down by components, only the total. In addition, 92% of total
   Government planned financing was committed.




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


The project targeted at-risk groups in mainly rural areas of Morocco's 14 most underserved provinces. The
private sector being quasi absent of these provinces, public intervention was and remains justified.
According to the 1998/99 LSMS Survey, 74% of the poor utilize public services when ill. From a public
health standpoint, the efficiency of prevention programs and basic health care as well as epidemiological
diseases programs and reduction of maternal and child morbidity is well demonstrated internationally,
With regards to cost-efficiency of investments, data is not available to compare on the one hand
expenditures and services by program and on the other hand the impact of the project. Nonetheless, the
construction and equipment of a center is an important loss if it cannot function due to lack of adequate
staff, as is the case in some centers.

Cost recovery of basic health services is not being considered by the Government, though a study was
planned to test the opportunity of introducing cost recovery of drugs. This study was not realized.

Project sustainability is discussed in the report.




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/1994                   4    SR. POP/HLTH SPEC. (1); SR
                                             IMPLMT. SPEC. (1); NUT.
                                             SPEC. (1); LAWYER (1)
              10/1994                   2    SR. POP/HLTH SPEC. (1); SR
                                             IMPLMT. SPEC. (1)
              02/1995                   4    SR. POP/HLTH SPEC. (2); SR.
                                             IMPLMT. SPEC. (1); STAT (1)
              10/1995                   2    1 SSPP, 1 SPM

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/1996                   3    1 SSPP, 1 AF, 1 SSP
              11/1996                   1    1 SSP

 Supervision
                                        5    SSPP (1); 1 SGF,                  S               S
              07-08/1999                      2 CONSLT
              5



              10/1997                   2    SR. POP. HLTH. SPEC. (1); SR.     S               S
                                             IMPL. SPEC (1)
              07/1998                   6    SR. POP. HLTH. SPEC. (1); SR.     S               S
                                             PORTFOLIO OFFICER (1);
                                             FIN. MGT. SPEC. (1); CONSLT
                                             (2); SPEC.
                                             PHARMACEUTICALS (1)
              02/1999                   5    HNP SPEC. (1); IMPL. SPEC         S               S
                                             (1); FIN. MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                             CONSLT. (2)
              02/2000                   5    SR. POP/HLTH SPEC. (1); SR        S               S
                                             IMPL. SPEC. (1); SPEC.
                                             PHARMACEUT. (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1); ACCT/FIN.
                                             MGT. SPEC. (1)
              02/15/2000                6    LEAD POP. HLTH SPEC. (1);         S               S
                                             EC. (1); SR IMPL. SPEC. (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1); SAFE MOTH.
                                             SPEC. (1); PHARMACEUTIC.
                                             SPEC. (1)
              02/2001                   4    LEAD POP. HLTH. SPEC. (1);        S               S
                                             SR IMPL. SPEC. (1);
                                             CONSLT./ARCHITECT (1);
                                             CONSLT. (1)
              02/19/2002                6    TTL (1); TEAM ASSISTANT           S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (4)




                                              - 23 -

 ICR
               12/2003                           2      1 HLTH. EC (1);                        S              S
                                                        CONSLT./OA (1)
               04/2004                           3       HLTH. EC (2); 1 CONSLT/OA             S              S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                          134,869
  Supervision                                                                    401,414
  ICR                                                                              65,000
  Total
Supervision cost does not include use of trust funds which amount to US$20,620; the ICR costs are planned but
also include supervision budget as well (actual spent to date is about US$30,000). The Cost Accounting System no
longer provides staff-week data.




                                                        - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.      Documents type du projet : Rapport d'évaluation; Accord de Prêt et lettres supplémentaires ;
rapports de supervision ; Rapport d'évaluation à mi-parcours

2.      Aide-mémoire de missions

3.      Rapports biannuels sur l'état d'avancement des projets, MS ; USP

4.      La Santé en Chiffres, MSP, Direction de la Planification et des Ressources financières, Service des
études et de l'information sanitaire, Années       1996, 1999, 2001

5.      Evaluation des Ressources, des besoins et monitorage des soins obstétricaux d'urgence au
        Maroc, MSP, Direction de la Population, FNUAP/Maroc et AMDD Programme Columbia
   University, NY

6.      Enquête Nationale sur la Santé de la Mère et de l'Enfant, PAPCHILD, Projet Arabe pour la
   protection de l'enfance, 1997

7.      Dix années d'épidémiologie au service de la santé, MSP, Direction de l'Epidémiologie, mai 2000

8.      Extraits (indicateurs) des rapports de fin d'exécution émanant des provinces (décembre 2003)

9       Rapports de fin d'exécution des provinces de Safi, Essaouira, Taza et Sidi Kacem (décembre 2003)

10.     Audit Technique de l'Organisation du Ministère de la Santé dans la Perspective de la Mise en Place
   des structures régionales de santé. Phases 1, 2 et 3, MS/LMS/CM International

11.     Etat d'avancement du Projet BAJ en Décembre 2003, MS, Direction de l'Epidémiologie (Maladies
   Parasitaires, Maladies Dermatologiques,         Maladies Respiratoires, Maladies oculaires et
   Ontologiques, Hygiène alimentaire, Hygiène du Milieu, Lutte contre les vecteurs

12.     Etude de suivi et d'évaluation du bilan des réalisations à mi-parcours du Programme de priorités
   sociales (BAJ1), Ministère de la Prévision               économique et du Plan, Secrétariat du Comité de
   Suivi du PPS, BADR Etudes, Janvier 2000
        a) Education de base
        b) Santé de base
        c) Promotion nationale coordination et suivi des programmes sociaux - Rapport de synthèse des 14
provinces BAJ




                                                     - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Additional Indicators



         Indicators                  Before Project                By end of Project
                             BAJ Other        National       BAJ  Other        National
                                       Urban Rural    Total            Urban Rural     Total
Population per doctor        8191 2307                       7811  2227
Population per nursing staff 3552 1721                       3574  1728
Number of doctors contact                0.3     0.3   0.3               0.4     0.3   0.4
per capita
Number of nurses contact per             1       0.9   0.9               0.6     0.6   0.6
capita
Percentage of population      47                              50
within 8 km of a health
structure
Percentage of assisted        25                              36
deliveries
Contraceptive Prevalence      19                              23        54.3     43.8  48.8
(modern methods)                                            (2003)     (1997) (1997) (1997)
Immunization rate             86                              90
Tuberculosis Incidence
Percentage of pregnant       3.2                              43
women receiving iron
supplementation
Percentage of non conform     26                              43
food analysis samples
Percentage of vector sites    43                              44
monitored




                                               - 28 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Report

The Borrower's report (hard copy) is available under the final printed version.
The annexes of the report are available in IRIS.




                                                  - 29 -

- 30 -

