CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1583 CO
Project Agreement
(500-kV Interconnection Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
Dated July 14, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1583 CO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A. (hereinafter called ISA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Colombia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that ISA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and ISA, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to ISA on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ISA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ISA shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, substantially in accordance with
an Implementation Schedule agreed between the Bank and ISA, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds made


﻿- 2 -
available to it by the Borrower and the facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. ISA shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank to assist ISA in: (i) the preparation of
the design of the Project; (ii) the supervision of the carrying
out of the Project; and (iii) the inspection and testing of
equipment included in the Project.
Section 2.03. ISA shall take all necessary measures to ensure
that the Project is carried out with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors.
Section 2.04. ISA shall take all action as shall be necessary
to acquire: (i) by December 31, 1978, all land and rights in
respect of land required for the carrying out of Part B of the
Project; and (ii) by June 30, 1979, all land and rights in respect
of land required for the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) ISA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,,and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by ISA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ISA shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) ISA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction, work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) ISA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its


﻿-3-
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) ISA shall: (i) prepare quarterly reports on the carrying
out of the Project and ISA's financial condition, including
detailed information on the status of payments to ISA from the
Borrower and a forecast of such payments for the succeeding
quarter; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such reports promptly after
their completion.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
ISA, ISA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower, the Bank and ISA of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) ISA shall afford the Bank's representatives a reasonable
opportunity to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of ISA and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.08. ISA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the agreement referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01
of the Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ISA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving such agree-
ment or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) ISA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the


﻿Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the agreement referred to in paragraph (b) of Section
3.01 of the Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b) ISA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by ISA of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the agreement referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01
of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ISA
Section 3.01. (a) ISA shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate business,
financial and public utility practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate,
experienced and competent staff.
(b) ISA shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on any proposed reorganization of ISA which may affect
adversely the operations or financial condition of ISA or the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) ISA shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary in the conduct of its business.
(b) ISA shall take all action, including the provision of
funds and resources, to ensure that its facilities, equipment and
property are adequately operated, maintained, renewed and repaired.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ISA shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking, including the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) ISA shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-5-
(b) Without limiting the generality of the preceding para-
graph, ISA shall take out by June 30, 1978 and maintain thereafter
with responsible insurers, insurance for its Chivor I power
station against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practices.
Section 3.04. ISA shall: (i) by December 31, 1978, prepare
and furnish to the Bank for its comments a program for the train-
ing of its staff responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the facilities included in the Project; (ii) review such program
to incorporate any amendments that the Bank shall reasonably
request; and (iii) carry out such program.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. ISA shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ISA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ISA and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Until the Project shall have been completed:
(a) ISA shall: (i) inform the Bank on any proposal of ISA to
make any capital expenditure (not required for the Project or for
other projects financed by the Bank) for increasing its power
generating capacity by more than two hundred megawatts; (ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such
proposal; and (iii) not commit itself to any such capital expen-
diture unless the proposed expenditure is economically justified
as part of ISA's national power expansion program and ISA has


﻿- 6 -
obtained financing under terms and conditions which will not
affect its financial condition, and the carrying out of the
Project or of any other project financed by the Bank.
(b) ISA shall obtain the concurrence of the Bank before
committing itself to any capital expenditure not included in
paragraph (a) above if the aggregate of such capital expenditure
and all such other capital expenditures made or to be made in any
one fiscal year exceed or will exceed an amount equivalent to two
and one-half per cent (2.5%) of the net current value of ISA's
fixed assets in operation, as defined in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower, the Bank and ISA
shall otherwise agree:
(a) ISA shall establish and maintain tariffs for the supply
of electricity which will generate an annual return at a rate of
at least five and one-half per cent (5.5%) in the year 1978, eight
per cent (8%) in the year 1979, nine per ctnt (9%) in the year
1980, eleven per cent (11%) in the year , L, and nine per cent
(9%) in the year 1982 and thereafter, on the average net current
value of its generation and transmission assets in operation,
calculated in accordance with the method outlined in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
(b) ISA shall establish and maintain tariffs for the supply
of electricity which will generate an annual return at a rate of
at least three per cent (3%) in the year 1982, two per cent (2%)
in the year 1983, two and one-half per cent (2.5%) in the year
1984, four per cent (4%) in the year 1985, six per cent (6%) in
the year 1986, nine per cent (9%) in the year 1987 and thereafter,
on the average net current value of its interconnection assets in
operation, calculated in accordance with the method outlined in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c) For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) above: (i) the
term "generation and transmission assets" means all power gener-
ation and transmission assets of the Borrower excluding the assets
referred to in (ii) hereof; and (ii) the term "interconnection
assets" means the 500 kilovolts transmission line between the San
Carlos hydroelectric plant and Sabanalarga, including the sub-
stations related thereto.
(d) ISA shall, within the first two months of each calendar
quarter, review the adequacy of its tariffs to produce the annual


﻿-7-
return required under paragraph (a) and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review.
(e) If any such review shall show that ISA would not earn
the annual return required under paragraph (a) in the course of
the twelve-month period commencing with such calendar quarter, ISA
shall adjust its tariffs accordingly, and the adjusted tariffs
shall be brought into effect not later than the end of the
following calendar quarter.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ISA shall not incur any long-term debt unless its net revenues for
the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
amount is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the
maximum long-term debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all long-term debt, including the long-term debt
proposed to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) above:
(i) The term "long-term debt" shall mean all debt of
ISA including debt for the service of which ISA is
responsible (excluding bonds of ISA registered in
the name of the Shareholders), maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into but only to
the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of ISA's
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of
long-term debt even though they were not in effect
during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating and
administrative expenses and provision for taxes, if
any, but before provision covering depreciation,
interest and other charges on debt.


﻿- 8 -
(iv) The term "long-term debt service requirement" shall
mean the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on long-term debt, excluding any interest
and other charges payable by ISA during construction
of any project of ISA, provided that such interest
and other charges shall be financed with the
proceeds of any loan made to ISA for such project.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
Section 4.06. ISA shall obtain reimbursement from the perti-
nent Shareholder of all interest and other charges payable by the
Borrower on borrowings made by it to cover cash shortfalls caused
by the non-payment by such Shareholder of any of its outstanding
debts to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of ISA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisiols
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-9-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ISA:
Interconexi6n El'ctrica S.A.
Calle 50 NO 50-21 (Piso 13)
Medellin,
Colombia
Cable address:                     Telex:
ISA                                06559
Medellin
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ISA, may be taken or executed by its
Gerente or such other person or persons as ISA shall designate in
writing, and ISA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
By /s/ GermAn Jaramillo
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   In addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the
Guidelines, ISA shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as
possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or prequal-
ification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportu-
nity to bid for the goods and works in question. ISA shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to ISA of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,


﻿- 12 -
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Bank and ISA that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Colombia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. ISA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be


﻿- 13 -
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion shall be furnished by ISA to the Bank for its comments before
the applicants are notified of ISA's decision, and ISA shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods or civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ISA shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ISA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform ISA and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 14 -
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
ISA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform ISA and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Method for Calculating Rate of Return
1.   The annual return specified in Section 4.04 of the Project
Agreement will be calculated, in each calendar quarter in respect
of the twelve-month period beginning with such quarter and the
twelve-month period immediately preceding, by using as the denom-
inator the average between the net current values of the respec-
tive fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of
each such period and as numerator the operating income of ISA for
the same period.
2.   Any shortfall or overrun in the required annual return for
the twelve-month period immediately preceding the quarter in which
the calculation is to be made will be carried forward and sub-
tracted or added, as the case may be, to the numerator used for
the forthcoming twelve-month period.
3.   "Operating income" will be the difference between all reve-
nues from the sale of electricity and transmission charges and all
administrative and operating costs relating thereto, including
maintenance and adequate provision for straight-line depreciation
on the average gross value of revalued fixed assets in operation.
4.   The net current value of fixed assets in operation will be at
any given date their gross value less accumulated depreciation to
such date, as revalued and depreciated in accordance with para-
graphs 5 and 6 below.
5.   Until another method, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
maintenance of value of assets of public utilities shall have been
made applicable to ISA, the gross value of ISA's fixed assets
in operation and works in progress will be revalued quarterly in
accordance with the corresponding variations in the Indice
nacional de precios al consumidor - Obreros - published by the
Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica of the
Borrower, or a similar index approved by the Bank, to the last
month preceding the quarter in which the calculation is to be
made. For the purposes of this calculation, as of December 31,
1976: (a) the aggregate gross value of ISA's fixed assets in
operation will be fixed in one thousand eight hundred thirty-three
million pesos (Col.$1,833,000,000); (b) the aggregate gross value
of ISA's fixed assets in construction will be fixed in ten thou-
sand four hundred sixty-four million pesos (Col.$10,464,000,000);


﻿- 16 -
and (c) the accumulated depreciation on the assets in (a)
hereof will be fixed in two hundred eleven million pesos
(Col.$211,000,000).
6.   ISA will furnish to the Bank during the first quarter of each
fiscal year a report on the revaluation of assets through the end
of the preceding fiscal year. The report for the fiscal year 1977
will be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1978.
7.   Depreciation will be charged on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful life of ISA's fixed assets.


