Report No. 1725a-IN
India
Second National Seed Project                                                             FILE COPY
May 17, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture D Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               =  Rs 8.75
Rs 1               =  US$0.11
Rs 1 million (M)  =  US$114,286
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units are used.
1 kilogram (kg)            =   2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)         =   1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
1 quintal                  =   100 kg
1 meter (m)                    1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)               0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)         2       2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km ) =   0.386 square mile
INDIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations
ARDC     -     Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CSCB     -     Central Seed Certification Board
DOA      -      (State) Department of Agriculture
GOB      -     Government of Bihar
GOI      -     Government of India
GOK      -     Government of Karnataka
GOO      -     Government of Orissa
GOR      -     Government of Rajasthan
GOS      -     State Government
GOUP     -     Government of Uttar Pradesh
HYV      -     High Yielding Varieties
IARS     -     Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics
ICAR     -     Indian Council of Agricultural Research
JWP      -     Joint Working Party
NCAER    -     National Council of Applied Economic Research
NSC      -     National Seeds Corporation
NSP      -     National Seeds Program
PMMC     -     Project Management and Monitoring Committee
Phase I  -      (First) National Seed Project
SAU      -     State Agricultural University
SFCI     -     State Farms Corporation of India
SSC      -     State Seed Corporation
SSCA     -     State Seed Certification Agency
TDC      -     Tarai Development Corporation
Glossary
Breeder seed    - seed of high genetic purity, produced by the plant
breeder.
Foundation seed - progeny of breeder seed (or of first generation
foundation seed), produced to statutory quality
control standards.
Certified seed  - progeny of foundation seed, produced to statutory
quality control standards.
Kharif season   - monsoon season (May - October).
Rabi season     - dry season (November - April).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY   AND   CONCLUSIONS    ................................-
I.        INTRODUCTION    ...........................................1
II.          BACKGROUND                       .......................                         ......................
A.      General    ............................................                                                                      1
B.      Seed   Industry    ......................................                                                                    2
[II.           NATIONAL   SEED   PROGRAM    ..................................                                                                      3
IV.    NATIONAL  SEED  PROJECT  (Phase  I)  ........................                                                                              3
V.        THE   PROJECT    ............................................                                                                         4
A.      General    ............................................                                                                      4
B.      Detailed   Features    ..................................                                                                    5
C.      Cost   Estimates    .....................................                                                                    9
D.    Project   Financing    ..................................                                                                    11
E.      Procurement    ........................................                                                                    12
F.      Disbursements    ......................................                                                                    13
VI.   ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  ............                                                  ..           ...............                 14
A.      General    ............................................                                                                    14
B.      Detailed   Arrangements    ..............................                                                                 15
VII.           MARKETING    ..............................................                                                                        17
VIII.            FINANCIAL   PROJECTIONS    ..................................                                                                      20
IX.          BENEFITS  AND  ECONOMIC  JUSTIFICATION  ....................                                                                      21
X.        RECOMMENDATIONS    ........................................                                                                        23



-2-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture and Seed Industry
2.   Project Scope and Size
3.   Plant Breeding; Breeder, Foundation and Certified Seed
Production; Seed Technology Research
4.   Farm Development
5.   Seed Processing and Storage
6.   Quality Control
7.   Training and Technical Assistance
8.   Project Costs
9.   Project Financing and Disbursement
10.   Project Organization and Management
11.   Implementation Schedules
12.   Credit Services
13.   Demand, Marketing and Pricing
14.   Financial Analysis
15.   Economic Analysis
Map (IBRD 13038)



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Agriculture in India currently accounts for about 43% of the GNP
and some 70% of the country's employment. A major objective of the Govern-
ment's development activities is to increase the growth rate in food pro-
duction. During the last decade, increases in yields have contributed
more to growth than increases in cropped area. Spread of new crop varieties
is recognized as the key to greater productivity, and quality seed is acknow-
ledged as an input essential to the continued development of Indian agricul-
ture.
ii.       This project would be the third Bank Group assisted project in
India's seed industry development. The first one, Tarai Seed Project, com-
menced in 1969 and has been operating successfully. The second was the
National Seed Project (Phase I), the first installment of seed industry
development under India's National Seed Program (NSP), which became effective
in October 1976. Phase I covers four seed producing states -- Andhra Pradesh,
Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab. The proposed Second National Seed Project,
as with Phase I, would be concerned mainly with major cereal crops. It would
cover five additional states -- Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa, Rajasthan and Uttar
Pradesh. Seed output would be increased by about 125,000 tons under the
proposed project.
iii.      State Seed Corporations (SSC) have been established in four of the
five states. In Uttar Pradesh, the Tarai Development Corporation (TDC) is
being converted to the SSC of that state. The SSC would be responsible for
certified seed production, processing and marketing. Certified seed would
be grown mainly by progressive farmers who would also be SSC's shareholders.
Agricultural Universities would have prime responsibility for producing
breeder seed and foundation seed. The close association of the scientists
in these Universities is expected to help achieve quality improvement of the
early and critical generations in the seed multiplication chain. Quality
control services would be provided through State Seed Certification Agencies
(SSCA) and seed testing laboratories.
iv.       The National Seeds Corporation (NSC) would, in accordance with NSP
policy, gradually divest itself of seed production (except vegetable seed)
and seed certification functions and concentrate on general promotion and
coordination of the seed industry. NSC's other main responsibilities would
be interstate marketing, coordination of foundation seed production, operation
of the seed reserve stock scheme, and provision of technical advisory services
to SSC. The coordination of the seed industry would be facilitated through
cross representation on NSC and SSC boards of directors.
v.        Technical assistance would be provided for seed technology research,
quality control and marketing. Twenty-two man-months out of a total of twenty-
eight man-months services would be provided by Indian consultants, leaving six
man-months to be engaged from outside the country.



- ii -
vi.       Project costs spread over five years are estimated at US$34.9 mil-
lion with a foreign exchange component of about US$6 million. Project invest-
ments comprise processing plants; large farm development; facilities at Agri-
cultural Universities for seed technology research, breeder and foundation
seed production and processing; quality control facilities for SSCA and seed
testing laboratories; incremental reserve stocks; incremental permanent work-
ing capital; and training and technical assistance.
vii.      The proposed IDA Credit of US$16 million would cover about 50% of
the project costs net of import duties and taxes. The Credit would finance
foreign exchange costs of about US$6 million and about US$10 million of local
costs. IDA funds for research and breeder seed production at Agricultural
Universities; quality control; and training and technical assistance (US$1.5
million) would be channelled through Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR), state governments and NSC respectively. All other IDA funds (US$14.5
million) would be channelled by GOI through Agricultural Refinance and Devel-
opment Corporation (ARDC) and commercial banks for onlending to SSC and State
Farms Corporation of India and Agricultural Universities. The balance of
project costs would be met by GOI (US$5.4 million), state governments (US$2.7
million), ARDC and commercial banks (US$8.4 million), and seed growers (US$2.4
million).
viii.     Major items of processing machinery, laboratory equipment, farm
machinery and office equiment (US$12.1 million) would be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts
for minor items of machinery and equipment, not exceeding US$50,000 each,
would be procured by competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Urgent purchases of
minor equipment up to a total value of US$1.0 million would be made by prudent
shopping. Contracts for civil works (US$10.3 million) would be let after com-
petitive bidding advertised locally; because of their small and varied sizes
and scattered locations bulking would not be practical. On-farm development
(US$1.3 million) by State Farms Corporation of India and Agricultural Univer-
sities would be carried out on force account or on contract to be let after
competitive bidding advertised locally. The small size of individual contracts
would not warrant international bidding. Vehicles (US$1.2 million) would also
be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally since only
a few would be purchased spread over the project period. Motorcycles (US$0.4
million) which would be owned by the staff would be purchased by them accord-
ing to their preference direct from dealers. Technical assistance services
(US$0.5 million) would be engaged on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
The balance of project costs (US$8.2 million) would cover reserve stocks,
permanent working capital and operating costs not involving procurement.
Equipment procurement up to a total of US$200,000 is proposed for retroactive
financing in order to help speed project implementation.
ix.       The major benefit from the project would be the increased crop
yields obtained by the farmers who use the improved quality project seed.
Annual incremental production at full development would be 245,000 tons of



- Lll -
wheat, 324,000 tons of paddy, 85,000 tons of maize, 85,000 tons of bajra,
60,000 tons of jowar, 40,000 tons of potato and 105,000 tons of other crops.
Total value of incremental crop production would be about US$158 million per
year. It is estimated that 1.35 million farm families would derive direct
benefit from the project. In addition, 13,500 man-years of seasonal employ-
ment would be created for harvesting the incremental crops produced. The
economic rate of return from the project is estimated at over 100%.
x.        The project is considered suitable for an IDA Credit of US$16 mil-
lion to the Government of India.






INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested an IDA Credit for the
Second National Seed Project estimated to cost a total of US$34.9 million (M).
This would be the third World Bank Group assisted project to support devel-
opment of India's seed industry. The first, Tarai Seeds Project (614-IN),
which commenced in 1969, has been implemented satisfactorily by the Tarai
Development Corporation (TDC) which was established specially for that proj-
ect. The second was the National Seed Project (Phase I) (Loan 1273-IN) which
commenced in 1976. Phase I was the first installment of investments under the
National Seed Program (NSP). 1/ Phase I and the project now proposed are
based on experience gained from the Tarai Seeds Project and TDC's successful
operations.
1.02      This project was prepared, as was the Phase I, by a GOI Joint Work-
ing Party (JWP) comprising mostly National Seeds Corporation (NSC) personnel,
assisted by Bank staff stationed at New Delhi (NDO) and Washington. This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. S.
Thillairajah, W. Schwermer (Bank), B.C. Bilbo, J.C. Delouche and J.R. Huey
(Consultants) which visited India in April/May 1977. The mission was assisted
part-time by Messrs. B. Nekby and R.D.H. Rowe (NDO) and by senior executives
of NSC, State Farms Corporation of India (SFCI) and Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      India's population exceeds 600 million and is growing at an annual
rate of 2.3%. National income grew in real terms at about 3.7% per annum
between 1950/51 and 1975/76 and per capita GNP reached US$150 in 1975/76.
Per capita consumption of cereal grains averaged 133 kg during the 1950's,
increased to 144 kg during the 1960's and is expected to exceed 150 kg by
1980/81. Agriculture is the mainstay of India's economy, accounting for
about 43% of its GNP, and some 70% of the employed population. The growth
rate in agriculture over the last ten years has been about 3%. Foodgrain
production dominates the agricultural sector and is the focal point of
India's agricultural development policy. About 75% of total cropped area
is devoted to foodgrains. Compared with previous decades increases in yield
have contributed more to growth than increases in cropped area. The higher
yields have resulted from the use of high-yielding varieties (HYV) together
1/   NSP is a program formulated by GOI in 1974 designed to give high priority
to seed industry development (para 3.01).



-2-
with the more systematic use of the complimentary inputs, in particular
fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation.
B. Seed Industry
2.02      India's seed industry was little developed until the early sixties
when, as a consequence of plant breeding breakthroughs, HYV emerged that were
significantly superior to the traditional varieties. As use of HYV caught
on the demand for seed increased rapidly and a seed industry began to develop
to meet this demand. In 1961 the first maize hybrids adapted to Indian con-
ditions were released for general cultivation. This was followed by hybrids
of sorghum (jowar) and pearl millet (bajra), then by high yielding dwarf rice
varieties and finally by high yielding dwarf wheats. In response to demand
there was a rapid growth of private sector seed companies. In 1963 the GOI
owned and operated National Seeds Corporation (NSC) was established to promote
seed industry development from production through processing, storage and
marketing, and to establish a system of quality control. A Seeds Act was
promulgated in 1966.
2.03      Between 1963/64 and 1968/69 NSC was concerned mainly with founda-
tion seed production. During this period there was a rapid expansion in
seed production -- the certified seed area increased from 360 ha to 35,000 ha.
This surge was mainly in the private sector, with the Bank supported TDC a
late comer in the field (1.01). However, seed demand grew more slowly than
expected. In self-pollinated crops (wheat and paddy), farmer retention and
farmer-to-farmer transfer accounted for much of the seed used. Further, some
of HYV seed were inferior in grain quality to traditional types and thus lost
favor. Substantial overproduction occurred and large stocks accumulated with
state governments resulting in heavy losses and large scale curtailments of
seed business. During this period several private companies withdrew from
seed production and went into liquidation. Although demand began to pick up
in 1971/72, the industry lacked the resources and confidence to meet the
revived demand. NSC stepped in and developed a vigorous seed production
program. By 1974/75 NSC had become the largest producer accounting for
73,000 tons of seed, representing about 50% of national output.
2.04      GOI commissioned a Seed Review Team in 1969 1/ which studied in
depth the seed situation in the country. A further review of the seed
industry was carried out by the National Commission on Agriculture in 1971 2/.
Based on their findings, and the encouraging experience with the Tarai Seeds
Project (1.01), GOI decided to reorganize and expand the seed industry. A
working group, based on NSC personnel, was thus established in 1975 to
prepare proposals for a National Seed Program.
1/   Government of India "Seed Review Team Report", 1968.
2/   National Commission on Agriculture "Interim Report on Multiplication and
Distribution of Quality Seed Pertaining to High Yielding Varieties and
Hybrids of Cereals", New Delhi, November 1971.



III. NATIONAL SEED PROGRAM (NSP)
3.01      The National Seed Program constitutes the systematic development of
a decentralized but coordinated network of seed production agencies throughout
the country. Under NSP seed production, processing, storage and marketing
activities would be decentralized through establishment of State Seed Corpor-
ations (SSC), organized along the lines of TDC. In accordance with the TDC
model seed growers would be shareholders of SSC and shares would be held by
Agricultural Universities which would be responsible for breeder and founda-
tion seed production. SSC would take over the production which NSC had
performed previously in the absence of other institutions. NSC would grad-
ually phase out of its past role as the major seed producer and processor
for food grains and other major crops. However, NSC would expand its role
as a major producer of vegetable seed. Seed for each crop would be produced
by more than one SSC to ensure competition and safeguard production. Seed
production and processing would be organized in compact areas to ensure least
cost output of high quality seed. Certified seed growers would all be private
farmers, except where SFCI or state government farms in project areas are also
used. The concept of shareholder growers would contrast with NSC's pattern
of certified seed production in scattered locations organized through contract
growers. The new approach would facilitate quality control and supervision.
Quality is expected to improve from the vested interest the shareholder
growers would have in the success of their own SSC. NSP would also support
seed industry expansion in the private sector. The private sector would be
represented on all major institutions involved in NSP and would receive equal
treatment with the public sector in matters like supply of foundation seed,
quality control services and seed movement. The institutions participating
in NSP and their respective responsibilities are detailed in Annex 1, para 16.
IV. NATIONAL SEED PROJECT (Phase I)
4.01      The first phase of development of NSP constituted the National Seed
Project (Phase I). This was approved by the Bank Board in June 1976, and the
Loan (US$25 M) became effective in October of that year. Phase I, which is
comprised of physical and organizational elements similar to those described
in this report for the Second National Seed Project covered four states -
Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab - although investment proposals
were submitted to the Bank by eight states. When the Loan was negotiated it
was agreed with GOI that the Bank would consider a second project comprising
the remaining four states and such other states that could and wished to play
a role in NSP. At appraisal it was estimated that Phase I would increase
certified seed production by 73,000 tons of major cereals (34,500 tons of
wheat, 9,600 tons of paddy, and 29,000 tons of maize, jowar and bajra) and
14,000 tons of cotton.
4.02      Under the Phase I project institutional developments and managerial
arrangements, particularly at state level, have proceeded reasonably satis-
factorily. Project implementation, however, has lagged behind schedule mostly



- 4 -
because of coordination problems at the Center. These were a result of delays
in appointing a suitable replacement for the Chairman of NSC whose ser:ices
with the Corporation terminated in December 1976; objections of some NSC staff
t- . the propzsed dir-nished 7rodu-tic- -ole of the Corporation in favor of SSC;
and reluctance of ICAR to play its role in coordinating foundation seed pro-
duction and processing investments. Progress under Phase I, although still
behind schedule, began to pick up again in September 1977 following a strong
endorsement of the project concept by the new Government. A new Chairman of
NSC has been appointed and is anticipated to assume full-time executive func-
tions by July 1, 1978 - assumption of full-time responsibilities has been made
a condition of Credit Effectiveness; consultants for the designing of seed
processing plants are being engaged; consultants for other technical assist-
ance services have been identified - an assurance was obtained that employment
of consultants would be completed by December 31, 1978; ICAR's role in the
program has been redefined; and other bottlenecks have been eased. The way
now appears clear for NSP to proceed as originally planned.
V. THE PROJECT
A. General
5.01      The project would be the second phase of India's seed industry
development program, and would cover five additional seed producing states:
Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Project components
would be very similar to those provided under the first phase supported by
the Bank (Loan 1273-IN), except for components in Phase I designed to meet
foreseeable nationwide needs in areas such as vegetable seed production.
The project would increase the production, processing and marketing of
certified seed of wheat, paddy (rice), maize (corn), jowar (sorghum), bajra
(pearl millet), pulses, potato and groundnut as well as, on a lesser scale,
oilseeds, cotton and jute.  It would involve:
(i)  establishment of SSC in each of the five states and equipping
them for production, processing, storage and marketing of
certified seed;
(ii)  development of State Agricultural University (SAU) farms for
foundation seed production;
(iii) development of 4,000 ha of SFCI farms for certified seed
production;
(iv) assistance to SAU and research stations for laboratory,
farm and processing equipment necessary for breeder and
foundation seed production and processing;
(v) expansion of SSCA;
(vi) provision of incremental permanent working capital required
by SAU and SSC; and



(vii)  technical assistdnce and training necessary to support
seed technology research, processing, quality control
and marketing.
5.02      The five states involved in this project possess a comparative
advantage for seed production. The project areas chosen in the states
(Map 13038) have soils and climate suitable for the assigned crops, adequate
irrigation facilities, higher than average crop yields and large numbers of
progressive farmers capable of undertaking certified seed production. Three
other states, with relative production advantage for major crop seed are
Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. They could be brought under NSP
in a possible third phase project.
5.03      Annual incremental seed production at the end of the five year
project period would be about 125,000 tons - wheat 45,500 tons, paddy
20,900 tons, maize 5,600 tons, jowar 3,900 tons, bajra 2,800 tons, ground-
nut 4,600 tons, potato 30,900 tons and other crops, including pulses,
oilseeds, jute, cotton, about 10,800 tons. The proposed size and scope
of this project are determined on the basis of anticipated national seed
demand, and production capability of the participating states. A national
seed demand/production matrix was prepared by JWP for Phase I. It was
updated in April 1977 for the appraisal of this project (7.01).
B. Detailed Features
Breeder Seed Production
5.04      Provision was made in Phase I to support breeder seed production at
twelve institutions (six Agricultural Universities and six ICAR Institutes).
This project would support six more Universities located in the five partici-
pating states. ICAR would coordinate breeder seed production and assist these
institutions in preparing their investment plans. A senior official from ICAR
has already been designated full-time to be responsible for this task in the
case of Phase I institutions. An assurance was obtained from GOI that this
coordinator would also cover the additional institutions included in this
project.
5.05      Breeder seed is the most critical generation in the seed production
chain. In order to prevent problems caused by supply/demand imbalance, facil-
ities would be necessary to carry reserve stocks. Accordingly, provision has
been made for controlled environment storage adequate to carry a 50% stock
over each season (Annex 3).
Foundation Seed Production
5.06      Major responsibility for foundation seed production would rest
with State Agricultural Universities (SAU). NSC would estimate the demand
and coordinate production and distribution of foundation seed of national
varieties. Foundation seed of local varieties would be handled directly



- 6 -
between SAU and SSC concerned. All foundation seed would be subject to cer-
tification by SSCA, and grow out tests would be carried out on each lot. To
ensure adequate supplies, foundation seed would be included in the reserve
stock scheme initiated in Phase I (5.14). All SAU participating in this pro-
ject possess farm land which could be brought under foundation seed production.
The SAU in Rajasthan, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh would, however, require addi-
tional lands to fulfill the production assigned to them. Transfer of adequate
lands suitable for foundation seed production would be a condition of disburse-
ment against investments by SAU, and assurances were obtained that such lands
would be transferred to SAU not later than June 30, 1979. SAU farms require
development. Main investments would be for land levelling, improvements in
irrigation, farm machinery and buildings. Assurances were obtained that cri-
teria to be agreed would be employed in farm development. Processing equipment
and storage facilities for foundation seed are also included in project costs
(see Annex 3 for details).
Certified Seed Production
5.07      The SSC in each participating state would organize certified seed
production through shareholder growers (3.01). The growers would be mostly
private farmers with relatively small holdings. The farm size would gener-
ally range from 1 to 10 ha. Although a large number of seed growers would be
involved in each state, the compact area approach to be followed would, to a
great extent, help to reduce inherent disadvantages of many small producers
(Annex 2, para 6).
5.08      Concentration of well developed farms and progressive farmers were
two important factors considered in project area selection. There would
therefore be no need for large scale on-farm development by seed growers.
Many growers would, however, have to undertake minor development of their
farms - fine levelling, deepening wells, improving irrigation facilities and
replacing tractors and water pumps. Farm development needs by seed growers
are not included in project costs since such investments are already covered
for financing under the ARDC II Credit (715-IN) and other projects (Annex 12).
5.09      Some GOS farms in the project areas and SFCI's Suratgarh farm in
Rajasthan would also produce certified seed for SSC. About 4,000 ha of the
Suratgarh farm would be developed for certified seed production. Farm devel-
opment proposed includes land levelling, improving main irrigation canal,
lining of field channels, and purchase of tractors and farm equipment
(Annex 4). An assurance was obtained that criteria to be agreed would be
employed in the development of the SFCI farm. Assurances were also obtained
that seed production of crops handled by SSC would be confined on GOS and
SFCI farms to project areas under contract with SSC or NSC.
Seed Processing
5.10      SSC would be responsible for certified seed processing and would
construct new processing plants in each of the project zones described in
Annex 2, para 7, except in Uttar Pradesh where there would be three zones but
only two new plants - one in Faizabad and the other in Kanpur. NSC would hand



-7-
over to SSC all processing activities in the project states 1/ and SSC would
take over from NSC (as part of NSC's share capital contribution to SSC) all
processing plants and equipmcnt that it could employ in its own operations.
Finalizing arrangements between NSC and SSC satisfactory to IDA for the trans-
fer would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. SSC would also construct
grading yards and cold storage facilities for seed potato. Drying yards would
be provided for groundnut sced. All processing facilities would be designed
and constructed to permit future expansion with minimal disruption, and sites
would be adequate to allow this (Annex 5). Incremental seed processed annually
at full development would amount to about 79,000 tons cereals, 2/ 31,000 tons
potato, 5,000 tons groundnut and small quantities of pulses, oilseeds, cotton
and jute. The throughput planned at each processing complex is discussed in
Annex 5.
5.11      As provided in Phase I, SSC would contract with NSC for plant design,
preparation of tender documents, and procurement and installation of equipment.
This arrangement would be embodied in the NSC/SSC agreements (6.02). Prepara-
tion of specifications and tenders, and construction supervision of civil works
would be handled by SSC or, if SSC so desired, by NSC. Technical assistance
was provided in Phase I to assist NSC engineers in the designing of new pro-
cessing plants. Additional provision is not considered necessary in this pro-
ject. IDA approval of processing plant design would be a condition of dis-
bursement against processing plant investments.
5.12      New processing plants would come on stream for the Kharif 1979
crops. Till then, inadequate processing facilities would constrain seed
output. Arrangements would therefore be made, where feasible, to temporarily
increase existing plant capacities by installing equipment to be purchased
under the proposed Credit for new seed processing plants. This equipment
would subsequently be transferred to new plants (see Annex 5). As this
equipment should be procured urgently, retroactive financing is proposed to
cover its cost.
Seed Storage
5.13      Each processing complex would have provision for adequate storage
for seed stocks including requirements for reserve stocks. Under Phase I
additional storage totalling 45,500 tons was provided as transit stores and
bulk distribution depots. No additional bulk or transit storage provision
is considered necessary under this project.
Reserve Stock Operation
5.14      A reserve stock scheme was initiated under Phase I designed to buffer
seed users and the new SSC against marked fluctuations in supply/demand caused
1/   Except vegetables as NSC continues production and processing of vegetable
seed.
2/   Excluding 30,000 tons already processed in Uttar Pradesh by the Tarai
Development Corporation.



-8-
by natural hazards - weather and disease epidemics. The scheme is to be oper-
ated by NSC. Operating costs are to be met by NSC for recovery through sales
margins.   Provision has been made in this project for incremental reserve
stocks investments required until 1982/83 above the amounts estimated in Phase
I. Details are in Annex 13.
Quality Control
5.15      Impeccable control of quality at every stage of seed production is
critical to project success and hence the systematic development of the coun-
try's seed industry. The 1966 Seeds Act and the Seed Rules of 1968, if imple-
mented effectively, are adequate to ensure that high standards are maintained
in certified seed production. NSC which once served as the sole seed certi-
fication agency for the whole country has been gradually transferring the
certification function to independent State Seed Certification Agencies (SSCA).
All states participating in this project have already registered their SSCA. 1/
SSC would make their own internal arrangements to monitor seed quality at
various stages of production, processing and storage by setting up separate
quality control units. Investments required to develop the SSCA in the parti-
cipating states, including their operating deficits 2/ during the project
period, are provided in the project costs. Details are given in Annex 6.
5.16      GOI has established a Central Seed Certification Board (CSCB) with
composition and powers satisfactory to IDA to coordinate seed certification
at the national level and to ensure uniformity of standards and operation.
A seed testing service would be operated in each state established under the
DOA to ensure compliance by project participants with the regulatory aspects
of the Seeds Act. There would be one well staffed and well equipped seed
testing laboratory in each of the participating states. Provision has been
made in the project to establish these or improve existing functions. GOI
operates a Central Seed Testing Laboratory which would act as referee in case
of disputes. It would also continue to develop and standardize seed testing
procedures and monitor performance of the state testing laboratories. Pro-
gress in implementing the regulatory aspects of the Seeds Act has been poor.
An assurance was obtained under Phase I that the states would intensify seed
inspection of the dealerships handling certified or truthfully labelled 3/
seed. Similar assurances were obtained from the five states that would par-
ticipate in this project. The five project states are presently represented
in the CSCB as special invitees. GOI has agreed to assist in arranging formal
representation in the Board.
Seed Technology Research
5.17      Applied research in seed technology is essential to the systematic
development and increased efficiency of the seed industry. Provision was
1/   These have been registered in accordance with memoranda of association
satisfactory to IDA.
2/   SSCA are expected to be self supporting by the third project year.
3/   As defined in the Seeds Act.



- 9 -
made in Phase I to support the development of interdisciplinary programs at
five SAU in the states included in that project. Additional provision has now
been made to support such programs at Kanpur and Faizabad SAU in Uttar Pradesh
and at the Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa and Rajasthan SAU. Project costs include
capital costs of the seed technology departments as well as operating costs of
these through the project period. Seed technology programs thereafter could be
financed out of research fund contributions from SSC. Details are in Annex 3.
Training
5.18      Training would be required to provide the skilled staff necessary
for expansion of seed production, processing, marketing and quality control.
Much of this would be on-the-job training. For providing off-the-job train-
ing for SSC and SSCA staff, NSC and TDC would naturally be first choice. How-
ever, some formal training in the area of marketing may have to be given out-
side the industry in Indian organizations handling other agricultural inputs
and in overseas seed companies. Provision for such marketing training has
been made in the project. Short overseas study tours for key staff of SSCA
and Seed Testing Laboratories have also been provided. In addition, funds
would be available for one candidate from each of the participating SAU for
an overseas graduate study program in seed technology research. Overseas
training would be organized by NSC, SSC and SAU. Details are in Annex 7.
Assurance was obtained from GOI that arrangements for overseas training of
staff would be on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Technical Assistance
5.19      Adequate provision was made in Phase I for short-term technical
assistance to NSC engineers for processing plant design (5.11). Assistance
is not proposed now for seed processing. Provision is, however, required to
help the five new SSCA to develop administrative procedures necessary for the
seed certification role taken over from NSC and to be able to cope with the
greatly expanded certification activity, and for designing seed technology
research programs for the additional SAU participating in this project. Seed
marketing aspects - demand surveys, market research, sales promotion, distri-
bution logistics and retail marketing - have not been given adequate emphasis
in the implementation of NSP. Additional funds have, therefore, been included
now to supplement the Phase I provision. Details are in Annex 7. An assur-
ance was obtained from GOI that these technical assistance services would be
engaged on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Out of a total of 28 man-
months consultant services 22 man-months would be provided by Indian consult-
ants. Total costs are estimated at US$0.1 M. NSC in consultation with the
project institutions involved would be responsible for engaging the consultants.
C. Cost Estimates
5.20      Total project costs, including taxes and duties, over the five year
development period, would be Rs 305 M (US$34.9 M equivalent) of which about
US$6 M is estimated to be foreign exchange. Details of project costs, sum-
marized below, are in Annex 8.



- 10 -
Thousand Rupees          Thousand US Dollars
Category                         Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
SSC Processing Plants
Civil Works               51,709   5,752   57,461    5,910        657   6,567
Machinery & Equipment    23,286  15,017   38,303    2,661   1,716   4,377
Subtotal             74,995  20,769   95,764    8,571   2,373  10,944
SSC Headquarters                 7,667     838    8,505        876      97      973
Incremental Permanent
Working Captial /a            55,732     -      55,732    6,369       -    6,369
Large Farm Development          23,814  10,601   34,415    2,722   1,212   3,934
Agricultural Universities
Civil Works               12,266   1,074   13,340    1,402        123   1,525
Machinery & Equipment      9,259   6,156   15,415    1,058        703   1,761
Research Operations        2,492      -       2,492      284       -       284
Subtotal             24,017   7,230   31,247    2,744        826   3,570
Quality Control
Civil Works                   543     -         543       62       -        62
Equipment                  4,911   2,557    7,468        561      293      854
SCA Operating Deficits        740     -         740       85       -        85
Subtotal              6,194   2,557    8,751        708      293   1,001
Training and Technical
Assistance                       674   2,796    3,470         77     319      396
Incremental Reserve Stocks       1,165     -       1,165       133      -       133
Total Before Contingencies   194,258  44,791  239,049   22,200   5,120  27,320
Contingencies
-  Physical                   10,747   2,752   13,499    1,228       315   1,543
-  Price                     47,395   5,057   52,452    5,417        580   5,997
Subtotal             58,142   7,809   65,951    6,645       895   7,540
Total Project Costs            252,400  52,600  305,000   28,845   6,015  34,860
(Including Duties and Taxes)
/a   Incremental permanent working capital requirements of SSC and SAU beyond
present public sector permanent working capital needs for seed production
processing and distribution.
5.21      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal updated to July
1977. Physical contingencies have been added at 10% on building construction
and large farm development and at 5% on all other investment costs excluding



- 11 -
incremental permanent working capital, training and technical assistance
and reserve stocks. Price contingencies totalling 22% of base costs also are
included, representing expected price increases compounded annually on all
cost components. These are based on Bank guidelines for estimating inflation
rates in India and elsewhere (Annex 8, Table 2).
D. Project Financing
5.22      The project financing plan would be:
-------------- Thousand US Dollars --------------
IDA
State  ARDC/   Seed              % of
Total   GOI   Govts. Banks  Growers  Amount  Total
State Seed Corporations       15,600  1,400  1,640  1,400   1,640   9,520          61
Incremental Working Capital  8,000    800    790  5,620          790      -       -
Large Farm Development         4,910  1,370    -         740     -      2,800      57
Agricultural Universities    4,500  1,430    -          520      -      2,550      56
Quality Control                1,200    320    230       -       -        650      55
Training and Technical
Assistance                     480      -      -       -       -      /480    100
Incremental Reserve Stocks       170      50    -       120      -         -
Total                         34,860  5,370  2,660  8,400   2,430  16,000         46
Percent of Total                  100     15       8     24        7       46
5.23      The proposed IDA Credit of US$16 M would meet ahout 50% of the pro-
ject costs net of duties and taxes. The Credit would cover all foreign ex-
change costs estimated at US$6 M and about 34% of local costs. IDA funds for
research and breeder seed production by SAU; quality control; training and
technical assistance (US$1.5 M) would be channelled through ICAR, GOS, NSC and
CSCB respectively. The balance of IDA Credit (US$14.5 M) would be channelled
by GOI through ARDC and participating commercial banks to the respective
institutional borrowers. Details of the proposed financing plan are given
in Annex 9, Table 1. In order to speed project implementation, retroactive
financing up to US$200,O0() is proposed for equipment appropriately procured
after December 1, 1977.
5.24      GOI's contribution of Rs 70 M (US$5.4 M) would finance about 15%
of project costs. It would cover GOI's contributions to (i) SSC's share



- 12 -
capital 1/, (ii) SFCI's share capital to enable it to increase its capacity
to borrow from commercial banks, (iii) ICAR for seed technology research and
breeder seed units, (iv) SAU for farm development and foundation seed units,
(v) seed testing laboratories for quality control investments, (vi) SSCA for
certification agency investment and initial operating deficits, and (vii) NSC
for maintenance of reserve stocks. GOS contributions (US$2.7 M) would finance
about 8% of project costs and cover GOS proportion of SSC's share capital and
quality control investments at Seed Testing Laboratories and SSCA. Contribu-
tions from seed growers (US$2.4 M) would finance 7% of project costs put in as
their equity into processing plants and incremental working capital. ARDC and
commercial banks would finance the remaining 24% of project costs (US$8.4 M)
given as loans to participating institutions. The commercial banks would as
part of their normal operations also finance the project participants' seasonal
working capital needs, which are not included in project costs.
E. Procurement
5.25      Major items of seed processing machinery, laboratory equipment,
farm machinery and office equipment (US$12.1 M) would be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. /
Local manufacturers would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of
15% or prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. It would not be practical
to bulk all machinery and equipment because of the many and varied individual
items and the widely dispersed institutions involved. Contracts for minor
items of equipment, not exceeding US$50,000 each would therefore be procured
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Procurement under local com-
petitive bidding procedures has been estimated to not exceed a total of US$1.5
M. Urgent purchase of minor equipment and supplies up to US$10,000 each and
up to a total of US$1 M would be procured by prudent shopping. Even under
local competitive bidding and prudent shopping procedure, competition is
assured by adequate representation of local suppliers and local agents of
foreign suppliers.
5.26      Bulking would not be practical for civil works and building con-
struction (US$10.3 M) because of their small and varied sizes, and scattered
locations. Contracts for these would therefore be let after competitive
bidding advertised locally. On-farm development (US$1.3 M) by SFCI and SAU
would be carried out by the respective institutions on force account or on
contract to be let after competitive bidding advertised locally. The small
size of the contracts would not warrant international bidding. Vehicles
(US$1.2 M) would also be procured by competitive bidding advertised locally
since only a few would be purchased spaced over the project period. Motor-
cycles (US$0.4 M), which would be owned by staff, and not as institutional
1/   Held through NSC up to the limit of 30% envisaged under NSP (Annex 1,
para 5).
2/   Small tractors for which GOI reserves procurement are not included in
project costs and would not be financed under the Credit.



- 13 -
fleets, would be purchased by the individuals concerned according to their
personal preferences. Technical assistance services engaged and arrangements
for overseas training (US$0.5 M) would be on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to IDA. The balance of project costs (US$8.2 M) would cover reserve
stocks, working capital and operating costs not involving procurement.
Assurances were obtained from GOI and GOS that for contracts in excess of
US$300,000 draft tender documents and bid evaluation would be submitted for
IDA review before being acted upon. 1/
F. Disbursements
5.27      Disbursements under the proposed Credit would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported items
(US$3.0 M);
(b) 100% of ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment
and vehicles (US$3.6 M);
(c)  60% of other locally procured items (US$1.8 M);
(d) 100% of technical assistance services and overseas training
(US$0.5 M);
(e) 60% of expenditures for civil works, building construction
and related engineering (US$6.5 M); and
(f)  60% of on-farm development by SFCI and SAU (US$0.6 M).
Disbursements for items in sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) above
would be made against full documentation submitted to IDA. For items in (f),
disbursements would be made against certified statements of expenditure.
Documents supporting the latter type of disbursements would not be submitted
to IDA for review but retained by GOI or the institution concerned and audited
quarterly by the Government Auditor General or the statutory auditor of the
institution. 2/ Such documents would be made available for inspection by IDA
during supervision mission visits. Appropriate assurances were obtained from
GOI and GOS in this regard. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given
in Annex 9, Table 2.
1/   About 12 contracts are anticipated to exceed US$300,000 each for a
total of some US$8.6 M.
2/   The Auditor General does not audit documents retained by ARDC.



- 14 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
6.01      Successful development of the Indian seed industry under NSP depends
heavily on the organizational and managerial strengths of the many constituent
institutions. The organizational and management structure was developed in the
course of preparing Phase I, agreed with the Bank when Loan 1273-IN was made,
and is operational. The arrangements would remain unchanged for this project
and for the five states joining the program NSC would divest itself from the
production and processing of seed (except vegetable seed). Ultimate respon-
sibility for the successful implementation of NSP rests with the GOI Ministry
of Agriculture. The Ministry is advised by a National Seed Development
Council established under Phase I. This Council would provide overall policy
guidance for the development of the seed industry. As a policy advisory body
it has wide representation from all parties interested in the industry: GOI,
NSC, SSC, ICAR, GOS, seed growers, state marketing agencies, private sector
seed processors and seed dealers. Seed technology research and breeder seed
production is entrusted to ICAR and carried out through its Central Institutes
of Agricultural Research and SAU. The Agricultural Universities, in addition,
carry the main responsibility for foundation seed production. SSC organize
the certified seed production through shareholder growers, process and store
the seed and are responsible for intrastate marketing. Quality control, so
vital for project success is ensured by independent tests in the Seed Testing
Laboratories and certification by SSCA.
National Seeds Corporation (NSC)
6.02      NSC is the backbone of the Indian seed industry.  Although it is
divesting itself of the production and processing of seed 1/ (other than
vegetable seed) and seed certification functions, NSC is continuing to play a
major role in the future development of the industry by concentrating on co-
ordination, marketing and service functions. Functions of particular import-
ance are: equity participation in SSC; active guidance and assistance to SSC
through board representation; estimation of seed demand, and coordination of
market research and sales promotion; interstate marketing; coordination of
foundation seed production; operation of the seed reserve stock scheme; and
provision of technical and common services to the seed industry. Participa-
tion by NSC in the share capital of SSC and NSC representation on SSC boards
of directors strengthen the NSC/SSC relationships. These relationships are
embodied in written agreements satisfactory to the Bank in the case of the
four Phase I states and signature of such agreements satisfactory to IDA with
each state included in this project would be a condition of disbursement
against any project investment in a state.
1/   In the four Phase I states and the five states participating in
this proposed project.



- 15 -
B. Detailed Arrangements
State Seed Corporations (SSC)
6.0:3     State Seed Corporation have been established under the Companies
Act 1956, in Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa and Rajasthan. Articles and Memoranda
of these SSC have been reviewed and will be revised to incorporate modifica-
tions suggested by IDA. In Uttar Pradesh, the Tarai Development Corporation
(TDC) is being restructured to become that state's SSC. The objects clause,
share capital structure and the board composition of TDC will be modified to
be in line with other SSC participating in the NSP. The share capital of all
SSC would be 75% ordinary and 25% preference shares. The share capital would
be held by NSC (on GOI's behalf), GOS and shareholder growers in the propor-
tion 30:35:35 in that order. The preference shares, which would carry a right
to dividends at 11% cumulative, would be subscribed equally by GOS and NSC.
The SAU participating in the project would hold at least 20% of the equity
capital allocated to the GOS concerned. An assurance was obtained from GOI
and GOS that the memoranda and articles of association of the SSC and NSC/SSC
agreements would not be changed without consultation with IDA. Initial funds
required by SSC have already been provided through NSC and GOS equity contri-
butions in all states except Orissa, where arrangements are being completed.
6.04      The board of each SSC would comprise representatives of parties
directly interested in the seed industry: GOS, seed growers, SAU, NSC, par-
ticipating banks and seed distributors. Each SSC board is likely to have more
than ten directors. The Agricultural Production Commissioner (APC)/Secretary
of Agriculture or the Vice Chancellor of SAU would be the chairman of the SSC
board. Full-time managing directors of SSC have been appointed in Bihar,
Orissa and Karnataka, and formal appointment is expected in Rajasthan in June
1978 and in Uttar Pradesh in October 1978. SSC would be managed on commercial
lines.  The managing director would be vested with necessary powers to enable
him to discharge his responsibilities as the chief executive of the SSC. In
order to enable SSC to function independently from government departments the
managing director would work within the policy guidelines set by the board
of directors and report to the SSC chairman, but otherwise have independence
in all operational matters.
6.05      The managing director would be supported by senior executives as
managers of the Corporation's Production, Processing, Marketing and Finance
Divisions. Terms of reference for these five positions are in Annex 10,
Appendix 2. Recruitment for these and other executive positions would be
based on nationwide selection.
Credit and Input Services
6.06      Medium and long-term credit needed by seed growers for farm develop-
ment would be provided by Commercial Banks or Cooperative Land Mortgage Banks.
Most of such credit would be refinanced by ARDC which in part would use funds
supplied by IDA under the ARDC II Project Credit (715-IN). Short-term credit
for seed growers' working capital would be met mainly by Primary Agricultural



- 16 -
Credit Societies financed through the Cobperative Banking System. These
arrangements are satisfactory as are existing arrangements for distribution
of fertilizer and pesticides through cooperatives, DOA outlets, public cor-
porations and private dealers. To provide short-term credit to growers who
do not have access to credit from Primary Cooperative Societies SSC would
make arrangements with commercial banks to help finance these growers.
6.07      Long-term and medium-term credit would also be required by SSC and
SFCI, and by SAU for farm development and foundation seed investments. This
credit would be financed under the project and be provided by commercial banks
selected by and refinanced by ARDC. A banking plan would be prepared by ARDC
specifying the participating commercial banks and detailing the lending arrange-
ments between GOI and ARDC, ARDC and participating banks, and banks and final
borrowers.  Preparation of a banking plan satisfactory to IDA would be a con-
dition of Credit effectiveness. Details are in Annex 12.
6.08      SSC would need large amounts of working capital mainly to finance
seed inventory.  About 30% of the total requirement would be financed from
SSC's paid up share capital and the balance obtained from banks under normal
commercial arrangements, secured by hypothecation of inventory and receiv-
ables. As it is vital that SSC and NSC have ready access to adequate credit
for inventory financing assurances were obtained from ARDC that it would con-
duct periodical reviews with the participating banks, SSC and NSC to ensure
the availability of sufficient working capital.
Other Institutions
6.09      The quality of project seed would be controlled both by SSC inter-
nally, and SSCA independently. The CSCB would play a coordination role in
addition to ensuring interstate uniformity of standards (5.16). Research
institutes and SAU would be responsible for seed technology research and
breeder seed production. These functions would be coordinated by ICAR.
Foundation seed would be produced mainly by SAU, and NSC would coordinate
the foundation seed production of varieties of national importance. DOA
would provide agricultural extension services to seed growers as well as
certified seed users.
Accounting Systems and Audit
6.10      SSC would install and maintain financial and cost accounting sys-
tems, and internal control, including inventory management and internal audit,
in accordance with commercial practice. The accounting procedures followed
would comply with provisions of the SSC articles of association which are
satisfactory to IDA. SSC's annual accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Accounts of NSC, ARDC, SFCI are audited by the
Auditor General of India in a manner satisfactory to IDA. All institutions
participating in the project would prepare annual work programs, quarterly
pr,jgress reports, and annual accounts as they relate to project activities.
AssuranceD were obtained from GOI and GOS that copies of these documents
would be made available to IDA as follows:



- 17 -
(i) annual work programs not later than two months prior to
the commencement of the institutions' financial year;
(ii)  quarterly progress reports within one month of the close
of each quarter; and
(iii)  audited annual accounts and reports within six months of
the close of the institutions' financial year (within four
months for ARDC), including a statement on the appropriate-
ness of expenditures on work done under force account.
Project Implementation
6.11      A Project Monitoring and Management Committee (PMMC) operates under
Phase I for the purpose of coordinating project activities and for project
monitoring; its authority would be extended to cover this project. Functions
assigned to PMMC include procurement and progress reporting to GOI and Bank/
IDA. While the PMMC composition and powers are satisfactory, the staffing of
the PMMC secretariat has been inadequate. An assurance were obtained from GOI
that in future adequate staff support would be provided to PMMC throughout the
project period.
6.12      Each participating state has set up its own State Project Coordina-
tion Committee comprising representatives of all participating agencies in the
state. The Committee is chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner
or Secretary of Agriculture. The executive of this Committee, who would be
an officer not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary, would be provided with
necessary support staff and would report directly to the Committee Chairman.
6.13      Evaluation arrangements would be made by June 30, 1979 to follow up
project implementation, identify problem areas, and assess effectiveness of
participating institutions and project benefits. Under these arrangements
the project impact on the farmers for whom certified seed is produced, would
be measured, and costs and benefits realized would be compared with appraisal
estimates and projections. Staff carrying out project evaluation would be
independent of all participating agencies. The executive responsible for the
evaluation arrangements would report directly to GOI Secretary of Agriculture.
Details are given in Appendix 3 in Annex 10. Terms of reference have been
agreed during negotiations, and an assurance was obtained from GOI that Pro-
ject Completion Reports would be prepared and submitted to IDA promptly after
project completion.
VII. MARKETING
Production and Demand
7.01      In order to improve previous seed demand forecasts, funds were
provided in Phase I for a comprehensive demand survey. This was conducted
by the Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics (IARS) in 1976. The



- 18 -
National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) analyzed the survey
results and its interim report on the farmer survey findings and seed demand
analysis was reviewed by JWP. Because of design faults in the IARS survey
and defects in the-NCAER analysis due to lack of experienced staff, the sur-
vey provided an inadequate basis for a seed demand forecast and JWP developed
its own projections. Although JWP exercised caution in its forecast, more
conservative demand estimates are considered justified because of deficiencies
in the data available to JWP for its analysis. To avoid the risk of over-
investment and over-production it has been assumed in project design and
appraisal that the demand and production levels anticipated by JWP for 1980/81
would be reached only at full development in 1982/83. (Details are in Annex
13). Thus the project is designed to produce at full development about
174,300 tons of certified seed annually including wheat 74,000 tons, paddy
31,800 tons, maize 8,500 tons, jowar 6,500 tons, bajra 3,700 tons, groundnut
4,700 tons, potato 33,000 tons, and other crops 12,100 tons. 1/ Details are
in Annex 5, Tables 1 and 2.
7.02      Under Phase I provision was also made to update the initial demand
survey biennially with the assistance of marketing consultants in order to
provide the basis for long range demand projections and expansion programs.
Because the IARS/NCAER survey has not established an adequate data base the
biennial update would not be meaningful. To complement the initial survey
an additional demand study would be carried out under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA. A demand analysis and forecast would be furnished to
IDA by March 31, 1979. Appropriate assurances were obtained from GOI.
Short-term demand estimates would be made semiannually by NSC to determine
requirements for interstate marketing and to assist SSC in developing their
seed production programs. Intrastate demand projections in states with SSC
would be the responsibility of the respective SSC. The forecasts would pri-
marily be based on information gathered by NSC's and SSC's regional offices
and dealer network. NSC and SSC would strengthen market research and con-
centrate on this area as much as they need to on sales promotion and distri-
bution logistics. Provision is included for marketing consultants to assist
in setting up a market research division in NSC and in each of the SSC par-
ticipating in this project. Details are in Annex 13. An assurance has been
obtained from GOI that marketing consultants with terms of reference satis-
factory to IDA would be employed to assist NSC and SSC in market research.
Seed Procurement
7.03      SSC would organize certified seed production through registered
shareholder farmers. Seed growers would be provided with foundation seed
by SSC. SSC would procure the foundation seed from NSC in the case of na-
tional varieties or from one of the SAU in the state in the case of local
varieties. Staff attached to SSC's Production and Processing Divisions
would arrange with the seed growers the time schedule for harvesting,
inspection and transport of crop to plant site. The seed grower would be
responsible for bagging and transport of the crop to SSC plant site. All
seed meeting specified standards would be paid premium prices - a price
1/   Other crops include pulses, oilseeds, cotton and jute.



- 19 -
higher than the price realizable for commercial crop. However, there would
be a time lag before the accepted crop could be verified suitable for seed.
In order not to inconvenience the seed grower all crop accepted at plant
site, after field inspection, would be initially paid for at market rate for
commercial crop prevailing at the date of delivery. This first installment
would be paid within three days of delivery. A second installmer;t, consLi-
tuting the premium, would be paid after SSC ascertains the portion of the
crop delivered that would be suitable for processing as certified seed.
The premium would be set by each SSC at a level to compensate for additional
costs and risks incurred in seed growing. Financial analysis (Annex 14)
indicates that at present levels of production costs and farmgate prices a
premium above commercial crop prices of about 25% to 35% for self-pollinated
crops, potato and groundnut, and up to 140% for hybrids would make seed
growing an attractive proposition to farmers. The methodology used for
computing premiums and arrangements for payment are described in Annex 13,
paras 34-35 and Annex 14, paras 7-10. Seed growers would receive a third and
final payment as bonus once the season's processed seed has been sold, and
financial results of SSC have been determined.
Marketing Channels and Distribution
7.04      Certified seed would be marketed through public and private sector
channels. SSC and NSC would use their own outlets as well as cooperatives and
private sector dealers registered with the corporations. SSC would be respon-
sible for marketing within its own. state whereas interstate marketing would be
the responsibility of NSC. NSC would purchase certified seed from SSC and sell
it to other SSC for intrastate distribution. In states without SSC, NSC would
distribute the seed through its own outlets and dealer network.
7.05      Most farmers obtain loans for agricultural inputs from their Primary
Agricultural Credit Societies - "Component A" given in cash to cover wages
and "Component B" given in kind i.e. inputs including seed (Annex 12). It
is therefore logical that these cooperative societies, which are the major
distributors of short-term credit and inputs, would handle the largest pro-
portion of certified seed marketed. However, NSC and SSC would also be free
to appoint dealers in the private sector.
Pricing Policy
7.06      Seed pricing is crucial in the development of the seed industry.
Prices should be kept as low as feasible in order to induce farmers to use
seed. On the other hand, seed prices should be high enough to permit an
attractive premium to be paid to the seed growers; an adequate margin to
cover distribution costs and dealers' profit; and a reasonable return on
capital employed by SSC and NSC. Financial analysis of the project oper-
ations of the Rajasthan SSC indicates that a return of 20% would be a
feasible objective (8.04 and 8.05).
Sales Promotion
7.07      As seed production would be developed to match potential demand,
aggressive sales promotion would be essential. Under Phase I, funds were



- 20 -
provided to support sales promotion campaigns by NSC and the four par-
ticipating SSC. A similar provision is made in this project to finance
consultancy services for establishing a sales promotion section in the
Marketing Division of each SSC and to assist in the initial publicity
campaigns. Details are in Annex 13.
VIII. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
8.01      The purpose of the financial projections is to show that the price
levels set for seed at various stages of production, processing and marketing
provide sufficient financial incentives to the participants and that resultant
prices themselves are low enough to generate an increasing farmer demand for
improved seed.
Seed Growing
8.02      To establish the financial viability of the Universities' foundation
seed units their production and processing costs have been analyzed and prices
have been projected (Annex 14, Tables 1 and 2) that would make the foundation
seed unit self-supporting and yield a reasonable rate of return on capital
employed. Costs and risks of certified seed growing have also been analyzed
and prices have been established that would make seed growing attractive to
SSC shareholder growers without having to pay excessive premiums (Annex 14,
Table 3). With the establishment of SSC in the four Phase I project states,
seed growers' prices have already been reduced significantly in 1976/77.
Further price reduction of up to 30% appears, however, feasible for hybrid
cereal seed.
SFCI and Suratgarh Farm
8.03      The investment costs, operating results and cash flow relating to
4,000 ha to be developed at SFCI's farm in Suratgarh are shown in Annex 14,
Tables 9 and 10. The financial rate of return (ROR) on farm investments
would be 24% on the assumption that the entire acreage developed would be
utilized for certified seed production. With the probability that up to 500
ha of this farm would be used for production of foundation seed which commands
higher premiums than certified seed, the ROR is likely to be higher and the
cash flow more positive. Repayment of project loans could be accomplished at
terms and conditions proposed under the project while permitting sufficient
reserves for reinvestment.
State Seed Corporations
8.04      The financial viability of SSC's processing and other operations
has been established using the Rajasthan SSC as a model. The estimated
ROR on investments based on this model would be about 20%. SSC's cash flow
would permit debt service at terms and conditions proposed under the project.
Adequate reserves would be built up from the profits earned after providing



- 21 -
for reasonable dividends to preference 1/ and equity shareholders (Annex 14).
SSC's articles contain clauses empowering SSC to establish adequate reserves.
Each SSC would submit detailed cash flow projections to the lending bank and
ARDC prior to obtaining the loan for its investments. Seed retail prices have
been substantially reduced in 1976/77. In conjunction with the establishment
of SSC in four Phase I states seed prices for self-pollinated crops have
already reached levels projected in the Phase I Project. Retail prices for
hybrid cereals could, however, be reduced further by up to 40% from present
levels.
8.05      The major uncertainty facing SSC is the sales volume.  However,
variable costs comprise more than 90% of projected total costs. Therefore,
ROR would be relatively insensitive to volume. The greatest part of the
variable costs consists of the seed price paid to the grower, which would be
linked to commercial crop prices. Seed growers' prices would only increase,
if there was an increase in commercial crop prices. This, in turn, would
permit SSC to charge higher seed retail prices and retain the margin between
procurement and selling prices which provides the means of SSC's financial
viability. A fall in seed demand after having procured the crop from the
growers is, however, bound to have its adverse impact.
National Seeds Corporation
8.06      NSC's role in the NSP projects has become mainly that of a coordina-
tion and service agency, having been obliged to transfer the major production,
processing and intra-state marketing activities to the newly established SSC.
While some redundant NSC staff have been employed by SSC and SSCA in Phase I
states, efforts in this regard will have to be stepped up in the future. The
experience and knowledge of NSC employees in the areas of seed certification,
processing and marketing would be a valuable asset for project institutions.
Presently, NSC would require a minimum service charge of about 7% on interstate
sales to cover its operating costs and an additional 4.5% to recover the costs
from the reserve stock operation. Assuming that surplus staff w6uld be absorbed
by SSC, SSCA and other institutions over a period of four years, NSC's minimum
service charges could be reduced to 8% by year 5. As the viability of NSC is
critical to project success, an assurance was obtained from GOI during Phase I
that NSC service charges be regularly reviewed with the Bank and adjusted as
necessary to cover all costs.
IX. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Principal Benefits
9.01      The major benefit of the project would be the incremental crop
yields obtained by farmers through use of project produced improved seed.
Assuming no change in existing cultural practices or in the level of use of
other farm inputs, the use of certified seed from the project is estimated
1/   11% cumulative payable on preference shares.



- 22 -
to result in annual yield increases averaging 150 kg/ha for wheat, 135 kg/ha
for paddy, 105 kg/ha for groundnut and 800 kg/ha for potato. Benefits
from farmer-to-farmer exchange of subsequent seed generations produced from
project seed would also be significant but have not been quantified as project
benefits. Use of project produced hybrid seed would necessitate the higher
usage of inputs, such as fertilizer and pesticides. Annual yield increases
attributable exclusively to the hybrid seed are estimated at about 225 kg/ha
for maize, 190 kg/ha for jowar and 125 kg/ha for bajra. For pulses, oilseeds
and jute annual incremental yields are projected at between 50 kg/ha and 140
kg/ha. Details are in Annex 15.
9.02      At full development, the annual increment in production of commer-
cial grain and other crops generated by the use of project seed is estimated
at 245,000 tons wheat, 325,000 tons paddy, 85,000 tons bajra, 40,000 tons
potato, 15,000 tons groundnut, and 90,000 tons of other crops including jute,
pulses and oilseeds. The incremental value of these crops, calculated at
international prices for commodities traded internationally, and at farmgate
prices for those that are not, would be about US$158 M/year. This incremental
value would be off-set by the incremental annual cost associated with seed
production and processing as well as the incremental costs incurred by farmers
using project seed. Total incremental costs are estimated at US$17.5 M.
giving a net incremental value of production of US$140.5 M/year.
Beneficiaries
9.03      Incremental seed produced under the project would be adequate to
provide planting material for some 2.7 million ha. Assuming that the average
farm would use project seed on 2 ha about 1.35 million farming families would
benefit directly from the project. This is probably a very conservative
assumption. Additional employment required at harvest to handle the increases
in yields is estimated to require 13,500 man-years annually. While larger and
more progressive farmers are likely to understand and profit first from the
greater availability of high quality certified seed small farmers should
quickly realize the advantage and benefit from this relatively low cost means
of improving their production levels.
Economic Rate of Return (ROR (E))
9.04      The methodology used for computing the ROR (E) is described in
Annex 15. ROR (E) is estimated at 158% and remains satisfactory when various
alternative and adverse assumptions are tested. For example, an increase of
20% in investment and operating costs coupled with a 20% decrease in project
benefits would reduce ROR (E) to 111%. An unforeseen two year delay in the
generation of project benefits would result in a ROR (E) of 109%. The rate
of return is high because the use of relatively low cost seed of HYV would
permit the better utilization of sunk costs, in particular investments in
machinery, implements, irrigation, and land preparation.
Risk
9.05      The most serious risks are that seed demand may be lower than
expected and project investments thus underutilized, and that the new and



- 23 -
inexperienced SSC would have difficulty in managing the complex seed pro-
duction, processing and marketing processes with the consequences of high
costs and imbalances in supply and demand. Safeguards have been taken in
project design in regard to the seed demand factor by basing the processing
investments on conservative demand estimates, by emphasizing the marketing
function, and by providing for appropriate technial assistance and training
for demand studies, market research and sales promotion. Care would also be
taken to ensure that the SSC are adequately staffed with people of appropriate
skills and management experience in agro-industries. Absorption of qualified
NSC employees by SSC should help reduce the risks. Against the substantial
benefits which would accrue to millions of families as a consequence of the
project acceptance of these risks is justified.
X. RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOI and state
governments on the following matters:
(i) ICAR would coordinate breeder seed production and extend
the full-time ICAR coordinator's responsibilities to the
Agricultural Universities participating in this project
(5.04) (GOI);
(ii) state governments would transfer to the Agricultural
Universities adequate land suitable for foundation seed
production not later than June 30, 1979 (5.06) (GOS);
(iii) criteria to be agreed with IDA would be employed in SFCI
and SAU farm development (5.06 and 5.09) (GOI and GOS);
(iv) seed production of crops handled by SSC or NSC would be
confined on GOS and SFCI farms to project areas under
contract with SSC or NSC (5.09) (GOI and GOS);
(v) arrangements for overseas training of staff would be on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (5.18) (GOI);
(vi) technical assistance consultants for the Phase I project
and this project would be engaged by December 31, 1978 on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (4.02, 5.19 and
7.02) (GOI);
(vii) PMMC's secretariat would be adequately staffed throughout
the project period (6.11) (GOI);
(viii)  a Project Completion Report would be prepared and submitted
to IDA promptly after project completion (6.13) (GOI); and



- 24 -
(ix) to complement the IARS/NCAER demand survey a seed demand
study would be carried out by March 31, 1979 with terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA (7.02) (GOI).
10.02     Agreement was also reached on the following conditions of Credit
effectiveness:.
(i)  arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the transfer of NSC
plants and equipment to SSC had been completed (5.10)
(GOI and GOS);
(ii) a banking plan satisfactory to IDA had been prepared by
ARDC (6.07) (GOI and ARDC); and
(iii) the Executive Chairman of NSC has been functioning in that
capacity on a full-time basis (4.02) (GOI).
10.03     The following conditions of disbursement were agreed:
(i) against investments by Agricultural Universities, that
adequate land suitable for foundation seed production
had been made available (5.06);
(ii) against processing plant costs, that IDA had approved the
design of each plant (5.11); and
(iii) against any project cost for a state, that an agreement
between NSC and SSC satisfactory to IDA had been executed
(6.02).
10.04     It is recommended that retroactive financing up to a total of
US$200,000 be made available for expenditures after December 1, 1977 on
appropriately procured equipment.
10.05     With these conditions and assurances the project would be suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$16.0 M to GOI.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Agriculture and Seed Industry
General
1.        Agriculture is the mainstay of India's economy, contributing about
45% of its GNP and employing more than 70% of its working population. Agri-
culture also produces the raw material for the major export commodities. The
growth rate in agriculture in the last ten years was about 3%.
2.        A major objective of GOI's planned development activities for a long
time has been to increase growth rate in food production. The introduction of
new seed varieties of the five main cereals 1/ from early sixties was the main
catalyst of the rapid foodgrain expansion that occurred between 1966/67 and
1970/71. The greater part of this increase was the result of rising productiv-
ity. Compared with previous decades increases in yield have contributed more
to growth than increases in cropped area. Higher yields have resulted from
use of HYV seed together with improved cultural practices - intensive use of
complimentary inputs, in particular fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation.
It is not easy or very meaningful, at this stage, to analyze the contribution
attributable to each of the inputs in the total package. The productivity
increases were the result of the adoption of a new package of practices and
inputs, the component parts of which interacted to produce the welcome results.
The impact of seed is best measured by the results of the total package itself.
3.        After the five main foodgrains, the next most important crop is
cotton whose production targets are dependent greatly on an improved seed
program. During the seventies a number of new long staple cotton varieties
have spread rapidly and a relatively more profitable cotton seed production
industry has grown, largely in private and cooperative sectors.
4.        Jute is a crop of major importance in north - eastern India, contri-
buting to about 9% of the country's total export earnings in 1975/76. High
production costs due to low yields pose a threat to jute in world markets.
New jute varieties have been evolved and released for seed multiplication.
Special programs were started with the Fourth Five Year Plan to produce qual-
ity jute seed and to popularize its use in the major jute growing areas.
These efforts have expanded the demand for quality high yielding jute seed.
5.        Oilseed production in the Fifth Five Year Plan is expected to in-
crease by 3 million tons to 12.5 million tons. Major reliance is placed on
1/   Wheat, paddy, maize, jowar and bajra.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
spreading the production of two relatively new crops - soyabean and sunflower.
Both these crops require large quantities of seed which also would be produced
under the National Seed Program (NSP) projects.
6.        The production of pulses, the main source of vegetable protein in
the national diet, is also emphasized in the Fifth Five Year Plan. Improved
varieties of pulses are, however, lacking. The Central Research Institutes
and Agricultural Universities have in recent years, produced some new varieties
with promise. There is keen demand from farmers for seed of such improved
varieties as are now available.
7.        The more important of the other crops are potato, groundnut, vege-
table and fodder. These also require support and would be taken up for multi-
plication under the NSP projects.
Seed Industry
8.        HYV resulted from plant breeding break throughs starting in the
early sixties before when seed industry was little developed. The private
sector produced small quantities of flower and vegetable seed. Public sector
attempts to disseminate improved seed from small government farms located in
each Community Development Block were not very successful. The difficulties
of managing so diffuse a scheme resulted in seed of doubtful quality. There
were also frequent imbalances in seed supply and demand due to inadequate
planning and control.
9.        Release of maize hybrids in 1961 was followed by hybrids of sorghum
(jowar) and pearl millet (bajra), HYV dwarf paddy and HYV dwarf wheat varie-
ties. All of these varieties were highly responsive to intensive input use,
yielding larger profits, and consequent strong demand for quality seed.
10.       Private sector responded very quickly to this demand for improved
quality seed and there was a rapid growth of private sector seed companies.
GOI, recognizing that a wide scatter of small Block seed farms operated by
state Department of Agriculture (DOA) were inappropriate to the technological
needs of seed production, particularly that of hybrid seed, decided to estab-
lish a central seed organization. Thus the National Seeds Corporation (NSC)
was incorporated in 1963 (Appendix 1). NSC was made responsible for promoting
seed industry development, from production through processing, storage and
marketing. NSC was also charged to establish a system of seed quality control,
and a Seeds Act was passed in 1966.
11.       Through the mid sixties seed output expanded rapidly.  This increase
was mainly due to private sector effort, NSC having concerned itself mainly
with foundation seed production and seed certification, with the Bank financed
Tarai Development Corporation (TDC) a late comer in the field. 1/ Unfortu-
nately seed demand grew more slowly than expected. Farmer retention and
1/   TDC is the executing agency of the Tarai Seeds Project - Loan 614-IN.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
farmer to farmer exchange of seed accounted for much of self-pollinated wheat
and paddy seed used.  Some of the HYV were inferior in grain quality to tradi-
tional types and thus lost favor. Substantial overproduction resulted in large
seed stocks accumulating with state governments. 1968-71 was a period of re-
trenchment, and liquidation of several private sector companies resulted.
During this period, state governments curtailed their seed production activ-
ities, some undertaken directly on DOA farms and others through contract
farmers. The seed was seldom certified and was generally sold at little more
than grain price as part of the agricultural extension programs.
12.       When seed demand picked up in 1971/72, the industry lacked the re-
sources and the confidence to meet it. NSC stepped in and developed a seed
program and, by 1974/75, produced 73,000 tons of seed; thus becoming the
largest seed producer in the country. Seed was produced almost entirely
through contracts with progressive farmers.
13.       A Seed Review Team was commissioned by GOI in 1968 to study in
depth the seed situation in the country. 1/ The seed industry was further
reviewed in 1971 by a National Commission on Agriculture. 2/ Based on their
findings GOI decided to reorganize and develop the seed industry. In February
1975 a Joint Working Party (JWP), based on NSC personnel, was established to
prepare proposals for a National Seed Program (NSP), JWP also prepared the
first National Seed Project (Phase I) and Second National Seed Project now
proposed.
National Seed Program
14.       NSP represents a determined effort by GOI to develop a broad-based,
decentralized network of seed production agencies, capable of meeting the
certified seed requirements for the country's planned agricultural programs.
Agricultural development, basic to India's economic growth, will depend on
greater productivity since there is little new land suitable for cultivation.
Quality seed is therefore an input essential to the continued development of
Indian agriculture. NSP which will provide support to all facets of seed
production, from multiplication of breeder seed through to processing and
marketing of certified seed, is designed to be a coordinated seed development
program.
15.       A major feature of the Program would be the establishment of State
Seed Corporations (SSC), based on the TDC model, to take over the production
role which NSC had performed by default. SSC are to be created in regions
with comparative technical and cost advantages for producing particular crops.
Each crop would be produced by more than one SSC to encourage competition.
NSP also provides for strengthening and expanding the production by the private
1/   Government of India, Seed Review Team Report 1968.
2/   Interim Report on Multiplication and Distribution of Quality Seed Per-
taining to High Yielding Varieties and hybrids of cereal; November 1971.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
sector and cooperatives. Seed would be produced in compact areas around each
processing plant by growers who will also be shareholders of SSC. This would
cortrast markedly with the past NSC pattern of scattered production by con-
tract growers. The new approach would improve efficiency in quality control,
supervision and transport. Quality is also expected to improve from the
farmers' vested interest in the SSC in which they are themselves shareholders.
16.       Institutions participating in NSP project would have specialized
responsibilities as follows:
(a) GOI to coordinate state policies on seed production, pro-
cessing and marketing;
(b) NSC to coordinate SSC activities of national or regional
significance;
(c) state governments to concentrate on legal regulatory
functions and extension services;
(d) SSC to organize seed production through shareholder growers,
and to undertake processing;
(e) Agricultural Universities to undertake research, and pro-
duction of breeder as well as foundation seed;
(f) Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to coordinate
breeder seed production by Universities;
(g) NSC to coordinate production of foundation seed of national
or regional importance; and
(h) independent Seed Certification Agencies to ensure quality of
foundation and certified seed.
17.       The share capital contribution and board composition would be broad-
based (Annex 10, paras 16, 17 and 18). NSC would function as service agency
making charges for its servies to SSC based on costs incurred. Intra-state
marketing would be SSC's responsibility while responsibility for interstate
marketing would continue to be with NSC.
18.       Following these defined concepts many State Departments of Agri-
culture (DOA) which hitherto had been engaged in seed production, processing
and marketing, in many scattered locations, are obliged to transfer these
activities to SSC. Government farms 1/ suitable for seed production in proj-
ect areas would be used as seed growers. Farms outside the project areas would
be used for foundation seed production 2/ where necessary, or for certified
1/   Including large farms owned by State Farms Corporation of India.
2/   Under the supervision of Agricultural Universities.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
seed production of crops not handled by SSC. DOA or SFCI will not, after a
transitional period, undertake processing of certified seed of crops handled
by SSC.
Tarai Development Corporation
19.       TDC is the implementing agency for the Bank supported Tarai Seeds
Project (Loan 614-IN for US$13 M). This loan was made to assist in the produc-
tion, processing and marketing of certified seed of HYV. The project involves
the development of part of the Tarai region of Uttar Pradesh. It envisaged
the development of 16,000 ha for seed production, including 5,000 ha of the
Pantnagar Agricultural University farm with a seed production target of 45,000
tons. TDC was formed as a private company whose membership includes seed
grower farmers, NSC, Pantnagar University and Commercial Organizations. TDC
was also responsible for seed marketing and for providing services to seed
growers. This project has been so successful that SSC under NSP have been
structured on the TDC model. TDC has been working very effectively and has
developed an excellent reputation for quality seed. Project implementation
has, however, not been altogether free of problems. At some point difficulties
were experienced in properly staffing TDC's top management and there have been
some delays in processing equipment procurement and consequent problems in
expansion of seed processing capacity. The loan closing date was therefore
extended to December 31, 1977.
20.       Uttar Pradesh is one of the five states participating in the proposed
Second National Seed Project. In order to avoid competition between TDC and
a new SSC, it was agreed between GOI, GOUP and TDC that TDC would be restruc-
tured to become part of the State Seed Corporation in UP and to undertake the
development now planned under NSP. The ratio of shareholdings in TDC would be
altered to make shares available to Kanpur and Faizabad Universities and to
seed growers in the new project areas, and to bring the share distribution in
line with other SSC:
GOI       30%
GOUP      35%
Growers   35%
The Agricultural Universities would hold portions of the allocations against
GOUP (Annex 10, para 16). Board composition too would be altered to accom-
modate representation from the two new Agricultural Universities and the
growers in the new project areas.
National Seed Project
21.       The first phase in the development of the NSP was the National Seed
Project (Phase I) 1/ approved by the Bank Board in June 1976. Phase I covered
1/   Loan 1273-IN.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
four states - Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab. It also pro-
vided assistance to NSC to improve storage and marketing and for vegetable
seed production, and to Agricultural Universities to improve breeder seed
production and to support seed technology research capabilities. Production
of certified seed under Phase I was planned for 73,000 tons for major cereals
(wheat 34,500 tons, paddy 9,600 tons and hybrid of maize, jowar and bajra
26,000 tons), cotton 14,000 tons and lesser quantities of other crops includ-
ing vegetable and potato.
22.       Phase I investments were thus designed to:
-    improve breeder and foundation seed production;
-    develop three large scale farms for certified seed
production;
-    remodel canals supplying irrigation water to large
project farms in Haryana;
-    establish and equip SSC;
-    support expansion of private sector seed operations;
-    expand seed storage capacity and establish a reserve
stock;
-    expand quality control facilities;
-    provide equipment for the expansion of NSC's vegetable
seed operation;
-    develop seed technology research; and
-    provide training and technical assistance.
23.       Although the loan was declared effective in October 1976 according
to schedule, project implementation had not progressed as quickly as planned.
At state level, project implementation, particularly institution building,
managerial arrangements and registration of seed growers had progressed satis-
factorily. NSC had withdrawn from seed production and processing in the four
participating states as planned, having handed over activities to SSC and
SFCI. GOI, through NSC, and state governments have made the required equity
contributions to SSC for initial development, and funds have been made avail-
able for some breeder seed investments. However, GOI has yet to sanction
funds for further project development. Some of the other factors hindering
project implementation have been:
-    delay in project approval by central government cabinet until
September 15, 1977;



ANNEX 1
Page 7
termination of the services of the executive Chairman of
NSC whose services with the Corporation terminated at the
end of 1976 and delays in finding an appropriate successor;
failure to appoint the various technical assistance con-
sultants provided under the project;
lack of enthusiasm on the part of ICAR to participate
actively in coordinating the foundation seed production
and related investment activities of SAU;
lack of positive action to encourage the private sector
processors to particiate in seed industry development; and
slow procurement caused by procedural delays.
24.       No loan disbursements had been made as of March 31, 1978.  However,
procurement has now gained momentum. Awards have been made for the first
batch of seed processing equipment and bids for farm machinery and land
development equipment have been evaluated. Design of the 5,000 ton module
for cereal seed processing plants has been prepared by NSC and approved by
the Bank. NSC has also appointed a consultant to provide assistance in the
design of larger cereal seed processing plants and plants for cotton seed
processing. Other technical assistance consultants have been identified.
Most private seed processors have recently been informed about project funds
provided for private seed industry investments and further publicizing of
the private sector role is under way. Since March 1978 NSC has a new chair-
man, and a new managing director has been designated. Although still behind
schedule, the project now appears to proceed as basically planned. It should
also be mentioned that the delay in project implementation would not have a
direct bearing on the progress of the Second National Seed Project. Know-
ledge of problems and experience gathered in the implementation of Phase I
should enable speedier implementation of this second phase project.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED POJECT
National Seed Corporation
1.        NSC is a GOI institution incorporated under the Companies Act 1956.
It was created to be mainly a promotional agency. NSC was looked upon as an
agency to initiate measures leading to the production of high quality seed
and, in particular, to promote the production, processing, and marketing of
single crosses of hybrid maize. One of NSC's achievements was the evolving
of practical inspection methods and setting up national seed standards, both
for quality and certification. From the first year of the enforcement of the
Seeds Act, NSC functioned as the Certification Agency in all states except
Gujarat. Another of NSC's achievements has been the initiation and estab-
lishment of a scientific seed processing industry in the country, and the
popularization of the use of certified seed by farmers.
2.        NSC's share capital of Rs 31 N as of May 31, 1976 has been con-
tributed by the GOI. The accumulated reserves on that date were Rs 15.2 M.
GOI had, in addition, provided loans for Rs 125 M and NSC has arrangements
for borrowing from the State Bank of India. It is managed by a board of
directors not exceeding 15 consisting of a Chairman, Managing Director, and
other Directors representing GOI, state governments and other interests.
The present board of nine directors includes representatives of the four
state seed corporations set up under Phase I. The Managing Director is the
chief executive and he is assisted by chiefs of the divisions of production,
research, development and quality control, engineering, marketing, finance,
administration and public relations. NSC has three Zonal offices and ten
Regional offices. The Zonal offices have supervisory and coordinating func-
tions while the Regional offices are engaged in production, processing, stor-
age, and marketing.
3.        The financial position of NSC during the last three years is sum-
marized below (figures in Rs million):
Source of Funds             1973-74      1974-75     1975-76
Equity Shares                31.00        31.00        33.00
Reserves                      9.14        15.18        12.92
Loan Funds                   16.13        12.52        16.13
56.27       68.70        62.05



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 2
Use of Funds
Fixed Assets                 10.10        13.03        16.15
Investments                   1.00         1.00         1.00
Net Current Assets           45.17        54.67        44.90
56.27        68.70        62.05
Profits and Appropriations
Profit before tax            11.63        25.39         9.02
Taxation                      7.13        18.22         6.20
Profit after tax              4.50         7.17         2.82
Dividends                     1.38         2.48         2.60
Retained profit               3.12         4.69         0.22
4.        There has been a marked fall in profits during 1975-76, largely
due to a reduction in margins in selling prices during the period of the
emergency. NSC had made a loss during 1976-77 estimated to be Rs 2 million
caused mainly by the transfer of business to SSC, slower than anticipated
development of interstate marketing, and being obliged to carry, though
only temporarily, surplus personnel.
5.         In 1975-76, the processing capacity in thirty-seven processing
plants throughout the country was 89,000 tons per annum operating two shifts.
Nine plants with an annual capacity of 39,000 tons have since been handed
over to the four SSC in Punjab, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, and Maharashtra, the
project states of Phase I.
6.        NSC achieved record sales of certified seed during 1975-76 valued
at about Rs 200 M. The marketing and distribution system is now being reor-
ganized to reduce sales and distribution costs. Distribution costs were high,
particularly for hybrids; self-pollinated wheat and paddy seed was moved by
rail, hybrids had to be transported by road at higher cost.
7.        State Farms Cooperation of India (SFCI) and NSC had worked very
closely in seed production activities. Close coordination with SFCI was
facilitated by having a common Chairman.
8.        Under NSP the organization and management aid functions of NSC
are undergoing a change. A new major function is NSC's role in the coordina-
tion of the large number of institutions involved in the NSP (Annex 10, para-
graphs 3-14).



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Project Scope and Size
General
1.        The project scope and size proposed are determined essentially by
anticipated seed demand, comparative advantage for production possessed by
the participating states, and by the complementary activities necessary to
ensure the production and processing of the required seed quantities to
the desired quality. In keeping the country's emphasis on increased food
production and farmer's own desire to grow as much as possible of his family's
food needs, the project emphasis would be on certified seed of food crops,
mainly cereals: wheat, paddy, maize, bajra, jowar and pulses. Other food
crop seed to be produced under project are potato, groundnut and oilseeds.
Only very small quantities of non-food crop seed, for cotton and jute, are
proposed (Annex 5, Tables 1 and 2).
Seed Quantities
2.        The project objective is to satisfy, at full development in 1982/83,
the anticipated countrywide demand for certified seed to be sold at prices
sufficient to sustain financially viable seed production, processing and
marketing operations and to ensure the continued development of the Indian
seed industry as envisaged under NSP. Seed demand at present is strong, and
is expected to continue expanding. The Joint Working Party (JWP), in prepar-
ing the project, have forecasted the seed demand for 1980/81 and proposed
production targets and investments on the basis of these projections. Because
of some deficiencies in the data used by JWP a more conservative approach was
taken in final project preparation assuming that the targets for 1980/81 would
only be reached in 1982/83 (Details in Annex 13).
3.        The main factors taken into consideration in projecting demand are:
(i) total area of crop, irrigated and rainfed;
(ii) estimated area of crop under HYV;
(iii) anticipated increase in area under HYV;
(iv) rate of seed renewal; and
(v) varietal replacement factor.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Estimating demand for hybrid crop seed - maize, bajra and jowar - present
fewer complications-than for self pollinated crops, like wheat and paddy,
since hybrid seed require replacement every year. In the case of self-
pollinated cereals some farmers tend to replace seed less frequently than
the four/five years recommended. Some farmers are not in the cash market
for seed - either retaining part of their own crop for seed or relying on
farmer-to-farmer exchange. Hence, although agronomists recommend four/five
year replacement (20-25%) for wheat and paddy the national demand projections,
as detailed in Annex 13, Table 5, are based on lower rates of 9% to 10%. 1/
The production targets and project investments proposed should thus be
considered conservative.
4.        Seed production has been allocated to various states according to
their assessed comparative production advantage. Each participating state
has also been encouraged to concentrate on the production of crop seed most
consumed in the state and considered more costly or inconvenient to import
from other states. As for Phase I project, the following four criteria were
used for selection of states, and for selection of one or more production
zones within each participating state for development as concentrated areas
of seed production and processing:
(i) the state must contain adi area that had favorable agro-
climatic conditions for high quality production, preferably
in more than one season; as well as favorable conditions
for seed storage. This tended to rule out in the most
part those areas with very high monsoon rainfall;
(ii) given the need for maximizing seed multiplication ratio, the
area must also have the proven ability to produce crops with
well above average yields. This tended to favor areas with
assured irrigation or with reliable but not excessive rainfall;
(iii) given the need to keep seed prices as low as possible the area
must be one where market prices for the crop were low relative
to the rest of the country. This usually meant areas which
had a surplus of the crop in question; and
(iv) the selected areas should take into account NSC's program
with its existing seed production, infrastructure and the
experience of its contract growers in the technical know-how
of seed production. This is of particular importance to seed
production of hybrid crops with their complicated requirements
of detasseling, nicking, synchronization etc. It should be
located where the largest concentration of such growers could
be found. This is invariably in the most favorable location
for seed production within a state.
1/   In Phase I different seed replacement rates were used for different
states, ranging from 1.5% to 50%.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Prolect Areas
5.        Based on these criteria five states were selected to participate
in the Second National Seed Project. These are Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa,
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Those chosen for Phase I were Andhra Pradesh,
Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab. Apart from these nine there are three
states which possess comparative advantage for seed production and have at
different times, shown desire to participate in NSP. These three states
have not yet been able to prepare and submit NSP projects acceptable to
GOI. They are all net importers (from other states) of seed except Tamil
Nadu which exports some hybrid cereal seed. Their present production and
any foreseeable increase would be consumed within the respective states and
are not expected to have an adverse impact on the production allocations
made to the nine states participating in Phase I and Second National Seed
Project. States not already brought under NSP for seed production could
be considered for financing in further phases of seed industry development
contemplated when increased seed demand potential has been established.
6.        In selecting project locations within each state great attention
was paid to getting the potential seed growers in compact areas around each
processing plant. The compact area approach followed in NSP projects is in
marked contrast with NSC pattern of production under contract with farmers
in widely scattered locations. The new approach would improve efficiency in
quality control and supervision not only in the field but also in the larger
processing complex. There would also be great potential for cost reduction
through economies of scale and lower transport and handling costs. Care
was also taken to ensure that, in so far as it is practical, the Agricultural
Universities providing seed technology research, and breeder and foundation
seed are situated in or easily accessible to the compact areas proposed for
the project.
7.        Following the aforementioned criteria certified seed production
would be concentrated in each state in one or at most two 1/ compact areas
suitable for high quality and low cost output. State governments also
carried out farm surveys of areas proposed for selection. The areas finally
selected for this project are:
1/   In Uttar Pradesh there will be three production zones - two under this
project in addition to the one already established under Tarai Seeds
Project (Loan 614-IN).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
No. of      Project Area
State            Zones         Districts            Major Crops
Bihar              1        Rohtas, Bhojpur         wheat, paddy
maize, potato
Karnataka          2        Dharwar, Chitradurga   paddy, maize
Bangalore, Kolar         jowar, bajra,
potato
Orissa             2        Cuttack, Puri            paddy, potato
Sambalpur               groundnut
Rajasthan          2       Kota, Bundi              wheat, paddy,
Sriganganagar           maize, jowar, bajra,
groundnut, jute,
oilseeds
Uttar Pradesh      3        Nainital, Rampur        wheat, paddy, maize
Bareilly                 pulses, potato
Kanpur, Jalaun
Faizabad
Project areas covered under the Tarai Seed Project, National Seed Project
(Phase I) and the proposed Second National Seed Project are indicated in
the Map (IBRD 13038).
Project Components
8.        The project would provide support for all facets of seed industry
development as visualized under NSP - from breeder and foundation seed
production through certified seed growing, processing, storage, sales
promotion and distribution. As in Phase I this project would:
-    establish and equip State Seed Corporations (SSC) for
production, processing, storage and marketing of certi-
fied seed;
-    support development of Agricultural University farms for
foundation seed production;
-    support farm development by State Farms Corporation of
India (SFCI) of about 4,000 ha for certified seed pro-
duction;
-    provide laboratory, farm and processing equipment to
Agricultural Universities and government research
stations for production, processing and storage of
breeder and foundation seed;
-    expand and equip State Seed Certification Agencies (SSCA);



ANNEX 2
Page 5
-    provide incremental permanent working capital required
by Agricultural Universities and SSC; and
-    provide technical assistance and training necessary to
support seed technology research, processing, quality
control and marketing.
9.        In selecting project areas care was taken to ensure a concentration
of well developed farms and progressive farmers. This was designed to reduce
on-farm development by seed growers, and to ensure that any minor development
required would be undertaken willingly by the progressive farmer who could
appreciate the need for and the advantages of properly developed land with
assured irrigation in certified seed production. Any on-farm development works
by seed growers would not be financed under this project as these and similar
investments - land levelling, lining of water channels, new wells and deep-
ening of existing wells, tractors and water pumps - are already covered under
the IDA financed ARDC II Credit.
10.       Vegetable seed production, transit and bulk storage facilities for
NSC's interstate marketing operations, and private sector processing were
included in Phase I. The investments provided for these components were
designed for all national needs and not confined to the four seed producing
states taken up in Phase I. The provisions already made in Phase I for these
three components are considered adequate for foreseeable needs. Hence these
have not been included in the proposed project.
Project Participants
11.       Agricultural Universities in each of the five participating states
would be responsible for seed technology research and breeder seed production,
and would in addition have the major responsibility for foundation seed pro-
duction. ICAR would coordinate breeder seed production and assist these
Universities in preparing their investment plans. A senior ICAR official has
already been designated, under Phase I, to be responsible for this task. The
same officer would cover the additional institutions included in the proposed
project.
12.       NSC would coordinate the production of foundation seed of varieties
of national importance; SSC would be responsible for local varieties. SSC
would undertake production and processing and intrastate marketing of certi-
fied seed, while NSC would be entrusted with interstate marketing of certi-
fied and foundation seed. SSC would organize the certified seed production
through seed growers who would also be shareholders. This would include gov-
ernment and SFCI farms in the project areas. State government activities
would otherwise be confined to legal regulatory aspects - implementing the
Seed Act - and to extension services. The State Seed Certification Agencies
would independently verify quality of foundation and certified seed. GOI
would coordinate state policies on seed production, processing and marketing.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Project Phasing
13.       The project investments have been phased over five years.  Major
factors considered in scheduling the investments and operations under the
project are:
(i) past involvement and experience of states in seed industry
development;
(ii) the detail work done by states in project preparation;
(iii)  the extent of preliminary implementation actions comp-leted
by states in anticipation of project commencement;
(iv) existing seed production and processing facilities, in project
areas organized by NSC or other government agencies, available
for transfer to SSC;
(v) scale of seed production and marketing already established
in the state. This is vital particularly for the large volume
of self-pollinated (wheat and paddy) seed and for seed potato
because four of the five states 1/ under this project are
expected to produce seed essentially for local use;
(vi) assessment by each state of farmer response for enrollment as
shareholder seed growers; and
(vii)  lead time required for procurement and construction of pro-
cessing plants;
Production phasing based on these considerations are given in Annex 5, Tables
1 and 2. Investment phasing are summarized in Annex 8 and Tables 3-9 of Annex
5.
1/   Uttar Pradesh would be a net exporter of wheat and paddy seed.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Plant Breeding; Breeder, Foundation and Certified Seed
Production; Seed Technology Research
I. PLANT BREEDING
Introduction
1.        Plant breeding research in India is conducted at 11 Indian Council
for Agricultural Research (ICAR) Institutes (Table 1) and 25 Agricultural Uni-
versities (Table 2). Most of it is financed from ICAR sources supplemented in
the case of the Universities by state funds. Support for cotton research is
being provided under the Integrated Cotton Development Project partly financed
by IDA.
2.        Coordination of plant breeding and crop improvement research among
the various institutions is achieved through 23 All-India Coordinated Research
Projects concerned with food, commercial and horticultural crops 1/ under the
aegis of ICAR. These projects include supervision of uniform varietal nursery
trials of elite strains on a national or regional basis, dissemination of re-
search results, and the release of improved "All-India" varieties. Local varie-
ties are released by the State Agricultural Universities.
3.        Recently, the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid
Tropics (ICRISAT) was established at Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh: ICRISAT serves
as a world center for improving the genetic potential of bajra, jowar, pigeon
pea and chick-pea and its materials will be available to Indian breeders.
4.        Major contributions to the production of food and fiber in India
have been made since the early sixties through the introduction, development,
and release of high-yielding varieties (HYV) of wheat and paddy and of hy-
brids of maize, bajra, jowar and cotton. The widespread adoption of HYV has
served as a catalyst to improve other practices, particularly fertilizer use,
irrigation, and plant protection.
5.        The available HYV of the major crops provide a key substantial base
for further development of the seed industry. Although the more recent variety
releases for the major crops, i.e., paddy, wheat, hybrid bajra, hybrid jowar,
1/   Rice, wheat, barley, maize, jowar, bajra and other millets, pulses, for-
age crops, sugarcane, sugarbeet, cotton, jute, oilseeds, soybeans, tobacco,
fruits, tuber crops, potato, vegetables, medicinal and aromatic plants,
floriculture, spices and cashewnut, coconut and arecanut.                     _



ANNEX 3
Page 2
hybrid maize, seldom have the yield superiority over the older HYV as the
latter had over the traditional varieties planted in the early 1960s, they are
contributing enormously to stabilization through improved pest resistance and
adaptability, and to better acceptance through improved quality.
6.        Superior and improved varieties of some of the lesser important crops
have been and are being released: grams and pulses, barley, groundnuts, pota-
toes, and oil seed crops. Agricultural research has been transferred in most
states from the Departments of Agriculture to the Agricultural Universities.
This should accelerate improvement in new variety development and breeding
research for all important crops in the various states.
7.        The success of the National Seed Program (NSP) will depend on the
periodic release of improved varieties of all crops included in the program,
improvements in cultural and management practices, and continued and expanding
cultivator interest in improved seed. The assistance provided under Phase I
and under this project for breeder and foundation seed production along with
research resources already available would be adequate to accomplish the tasks.
Plant Breeding in NSP States I/
8.        Plant breeding and crop improvement activities of Phase I states
were reviewed during the Phase I appraisal. The Punjab Agricultural Univer-
sity (PAU) has a strong and productive plant breeding department which gives
particular emphasis to wheat, bajra, pulses and oil seeds. The Haryana Agri-
cultural University (HAU) has made major contributions in the release of
improved gram, mung, and mustard (oil seed type) varieties. The Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural University (APAU) conducts breeding and crop improvement research
on paddy, jowar, maize, bajra and the minor millets. Its efforts are augmented
by and coordinated with those of the All-India Coordinate Rice Improvement
Project (AICRIP) and the All-India Coordinated Sorghum Improvement Project
(AICSIP), located on the campus of APAU. The Agricultural Universities of
Maharashtra (3 of 4 included in Phase I) have active, productive research
underway on breeding and improvement of cotton - including hybrid cottons -
jowar, and pigeon pea. The cotton improvement research in Punjab, Haryana
and Maharashtra is being assisted and strengthened under the Integrated Cotton
Development Project.
9.        In the states included in this project, the Rajendra Agricultural
University (RAU, Bihar) has a rapidly developing plant breeding and crop
improvement programs in wheat, paddy and maize. The University of Agricultural
Sciences of Karnataka (UAD, Bangalore) made significant contributions in the
development and release of improved varieties paddy, jowar, pulses, oilseeds,
cotton and ragi. It developed the first interspecific cotton hybrid (Gossy-
pium barbandense x G. hirsutum) for commercial production.
1/   Phase I:  Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab.  This project:
Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
10.       The research stations in Orissa were handed over to the Orissa Uni-
versity of Agriculture and Technology in 1970 and since then several research
schemes, some sponsored by the OUAT and others by ICAR, are in progress. The
Model Agronomic Center of the All-India Coordinated Agronomic Research Project
(AICARP) is located at Chiplima. Its objectives are to determine the produc-
tion potential of crops under optimum input conditions as well as under re-
source constraints operating in different agro-climatic conditions and to
explore and study the potential of intercropping systems. A Regional Testing
Center of AICRIP is also located at Chiplima with four cooperating disciplines:
breeding, agronomy, entomology and pathology. The objectives of the center are
to test and evaluate paddy strains and varieties developed at other research
centers and to develop varieties resistant to gall midge and with good yield
stability. In paddy research, OAUT cooperates closely with the Central Rice
Research Institute (CRRI), Cuttack.
11.       The University of Udaipur (UU, Rajasthan) has recently taken over
agricultural research in Rajasthan. Main centers for breeding and varietal
development are located at Durgapura (Jaipur), Udaipur, Sriganganagar. The
All-India Coordinated Research Projects on various crops sponsored by ICAR,
have intensified the breeding activities on important crops. Major efforts
are directed at varietal improvement in wheat, paddy, bajra, jowar and maize.
12.       Uttar Pradesh has three major Agricultural Universities:  G.B. Pant
University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT, Pantnagar) Chandra Shekar
Azad University of Agriculture and Technology, (CSAUAT, Kanpur), and the
Narendra Deva Evam Prodyogik Vishwavidyalaya (NDEPVK, Faizabad). The latter
is a new university under development. Plant breeding and crop improvement
research is well advanced in Uttar Pradesh, especially at the GBPUAT. Major
emphasis is given to wheat, maize, paddy, pulses and grams, and oilseeds.
Outlook
13.       After some slackening following the successful development, release
and extension of the HYV in the 1960s, plant breeding and crop improvement
research is being intensified under the pressure of stagnation in yields, or
yield reductions from plant pests. Emphasis, therefore, is being given to
incorporation of both horizontal and vertical resistance to pests in agronomi-
cally desirable plant types. There is also much current interest in improv-
ing "minor" and often neglected crops such as the grams and pulses, minor
millets, and oilseeds. India has both the human and material resources needed
to improve varieties of crops important to its economy. A provision for plant
breeding and crop improvement research is not considered crucial under this
project.
14.       For further improvements in plant breeding and research ICAR would,
to a greater extent than at present, relate allocation of resources for breed-
ing programs to their productivity.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
II.  BREEDER SEED PRODUCTION 
Present Situation
15.       There has been inadequate recognition of the fact that plant
breeding per se is pointless. To be productive it must fuel a seed multi-
plication chain. Breeder and foundation generations, for which the research
establishment must have prime responsibility, are critical links in this
chain. They have been neglected. Production of high-quality certified
seed has often been limited by insufficient or poor quality of breeder and
foundation seed. Inferior quality in the early generations also adds to the
cost of production through increased roguing and lower yields - hence increased
price - of certified seed. Generally, plant breeders were not given adequate
resources for breeder seed production. Most so-called breeder seed was not
produced by the original breeder or research station; it was produced elsewhere
without checks to ensure trueness-to-type and was breeder seed in name only.
This practice can lead to the loss of varietal identity and should be stopped.
To overcome the constraints requires additional resources for production, and
centralized coordination, to match the geographically wide demand for breeder
seed of each variety with the (normally) single source.
16.       The project proposals under Phase I were directed at overcoming the
deficiencies in breeder seed production and improving the overall capabilities
and responsiveness of the breeder seed production system in India.
17.       Organization of Breeder Seed Production.  The breeder who evolved
the variety, or his successor, should be responsible for variety maintenance
and production of breeder seed. Exceptions should be made only where demand
outstrips the breeder's productive capacity, or where the variety is imported
from outside India and then with arrangements to ensure trueness-to-type.
Coordination of the production of breeder seed, of varieties relased by the
All-India Coordinated Crop Improvement Committees, would be the responsibility
of ICAR working from demand projections for foundation seed formulated by NSC.
ICAR has designated a senior official, to be solely responsible for this task.
Breeder seed of local varieties would be produced by the Agricultural Univer-
sities on demand from the State Seed Corporations and private growers. Insti-
tutions receiving project support for breeder seed production would establish
units equipped and staffed to specialize in the production and processing of
breeder seed 2/. Greater skills and resources would thus be employed, and the
1/   Breeder seed is the original and recurring stock of seed or vegetatively
propagating material produced and controlled by the breeder (or his
sponsor) that developed the variety. Breeder seed provides the source
for the production of foundation seed.
2/   At institutions producing both breeder and foundation seed the same
unit would be responsible for both.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
breeder would be relieved of many non-scientific tasks (which he did at best
perfunctorily). However, the breeder would remain solely responsible for
breee2r seed quality.
18.       Procedures for Breeder Seed Production.  For self-pollinated crops
at least 500, and preferably 1,500 to 2,000 progeny rows would be grown. Prog-
eny rows containing off-types would be removed before harvest; present practice
is more lax and seed off-types are inadvertently mixed with good seed. The
use of threshing floors is now a common cause of variety mixing. This would
be eliminated by progeny row threshing in the field, using a small, mobile
(Vogel-type) thresher, with bagging and labeling direct from the thresher.
19.       If the breeder seed from the progeny rows were insufficient, a
further increase, not to exceed one generation, would be made by bulk
planting progeny seed and vigorously roguing out off-type plants. The
seed thus harvested would still be breeder seed since its production would
have been monitored by the responsible plant breeder.
20.       In hybrids the inbreds would be maintained by selfing or sib-
pollination, except for the male-sterile A-lines which would be maintained
by pollinating from a fertile counterpart. Breeder seed of composites of
maize, jowar, or bajra would be produced with full sib-pollination, or by
open-pollination in isolation. Recognizable off-types and diseased plants
would be rogued out before pollen shedding; however, care would be taken
to avoid mass selection for specific characteristics since this practice may
lead to a genetic shift in the population. Genetic shift may also result
from growing breeder seed in different environments. The latter would be
partially avoided by producing and storing a quantity of the original com-
posite in a refrigerated area and utilizing it at regular intervals to start
a new breeder seed increase.
21.       Breeder seed production in potatoes would involve checking indi-
vidual tubers and their progenies for freedom from viruses. The breeder seed
stocks would then be increased in the field during the season when aphid
populations were lowest. Potato researchers have developed a satisfactory
technique.
22.       Quality control of breeder seed would be monitored by a committee
comprising representatives of NSC, ICAR, the State Seed Certification Agency
and the breeder. Samples from every lot of breeder seed would be subject to
grow-out tests by the producing institution. In addition to being a quality
control aid, these tests would spotlight seed lots liable to give trouble
at the foundation seed stage.
23.       Demand projections would stem directly from the certified seed pro-
g-ams determined by NSC and State Seed Corporations (SSC). Because of the
long lead times involved prediction inaccuracies would be large. In addition
demand/supply imbalances could occur because of poor harvest or quality con-
trol failure. To safeguard against risks controlled environment storage would
be provided for a carry-over stock of about 50% of annual needs. In assessing
breeder seed demand the private sector would be fully catered for.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
24.       Project investments under Phase I.  Phase I supported breeder seed
programs in 20 institutions at 25 locations. These included 6 ICAR Institutes
(7 locations), 6 Agricultural Universities (10 locations) in Phase I states,
3 Agricultural Universities (4 locations) in states of this project, and 3
Agricultural Universities to be included in a latter phase (details in
Table 3).
25.       This project would re-affirm the proposals under Phase I and extend
support for breeder seed production programs to six Agricultural Universities
in the five project states which either received no assistance under Phase I
(RAU, NDEPVK, UU, OAUT), 1/ or require additional support beyond the provi-
sion under Phase I (CSAUAT, UAS).  Details of project support are given in
Tables 5, 6 and 7. The investments, estimated to cost Rs 2.7 M would provide:
(a) buildings for housing offices, laboratories, preparation
rooms, processing and storage units;
(b) equipment for drying, cleaning and long-term storage of
valuable breeder seed;
(c) office and laboratory furnishings;
(d) vehicles; and
(e) special farm machinery for producing breeder seed, such
as seed drills, threshers, sprayers and dusters.
26.       Investment proposals would be subject to change within general
guidelines as the project progresses. ICAR would determine the needs of
each institution relative to the expansion of breeder seed demand.   Funds
for the breeder seed programs would be provided by GOI as grants to ICAR
and thence as grants to participating Universities.
III. FOUNDATION SEED PRODUCTION 2/
Present Situation
27.       Prior to Phase I, foundation seed were almost solely produced by NSC
using breeder seed obtained from ICAR Institutes. Under these arrangements
1/   Full names of Table 4.
2/   Foundation seed are the progeny of breeder seed and the source of seed
for production of certified seed. For crops, with low seed multiplica-
tion ratios, e.g., potatoes, large-seed grams, foundation seed may be
increased in two stages rather than one.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
the supply of foundation seed was often inadequate in both quantity and
quality. The major reasons for this situation were the limited supply of
breeder seed available, and the lack of proper quality control in breeder
seed production. In turn deficiencies in breeder seed production were attri-
butable to poor organization, and insufficiencies in personnel and facilities.
These inadequacies and deficiencies in both breeder and foundation seed pro-
duction were addressed in Phase I, and ample provisions were made to overcome
them (see also paras 15 through 26).
28.       In addition to the difficulties in the NSC-ICAR production programs,
shortages of land forced NSC to contract foundation seed production with pri-
vate farmers. This arrangement proved not to be satisfactory. The Universi-
ties and State Departments of Agriculture also produced "foundation" seed,
often in large quantities. Much of this production was of uncertain quality
and intended for direct distribution to farmers for commercial production,
rather than for certified seed production.
Phase I Proposals
29.       The proposals under Phase I were designed to establish foundation
seed production at the Agricultural Universities so as to integrate them
(the Universities) into the seed industry and provide for proper supervision
and quality control. Toward these ends investment proposals were made to
provide financing for establishment of a foundation seed unit at each parti-
cipating University and to provide it with the staff, buildings, other
facilities and equipment needed to produce foundation seed in the quantities
and of the quality required.
Specifically, the Phase I proposals were as quoted below. 1/
30.       "Organization for Production of Foundation Seed.  Under the proj-
ect, demand estimation and coordination of foundation seed production of
All-India varieties would be the responsibility of NSC. Estimates of
foundation seed requirements of local varieties would be developed by the
respective SSC. In both cases the demand from private sector producers
would be fully catered for. In the event of overall shortage the private
sector would be treated on par with other users.
31.       "Under the NSP the Universities would have first responsibility for
foundation seed production. It is a key element of NSP policy that the
Universities be fully integrated into the seed industry. This would increase
the breeders' exposure to seed users; increasing breeder responsibility and
accountability should improve seed quality through the multiplication chain.
To assist the breeders, and to develop the skills necessary for foundation
seed production, a special foundation seed production unit would be created
at each participating University.
1/   Appraisal of National Seed Project - India.  Report No. 1064a-IN,
Annex 1, paras 24-32.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
32.       "To the extent that Universities lacked land to fully meet founda-
tion seed demand the balance would be produced by State Farms Corporation
of India (SFCI) ...- All foundation seed farms require additional facilities
to improve and expand their output and these would be provided under the
project.
33.       "Under the proposed scheme, NSC would guarantee purchase of all
foundation seed, for All-India varieties, that it requests Universities (and
other institutions) to produce. This quantity would be based on NSC's assess-
ment of certified seed requirements for intrastate and interstate use. The
purchase guarantee would not apply to local varieties produced for intrastate
use only. Because demand and production are not accurately predictable a
GOI-financed reserve stock scheme would be operated for foundation seed as
for certified seed... Stocks maintained would be 50% for hybrids (maize,
sorghum, pearl millet) and 10% for self-pollinated crops (mainly wheat and
paddy). The latter are less of a risk because, in an emergency, certified
seed can be upgraded.
34.       "Foundation Seed Production Procedures.  Foundation of self-
pollinated crops (wheat, rice, barley, pulses, etc.) and composites (maize,
millet, sorghum) would be increased from breeder seed under appropriate
isolation. Foundation seed of hybrids would be produced from parent inbred
lines under appropriate isolation. With hybrids of sorghum and pearl millet
the male-sterile parent A-line would be produced by crossing with its male-
fertile counterpart. A second state of increase from breeder seed would be
needed where the seed demand for a particular variety is large; this will
occur particularly in wheat. Rigorous roguing of all seed production fields
is required. Cost of roguing foundation seed fields will be reduced if purity
of breeder seed is high, as expected under the project; likewise high purity
of foundation seed would reduce presently excessive roguing costs in certi-
fied seed fields, a factor in high seed prices.
35.       "Quality control would be provided by (a) official certification
of all foundation seed fields, (b) inspections made by the originating
breeder, and (c) grow-out tests on all foundation seed lots by the State
Seed Certification Agency. The grow-out tests would serve as both post-
control tests for the foundation seed and pre-control tests for certified
seed lots. The latter would materially assist quality control in certified
seed. Both private and public sector foundation seed producers would be
subject to the same quality control procedures".
36.       The above policies and proposals would be re-affirmed under this
project.
37.       Project investments.  Under Phase I provision was made to improve
the seed processing facilities on the University farms of the four Phase I
states. Also included were investments for the development of University
farms to increase their capability to produce foundation seed. Similarly,
under this project provision would be made for establishing and equipping
drying, processing and storage facilities at six Universities in the five



ANNEX 3
Page 9
project states. Details of the estimated investment cost are in Tables 8, 9
and 10. G.P. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology in Uttar Pradesh
has a well developed, operative foundation seed establishment, and requires
no further investment under the project. Investment cost related to Univer-
sity farm development would also be financed under the project, but are
discussed separately in Annex 4.
38.       Funds for the foundation seed program would be provided to the
Universities by GOI (25%) and participating banks (75%). Details are in
Annex 12.
39.       The Universities would operate their foundation seed units as
commercial ventures and sell foundation seed at a price which would provide
at least 18% return on capital employed at the time of full development of
the program (see Annex 14, paras 1-6, and Tables 1 and 2).
40.       NSC would provide consultancy services to the Universities on
organization, facility development and operational procedures, in addition
to its role in assessing the demand for foundation seed and guaranteeing off-
take of programmed production of foundation seed of regional or All-India
varieties. Procurement of buildings and equipment would also be handled by
NSC with processing equipment being bulked with that of SSC.
41.       SSC would project the demand for foundation seed of local, intra-
state varieties and place firm orders for foundation seed with the Universities.
IV. CERTIFIED SEED PRODUCTION
Introduction
42.       Phase I project included four states with certified seed production.
This project extends certified seed production to five additional states.
Coordination of production under NSP guidelines and key concepts and acceptance
of the national seed demand matrix (Annex 13, Table 5) would permit the devel-
opment of a responsible and responsive seed industry while minimizing problems
associated with over-and under-production.
43.       Certified seed production is the central thrust of the NSP.  The main
benefits to India from implementation of the NSP will be derived from the in-
creased food crops production and production efficiency resulting from farmer
use of high quality seed of superior varieties. To these ends the investments
proposed are designed to provide the facilities and services required to develop
effective, efficient and responsible seed industries in the states involved.
Present Situation
44.       Seed production - certified and otherwise - is well developed in
the Sriganganagar District in Rajasthan, in Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh,
especially by the Tarai Development Corporation headquartered at Pantnagar,



ANNEX 3
Page 10
U.P. In Bihar and Orissa, seed production is in its infancy and both states
have been almost wholly dependent on seed imports from other states.
45.       The private sector is heavily involved in production of hybrid
seed in Karnataka, which has a very favorable climate for production of these
kinds of seed. Karnataka, therefore, is a major source of hybrid seed (prin-
cipally jowar, bajra and maize) for the other states. In Rajasthan, the SCFI
farms at Suratgarh and Jetsar, and some larger private holdings are major
producers of wheat seed for NSC. TDC headquartered at Pantnagar has developed
an outstanding, quality-seed production and supply program. It is a major
supplier of seed to the eastern states and frequently exports to Nepal and
Bangladesh.
Project Proposal
46.       This project would extend certified seed production, to the follow-
ing five states: Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh.
Phased seed production goals would be those established in the national seed
demand matrix for paddy, wheat and the hybrids. The production goals for seed
of other crops are based on demand assessments by each state. Seed of the
latter crops would primarily be used within the state, while those of the
former would be used both internally and for export as per the demand matrix
(Annex 13, Table 5). The phased certified seed production goals are at
Annex 5, Table 1.
47.       To accomplish the established seed production goals, a seed corp-
oration (SSC) would be established in each state. Investment proposals would
provide each SSC with adequate facilities for processing and storage of seed
(Annex 5). Services required for the proper quality control of seed would
be developed or expanded (Annex 6). The investments proposed for breeder and
foundation seed production would assure the proper development of these fund-
amental prerequisites for certified seed production (paras 15-41). Finally,
investments are proposed for further development of seed research at the
Universities so that an adequate capability would be developed for resolving
technical problems encountered in seed production, drying, processing and
storage (paras 48-64).
V. SEED TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH
Introduction
48.       Successful implementation of a seed project of the size and scope
of the NSP, would require a continuing input of applied research information.
Information derived from applied research, problem-solving and developmental
work is and will be needed to resolve the many difficulties and problems
that exist and will arise during the project implementation phase and there-
after.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
49.       It should be strongly emphasized that the seed research needs in
India are of the applied, problem-solving, developmental types. Research
must be focused on and relevant to the objective and mission of the NSP and
related activities, i.e., production and supply of adequate quantities of
quality seed for the Indian farmer at reasonable prices. Considering the
many problems in seed production, processing, storage and usage that presently
confront the seed program, and for which answers are lacking, non-mission
oriented seed research of the academic type is a luxury that cannot be justi-
fied. Ample research of this type is underway in the developed countries
and the results are equally available and useful in India.
Present Situation
50.       There is very little seed research underway that is relevant to
actual or potential seed problems in India. Yet, it was evident during the
appraisals of Phase I and this project that there are a variety of seed
problems that must be satisfactorily resolved. Vital information needed
during the appraisals was often unavailable. Such information should have
been available from applied, problem-solving research. Examples: during the
appraisal the question was asked as to the yield advantage of industry pro-
duced and supplied seed of an improved variety as compared to farmer saved
seed of the same variety. This information was unavailable although it is
vital for seed industry development, for extension programs, and for deter-
mining the seed replacement rates needed for the different kinds of seed.
During the appraisals, questions arose regarding the degree of "favorableness"
or "adversity" of the prevailing climatic pattern for seed production and
storage. There were many opinions, but few facts.
51.       Evidence obtained during the appraisals indicates that there are
both immediate and long-term needs for seed research in India to adequately
support the seed industry expansion proposals under the NSP.
Phase I Proposals
52.       The establishment of seed technology research units along with
adequate investments in facilities and equipment were proposed for five
Universities in the Phase I project. These included major research units
at the Punjab, Andra Pradesh, and Akola (Maharashtra) Agricultural Universi-
ties, and lesser programs at the Haryana and Parbhani (Maharashtra) Agricul-
tural Universities.
53.       Research tasks for each of the Universities were assigned on the
basis of their previous experience, climatic patterns, and the kinds of crops
grown.
Proposals under this Project
54.       The proposals in this project would establish seed technology
research units at RAU (Bihar), UAS (Karnataka), OUAT (Orissa), and UU
(Rajasthan), with limited assistance to CSAUAT and NDEPVK (Uttar Pradesh).



ANNEX 3
Page 12
The GBPUAT at Pantnagar, U.P., has one of the two well developed, productive
seed research programs in India.
55.       The seed technology research units proposed would be established
as interdisciplinary projects or programs in each University rather than
as a new and separate department. A productive seed technology research
program requires a variety of talents from several disciplines: agronomy,
botany, agricultural engineering, plant breeding, agricultural economics.
A summary of the investment and operating costs at the various Universities
included in the project is given in Table 11.
Rajendra Agricultural University (RAU, Bihar)
56.       Seed technology research at RAU would be organized as an interdis-
ciplinary program cooperative among the Departments of Agronomy (Plant Breed-
ing), Botany, Horticulture and Agricultural Engineering. A coordinator and
senior research officer would be appointed and staff assigned from the
various departments to the interdisciplinary program. Investment costs for
additional laboratory space, offices, and equipment together with operating
costs are at Table 12.
57.       Seed research at RAU would focus on:
-    multiplication and production of potato seed tubers;
-    the deterioration in seed quality associated with farmer
seed saving practices;
-    storage of wheat, gram and pulse seed.
University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS, Karnataka)
58.       Seed technology research at UAS would be organized as on interdisci-
plinary program among the Departments of Agronomy, Plant Breeding and Agricul-
tural Engineering, with a Senior Research Officer appointed as coordinator or
leader and other staff drawn from the cooperating departments. Investment
proposals for additional laboratory and office space, equipment, and other
facilities together with operating costs are at Table 13.
59.       Major research emphasis would be given to all problems associated
with the production of hybrid seed: outcrossing, pollen shedding of male-
sterile lines, mis-matching of anthesis and female flower receptivity,
harvesting, drying and processing.
Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT)
60.       The OUAT would organize its seed research as an interdisciplinary
program cooperative among the Departments of Agronomy, Plant Breeding, and
Agricultural Engineering. A Senior Seed Research Officer would be appointed
as coordinator of the program with other staff drawn from the cooperating



ANNEX 3
Page 13
departments. Investment proposals for additional laboratory and office
space, equipment, and other facilities as well as operating costs are at
Table 14.
61.       Seed research at OUAT would emphasize:
-    relative advantages of seed production in late rabi
("summer crops") versus kharif production;
-    production of groundnut seed; mechanical damage asso-
ciated with shelling and its effects on storability;
-    multiplication and production of potato seed tubers.
University of Udaipur (UU, Rajasthan)
64.       At UU, seed technology research would be organized as an interdis-
ciplinary program cooperative among the Departments of Botany, Agronomy (Plant
Breeding) and Agricultural Engineering with a Senior Seed Research Officer
appointed as coordinator and staff drawn from the cooperating departments.
Investments proposed for additional laboratory and office space, equipment
and other facilities as well as operating costs are at Table 15.
62.       The seed research program at UU would seek to establish:
-    the extent of yield losses associated with farmer seed
saving practices;
-    the degree to which major cereal seed, particularly wheat,
should be processed to remove undersize seed;
-    the potential for production of vegetable seed under arid
conditions in Sriganganagar area;
-    the potential use of solar drying technology for drying
paddy seed.
CSAUAT and NDEPVK (Uttar Pradesh)
-4.       CSAUAT and NDEPVK would be provided limited funds for investments
.n research equipment to develop a sufficient capability in an existing
department (Agronomy) to resolve some of the immediate technical problems
arising during implementation of the NSP in the zones they serve. Expansion
much beyond the present operational capabilities would not be required, be-
cause GBPUAT has a seed research program adequate to serve the long-term,
broader needs of the overall seed industry in U.P. The amounts provided for
the purchase of equipment and instruments for seed research are Rs 50,000 for
each CSAUAT (Kanpur) and NDEPVK (Faizabad).



ANNEX 3
Table I
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
ICAR Research Institutes Engaged in Plant Breeding Research
1.   IARI -    Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi
2.   CRRI -    Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack, Orissa
3.   JARI -    Jute Agricultural Research Institure, Barrackpore, W.B.
4.   IHR  -    Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore, Karnataka
5.   CPRI -    Central Potato Research Institute, Simla, H.P.
6.   IGFRI-    Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi,
U.P.
7.   CTCRI-    Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Tivandrum, Kerala
8.   SBI  -    Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, T.N.
9.   CTRI -    Central Tobacco Research Institute, Rajahamundry, A.P.
10.   IRC  -    ICAR Research Complex, Shillong, Megghalaya
11.   CICR -    Central Institute for Cotton Research, Nagpur, Maharashtra
(new in Fifth Plan).
July 22, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Agricultural Universities
1.   GBPUAT   -    Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and
Technology Pantnagar (U.P.)
2.   PAU      -    Punjab Agricultural University, Chandigarh
3.   UU      _     University of Udaipur, Udaipur (Rajasthan)
4.   OUAT     -    Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology,
Bhubaneswar
5.   APAU     -    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, Hyderabad
6.   UAS      -    University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore
(Karnataka)
7.   JVLVV    -    Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya (West Bengal)
8.   BCKVV    -    Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya (West Bengal)
9.   KKV      -    Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli (Maharashtra)
10.   MPKV     -    Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola (Maharashtra)
11.   PKV      -    Punjababrao Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola (Maharashtra)
12.   AAU      -    Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat
13.   HAU      -    Haryana Agricultural University, Hissar
14.   RAU      -    Rajendra Agricultural University, Pusa (Bihar)
15.   KAU      -    Kerala Agricultural University, Mannuthy (Kerala)
16.   HPU      -    Himachal Pradesh University (Agricultural Complex)
(Simla)
17.   TNAU     -    Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
18.   MKV      -    Marathwada Krishi Vidyapeeth, Parbhani (Maharashtra)
19.   GAU      -    Gujarat Agricultural University
20.   SMAU     -    Sadiq Memorial Agricultural University, Srinagar (J&K)
21.   ISARI    -    Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi
22.   CSAUAT   -    Chandra Shekar Azad University of Agriculture and
Technology, Kanpur (U.P.)
23.   NDEPVK   -    Narendra Deva Evam Prodyogik Vishwavidyalaya5Faiza-
bad (U.P.)
24.   BHU      -    Benares Hindu University (U.P.)
July 22, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 3
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Institutions Receiving Assistance Under Phase I for
Breeder Seed Production
Institution               Location                      Crops
1.   ICAR Research Institutes for Production of Breeder Seed
IARI                   Karnal, Haryana           Wheat, barley, oats
maize, pulses, oilseeds
vegetables
IARI                   Katrain, H.P.             Pulses, vegetables
CPRI                   Jullunder, Punjab         Potatoes
AICRIP (will be
combined with APAU)   Rajendranagar, A.P.        Rice
CRRI                   Cuttack, Orissa           Rice
JARI                   Barrackpur, W.B.          Jute
IHR                    Bangalore, Karnataka    Vegetables
IGFRI                  Jhansi, U.P.              Forages
2.   Agricultural Universities in Phase I States
PAU                    Ludhiana, Punjab          Processing and storage only
PAU                    Mattewara Farm            Wheat, barley, maize, pearl
millet, pulses, oilseeds,
fodders, minor millets,
vegetables
PAU                    Kapurthala Farm          Rice
HAU                    Hissar, Haryana          Wheat, rice, pearl millet,
cotton, pulses, oilseeds
fodders, tobacco, vegetables



ANNEX 3
Table 3
Page 2
Institution               Location                      Crops
APAU/AICRIP            Rajendranagar, A.P.       Rice, sorghum, pearl millet,
maize, pulses, oilseeds,
cotton, millets, vegetables
PKV                     Akola, Maharashtra       Cotton, sorghum, pearl
millet, pulses, oilseeds
PKV                     Niphad, Maharashtra    Wheat
MKV                     Parbhani, Maharashtra  Sorghum, pearl millet,
pulses, oilseeds
MPKV                    Rahuri, Maharashtra    Sorghum, forages, oilseeds,
rice, cotton
3.   Agricultural Universities Outside Phase I States
GBPUAT                  Pantnagar, U.P.          Wheat, barley, maize, pulses,
oilseeds, vegetables
BHU                     Varanasi, U.P.          Wheat
CSAUAT                  Kanpur, U.P.            Wheat, barley, pulses,
oilseeds
TNAU                    Coimbatore, T.N.         Sorghum, pulses, oilseeds,
millets, vegetables
UAS                     Bangalore, Karnataka   Pulses, oilseeds, millets,
vegetables
JNKV                    Jabalpur, M.P.          Wheat, pulses, oilseeds,
millets, forages, vegetables
GAU                     Jammagar, Gujarat        Sorghum, pulses, oilseeds,
millets
July 22, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Institutions to Receive Assistance for Breeder Seed
Production Under the Second National Seed Project
Agricultural Universities in Project States
1.   RAU       -    Rajendra Agricultural University, Pusa (Bihar)
2.   UAS       -    University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore
(Karnataka)
3.   OUAT      -    Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology,
Bhubaneswar
4.   UU       -     University of Udaipur, Udaipur (Rajasthan)
5.   CSAUAT    -    Chandra Shekar Azad University of Agriculture
and Technology, Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh)
6.   NDEPVK    -    Narendra Deva Evam Prodyogik Vishwavidyalaya,
Faizabad (U.P.)
July 22, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Breeder Seed - Investment Cost SuLmmary-'
Total       Foreign
Costs       Exchange      ---------- Phasing - ---------
Rs. '000    % Rs. '000    Year 1 2/   Year 2          Year 3
BIHAR
Buildings                           235     10      24        85          150           -
Processing Equipment                105     41      43                    105           -
Farm Machinery                       67     25      17        34           33           -
Other Equipment                     165     23      38         -           80           85
Physical Contingencies               40     18       6         -           10           30
Subtotal                         612      21    128        119          378          115
KARNATAKA
Buildings                           205     10      20                    105          100
Processing Equipment                105     41      43                     45           60
Farm Machinery                        -     -       -                      -            -
Other Equipment                     165     23      38                     85           80
Physical Contingencies               34     18       6                      9           25
Subtotal                         509      21    107                     244          265
ORISSA
Buildings                           235     10      24        85          150           -
Processing Equipment                105     41      43         -          105           -
Farm Machinery                       67     25      17        34           33           -
Other Equipment                     165     23      38         -           80           85
Physical Contingencies               40     18       7         -           10           30
Subtotal                         612      21    129       119           378          115
RAJASTHAN
Buildings                            91     -       -         60           31           -
Processing Equipment                  -
Farm Machinery                        -     -       _-                    - 
Other Equipment                      85     18      15        85          -
Physical Contingencies               13     14       2         3           10
Subtotal                         189       9      17      148           41
UTTAR PRADESH
Buildings                           293      8      23        58          235           -
Processing Equipment                105     41      43        -          105           -
Farm Machinery                      67      25      17        -           67           -
Other Equipment                     250     24      61        -          100          150
Physical Contingencies               50     14       7        -            10           40
Subtotal                         765      20    151        58          517          190
Total Breeder Seed Investment    2,687        20    532        444       1,558           685
1/ Further details in Tables 6 and 7.
2/ Includes expenditures in pre-project year.
8/1/77



ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Breeder Seed - Investment Costsl/
Unit          BIEAR          KARNATAKA-/       ORISSA                        Foreign
ITEM              UNIT       Cost            RAU              UAS             OUAT           Total         Exchange
_______ __       (Rs. '000)  No.  Rs. '000  No.  Rs. '000  No.  Rs. '000  (Rs. '000)  o/o  Rs. '000
1. Buildings
Offices                      2          0.4        30    12.0       30    12.0       30    12.0         36.0
Toilets                     142         0.6        16      9.6      16      9.6      16      9.6        28.8
Preparation rooms (3)       M2          0.4        90    36.0       90    36.0       90    36.0        108.0
General storage             M2          0.4        50    20.0       50    20.0       50    20.0         60.0
Processing area             M2          0.4        90    36.0       90    36.0       90    36.0        108.0
Cold store (seed)           M2           1.0       60    60.0       60    60.0       60    60.0        180.0        25    45.0
Conditioned store           M2          0.8        40    32.0       40    32.0       40    32.0         96.0        25    24.0
Threshing/drying floor    M2            0.075   400    30.0                         400     30.0        60.0
Subtotal                                              235.6            205.6            235.6        676.8        10    69.0
2. Processing Equipment
Bagged seed dryer under
shed (48 bag unit)         No.       24.0        1    24.0         1    24.0        1    24.0         72.0        30    21.6
Heater fan unit              No.       20.0         1    20.0        1    20.0        1    20.0         60.0        30    18.0
Air-screen cleaners
0.2 MT/hr                  No.       30.0         1    30.0        1    30.0        1    30.0         90.0        30    27.0
*Aspirator cleaner            No.        12.0        1    12.0        1    12.0        1    12.0          36.0       95    34.2
*Lab. model indent
separator                  No.       10.0         1    10.0        1    10.0        1    10.0         30.0       95    28.5
Subtotal                                               96.0             96.0             96.0        288.0       45   129.3
3. Accessories                  Set        20.0        1    20.0        1    20.0        1    20.0          60.0       15      9.0
(moisture tester,
tarpaulins, tools,
sprayers & dusters,
rotary drum, seed
treater, etc.)
4. Farm Machinery
Seed drill                   No.       12.0         1    12.0                         1    12.0         24.0        25      6.0
Sprayer (plot)               No.        6.0         1      6.0                        1      6.0        12.0        25      3.0
Thresher (vogel type)        No.       35.0         1    35.0                         1    35.0         70.0        25    17.5
Thresher (single head)       No.       10.0         1    10.0                         1    10.0         20.0        25      5.0
Maize sheller                No.         4.0        1      4.0                        1      4.0          8.0       25      2.0
Subtotal                                               67.0                              67.0        134.0       25    33.5
5. Vehicles
4WD "Jeep" w/ trailer        No.       65.0         1    65.0        1    65.0        1    65.0        195.0        25    48.7
6. Furnishings                   Set       20.0        1    20.0        1    20.0        1    20.0         60.0
7. Generator (Diesel)
50 KIJA                    No.       60.0         1    60.0        1    60.0        1    60.0        180.0       30    54.0
8. Totals                                                   563.6            466.6            563.6    1,593.8         22   343.5
9. Import Duties                                              8.8              8.8              8.8        26.4
10. Physical Contingencies4/                                  40.0             33.6             40.0       113.6        18    20.6
11. Total Investment Costs                                   612.4            509.03'          612.4    1,733.8         21   364.1
*  Items subject to 40% import duty.
1/ Full names of universities at Table 4.
2/ UAS in Karnataka was already alloted Rs. 120,000 under Phase I.
3/ Incremental cost over Phase I provision.
4/ 10% on buildings; 5% on machinery and equipment.
August 3, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Breeder Seed - Investment Costs V
Unit      RAJASTHAN       ------ UTTAR PRADESH -------                    Foreign
ITEM              UNIT       Cost         UW 2/          CSAUAT 3/         NDEPVK         Total        Exchange
_ _ _ ___  (Rs. '000)  No.  Rs. '000  o_.  Rs. '000  No.  Rs. '000  (Rs. '000)  0/o  Rs. '000
1. Buildings
Offices                    M2          0.4      60    24.0       30    12.0      30    12.0         48.0
Toilets                    M2          0.6       32    19.2      16     9.6      16      9.6        38.4
Preparation room (3)       M           0.4     120    48.0       90    36.0      90    36.0        120.0
General storage            M2          0.4                                       50    20.0         20.0
Processing area            M2          0.4                                       90    36.0         36.0
Cold store (seed)          M2          1.0                                       60    60.0         60.0       25    15.0
Conditioned store          M2          0.8                                       40    32.0         32.0       25      8.0
Threshing/drying floor   M2            0.075   -                                400    30.0         30.0
Subtotal                                             91.2            57.6            235.6       384.4        6    23.0
2. Prccessing Equipment
Bagged seed dryer under
shed (48 bag unit)       No.       24.0                                         1    24.0         24.0       30    7.2
Heater-fan unit             No.       20.0                                        1    20.0         20.0       30    6.0
Air-screen cleaners
C.2 MT/hr                 No.      30.0                                         1    30.0         30.0       30    9.0
*Aspirator cleaner           No.       12.0                                        1    12.0         12.0       95   11.4
*Lab model indent
separator                 No.      10.0                                         1    10.0         10.0       95    9.5
Subtotal                                                                              96.0        96.0       45   43.1
3. Accessories                 Set       20.0        1    20.0       1    20.0        1    20.0        60.0       15    9.0
(Moisture tester,
tarpaulins, tools,
sprayers & dusters,
rotary drum, seed
treater, etc.)
4. Farm Machinery
Seed drill                  No.      12.0                                         1    12.0         12.0       25    3.0
Sprayer (plot)              No.        6.0                                        1      6.0         6.0       25    1.5
Thresher (vogel type)       No.       35.0                                        1    35.0         35.0       25    8.7
Thresher (single head)    No.        10.0                                         1    10.0         10.0       25    2.5
Maize sheller               No.        4.0                                        1      4.0         4.0       25    1.0
Subtotal                                                                              67.0        67.0       25   16.7
5. Vehicles
4WD' "Jeep" w/trailer       No.       65.0        1    65.0       1    65.0       1    65.0        195.0       25    48.7
6. Furnishings                 Set       20.0                                         1    20.0        20.0
7. Generator (Diesel)
50 KUA                      No.      60.0                 -                -      1    60.0         60.0       30    18.0
8. Totals                                                176.2            142.6           563.6       882.4       18   158.5
9. Import Duties                                                                            8.8         8.8
10. Physical Contingencies5/                               13.4             10.0            40.1        63.5       14      9.1
11. Total Investment Costs                                189.64/          152.6-4/        612.5       954.7       18   167.6
* Items subject to 40% import duty.
l/ Full names of universities in Table 4.
2/ UU in Rajasthan was already alloted Rs. 690,000 under Phase I.
3/ CSAUAT in Uttar Pradesh was already alloted Rs. 690,000 under Phase I.
4/ Incremental cost over Phase I provision.
5/ 10% on buildings; 5% on machinery and equipment.
August 2, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 8
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Foundation Seed - Investment Cost Summar-l/
Total         Foreign        -----------  Phasing ------------
Costs         Exchange
Rs. '000    %   Rs. '000   Year 1 2/ Year 2   Year 3   Year 4
BIHAR                   3/
Processing Equipment-           1,537      43      663       400       700       437
Other Equipment3/                 521      30       157       80       200       241
Buildings & Site Development  2,481        10       254    1,000       900       581
Physical Contingencies            343      21        71      _          40       100       203
Subtotal                      4,882      23    1,145    1,480    1,840    1,359         203
KARNATAKA               3/
Processing Equipment-           2,002      42       844      400       900       702
Other Equipment 3/                687      31       213                350       337
Buildings & Site Development  2,249        10       223      800       850       599
Physical Contingencies            346      21        72                 40       100       206
Subtotal                      5,284      26    1,352    1,200    2,140    1,738         206
ORISSA                  3/
Processing Equipment-           1,331      42      563       300       600       431
Other Equipment 3/                513      30       155       20       250       243
Buildings & Site Development  1,716        10       170      700       600       416
Physical Contingencies            255      21        53                 20        50       185
Subtotal                      3,815      25      941    1,020    1,470    1,140         185
RAJASTHAN              3/
Processing Equipment-           2,039      43       874      550       850       639
Other Equipment 3/                977      31       302      100       400       477
Buildings & Site Development  2,275         6       139    1,150       750       375
Physical Contingencies            363      19        69                 40       100       223
Subtotal                      5,654      24    1,384    1,800    2,040    1,591          223
UTTAR PRADESH          3/
Processing Equipment-           2,171      44       957      600       900       671
Other Equipment 3/                996      31       308        50      500       446
Buildings & Site Development  3,110         6       197    1,050    1,280        780
Physical. Contingencies           457      19        87                 50       125       282
Subtotal                      6,734      23    1,549    1,700    2,730    2,022         282
Total Foundation Seed
Investment                     26,369      24    6,371    7,200   10,220    7,850    1,099
1/  Further details in Tables 9 and 10.
2/ Includes expenditure in pre-project year.
3/ Includes duties, spares, assembly, installation and electrification.
August 25, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 9
Page   I
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Foundation Seed - Investment Costs
UNIT COST          Bihar           Karnataka            Orissa              TOTAL         ForeignErchape
ITEM                       UNIT   (RS. '000)  No.   Rs. '000   No.   RS. '000   No.   RS. '000    (Re. '000)                  7%      RS. 100
1. Machinery/Equipment
Intake pit                                 No.        15.0        1        15.0      2        30.0       1       15.0           60.0         -           -
Drying equipment
(1) Fan - heater unit                     No.       20.0        2        40.0       4        80.0       2       40.0          160.0         30        48.0
(2) Inclined auger, 5M                    No.         8.0       1          8.0      1         8.0       1        8.0           24.0         30          7.2
(3) Unloading auger, 4M                   No.         8.0       1          8.0      2        16.0       1        8.0           32.0         30          9.6
*(4) Portable, inclined drag               No.        10.0       1         20.0      1        10.0       2       20.0           50.0         95        47.5
flight conveyor
Sheller, maize (1 TPH)                     No.        12.0        2        24.0      1         12.0      -        -             36.0         -           -
Potato, sorting, washing,                  No.       100.0       2        200.0      1       100.0       1      100.0          400.0         30        120.0
drying system (10 TPH)
Convev r , horizontal
(1) 20 NT/hr. X 20M                       No.        50.0       1        50.0       1        50.0       1       50.0          150.0         30        45.0
(2) 10 MT/hr. X IOM                       No.        20.0       1        20.0       1        20.0       1       20.0           60.0         30        18.0
Vertical bucket elevators
(1) 10 MT/hr. X 8M                        No.        18.0       2        36.0       -         -         -        -             36.0         30        10.8
(2) 5 MT/hr. X 8M                         No.        12.0       2        24.0       4        48.0       2       24.0           96.0         30        28.8
(3) 5 MT/hr. X 6M                         No.        10.0       6        60.0       6        60.0       7       70.0          190.0         30        57.0
Scalper (10 MT/hr)                         No.        35.0        1        35.0      2         70.0      1       35.0          140.0         30         42.0
Air-screen cleaner
(1) 1.5 MT/hr., w/indent cylinder    No.           120.0        1       120.0       2       240.0       1      120.0          480.0         95       456.0
(2) 0.5 MT/hr.                            No.        20.0       1        20.0       -         -         1       20.0           40.0         20          8.0
(3) 0.2 MT/hr.                            No.        10.0       1        10.0       2        20.0       1       10.0           40.0         20          8.0
*Gravity separator (0.5 MT/hr.)              No.       60.0        1        60.0       2       120.0      1       60.0          240.0         95        228.0
Spiral separator (twin)                    No.        12.0        1        12.0      -          -        -        -             12.0         -           -
*Aspirator/cleaner (twin tube)               No.       30.0        1        30.0       2        60.0      1       30.0          120.0          95       114.0
Surge/holding bins with hopper
bottom
(1M  1.5 X 1.5 X 1.5M                     No.         5.0       3        15.0       6        30.0       3       15.0           60.0         -          -
(2) 1.5 X 1 X 1.5M                        No.         5.0       2         10.0      4        20.0       2       10.0           40.0         -          -
(3) 1 X 1 X JM                            No.         4.0       2         8.0       2         8.0       2        8.0           24.0         -          -
(4) 1 X 1 X 0.5M                          No.         4.0       3        12.0       4        16.0       3       12.0           40.0         -          -
*Treater, slurry "wet"                       No.        70.0       1        70.0       1        70.0       1       70.0          210.0         95       199.5
type (5 MT/hr.)
*Bagger-weigher system  with                 No.       35.0        1        35.0      2         70.0      1       35.0          140.0         95        133.0
bag closer
*Bag closer, portable                        No.       10.0        1        10.0       2        20.0      1       10.0           40.0         30         12.0
Bag carts
1  2 -wheel (100 kg)                      No.         1.0       6          6.0      8         8.0       6        6.0           20.0         20         4.0
(2) 4 - wheel (800 kg)                    No.         3.5       4        14.0       6        21.0      4        14.0           49.0         20         9.8
*Bag conveyor, portable                      No.       25.0        2        50.0       2        50.0      2       50.0          150.0         95        142.5
Dust aspiration system w/cyclone           No.        25.0        2        50.0      4       100.0       2       50.0          200.0         30        63.0Q
Sub-Total                                                         1,072.D            1,357.0              910.0        3,339.0         54    1,808.7
2. Accessory En uiiment
Vacuum cleaner (heavy-duty)                No.        10.0        2        20.D      2        20.0       2       20.0           60.0         20        12.0
Air compressor                              No.        9.0        1         9.0      2         18.0      1        9.0           36.0         20          7.2
Diesel generator (60 KVA)                  No.        80.0       1         80.0      2       160.0       1       80.0          320.0         30        96.0
Sub-Total                                                           109.0              198.0              100.0          416.0         28       115.2
3. Assembly, Installation                                                    206.7               272.1             178.3          657.1         30       197.1
& Electrification (17.5% of
sub-totals 1 & 2)
4. Spares (10% of sub-totals I & 2)                                          118.1               155.5             101.9          375.5         20         75.1
5. Miscellaneous Accessories                  Set        30.0        1        30.0     1.5        45.0      1       30.0          105.0         30        31.5
(Platform scales, tarpaulins,
sprayers duster, gram scales,
tools etc.)
6. Vehicles
Van                                        No.        60.0       1         60.0      1        60.0       1       60.0          180.0        25         45.0
4WD "Jeep" w/trailer                       No.        65.0        1        65.0      2       130.0       1       65.0          260.0         25        65.0
Light truck                                No.        90.0        1        90.0      -         -         1       90.0          180.0         25        45.0
Motorcycle                                 No.         9.0       2         18.0      2        18.0       2       18.0           54.0        25         13.5
Sub-Total                                                           233.0              208.0              233.0          674.0         25       168.5



ANNEX 3
nTae
Page 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Foundation Seed - Investment Cost
UNIT COST       Bihar             Karnataka            Orissa              TOTAL      Foreign Exchange
ITEM                       UNIT   (Rs. '000)  No.   RS. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000    (Rs. '000)                 %       Re. '000
*7. Lab./Quality Control Equipment              Set       40.0        1        40.0     1.5        60.0      1       40.0           140.0        95        133.0
B. Threshers
Vogel-type                                 No.       35.0        1        35.0       2        70.0      1       35.0           140.0        30         42.0
Single head                                No.       10.0        2        20.0       2        20.0      2       20.0             60.0       30          18.0
Sheller, maize, small                      No.        4.0        2         8.0       2         8.0      -         -             16.0        30           4.8
Sub-Total                                                          63.0                98.0              55.0           216.0        30          64.8
9. Air Conditioners                           No.         4.0       4         16.0      6        24.0       4       16.0            56.0       30          16.8
10. Site Development  -/                       ha        100.0      1.5      150.0       2       200.0      1.5     150.0           500.0        -          -
11. Building/Facilities
Offices                                   M2           0.4    135         54.0   180          72.0   135        54.0           180.0        -
Laboratory                                M2           0.4      75        30.0   100          40.0    75        30.0           100.0        -
Toilets                                   M2           0.6      54        32.4    72          43.2    54        32.4           108.0        -
Preparation area (2)                      M           0.4    162          64.8   216          86.4   108        43.2           194.4        -
General storage (2)                       M2           0.4      90        36.0   120          48.0    60        24.0           108.0        -
Receiving/intake area                     M            0.4    216         86.4   288        '115.2   144        57.6           259.2        -
areas                          2
quantities                   M            0.4    216          86.4   288        115.2   144         57.6           259.2       -
(2) Small quantities                     M2          0.4    120          48.0      -         -         -        -              48.0        -
Ventilatecl storage -/                    M            0.4    370        148.0   100          40.0   150        60.0           248.0        -
Conditioned storage 2/                    M2           0.8    135        108.0   110          88.0    50        40.0           236.0        25        59.0
Drying/storage bins         6/             2
(1) Masonry  bin w/shed -                M           0.6       50        30.0    50         30.0       -        -              60.0        -          -
(2) Bagged seed dryer under shed -  M2               0.3    156          46.8  46.8        140.4   312         93.6           280.8        -          -
Cold storage (seed)    9/                 M2           1.0      80        80.0    80          80.0    80        80.0           240.0        25        60.0
Cold storage (potatoes) -               M ton          0.8  1,000        800.0   500         400.0   500       400.0         1,600.0        25       400.0
Drying floor (elevated)                   M2        0.075      200        15.0   400          30.0   200        15.0            60.0        -           -
Prep./sorting shed (potatoes)             M2           0.3    400        120.0   200          60.0   300        90.0           270.0        -          -
Workshop                                  M            0.4      25        10.0    50          20.0    25        10.0            40.0        -          -
Staff quarters                           MN           0.35     600       210.0   800        280.0   600        210.0           700.0        -          -
Sub-Total                                                       2,005.8            1,688.4            1,297.4         4,991.6        10       519.0
Architect's fee (8%)                                                     160.5               135.1             103.8           399.4
Office/lab furnishings                    Set        20.0       1.5       30.0       2        40.0     1.5      30.0           100.0
Electrical
(I) Power distribution                    -    Lump Sum        -         35.0      -        45.0       -       35.0           115.0       25         28.8
(2) Internal illumination                 -    Lump Sum       -          60.0      -        80.0       -       60.0           200.0       25         50.0
(3) Outside lighting                      -    Lump Sum       -          40.0      -        60.0       -       40.0           140.0       25        35.0
Sub-Total                                                       2,331.3            2,048.5            1,566.2         5,946.0        11       632.8
12. Total                                                                 4,369.1            4,666.1            3,389.4        12,424.6        26    3,243.5
13. Import Duties                                                           170.0               272.0             170.0           612.0
14. Physical Contingencies L-/                                              342.5               345.7             255.3           943.5        21       194.7
15. Total leveatment Costs                                                4,881.6            5,283.8            3,814.7        13,980.1        25    3,438.2
*  Items sutject to 40% import duty.
1/ Investment needs based on a "set" of facilities and equipment required for one foundation operational sites. Allowances have been
made for different kinds of seed, quantities, season of production. Bihar and Orissa I and 1/2 sites each. Karnataka 2 sites.
2/ Includes land leveling and grading, drainage and sewer, utilities, roads, parking and fencing.
3/ Large and small processing areas have been provided to facilitate handling of widely varying quantities of different seed kinds.
4/ Provided for 100% rabi season tonnage (1.3 M ton I M ).
5/ TemperatuLre 15-C and relative humidity 60% or less.  Unit cost include insulation and air conditioning equipment.  Space
provided on basis of 75% yearly hybrid seed and/or  20% rabi season tonnage with maximum of 154 M2 per 200 M tons.
6/ Used for maize on ear, also for groundnuts and other seeds.
7/ Most flexible and safest type of dryer for breeder and foundation seed.
8/ Temperatture 10'C or less and relative humidity of 507b or less will maintain seed viability for 4-5 years. Required are full
insulation, heavy duty refrigeration system with maximum dehumidification.  Cost for insulation etc. included in unit cost.
9/ Temperature about 3-5 IC; relative humidity 80-85%. Cost based on Central Warehousing estimates.
10/ 10% for buildings and site development; 5% for all other cost items.
August 2, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 10
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Foundation Seed - Investment Costs
-------Uttar Pradesh-------
UNIT COST      Rajasthan          KanPr,            Faizabad          TOTAL        Fbreign Exchange
ITEM                      UNIT  (Rs. '000)  No_   Ks. 'UUU    _   Rs.'000 No.   Rs. '000  (Rs.  000)                          R R.  000
1. Machinery/Eauipment
Intake pit                               No.        15.0      2       30.0       1      15.0       1       15.0        60.0
in  equipent
Fan - heater unit                       No.        20.0      4       80.0       3      60.0       2       40.0       180.0          30        54.0
(2) Inclined auger, 5M                  No.         8.0      2       16.0       1       8.0       1        8.0        32.0          30         9.6
(3) Unloading auger, 4M                No.          8.0      2       16.0       1       8.0       1        8.0        32.0          30         9.6
*(4) Portable, inclined drag             No.        10.0      1       10.0       1      10.0       1       10.0         30.0         95        28.5
flight conveyor
Sheller, maize (I TPN)                   No.        12.0      2       24.0       -       -         -        -           24.0         -          -
Potato, sorting, washing,
drying system (10 TPH)                 No.       100.0      -        -        0.5    50.0       0.5      50.0       100.0          30        30.0
Conveyors. horizontal
(1) 10 MT/hr. x 10 M                   No.         20.0      2       40.0       1      20.0       1       20.0        80.0          30        24.0
Vertical bucket elevators
(1) 10 MT/hr. X 8M                     No.         18.0      3       54.0       1      18.0       2       36.0       108.0          30        32.4
(2) 5 MT/hr. X 8M                      No.         12.0      4       48.0       2      24.0       3       36.0       108.0          30        32.4
(3) 5 MT/hr. X 6M                      No.         10.0      5       50.0       3      30.0       4       40.0       120.0          30        36.0
Scalper (10 MT/hr.)                      No.        35.0      2       70.0       1      35.0       1       35.0       140.0          30        42.0
Air-screen cleaner
* (1) 1.5 MT/hr., w/indent cylinder   No.           120.0      2      240.0       -       -         1      120.0       360.0          95       342.0
(2) 0.5 MT/hr.                         No.         20.0      -        -         1      20.0       1       20.0        40.0          20         8.0
(3) 0.2 MT/hr.                         No.         10.0      -        -         1      10.0       1       10.0        20.0          20         4.0
*Gravity separator (0.5 MT/hr.)           No.        60.0      2      120.0       1      60.0       1       60.0       240.0          95       228.0
Spiral separator (twin)                  No.        12.0      -        -         1      12.0       -        -          12.0          -          -
*Aspirator/cleaner( twin tube)            No.        30.0      2       60.0       1      30.0       1       30.0       120.0          95       114.0
Surge/holding bins with hopper
bottom
(1) 1.5 X 1.5 X 5M                     No.          5.0      6       30.0       3      15.0       3       15.0        60.0          -          -
(2) 1.5 X 1 X 1.5M                     No.          5.0      4       20.0       2      10.0       2       10.0        40.0          -          -
(3) 1 X 1 X IM                         No.          4.0      4       16.0       2       8.0       2        8.0        32.0          -          -
(4) 1 X 1 X 0.5M                       No.          4.0      4       16.0       3      12.0       3       12.0        40.0          -          -
*Treater, slurry "wet"                    No.        70.0      2      140.0       1      70.0       1       70.0       280.0          95       266.0
type (5 MT/hr.)
*Bagger-weigher system with               No.        35.0      2       70.0       1      35.0       1       35.0       140.0          95       133.0
bag closer
Bag closer, portable                     No.        10.0      2       20.0       1      10.0       1       10.0        40.0          30        12.0
(1) ~2- wheel (100 kg)                 No.          1.0    10        10.0       5       5.0       5        5.0        20.0          20         4.0
(2) 4 - wheel (800 kg)                 No.          3.5      8       28.0       5      17.5       5       17.5        63.0          20        12.6
*Bag conveyor, portable                   No.        25.0      2       50.0       2      50.0       1       25.0        125.0         95       118.8
Dust aspiration system w/cyclone         No.        25.0      4      100.0       2      50.0       2       50.0       200.0          30        60.0
Sub-Total                                                   1,358.0             692.5              795.5    2,846.0           56    1,600.9
2.                pment
Vac    cen    (heavy-duty)               No.        10.0      2       20.0       1      10.0       1       10.0        40.0          20         8.0
Air compressor                           No.         9.0      2       18.0       1       9.0       1        9.0        36.0          20          7.2
Diesel generator (60 KVA)                No.        80.0      2      160.0       1      80.0       1       80.0       320.0          30        96.0
Sub-Total                                                     198.0              99.0               99.0       396.0          28       111.2
3. Assembly, Installation                                               272.3             138.5              156.5        567.3         30       170.2
& Electrification (17.57 of
sub-totals 1 & 2)
4. Spares (107. of sub-totals 1 & 2)                                    155.6              79.2               89.4        324.2         20         64.8
5. Miscellaneous Accessories                Set        30.0      2       60.0        1     30.0        1      30.0        120.0         30        36.0
(Platform scales, tarpaulins,
sprayers duster, gram scales,
tools etc.)
6. Vehicles
Van                                      No.        60.0      2      120.0       1      60.0       1       60.0       240.0          25        60.0
4WD "Jeep" w/tralier                     No.        65.0      2      130.0       1      65.0       1       65.0       260.0          25        65.0
Light truck                              No.        90.0      2      180.0       1      90.0       1       90.0       360.0          25        90.0
Motorcycle                               No.         9.0      4       36.0       2      18.0       2       18.0         72.0         25        18.0
Sub-Total                                                     466.0             233.0               233.0       932.0          25       233.0



ANNEX 3
Table 10
Page 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Foundation Seed - Investment Cost
-______Uttar Pradesh------
UNIT COST      Rajasthan          Kanpur            Faizabad          TOTAL         ForeignExchange
IrEM                     UNIT    (Rs. '000)  No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Re. '000    (Re. '000)             7.       Rs.
*7. Lab./Quality Control Equipment           Set        40.0       2        80.0     1       40.0       1        40.0          160.0       95         152.0
8. Threshers
Vogel-type                               No.        35.0      2        70.0      1       35.0       1       35.0          140.0       30          42.0
Single head                             No.         10.0      2        20.0      1       10.0      1        10.0           40.0       30          12.0
Sheller, maize, small                    No.         4.0      1         4.0      2        8.0       2        8.0            20.0      30            6.0
Sub-Total                                                        94.0             53.0                53.0          200.0        O          60.0
9. Air Conditioners                         No.         4.0       6       24.0      4       16.0       4       16.0            56.0       30         16.8
10. Site Development 2/                      ha        100.0       3      300.0    1.5    150.0        1.5     150.0           600.0       -           -
11. Building/FaciLities                       2
Offices                                 M            0.4    180        72.0    90       36.0      90        36.0          144.0        -          -
Laboratory                               M2          0.4    100        40.0    50        20.0     50        20.0            80.0       -           -
Toilets                                  M2          0.6      72       43.2    36        21.6     36        21.6            86.4      -            -
Preparation area (2)                     M           0.4    216        86.4   108        43.2    108        43.2          172.8       -            -
General storage (2)                      M2          0.4    120        48.0    60        24.0     60        24.0            96.0      -
Receiving/intake area                    M           0.4    288       115.2   144        57.6    144        57.6           230.4       -
Pr          ~~~3/2
Procesingareas-/                          2
(I) Large quantities                   M           0.4    288        115.2   144       57.6    144         57.6          230.4       -
(2) Small quantities                   M           0.4    160         64.0      -       -       120        48.0          112.0       -
Ventilated storage                       4 M2        0.4  1,500       600.0   600       240.0    450       180.0        1,020.0       -           -
Conditioned storage  N/ M2                           0.8    170       136.0   125      100.0    100         80.0          316.0       25         79.0
Drying/storage bins
(1) Masonry  bin, w/shed-              142         0.6      50        30.0    50       30.0       -         -             60.0       -           -
(2) Bagged seed dryer under shed -   M2            0.3    468        140.4   312       93.6    312         93.6          327.6       -           -
Cold Storage (seed) 8/                  M2           1.0     80        80.0    80       80.0      80        80.0          240.0       25         60.0
Cold storage (potatoes) 9/            M ton          0.8      -         -      200     160.0    200        160.0          320.0       25         80.0
Drying floor (elevated)                 M2        0.075    400         30.0   200        15.0    200        15.0            60.0       -           -
Prep./sorting shed (potatoes)           M2           0.3      -         -      200       60.0    200        60.0          120.0       -           -
Workshop                                 M           0.4     50        20.0    25        10.0     25        10.0            40.0       -           -
Staff quarters 10/                      M          0.35       -         -      400     140.0    400        140.0          280.0       -           -
Sub-Total                                                    1,620.4           1,188.6            1,126.6         3,935.6       6         219.0
Architect's Fee (8%)                                                  129.6              95.1               90.1           314.8       -
Office/lab furnishings                   Set        20.0      2        40.0      1       20.0      1        20.0           80.0       -           -
Electrical
(1) Power distribution                 -      Lump Sum       -        45.0      -      35.0       -        35.0          115.0       25         28.8
(2) Internal illumination              -      Lump Sum       -        80.0      -      60.0       -        60.0          200.0       25         50.0
(3) Outside lighting                   -      Lump Sum       -        60.0      -      40.0       -        40.0          140.0       25         35.0
Sub-Total                                                    1,975.0           1,438.7            1,371.7         4,785.4        7        332.8
12. Total                                                               4,982.9           2,969.9            3,034.1       10,986.9        25     2,777.7
13. Duties                                                                308.0             118.0              156.0           582.0
14. Physical CorLtingencies  1/                                           362.9             227.9               227.8          818.6       19        155.5
15. Total Investment Costs                                              5,653.8           3,315.8            3,417.9       12,387.5        24     2,933.2
*  Items subject to 40% import duty.
1/ Investment needs based on a "set" of facilities and equipment required for one foundation operational sites.  Allowances have been
made for different kinds of seed, quantities, season of production.  Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh 2 sites each.  Provision for
Pantnagar in UP is not required.
2/ Includes land leveling and grading, drainage and sewer, utilities, roads, parking and fencing.
3/ Large and small processing areas have been provided Jo facilitate handling of widely varying quantities of different seed kinds.
4/ Provided for 1007. rabi season tonnage (1.3 M ton I M ).
5/ Temperature 15 IC and relative humidity 607. or less. Unit cost include insulation and air conditioning equipment. Space provided
on basis of 75% yearly hybrid seed and/or 20% rabi season tonnage with maximum of 154M2 per 200 M tons.
6/ Used for maize on ear, also for groundnuts and other seed.
7/ Most flexible and safest type of dryer for breeder and foundation seed-
8/ Temperature 10 IC or less and relative humidity of 50% or less will maintain seed viability for 4-5 years. Required are full
insulation, heavy duty refrigeration system with maximum dehumidification. Cost for insulation etc. included in unit cost.
9/ Temperature about 3-5 C; relative humidity 80-85%. Cost based on Central Warehousing estimates.
10/ Staff quarters included in Rajasthan Farm Development Cost (Annex 4).
11/ 107. for buildings and site development; 5% for all other cost items.
August 3, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Seed Technology Research - Investment Cost Summary-/
Total         Foreign Exchange                              Phasing
Costs
Rs. '000        %        Rs. '000       Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
BIHAR                 2/
Capital Investments-              335          43          143                       290         35         10
Operational Expenses              517                                      37        117        120        121        122
Subtotal                        852                                      37       407        155        131         122
KARNATAKA             2/
Capital Investments-              490          39          190                       375         95         20
Operational Expenses              729                                      38        165        174        176        176
Subtotal                      1,219                                      38       540        269        196        176
ORISSA
2/
Capital Investments-              335          43          143                       270         55         10
Operational Expenses              517                                      37        117        120        121        122
Subtotal                        852                                      37       387        175        131        122
RAJASTHAN             2/
Capital Investments-              480          38          183                       365         95         20
Operational Expenses              729                                      38        165        174        176        176
Subtotal                      1,209                                      38       530        269        196        176
UTTAR PRADESH         2/
Capital Investments-              105          75            79                       40         60          5
Total Seed Technology
Research Investment             4,237          17          738            150     1,904        928         659        596        X D
1/  Further details on Tables 12 through 15.                                                                                    -  *
2/ Includes Physical Contingencies.
7/27/77



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Bihar - Seed Technology Research - Project Costs
UNIT COST         YEAR I             YEAR 2             YEAR 3             YEAR 4            YEAR 5            TOTAL        FOREIGN EXCHANGE
ITEM                         UNIT  (Rs. '000)   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000  No.   Rs. 1000   (Rs. '000)                     .    Rs.  '000
INVESTMENT COSTS
1. Buildings                  I
Additional construction  -                     M         0.5                          150       75.0                                                                75.0
(offices - laboratory)
2. Equipment for:
- seed physiology, quality evaluation           -    Lump Sum                                  40.0              10.0                                              50.0           .75       37.5
and control research
- seed health research                          -    Lump Sum                                  30.0              10.0                                              40.0            75       30.0
- seed drying, processing and                   -    Lump Sum                                  40.0              10.0                                              50.0            75       37.5
storage research
- other specialized research                    -    Lump Sum                                  20.0                -                                               20.0            75       15.0
Sub-Total                                                                             130.0             30.0                                              160.0            75     120.0
3. Office Furnishings & Fixtures                   -    Lump Sum                                   15.0                                                                15.0
4. Vehicle   4WD "Jeep" with trailer              No.      65.0                            1       65.0                                                                65.0           25       16.3
5. Physical Contingencies 2/                                                                        5.0               5.0                9.5                           19.5           35        6.8
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                290.0              35.0                9.5                          334.5           43      143.1
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES
1. Staff
Seed Research Officer and Coordinator          M Y -   15.6         1       15.6        1       15.6      1      15.6       1       15.6      1       15.6          78.0
Seed Research Officer                          M Y      14.0                            1       14.0      1      14.0       1       14.0      1       14.0         56.0
Ass't Seed Research Officer                    M Y       8.0                            2       16.0      2      16.0       2       16.0      2       16.0          64.0
Research Assistants                            M Y       5.4                            2       10.8      2      10.8        2      10.8      2       10.8          43.2
Lab. and Field Attendents                      M Y       4.2                            2        8.4      2       8.4       2        8.4      2        8.4          33.6
Steno-typist                                   M Y       4.2        1        4.2        1        4.2      1       4.2       1        4.2      1        4.2          21.0
Fringe Benefits (50%)                                               9.9                34.5              34.5               34.5             34.5         147.9
Sub-Total                                                          29.7               103.5            103.5              103.5             103.5         443.7
2. Recurring Expenses
Travel Allowance                             100 days   2.0       .25        0.5      0.5        1.0   0.5         1.0    0.5         1.0   0.5        1.0           4.5
Vehicle operation and Maintenance         1,000 miles  1.0          1        1.0        2        2.0      3       3.0        4       4.0      4        4.0          14.0
Expendable Supplies                             -    Lump Sum                2.0                 4.0              4.0                 4.0              4.0          18.0
Equipment Repair and Maintenance                -    Lump Sum                                                      3.0                3.0               3.0          9.0
Utilities and Services                          -    Lump Sum                4.0                 6.0              6.0                6.0                6.0         28.0
Sub-Total                                                           7.5                13.0              17.0               18.0              18.0         73.5
TOTAL OPERATIONAL COSTS                                            37.2               116.5             120.5              121.5             121.5        517.2
1/ New construction or renovation and remodeling.
2/ 107. of building costs, 5'h of equipment and materials.
3/ Man Year.
July 28, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Karnataka - Seed Technology Research - Project Costs
UNIT COST        YEAR 1            YEAR 2            YEAR 3           YEAR 4            YEAR 5           TOTAL      FOREIGN EXCHANGE
ITEM                        UNIT  (Rs. '000)  No.   Rs. '000  Nc.   Rs. '000   No.   Re. '000  No.  Rs. '000  No.   Rs. '000   (Rs. '000)                7     Rs. '000
INVESTMENT COSTS
1. Buildinst/
Additional construction  /                   N         0.5                       300       150.0                                                              150.0
(offices - laboratory)
2. Equipment for:
-  seed drying, processing and               -     Lump Sum                                 50.0               40.0                                           90.0        75         67.5
storage research
-  seed development and maturation           -     Lump Sum                                 40.0               20.0                                           60.0        75         45.0
research
-  hybrid seed production research           -     Lump Sum                                 30.0               20.0                                           50.0        75         37.5
-  other specialized research                -     Lump Sum                                 10.0               10.0                                           20.0        75         15.0
Sub-Total                                                                        130.0               90.0                                           220.0       75        165.0
3. Office Furnishings & Fixtures                -      Lump Sum                                25.0                                                               25.0
4. Vehicle    4WD "Jeep"  with trailer          No.      65.0                          1       65.0                                                               65.0       25         16.3
5. Physical Contingencies  2/                                                                   5.0                5.0          20.5                              30.5       30          9.1
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                           375.0               95.0           20.5                            490.5       39        190.4
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES
1. Staff
Seed Research Officer and Coordinator    M Y 3   15.6            1       15.6      1        15.6    1          15.6    1    15.6       1       15.6            78.0
Seed Research Officer                        M Y      14.0                         2        28.0    2          28.0    2    28.0       2       28.0          112.0
Ass't Seed Research Officer                  M Y       8.0                         3        24.0    3          24.0    3    24.0       3       24.0            96.0
Research Assistants                          M Y       5.4                         3        16.2    3          16.2    3    16.2       3       16.2            64.8
Lab. and Field Attendents                    M Y       4.2                         3        12.6    3          12.6    3    12.6       3       12.6            50.4
Steno-typiet                                M Y        4.2      1         4.2      1         4.2    1           4.2    1      4.2      1        4.2            21.0
Fringe Benefits (507.)                                           9.9              50.3               50.3           50.3             50.3           211.1
Sub-Total                                                       29.7             150.9              150.9         150.9             150.9           633.3
2. Recurring Expenses
Travel Allowance                           100 days   2.0    .25           0.5    0.5        1.0   0.5          1.0   0.5    1.0    0.5         1.0             4.5
Vehicle Operation and                   1,000 miles  1.0        2         2.0      3         3.0      4         4.0      6    6.0      6        6.0            21.0
Maintenance
Expendable Supplies                         -      Lump Sum                2.0               4,0                6.0            6.0              6.0            24.0
Equipment Repair and Maintenance            -      Lump Sum                                                     4.0           4.0               4.0            12.0
Utilities and Services                      -      Lump Sum                4.0               6.0                8.0            8.0              8.0            34.0
Sub-Total                                                        8.5              14.0               23.0           25.0             25.0            95.5
TOTAL OPERATIONAL COSTS                                         38.2             164.9              173.9          175.9            175.9           728.8
1/ New construction and/or remodeling.
2/ 10h. for buildings; 5% for equipment and materials.
3/ Man Yearw
July 26, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
O        Sesearch - Proiect Costs
UNIT COST         YEAR 1           yEAR 2              YEAR 3           YEAR 4             YEAR 5           TOTAL          FOREIGN EXCHANGE
ITEM                        UNIT   (Rs. '000)   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   R.. '000   (Rs. '000)                7      Rs. '000
INVESTMENT COSTS
I. Build44js                 1/                   2
Additional construction                      M          0.5                         150       75.0                                                                 75.0
(offices - laboratory)
2. Equipment for:
- seed health research                        -      Lump Sum                                 30.0             10.0                                                40.0         75        30.0
- seed drying, processing and                 _      Lump Sum                                 50.0             20.0                                                70.0         75        52.5
storage research
- seed production research                    -      Lump Sum                                 30.0             20.0                                                50.0         75        37.5
Sub-Total                                                                             110.0             50.0                                              160.0          75      120.0
3. Office Furnishings & Fixtures                  _     Lump Sum                                 15.0                                                                  15.0
4. Vehicle  4WD "Jeep" with trailer              No.      65.0                            1      65.0                                                                 65.0          25       16.3
5. Physical Contingencies  V                                                                      5.0               5.0               9.5                              19.5         35        6.8
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                               270.0              55.0                9.5                            334.5         43       143.1
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES
1. Staff                                              3
Seed Research Officer and Coordinator         M Y-   15.6          1        15.6      1       15.6      1       15.6      1       15.6       1        15.6         78.0
Seed Research Officer                         M Y      14.0                           1       14.0      1       14.0      1       14.0       1        14.0         56.0
Ass't. Seed Research Officer                  M Y       8.0                            2      16.0      2       16.0      2       16.0       2        16.0         64.0
Research Assistants                           M Y       5.4                            2      10.8      2       10.8       2      10.8       2        10.8         43.8
Lab. and Field Attendents                     M Y       4.2                            2       8.4      2        8.4       2       8.4       2         8.4         33.6
Steno-typist                                  M Y       4.2        1         4.2       1       4.2      1        4.2      1        4.2       1         4.2         21.0
Fringe Benefits (50Z)                                                9.9               34.5             34.5               34.5                34.5        147.9
Sub-Total                                                           29.7              103.5            103.5              103.5               103.5        443.7
2. Recurring Expenses
Travel Allowance                            100 days   2.0       .25         0.5     .5        1.0    .5         1.0      .5       1.0      .5         1.0          4.5
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance         1,000 miles  1.0         1         1.0       2       2.0      3        3.0       4       4.0       4         4.0          14.0
Expendable Supplies                           -     Lump Sum                 2.0               4.0               4.0               4.0                 4.0          18.0
Equipment Repair and Maintenance              -     Lump Sum                                                     3.0                3.0                3.0           9.0
Utilities and Services                        -     Lump Sum                 4.0               6.0               6.0                6.0                6.0          28.0
Sub-Total                                                            7.5               13.0             17.0               18.0                18.0         73.5
TOTAL OPERATIONAL COSTS                                             37.2              116.5            120.5              121.5               121.5        517.2
1/ Additional or new construction.
2/ 10%. for buildings; 5Z for equipment and materials.
3/ Man Year.                                                                                                                                                                                                  -' :E
Jl  2
July 27, 1977                                                                                                                                  



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Rajasthan - Seed Technology Research - Project Costs
UNIT COST          YEAR 1              YEAR 2           YEAR 3             YEAR 4             YEAR 5               TOTAL       FOREIGN EXCHANGE
ITEM                         UNIT   (Rs. '000)   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000                 (Rs. '000)          %    Rs. '000
INVESTMENT COSTS
1. Buildings                 I/                    2
Additional construction                        M          0.5                          300       150.0                                                                   150.0
(offices - laboratory)
2. Equipment for:
- seed physiology, quality evaluation           -    Lump Sum                                     40.0              30.0                                                  70.0                   52.5
and control research
- seed drying, processing and                   -    Lump Sum                                     30.0              30.0                                                  60.0         75       45.0
storage research
- seed production research                      -    Lump Sum                                     30.0              20.0                                                  50.0          75      37.5
- other specialized research                    -    Lump Sum                                     20.0              10.0                                                  30.0          75      22.5
Sub-Total                                                                               120.0              90.0                                                210.0           75     157.5
3. Office Furnishings & Fixtures                   -    Lump Sum                                     25.0                                                                    25.0
4. Vehicle 4WD "Jeep" with trailer                No.       65.0                             1        65.0                                                                   65.0          75       16.3
5. Physical Contingencies 2/                                                                           5.0               5.0               20.0                              30.0          29        8.7
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                  365.0               95.0               20.0                            480.0          38      182.5
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES
1. Staff
Seed Research officer and Coordinator         M Y -    15.6          1         15.6      1        15.6    1         15.6       1        15.6      1        15.6           78.0
Seed Research Officer                         M Y        14.0                            2        28.0    2         28.0       2       28.0       2        28.0          112.0
Ass't. Seed Research Officer                   x Y        8.0                            3         24.0     3        24.0      3        24.0      3        24.0           96.0
Research Assistants                            M Y        5.4                            3        16.2    3          16.2      3        16.2      3        16.2           64.8
Lab. and Field Attendents                      M Y        4.2                            3        12.6      3       12.6       3        12.6      3        12.6           50.4
Steno-typist                                  M Y         4.2        1          4.2      1         4.2     1         4.2       1         4.2      1         4.2           21.0
Fringe Benefits (50%)                                                  9.9               50.3              50.3                50.3               50.3          211.1
Sub-Total                                                             29.7              150.9             150.9              150.9               150.9          633.3
2. Recurring Expenses
Travel Allowance                              100 days   2.0       .25          0.5   0.5          1.0   0.5          1.0    0.5         1.0   0.5          1.0            4.5
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance          1,000 miles  1.0          2          2.0      3          3.0      4        4.0      6         6.0      6         6.0           21.0
Expendable Supplies                             -    Lump Sum                   2.0                4.0                6.0                6.0                6.0           24.0
Equipment Repair and Maintenance                -    Lump Sum                                                         4.0                4.0                4.0           12.0
Utilities and Services                          -    Lump Sum                   4.0                6.0                8.0                8.0                8.0           34.0
Sub-Total                                                              8.5               14.0               23.0               25.0               25.0           95.5
TOTAL OPERATIONAL COSTS                                               38.2               164.9             173.9              175.9              175.9          728.8
1/ New construction and/or remodeling.
2/ 107. of building costs, 5% of equipment and materials.
3/ Man Year.
July 28, 1977                                                                                                                                                                                                          x
- Iw



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
BREEDER AND FOUNDATION SEED CENTER
VENTILATED STOREHOUSE
BREEDER AND FOUNDATION SEED
CENTER
COVERED                                                                                   REFRIG
; ------------ ----------_-____1                 WALK                                                                                      EQUIP
BATH-
Room
48BAG                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SMALL LOTS  AIR  COLD ROOM    COLD ROOM
48 AGS                                                                                                                PROCESSING              CONDITIONED       (50C -50%R.H.) |SAME)
PER UNIT                                                     BMAN PROCESSING AREA                                     AREA                    STOREROOM
PER UNIT                                                                   MAIN PROCESSING AREA                                     )IE-----------016C - 60SR.H.)
BIN DRYER (4 BINS        SHOP
UNDER SHED
BAGGEGD SEED D RYER
HALLWAY                                       PORCH
DRYING FLOOR (OPEN)
I -|  l                           |   PREPARATION ROOM                   LAB.
RECEIVING AREA                       BREEDER SEED
STORE-      PROCESSING AREA                             /
ROOM
l______SCALE______________L____________ ,_____L_______________X______|_________                                                                    PREPARATION  ROOM   |              LAB.
SCALE:                                                                           ----
0           5M                                                                                                  HALLWAY                            BATHROOM
OFFICE   OFICEI         OFFICE-OFC                      FIE      OFC
COVERED PORCH
World B-ak - 17919



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Farm Development
1.        The five states proposed under this project, as with those under
Phase I, have comparative advantages in the seed production of certain crops.
Geographically the project states are widespread, Bihar and Orissa in the
Northeast, Uttar Pradesh in the north, Rajasthan in the northwest and Karna-
taka in the south. Soils, climate and irrigation sources are equally diverse
in character.
Bihar
2.        The project area in Bihar is located in the northwest in Rohtas
district and a small part of Bhojpur district. Most of the project area is
serviced by the Sone Canal system, the new High Level Sone Canal project and
the newly inagurated Durgawatiweir project. Additional water is supplied by
private and government owned tubewells. Groundwater conditions are considered
good to excellent for most of the area. The seed to be produced under the
project in Bihar are mainly wheat, potato and maize.
Orissa
3.        Orissa has two project areas.  Sambalpur district--Zone 1 and the
Cuttack and Puri district--Zone II. Sambalpur district in western Orissa, an
area free of flooding and cyclones, would produce paddy, pulses, groundnut
and potato seed. Canal and lift irrigation serve 28% of the cultivated land
in Zone I.
4.        Zone II, located in the coastal region in close proximity to Orissa
University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT). Irrigation is supplied to
about 40% of the area by canal and lift irrigation. Seed to be produced in
Zone II of Orissa are potato and groundnut in rabi.
Karnataka
5.        The project areas in Karnataka are located in two zones, parts of
Bangalore and Kolar districts in the southeast make up Zone I, and Chitradurga
and Dharwar districts in mid part of the state make up Zone II. Most of the
seed production, bajra, jowar and maize, in Zone I would be in rabi cropping
season under irrigation. Few commercial crops are produced in Zone I during
this time of the year, making isolation of hybrid seed crops much easier.
Irrigation is provided from dugwells.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.        Zone II in Karnataka is favored with good groundwater conditions as
well as canal irrigation. According to groundwater survey reports there is
scope for additional groundwater exploitation in the area. Kharif cropping
will predominate with jowar, bajra, and paddy being the major crops.
Rajasthan
7.        Rajasthan also has two project areas, Zone I in the Sriganganagar
district in the very north part of the state and Zone II in the Kota and Bundi
districts in the south east part of the state. The Suratgarh farm, the only
SFCI farm included in this project, is located in Zone I. The project area is
served by three canal systems, the Rajasthan Canal, Bhakra Canal and the Gang
Canal. With irrigation and favorable climate a wide range of rabi and kharif
seed crops would be produced in Zone I, the major ones being wheat, gram,
bajra, pulse and oilseeds.
8.        Zone II in Rajasthan is an elongated basin in the former alluvial
plain of the Chambal River. The Chambal Canal system supplies irrigation
water to 70% of the project area and wells supply water to 20% of the project
area. Groundwater surveys reveal there is good scope for additional ground-
water exploitation. Most of Zone II is under the Bank assisted Chambal
Command Area Development Project (Rajasthan). 1/ Principal seed crops in
Zone II would be wheat, jute, oilseeds, jowar, groundnut and pulses.
Uttar Pradesh
9.        Uttar Pradesh is the only project state with three zones for pro-
duction, two under this project and one under the already established Tarai
Seeds Project (Loan 614-IN). The two project areas are located in the central
part of the state. Zone II is located in Kanpur district and Zone III in
Faizabad district. Zone II is generally a level plain comprising of Gangetic
alluvium. Canals, and private and state tubewells supply about 53% of the
cultivated area with irrigation. The irrigation potential is being increased
by the launching of Ramganga Irrigation Project and the installation of addi-
tional tubewells. The major seed crops to be produced during year around
cropping in Zone II are wheat pulses, bajra, oilseeds and paddy.
10.       Zone III is a level plain comprised of Sarju and Gomati alluvium.
Private tubewells are the most important source of irrigation in Zone III
although additional supplies from canals, state tubewells and dugwells con-
tribute to a total supply of about 60% of the cropped area. With the instal-
lation of additional tubewells and the construction of the Sarda Saliayak
Project, the existing potential is sufficient to irrigate about 90% of the
net sown area. Wheat, paddy and pulses are the major seed crops to be pro-
duced in Zone III.
1/   IBRD Report No. 430-IN, May 29, 1976.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Universities Farm Development
11.       In this project, as in Phase I, a major element of the seed industry
development policy is that Agricultural Universities be integrated into the
NSP in order to ensure supplies of adequate quantity and quality of breeder
and foundation seed. In the past, the seed industry has suffered from short-
ages and poor quality of seed of these critical generations. Under Phase I,
the development of the following University farms were financed so that they
might fulfill their respective roles in the seed production process: Andhra
Pradesh, Haryana, Universities of Akola, Parbhani and Rahuri in Maharashtra,
and Punjab. University farms to be financed under this project are in Bihar,
Bangalore and Dharwar in Karnataka, Gambharipali and Patha in Orissa, Rojri
and Umedgunj in Rajasthan, and Kanpur and Faizabad in Uttar Pradesh.
12.       Some Universities do not have adequate land available to meet their
foundation seed target under the project. State governments have agreed that
these Universities would be given additional land to meet the project
requirements.
13.       In Rajasthan, the 596 ha Umedgunj Farm of State-Agro Industries
Corporation in Kota district would be transferred to the University for seed
production. At the present time 315 ha is under cultivation, 246 ha irrigated
by canal and 69 ha by lift irrigation.  Foundation seed would be produced on
307 ha in the rabi season and 163 ha in kharif. Relevelling of the field and
the cleaning and construction of drains are extremely important for the im-
proved productivity and protection against salinity build up. Past attempts
to level additional land on the farm was found to be very expensive because
of poor planning, the area selected, and the use of improper land levelling
equipment (bulldozers). Areas being considered for reclamation would there-
fore be mapped, surveyed, and evaluated as to soil quality, salinity, drainage,
cost of supplying water and cost of development before a decision is made.
Funds for the development of an additional 50 ha as well as for relevelling
land in production have been included in the project.
14.       Development of a University farm in Sriganganagar district (Zone I)
is conditional upon the University receiving title to 1,000 ha of its choice
out of the 4,000 ha undeveloped Rojri Farm. A complete farm plan needs to
be drawn up immediately for the development of this farm so that work can
start without delay. An interim agreement would be made with the SFCI which
would allow the University to oversee the production of required foundation
seed on Suratgarh Farm while the first 500 ha of the Rojri Farm is being
developed. The University proposal calls for the farm management and engi-
neering unit to work at Rojri Farm in its three year development while the
seed production staff would work at Suratgarh supervising the production of
foundation seed. Foundation seed production in Zone I would be on 832 ha in
rabi and 190 ha in kharif, with the major rabi crop being wheat. Because of
the high investment required in equipment, water courses, land development,
buildings and staff, it is proposed that there would be advantages to contract
out to SFCI some of the wheat foundation seed to be grown under University



ANNEX 4
Page 4
supervision, until the farm is firmly established and the production program
adjusted to fully utilize the required additional investment. By contracting
out some or all the wheat a smaller initial development is possible with a
higher cropping intensity and therefore better utilization of capital. Irri-
gation is required for crop production and would be supplied by the Rajasthan
Canal through the Rojri Distributary. Along with providing the title to the
University farm at Rojri, GOR must ensure an adequate supply of water to the
farm to secure full production on all this land during both cropping seasons.
The assured supply would nsed to be at least 2-1/2 to 3 times the present
water allocation of 0.13 m /sec per 400 ha on a continuous basis.
15.       Government of Orissa would transfer Gambharipali Farm (208 ha) and
Patha Farm (135 ha) to Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology.
Gambharipali would be of adequate size to handle its projected foundation
seed requirements through the next five years. Patha would, however, need to
contract out, under University supervision, part of its projected 116-195 ha
of rabi season requirement since there is only 101 ha of cultivable land in
this farm. Patha's foundation seed crop production in project year five is
91 ha of groundnut and 104 ha of potato.
16.       Uttar Pradesh has three Universities producing breeder seed and
foundation seed. Only two of the University farms are to be developed under
the project at Kanpur and Faizabad'. Pantnagar University was included in the
Tarai Seeds Project (Loan 614-IN).  Kanpur is a well established University
with 22 farms, but foundation seed production would be confined to its Kanpur
and Mathura farms which have a total of 1,530 ha with about a third of it
under cultivation. Project projections call for peak production to be reached
in year four of 466 ha rabi crop and 132 ha of kharif crop.
17.       Faizabad is a new University which started the development of its
farm in 1976. It has planned to complete 240 ha of development by 1980.
This University requires 353 ha for rabi crop in 1981. To meet this, it must
have an additional 120 ha land developed by mid 1981. Assurance was given by
GOUP that adequate land would be transferred to the University for this
purpose.
18.       Karnataka University of Agriculture Sciences campuses at Bangalore
and Dharwar would be responsible for foundation seed production in Zone I and
Zone II respectively. Dharwar has ample land locally to handle its 90 ha of
foundation seed production for Zone II as projected under the project. GOK's
original proposal to develop land at seven widely dispersed farms for the
production of 422 ha of rabi season and 16 ha of kharif season foundation seed
for Zone I would have caused problems--supervision and production would become
more difficult and expensive where there are so many widely separated locations
of production. Some dispersement might be warranted because of the isolation
requirement of the hybrid crops. It was therefore agreed that an effort would
be made to consolidate the seed foundation production wherever possible and
to present a complete farm plan for development. Out of some 1,900 ha of



ANNEX 4
Page 5
developed land available, 654 ha has adequate water supply.  A good'- tubewell
in Karnataka can irrigate 30-40 ha. Provision has therefore been made for
additional 16 tubewells instead of the 31 originally proposed by GOK.
19.       Foundation seed production in Bihar would be undertaken by Rajendra
Agricultural University. Projections indicate that in project-year one, 252
ha of rabi crop would be required rising to 763 ha by year four. The largest
requirement is for potato, 196 ha in year one and 507 ha by year four. Potato
seed production could be contracted out under University supervision. There-
fore, provision has been made for the development of only 260 ha for wheat and
maize foundation seed.
20.       The extent and type of development vary considerably between
University farms. The proposed investments are summarized in Table 1. The
main items of investment are farm machinery and land development including
reshaping, and irrigation facilities. The purchase of the farm machinery
and much of the development work would take place early in the project to
enable the University farms to commence production of foundation seed as soon
as possible. By the end of project year two, all but one of the University
farms would be ready for full scale production of foundation seed. Rajasthan's
Rojri Farm is the exception as it is a new development. Contract production
under University supervision would be arranged until all production could be
taken up at Rojri.
21.       Funds for University farm development would be made available by
GOI (25%) and participating banks (75%) (see Annex 12). Foundation seed
grown by the Universities would be sold at prices yielding a reasonable
financial rate of return on capital employed at the time the farms have
reached full development (see Annex 14).
Water Supplies
22.       University farm planners must carefully analyze the quantity of
water available throughout the year and the reliability of supplies especially
in rabi. Project projections show that 83% of foundation seed production
would be in rabi when irrigation is required. Most canal water allotments
are inadequate for full crop production. Because of the importance of pro-
viding quality seed at minimum cost, state governments would give serious
consideration to allocating adequate supplies of water to the Universities
for the production of breeder and foundation seed. University farms which
must depend on groundwater and those which are required to supplement their
canal water supplies would consult or conduct current groundwater surveys to
determine dependability of their supply. Once the groundwater supply is
determined adequate and dependable, the source of power for pumping should
be considered. Where electrical power is limited to 12-16 hr/day or there
is a history of repeated disruption or shortage, diesel power for pumping
would be considered. In areas where groundwater supplies are determined to
be doubtful or inadequate alternative sites for University breeder and
foundation seed production would be considered.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Land Development and Maintenance
23.       All farms would need to be mapped and a general survey made.  Fields
should be laid out in a rectangular shape and as large as possible for effi-
cient use of mechanical farm equipment, while also considering slope and
length of field from the efficiency of water application. Before grading or
regrading, the fields would be staked on 30 m squares and cut and fill maps
prepared. Bulldozers are not suitable for this type of precision grading and
would not be used. Tractors with carry-all scrapers or self loading elevator
scrapers would be engaged for this type of land shaping. Where this type of
equipment is not available on a custom contract basis the University would
consider purchasing or long term leasing and operating the equipment themselves.
24.       Land planes are included in the farm equipment investment and
would be used to finish the land shaping job by making three passes over
the field, two passes crisscrossing in opposite directions and the final
pass in the direction of irrigation. Each field would be land planed in
two directions at least once a year to maintain the field shape.
25.       Fields which are shaped for the first time would probably experience
some yield reduction for the first year or two after the operation depending
on the depth of cut and fill and amendments use to help the recovery. How-
ever, yields usually surpass previous yield by the third year due to better
plant stands and more even irrigation.
SFCI Farm Development
26.       SFCI which is a corporation wholly owned by GOI operates 12 farms
covering 34,800 ha in nine states and has been producing certified seed
for NSC. NSP policy recognizes that where suitable large farms exist they
could be used to produce certain types of seed more efficiently with less
supervision than large numbers of small growers. Under Phase I, two SFCI
farms were included for development, Ladhowal in Punjab and Hissar in Haryana.
SFCI's Suratgarh Farm, in Rajasthan's Zone 1, is included under this project
for certified seed production.
27.       Suratgarh Farm established in 1956 has about 10,000 ha of culti-
vatable land. Farm management is considered capable and crops have shown
steady improvement in yields ranging from 25% to 100% increase over the
last four years. Wheat yields of 2.5 tons/ha and paddy yields of about 4.0
tons/ha have been reached in recent years.
28.       Suratgarh is a long narrow strip of land about 37 km long and 2 to
6 km in width located in the bed of the defunct Ghaggar river. In years of
heavy monsoon large portions of the land are under a slow moving body of
accumulated rainfall during kharif. More than half of the rabi crop has been
produced on the resulting residual soil moisture. About one-third of Surat-
garh farm is now protected from flooding by a series of protective embankments
and construction of additional embankments are planned.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
29.       At present, Suratgarh receives about 2.624 m 3/ec from two different
canals, the Bhakra and the Gang Canal system. The 2.2 m /sec from thi Bhakra
system is available 10 days in a 30 day cycle. The remaining 0.424 m /sec is
available on a perennial basis. This is not enough water for the 3,500 ha of
wheat to be produced in rabi and 6,100 ha of other rabi crop is dependent on
solely residual soil moisture. Based on rabi cropping, estimated requirement
of water would be 6.2 m /sec on a perennial basis, considering that pulses
would require very little irrigation. The Rajasthan Canal Board has agreed,
in princiyle, to meet requirements of the Suratgarh farm at the water allowance
of 0.67 m /sec per 1,000 ha, provided that SFCI agrees to pay a higher pro-rate
irrigation charge for increased water allowance as well as the difference in
capitai cost of the distribution system required to carry a volume of water
0.67 m /sec per 1,000 ha instead of 0.38 m /sec per 1,000 ha. The estimated
difference in capital costs is Rs 3.0 M. This capital cost is included in
the project. The improvement in irrigation would benefit the entire farm.
30.       Suratgarh farm management has experience in certified seed produc-
tion, having produced seed for NSC under contract. Under the Rajasthan sub-
project Suratgarh would cultivate up to 4,000 ha in certified seed. Crops
best suited for Suratgarh's mechanized type of farming would be wheat, paddy,
pulses and oilseed.
31.       Investments, other than the prorated cost (para 29) of the enlarged
capacity canal, would be limited to what is required for the development of
the 4,000 ha located inside the protective embankment on which seed production
would take place. Equipment selection for land shaping and farming were based
on Suratgarh's particular requirements and utilizing equipment similar to those
accepted by the Bank for Ladhowal Farm under Phase I. Tractor horsepower was
matched to the task such as land shaping, land planning, land preparation,
planting and cultivating. The number of units needed were determined utilizing
the cropping pattern and crop calendar to determine peak power requirements.
32.       The number of units for lanS shaping was based on 2,000 ha of light
reshaping, assuming a volu Ie of 400 m /ha to be moved and 2,000 ha of medium
reshaping with about 650 m /ha. Self-loading elevating scrapers are recommended,
as under Phase I, to reduce costs and enable the operators to hold accuracy of
grade where shallow cuts are to be made as in reshaping. On land where fine
shaping was done in 1974, 6 ha test blocks were planted to wheat. The average
yield in 1974/75 was 2.3 tons/ha, 1975/76 2.7 tons/ha and 1976/77 3.5 tons/ha.
Farmwise average for the last two years has been 2.5 tons/ha.
33.       Investment in additional equipment required to effectively cultivate
the 4,000 ha seed area has been provided under the project (Table 2). Most
of the equipment would be purchased in project year one. The canal work would
be slow starting because of surveying and designing. Also, work would have to
be fitted in when the canal is shut down. An alternative is being considered
to make a second canal adjacent to the existing canal which would give more
flexibility to the system and might speed up the completion.
34.       Funds for land development would be provided by banks and GOI (Annex
12). Rate of return projections are detailed in Annex 14.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Farm and Related Development
Investment Cost Summary 1/
Total   Foreign      Foreign    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Cost    Exchange    Exchange
R'OOO     Z            R'OOO     R'OOO    R'000    R'OOO        R'OOO      R'OOO
Cost Item
Irrigation
Well, deep                             1,320       20           264        660       660       -
Well                                     560       20           112        200       280       80
Pump and motor for well                  280       20            56        130       130       20
Land Development - Equipment
Tractor 110 Hp                         1,960       54         1,058      1,960        -        -          -
Elevating Scraper 7.3 m3                 888       52           462        888        -        -          -
Land Plane                               234       50           117        234        -        -          -
Motor Grader                             450       62           279        450        -        -                      -
Land Development - Operation
by force account                      2,746       34           934        916       915     915
by contract                           2,670       15           400      1,130    1,290      250         -
Fencing                                   400       -             -         400        -        -
Irrigation/Drainage System              4,560       -                       990    2,665       905         -
Road Construction & Repair                190       -             -          90       100       --
Crop Production Equipment
Tractor 70 Hp                          2,844       51         1,450      2,844        -        -          -           -
Tractor 50-50 -Hp 2/                   1,440       50           720        960       420       60         -           -
Tractor 30-40 Hp 2/                    1,000       50           500        750       200       50         -           -
Implements & Tools                     3,077       35         1,077      2,635       412       30        -            -
Land Plane                               390       50           195        390        -        -          -
Combine Harvester                      3,285       56         1,840      2,190       365      730        -
Trucks - Small                           320       40           128        240        80      -          -
Trucks - Large                           160       40            64        160        -        -          -           -
Spares for Equipment (20%)              3,209       50         1,605         50       500     909       1,000        750
Buildings                               5,360       15           804      1,630    2,890      840         -            -
Base Costs                             37,343       32        12,065    19,897   10,907   4,789         1,000        750
Physical Contingencies  3/              2,985       28           847      1,515       992      390          50         38
Total Costs (excluding Price
Contingencies)                        40,328       32         12,912   21,412   11,899   5,179         1,050        788
Totals net of 30-50 Hp tractors 4/  37,254          31         11,374   19,258   11,118   5,040         1,050        788
1/ Details at Table 2
2/ To be omitted from project costs because GOI reserves procurement.
3/ At 10% for all items excluding crop production equipment and associated spare parts for which 5% has been applied.
4/ Proportionate amounts of spare parts and physical contingencies have been deducted.
August 11, 1.977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Investments on Large Scale Seed Farms
University Farms                                                                      SFCI Farm
Bihar      ---      Karnataka--------    ----------Orissa----------   --------Rajasthan---------   ---Uttar Pradesh-------   Suratgarh
Unit      Rajendra       Bangalore       Dharvar      Gambharipali        Patha            Rojri          Lhmedgunj    Kanpur        Faizabad    Rajasthan
Cost       260 Ha         460 Ha          150 Ha          250 Ha          135 Ha         1,000 Ha 1/       365 Ha       475 Ha        360 Ha       10,100 Ha 2/
Unit        R         No. R'0O0  No.   R.OO        Ro R'OQQ    No.    ROOO    No.    R.OOO    No.   RI.O0         N    R'OO00   No. R'OO0   No.  R'000   No.    R'000
Cost Item
Irrigation
Well, deep                        No.       55,000                    16      880     8     440
Well                              Ho        20,000                                                                       4     80                                    12    240    12    240
Pump and motor for well           No.        5,000                    16      80      8      40                          9     20                        4    20    12      60    12      60
Land Development-Equipment
Tractor 110 Hp                    No.      280,000                                                                                                                                                  7  1,960
Elevating Scraper 7.3 m           No.      222,000                                                                                                                                                  4    888
Land Plane                        No.       78,000                                                                                                                                                  3    234
Motor Grader                      No.      450,000                                                                                                                                                  1    450
Land Development - Operation
by force account 3/               Ha       686.50                                                                                                                                               4,000  2,746
by contract                        -      Lump Sum            200            300            120              100              100             700             350          400           400
Fencing                                      33                                                      6,060    200    6,060    200
Irrigation/Drainage System         -       Lump Sum                           180                                                              520              400         225           335           3,000
Road Construction & ReDair          -      Lump Sum                                                                                                                                                       150
Crop Production Equipment
Tractor 70 Hp                     No.       158,000      1    158                                                                     1       158      1     158      1    158      1    158       13  2,054
Tractor 40-50 4/                  No.        60,000      2    120      5     300      2     120         2    120         1     60     4       240      4      240     2    120      2    120
Tractor 30-404/                   No.        50,000      2    100      2      100     1      50         1     50         1     50     3       150      3      150     1      50     2    100        4    200
Implements & Tools                      variable 5/           262            252             53              125              100             430             210          105           140           1,400
Land plane                        No.        78,000      1     78                                                                     1        78      1       78     1      78     1      78
Combine Harvester                 No.       365,000                                                                                   1       365      1      365     1    365      1    365        5  1,825
Trucks - Small                    No.        80,000      1     80      1      80                                                      2       160
Trucks - Large                    No.       160,000                                                                                                    1      160
Spares for Equipment (20%.)        -            -              160             146            45               59               42             316             272          175           192           1,802
8uildings 6/                       _       Lump Sum            010             200            90              100              100           2,500             550                          110         1 600
Base Costs                                                   1,268          2,518            958              754              752           5,617           2,893        1,976         2,298          18,309
Physical Contingencies 7/                                       80             208            82               58               63             467             208           145          172           1,502
Total Cost (excluding Price
Contingencies)                                              1,348          2,726          1,040              812              815           6,084           3,101        2,121         2,470          19,811
1/ Total size of farm is 1,000 hectare.  Only 500 hectare would be developed under the project.
2/ Total size of farm is 10,100 hectare.  Land development equipment would only be provided for seed area of 4,000 hectare.  Irrigation system would benefit the total ar&a,
3/ Development operations would be undertaken by farm personnel with equipment that would be purchased under the project. The cost include labor, fuel, lubricants
and oil. Replacement parts are included under "Spares".
4/ To be omitted from project cost because GOI reserves procurement.
5/ Costs vary with number and kind of tractors that would he purchased for a farm and the tools and implements that presently are already available.
6/ Residential and farm buildings only. Buildings for seed cleaning, office and laboratory is included under foundation seed production, Annex 3.
7/ Physical contingencies at 10% for all items excluding crop production equipment, and associated spare parts for which 5X has been applied.
August 11, 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing and Storage
Introduction
1.        The proposed Second National Seed Project would establish State
Seed Corporations (SSC) with new seed processing plants in the five parti-
cipating states and provide adequate storage facilities to help meet the
anticipated demand for high quality seed.
2.        The term "processing" encompasses the various operations involved
in preparing harvested seed for sale as certified seed i.e., drying, shelling,
pre-cleaning (scalping), cleaning, sizing, grading, treating and packaging.
"Storage" in the present context refers to the period between the completion
of the processing activities and the distribution from the processing plant.
3.        Of the various kinds of seed covered under the project paddy and
maize require regular drying. Both are harvested at relatively high moisture
contents (16-22%) to minimize shattering losses, field deterioration and
insect infestation prior to harvest. Drying of other kinds of seed would be
necessary only infrequently as might be the case in the event of unseasonal
rains during the harvest - threshing period.
4.        Shelling is an essential post-drying, pre-cleaning operation for
maize, which is dryed on the cob. Groundnuts are shelled mechanically in most
developed countries. Mechanical shelling is, however, a very damaging opera-
tion at best, and very specialized equipment including color sorters, have to
be used to remove the severely damaged seed. Even then, germination will
rapidly decrease unless the seed is stored under conditions of about 70C
and 60% relatively humidity. Therefore, the pods would be only rough
cleaned to remove soil clods and peds and then would be packaged and
marketed along with an appropriate quantity of dust formulation seed treat-
ment (fungicide). The farmer would hand shell the seed just before plant-
ing and apply the treatment material.
5.        Pre-cleaning conditions the seed and facilitates final cleaning,
sizing and upgrading operations. Wheat, paddy, maize, barley, oil mustard,
rape, gram, pulses, jute, linseed and soybeans would be pre-cleaned or
rough cleaned with a scalper to remove materials substantially larger,
smaller or lighter than good seed.
6.        After pre-cleaning the seed would be cleaned with an air-screen
cleaner which closely separates from the seed any lighter, smaller or larger
material. Additional cleaning/sizing/upgrading would usually not be required



ANNEX 5
Page 2
for seed like pulses, grains, linseed, rape and oil mustard. Wheat, paddy,
barley and hybrid bajra seed, however, normally would receive further clean-
ing with an indent cylinder separator to remove short and cross-broken seed.
Maize seed requires at least separation of the "rounds" from the "flats", and
hybrid jowar often necessitates density grading (gravity table) to separate
seed that remain enclosed in the glumes. Gravity separators would also be
used for many other kinds of seed to remove insect damaged, badly deteriorated,
and immature seed.
7.        Hybrids, wheat and paddy would be treated with a fungicide.  The
treatment would usually be applied to about 25-35% of the tonnage during
processing, while the remainder would be treated just before distribution.
In years of slack seed demand this procedure would permit the SSC to dispose
of excess production as foodgrain, thus minimizing losses to the Corporation.
8.        Processing of seed potatoes is quite different.  The major thrust
of the multiplication/production/processing scheme is to minimize transmis-
sion of virus and other diseases. This would be accomplished through tuber
indexing, establishment of clonal populations, vigorous roguing, and produc-
tion in low aphid areas. After harvesting, the potatoes would be sorted for
size, and tubers in the size range of 2.5 cm to 5.5 cm in diameter would be
retained for seed. Sorting would be done by hand. Mechanical sizers or
graders have been tried unsuccessfully in India with considerable damage to
the potatoes and subsequent rot during storage. Also, labor is plentiful
and inexpensive during the January-February harvesting/processing season.
After sorting, the selected seed tubers would be packaged in jute bags and
placed in cold storage (about 50 C, 80-85%, relative humidity) until distribu-
tion before the next planting season.
Existing Processing Capacity and Phase I Plans
9.        The seed processing capacity available with NSC, the state govern-
ments and the private sector would be inadequate to meet the quality and
quantity of projected seed demand under the National Seed Program (NSP). To
increase processing capacity to the seed demand levels anticipated for 1979/80
additional capacity of 55,000 tons for cereal crops and 13,700 tons for cotton
have been provided under the Phase I project. In this second phase of NSP, to
be constructed, processing capacity would be raised further to the level of
demand projected for 1983/84. The estimated demand for the major cereal crops
is presented in Annex 13, Table 5. The forecast is intentionally conservative
because the detailed demand survey and forecast contemplated under Phase I is
yet to be completed and other data presently available is incomplete.
10.       In the five project states SSC would take over public sector pro-
cessing facilities in the project areas unless utilization of the plants
and/or equipment is uneconomical.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
11.       Seed processing facilities are essentially non-existent in the
public sector in Bihar and Orissa. Seed produced by the Department of
Agriculture is not-cleaned adequately, seed quality accordingly is low. In
Bihar, private sector capacity amounts to about 500 tons per season. In
Orissa, there is one private processor operating a plant of 1,000 tons
nominal seasonal capacity. Three cold stores with a capacity of 3,600 tons
are operated in the project area by the Orissa state government. The stores
would be transferred to the SSC.
12.       Public sector capacity in Karnataka is about 5,000 tons most of
which is owned by Karnataka Agro-Seed Corporation. Of this capacity 4,000
tons, including one NSC plant would be taken over by SSC. An estimated 7,500
tons seasonal processing capacity is available in the private sector which is
mainly involved in the processing and distribution of hybrid cereal seed.
13.       The Rajasthan Department of Agriculture and the Rajasthan Agro-
Industries Corporation have a number of small processing plants scattered
throughout the state. Some of these would be useful in terms of interim
capacity, but most would be needed subsequently to process seed of crops
produced outside the aegis of NSP. NSC presently operates some high capacity
cleaning equipment of about 7,500 tons in a rented building at Suratgarh.
This equipment would be taken over by SSC.
14.       In Uttar Pradesh, the Pantnagar project area which encompasses TDC
has adequate processing facilities and much experience in seed processing.
TDC which would become part of the U.P. Seed Corporation has a seasonal capa-
city of 25,000 tons and does not require further expansion under the project.
In the Kanpur project area, Chandra Shekar Azad University of Agriculture and
Technology (CSAUAT) has recently established a 2,500-3,000 ton processing
plant on its campus. This would provide interim capacity for certified seed
processing until it will be used exclusively for foundation seed operations
by CSAUAT. In the project area around Faizabad there are no processing
facilities.
New Processing Plants
15.       Plant Capacity.  The capacities indicated above are nominal capaci-
ties based on the possible throughput of wheat in one processing season,
assuming a 60 day season and two 8 hour shifts per day. Since the hourly
throughput varies considerably for various kinds of seed and other operating
conditions may differ at different plants and regions, nominal seasonal
capacity has only a very general meaning in terms of measuring the additional
capacity required.
16.       For planning new processing plants the following factors have been
taken into account:
-    targeted production on the basis of projected demand (Tables 1
and 2);



ANNEX 5
Page 4
existing processing facilities (paras 10-14);
length and number of processing seasons (sizable
variations exist for rabi, rabi-summer and kharif
crops);
characteristics of the crops to be processed;
probable number and size of seed lots to be processed
(to achieve economies of scale seed of the same variety
would be bulked before processing);
instantaneous capacity of various machines and conveying
systems; and
number of shifts.
Based on these factors requirements for additional capacity have been deter-
mined individually for each of the SSC that would be established under the
project, and investments in processing plants and equipment have been estab-
lished accordingly (Tables 4 to 8).
17.       Plant Design and Processing Concept.  The principle alternative
designs considered were (i) a horizontal flow plant and (ii) a vertical flow
(multi-story) plant. For reasons of lower capital costs, similar operating
costs, operational simplicity, ease of supervision and quality control, the
experience with TDC and the expressed preference of NSC staff, the horizontal
flow plan was selected as more appropriate to India's seed industry. A sug-
gested layout for a 10,000 ton capacity plant is in Figure 1.
18.       Drying (primarily for maize and paddy) would be provided in the form
of round metal bins with perforated metal floors and coupled heater - fan units
for paddy, and rectangular masonary bins with slatted floors and coupled heater -
fan units for maize. Although the dryers are of the types preferred for each
of the two kinds of seed, they can be used interchangeably, and also for other
kinds of seed.
19.       Intake facilities would primarily be for sacked seed, but also sat-
isfactory for bulk seed. The receiving or reception area would be spacious
enough for temporary storage of raw seed taken in excess of cleaning capacity.
20.       The processing plant would be spacious enough to permit later
expansion, and would be provided with two intake pits so as to permit pro-
cessing of two kinds of seed at the same time.
21.       Processing machinery would be of standard manufacture.  Treating
and packaging equipment would have ample capacity to permit high volume
treating and packaging of seed late in the season (see para 7). Internal bag



ANNEX 5
Page 5
transport would be by hand carts. The design would permit the use of fork-
lift, palletized handling of seed. At present wage rates their use could,
however, not be justified. The number and size of air screen cleaners would
differ from plant to plant in accordance with capacity requirements and the
factors pertinent to capacity determination (para 16). Other machinery and
equipment would also be procured according to individual plant requirements
without predetermining standard plant size. 1/
22.       Ventilated storage would be provided for about 60% maximum tonnage
during the peak season (usually rabi). Additional storage would be in the
receiving area, in the processing area and in bulk bins. Storage would also
be available in transit stores which would be constructed under Phase I
provisions, and storage could be rented at State and Central Warehousing
Corporation godowns. Conditioned storage facilitirs (about 150 C; 60% r.h.
or lower) would be provided on the basis of 200 M minimum per plant, with
additional space in accordance with the seasonal peak of hybrid seed tonnage
and other seeds requiring conditioned storage.
23.       Potatoes and groundnuts would be handled separately from other
kinds of seed, although handling facilities could be located in the same
complex. Groundnuts could be stored together with other seed, while potatoes
must be placed in cold storage (3-40 C; 80-85% r.h.). Potato cold storage
would be provided under the project for part of the total requirements.
Additional storage would be rented. Sorting and grading of both potatoes
and groundnuts would be done by hand on conveyor belts. A suitable labor
intensive system would be developed by NSC.
24.       Investments.  In Bihar, one new cereal plant would be established
with a nominal seasonal capacity of about 8,500 tons. A potato processing
center would also be set up with cold storage facilities of 9,000 tons (In-
vestment Costs at Table 4).
25.       Orissa would have a similar arrangement on a smaller scale.  One
cereal processing plant with a 5,000 ton processing capacity in the Sambalpur
district and a potato-cum-groundnut facilities including new cold storage for
1,000 tons would be provided. Processing of potato and groundnut seed would be
concentrated in the Cuttack, Puri districts (Investment Costs at Table 5).
26.       Karnataka would have two processing centers, one in Chickballapur
and one in Harihar. New nominal seasonal plant capacity for cereals would
amount to about 5,000 tons in Chickballapur and approximately 3,000 tons
in Harihar. In addition, Chickballapur would obtain potato processing equip-
ment and cold storage for 1,000 tons (Investment Costs at Table 6).
1/ In Phase IJprocessing plant plans are based on modules of 5,000 and
10,000 ton nominal seasonal capacity.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
27.       In Rajasthan, there would be three plant sites, one site at Surat-
garh that would take over most of the equipment from the existing NSC plant
and two completely new plants, one in the Sriganganager project area the other
in the project area around Kota. Each new plant would be provided with equip-
ment of a nominal seasonal capacity (as defined in para 15) of 5,000 tons.
The effective capacity would, however, be at least twice as high, particularly
in the Sriganganager plant, because the dry climate permits a processing sea-
son of at least 120 days (Investment Costs at Table 7).
28.       Uttar Pradesh would receive two new processing plants, one each in
the Kanpur and Faizabad project areas. TDC in the Pantnagar area does not
require additional investment. Only cold storage of 1,000 tons would be pro-
vided under the project. The new plant in Kanpur would have a nominal seasonal
capacity of about 8,000 tons, the plant at Faizabad approximately 7,000 tons.
Like in Rajasthan, effective capacities in both plants would be higher. Both
centers would also include cold storage facilities of 1,000 tons each together
with potato handling systems (Investment Costs at Table 8).
29.       SSC Headquarters would be established in each state.  Investment
costs have been detailed at Table 9.
30.       Plant Design and Procurement.  SSC would contract with NSC for plant
design, preparation of tender documents and procurement and installation of
equipment. Tendering and supervision of civil works contracts would be han-
dled by SSC or, if they desired, by NSC on their behalf.
31.       NSC has an engineering section with considerable design capability.
However, because of the lacking experience in designing plants of the size
and equipment range proposed for SSC, provision has been made in Phase I for
consultant services to help in the design. No additional provision is re-
quired under this project. The designs would be submitted to IDA for review
before tendering commenced.
32.       All equipment would be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding. Civil works contracts would be let after competitive
bidding advertised locally. Individual works would be small and widely
scattered and thus unlikely to attract international firms.
33.       Interim Capacity.  Completely new plants would be fully operational
only by kharif 1979. In Orissa and Bihar, where no processing capacity is
presently available, cereal seed processing on a limited scale would commence
only in kharif 1978 (Orissa) and rabi 1979 (Bihar). Small quantities of seed
potatoes could be processed in existing areas and storage beyond the facili-
ties to be transferred to SSC (Orissa) could be rented.
34.       In Uttar Pradesh, seed processing would be expanded on existing TDC
equipment until the new capacity comes on stream. In addition, the new equip-
ment at CSAUAT would be utilized (para 14).
35.       Rajasthan and Karnataka would undertake a bridging operation and
purchase a simple range of equipment including treaters, cleaners and baggers,



ANNEX 5
Page 7
that would be located in existing facilities and supplement the capacity
presently available. In Karnataka, the present practice of utilizing private
sector capdclty on a custom-hire basis would be continued as an interim mea-
sure. The interim equipment purchases would require only negligible design
requirements, specifications would be simple and procurement could be swift.
Retroactive financing has, therefore, been proposed. When construction of the
new plants has progressed sufficiently, the equipment would be transferred to
the new sites.
36.       Operating Costs together with the proposed staffing pattern are
detailed in Tables 10, 11 and 12. The staffing of processing plants with
permane.L employees would depend on the amount of annual throughput. Class I
plants with annual production of 15,000 tons or more would have fixed staff
costs approximately 50% higher than Class II plants with an annual throughput
if less than 15,000 tons (Table 10). All plants in Uttar Pradesh, the Bihar
plant and the Suratgarh processing facility in Rajasthan would be in the
group of Class I plants. All other processing centers would be of the Class II
size.
37.       General SSC overhead costs vary from SSC to SSC and over the years
until SSC reaches full development in year 5 (Table 11). Seed Production
Assistants would be employed at the headquarter's production division based
on the hectarage in production during the major season (usually rabi). One
Seed Production Assistant would supervise 300 ha of non-hybrid crops and 200
ha of hybrids, except in Karnataka where one Seed Production Assistant would
cover 250 ha overall. In the low hectarage season, Seed Production Assistants
not being required in the production division could be employed as foremen in
the processing plants at a rate of 5 months (0.42 man-years) per Assistant.
In Class I plants one foreman would be employed on a full-time basis for each
of the sections: Receiving, Warehousing, and Drying and Processing. In
Class II plants permanent foremen would be one for Drying and Processing and
one for Warehousing. All other foreman positions would be filled by transfer-
ring Seed Production Assistants for 5 months each to the processing plant.
The related payroll cost would be charged to processing. A similar arrange-
ment would apply to Seed Production Officers who would work in the low season
at the SSC plants as Shift Supervisors. In Class I plants one Shift Supervi-
sor would be permanently working at the plant and three Seed Production Offi-
cers would be working as Shift Supervisors for 5 months each. In Class II
facilities only 2 Seed Production Officers would work part-time in addition
to the permanent Shift Supervisor.
38.       Variable processing costs for different kinds of seed have been
estimated taking into consideration NSC/TDC experience (Table 12). Variable
labor requirements for Receiving, Processing and Warehousing have been pro-
jected on the basis of 50 man months per 1,000 tons of clean wheat or
potato seed. The corresponding labor requirements for paddy and hybrid
seed are estimated to be 62.5 and 75 man months respectively.



ANNEX 5
Table I
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Planned Production of Clean Certified Seed 1/
(in '000 tons)
77-78          78-79          79-80         80-81          81-82           82-83
(Estimate)
Rabi   Kharif  Rabi  Kharif R&       h       *abi Kharif  Rabi Kharif  Rabi   Kharif
RAJASTHAN
Wheat                    8.0      -    10.0     -    12.0      -    23.0      -    24.3     -      25.0
Paddy                    -       0.3     -     0.5      -     0.5     -      1.3     -     1.4       -      1.5
Hybrids                  -       0.6     -     1.4      -     1.4     -      1.8     -     2.2       -      2.2
Other                   0.6      0.3    0.8    0.4    1.9    0.4    2.8    2.2    3.6    2.3        3.7     2.3
State-Total           8.6      1.2   10.8    2.3   13.9    2.3   25.8    5.3   27.9    5.9    28.7        6.0
UTTAR PRADESH
Wheat                  20.5       -    21.0     -    24.5      -    32.0      -    37.0     -     42.0       -
Paddy                    -      10.0     -    10.5      -    12.6     -    14.8      -    16.8       -     18.1
Hybrids                  -       1.5     -     1.6      -     1.7     -      1.9     -     2.0       -      2.3
Other                   0.1      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.9    0.3    2.3    0.5    3.3    0.7       4.0      1.0
State-Total          20.6    11.6  21.1   12.2   25.4   14.5   34.3   17.2   40.3   19.5    46.0    21.4
BIHAR
Wheat                    -        -      -      -      1.5     -     4.0      -     6.0     -       7.0      -
Paddy                    -        -      -      -       -     1.0     -      1.5     -     2.5      -       3.0
Hybrids                  -        -      -      -      0.3    0.5    0.6    1.0    0.9    1.6       1.2     2.8
State-Total                                         1.8    1.5    4.6    2.5    6.9    4.1       8.2      5.8
ORISSA
7ayMy                     -       -       -     0.4    2.0    3.5    2.0    4.5    2.5    5.0       2.5      5.5
Other                    -        -      -     0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2        0.2     0.2
State-Total                                  0.5    2.1    3.7    2.2    4.7    2.7    5.2       2.7      5.7
KARNATAKA
Paddy                    -       0.6     -     0.8      -     0.8     -      0.9     -     1.0       -      1.2
Hybrids                 3.0      1.3    3.3    1.3    6.0    1.5    6.4    1.7    7.1    1.9       8.1      2.1
Other                    -       0.3     -     0.3      -     0.3    0.1    0.3    0.1    0.4       0.1     0.4
State-Total           3.0      2.2    3.3    2.4    6.0    2.6    6.5    2.9    7.2    3.3       8.2      3.7
CROP TOTALS
Wheat                  28.5       -    31.0     -    38.0      -    59.0      -    67.3     -      74.0      -
Paddy                    -      10.9     -    12.2    2.0   18.4    2.0   23.0    2.5   26.7        2.5    29.3
Hybrids                  3.0     3.4    3.3    4.3    6.3    5.1    7.0    6.4    8.0    7.7        9.3     9.4
Other                   0.7      0.7    0.9    0.9    2.9    1.2    5.4    3.2    7.2    3.6        8.0     3.9
Total Production     32.2    15.0   35.2   17.4   49.2   24.7   73.4   32.6   85.0   38.0    93.8    42.6
1/ Includes all cereals and other crops for which the same equipment is used in seed processing.
Seed production of potato, groundnut and cotton is detailed at Table 2.
June 28, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Planned Seed Production of Potato, Groundnut and Cotton -/
(in '000 tons)
77-78       78-79   79-80   80-81   81-82    82-83
(Estimate)
RAJASTHAN
Groundnut               0.1         0.4     0.4      2.0      2.2      2.3
Cotton                   -          0.1     0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2
UTTAR PRADESH
Potato                  0.6         0.8     1.3      1.8      2.4      3.0
Groundnut                -          0.1     0.2      0.3      0.3      0.4
BIHAR
Potato                   -          0.5     7.0    15.0    18.0       22.5
ORISSA
Potato                  0.5         1.0     3.3      3.9     4.4       5.0
Groundnut                -           -      1.0      1.5      1.8      2.0
KARNATAKA
Potato                  1.0         1.7     1.8      2.0      2.3      2.5
CROP TOTALS
Potato                  2.1         4.0    13.4    22.7    27.1       33.0
Groundnut               0.1         0.5     1.6      3.8     4.3       4.7
Cotton                   -          0.1     0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2
Total Production      2.2        4.6    15.1    26.7    31.6        37.9
1/ Potato seed is grown in rabi season; cotton seed is grown in kharif season;
groundnut seed is a kharif crop in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, in Orissa
it is grown as a rabi crop.
June 28, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
State Seed Corporations - Investment Costs Summary
(Rs. '000)
Total         Foreign
Costs         Exchange      ---      ---- Phasing ------------
Rs. '000    %   Rs. '000   Year 1 1/  Year 2  Year 3   Year 4
BIHAR (Tables 4 and 9)
Plant Sites & Civil Works    13,682        15      2,015      2,736      5,473   5,473
Plant Machinery & Equipment   6,282        39      2,479        628      1,885   2,513    1,256
Headquarters                    1,393      10        137        139        627      627
Physical Contingencies          1,719      22        383                   172      516    1,031
Subtotal                     23,076      22      5,014      3,503      8,157   9,129    2,287
ORISSA (Tables 5 and 9)
Plant Sites & Civil Works       6,257       9        574      1,251      2,503   2,503
Plant Machinery & Equipment   4,745        36      1,690        475      1,423   1,898        949
Headquarters                    1,329      10        131        133        598      598
Physical Contingencies            960      16        154        _           96      288       576
Subtotal                     13,291      19      2,549      1,859      4,620   5,287    1,525
KARNATAKA (Tables 6 and 9)
Plant Sites & Civil Works       7,142        7       465      1,428      2,857   2,857
Plant Machinery & Equipment   6,449        40      2,611      1,935      1,935   1,290    1,289
Headquarters                    1,687      10        166        169        759      759
Physical Contingencies          1,153      17        191                   115      346       692
Subtotal                     16,431      21      3,433      3,532      5,666   5,252    1,981
RAJASTHAN (Tables 7 and 9)
Plant Sites & Civil Works    16,314         8      1,258      3,263      6,526   6,525
Plant Machinery & Equipment  11,424         39     4,499      3,427      3,427   2,285    2,285
Headquarters                    1,943      10        192        194        875      874
Physical Contingencies          2,332      16        365                   233      700    1,399
Subtotal                     32,013      20      6,314      6,884    11,061  10,384    3,684
UTTAR PRADESH (Tables 8 and 9)
Plant Sites & Civil Works    14,066        10      1,440      2,813      5,626   5,627
Plant Machinery & Equipment   9,403        40      3,738        940      2,821   3,761    1,881
Headquarters                    2,153      10        212        215        969      969
Physical Contingencies          2,016      17        351      __202                 605    1,209
Subtotal                     27,638      21      5,741      3,968      9,618  10,962    3,090
Total State Seed Corporations 112,449        20    23,051    19,746    39,122  41,014   12,567
1/ Includes expenditures in pre-project year
8/1/77



ANNEX 5
Table 4;
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Bihar SSC - Investment Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
UYIT COST        Cereals         Potatoes           TOTAL        Foreign Exchange
UNIT    (Rs. '000)   No.   Rs. '000   No_. Rs.0OO   (Rs. '000)                    Rs. '000
1. Plant Site                                    ha       Variable       3      120.0       4     120.0       240.0
2. Site Development 2                            ha         150.0        3      450.0       4     600.0    1,050.0          -        -
3. Buildings
Receiving, pre-processing                     M2           0.4      480     192.0       -        -         192.0         -        _
Intake pit                  /                 No.         20.0        2      40.0       -        -          40.0         -        -
Drying/bulk storage bins
(1) Metal, round "silo" type                 No.     55/65.0         3     195.0       -        -         195.0         50      97.5
(2)Masonry, .quare type                      M2           o.6      140      84.o       -        -          84.o         -        -
Processing area                               M2           0.5      600     300.0       -        -         300.0         -        _
Storage, ventilated                           M2           o.4   2,800   1,120.0        -        -       1,120.0         -        -
Storage, conditioned  /                       M2           o.8      200     160.0       -        -         160.0         25       40.0
Oold storage (potatoes)                      M N ton       o.8        -     -       9,000   7,200.0    7,200.0           25   1,800.0
Preparation/sorting shed                      X2           0.3        -     -       1,600      480.0       480.o         -        -
(potato, groundnut)                          2
Offices & laboratory                          M            0.4      600     240.0    300       120.0       360.0         -        -
Ancillary bldgs. & areas 7/                   M2           0.2      875      175.0    375      137.0       312.0         -        -
Staff quarters                                M2           0.4   1,000      400.0    500       200.0       600.0         -        -
Sub-Total                                                            2,906.0           8,137.0   11,043.0           18   1,937.5
Architect's fee (8% of Sub-Total)                                            232.5             651.0       883.5
Office/lab. furnishings                       Set         20.0        1       20.0    0.5       10.0        30.0         -        -
Fire fighting system                          Set    75/100.0         1      100.0   0.25       25.0       125.0         -        -
Electrical
(1) Power distribution                       -     Lump Sum          -      70.0       -        -          70.0         25       17.5
(2) Internal illumination                    -     Lump Sum          -     140.0       -        -         140.0         25      35.0
(3) Road & boundary lighting                 -     Lump Sum          -     100.0       -        _         100.0         25      25.0
Sub-Tyotal                                                           3,568.5           8,823.0   12,391.5           16   2,015.0
4. Machinery/Equipment
Drying equi=ment
(1) Fan/heater unit                          No.         50.0        5     250.0       -        -        250.0          35      87.5
*(2) Sweep auger                              No.          6.o        3       18.0       -       -          18.0         95       17.1
*(3) Unloading auger                          No.         10.0        3       30.0      -        -          30.0         95       28.5
(4) Portable, inclined                       No.         10.0        4      40.0       -        -          40.0        50       20.0
drag - flight conveyor
*Sheller, maize (10 TPH)                       No.         87.0        1       87.0       -       -          87.0         95       82.7
Potato - sorting, washing and drying          No.        100.0        -     -           5     500.0        500.0         25     175.0
system (10 TPH) S/
nveyors, horizontal
(I1 20 MT/hr. Y 24M                         No.         50.0       2      100.0       -        -        100.0         30       30.0
(2) 10 MT/hr. X 20M                         No.         30.0       2       60.0       2       60.0      120.0         30       36.o
Vertical bucket elevators
(1) 20 MT/hr. X 22M                         No.         80.0        1      80.0       -        -         80.0         35       28.0
(2) 15 MT/hr. X 8M                          No.         22.0        1      22.0       -        -         22.0         35        7.7
(3) 10 MT/hr. X 8M                          No.         18.0        4      72.0       -        -         72.0         35       25.2
(4) 5 MT/hr. X 8M                           No.         12.0        8      96.0       -        -         96.0         35       33.6
*Scalper - 20 MT/hr.                           No.         50.0        1      50.0       -        -          50.0         95      47.5
*Scalper - 10 MT/hr.                           No.         35.0        1       35.0      -        -          35.0         95       33.0
Air-screen cleaner with indented
cylinder senarator
*(I) 3.5 MT/hr.                              No.        250.0        2     500.0       -        -        500.0          95     475.0
*(2) 1.5 MT/hr.                              No.        120.0        1     120.0       -        -        120.0         95      114.0
*Gravity separator (1 MT/hr.)                  No.         75.0        2     150.0       -        -         150.0         95     142.5
*Precision grader/separator 9/                 No.         80.0        2     160.0       -        -         160.0         95     152.0
Sur9e/holding bins with hopper bottom
(l) 2 X2 X1m                               No.          5.0        2       10.0       -       -          10.0         30        3.0
(2) 2.5 X 2.5 X 2M                         No.         10.0        4       40.0       -       -          40.0         30       12.0
(3) 3 X 1.5 X 0.5M                         No.          5.0        3       15.0       -       -          15.0         30        4-
(4) 2 X 2 X 2M                             No.          5.0        6       30.0       -       -          30.0         30        9.0
(5) 1.5 X 1.5 X 1.5M                       No.          5.0        7       35.0       -       -          35.0         30      10.5
*Treater, slurry type 7MT/hr.                  No.         90.0        2     180.0       -        -        180.0         95      171.0
*Bagger - weighing system with bag closer   No.            50.0        3     150.0       -        -        150.0         95      142.5
*Bag closer - portable                         No.         10.0        2      20.0       2      20.0        40.0         95       38.o
Bag Carts
(1)a2 - wheel (100 kg)                     No.          1.0       15       15.0     10       10.0        25.0         10       2.5
(2) 4 - wheel (800 kg)                     No.          3.5       10       35.0     10       35.0        70.0         15      10.5
Bag cleaner                                   No.          5.0        2      10.0       -        -         10.0         25        2.5
Bag conveyor, portable                        No.         25.0        3      75.0       2      50.0       125.0         30       37.5
Dust aspiration system                        Set         25.0        5     125.0       -        -        125.0         30       37.5
Sub-Total                                                           2,610.0              675.0    3,285.0          61   2,016.6



ANNE 5
-able 4
Page   2
INDIA
SECOND NATIOInAL SED PROJECT
Bihar SSC - Investrent Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
UNIT COST       Cereals         Potatoes          TOTAL       Foreign Exchange
UNIT    (Rs. '000)   No.   Rs. '000   No.  Rs. '000   (Rs. '000)         T    Rs. '000
5. Accessory Eqipot
Vacuurn cleaner (heavy-duty)                No.        10.0        3      30.0      -        -         30.0         25       7.5
Weigh bridge (30 MT)                        No.        30.0        1      30.0       -       -         60.0         30      18.0
Air compressor (5 HP)                       No.          9.0       1       9.0       -       -          9.0         4       3.6
Transformer (100 KUA)                       No.       100.0        1     100.0      1      100.0      200.0         20      40.0
Diesel generator (100 KUA)                  No.        150.0       1     150.0       -       -        150.0         30      45.0
Sub-Total                                                           319.0             130.0      449.0        25      114.1
6. Assembly Installation & Electrification                                 512.6             140.9       653.5
(17.5% of sub-totals 4  & 5
7. Miscellaneous Accessories
(Platform  scales, tarpaulins,                     75.0       1        75.0     1       75.0        150.0      15        22.5
sprayers, dusters etc.)
8. Vehicles
Car                                       No.        35.0        1       35.0     -         -          35.0      25         8.8
4WD "Jeep" with trailer                   No.        65.0        2      130.0     2       130.0       260o.      25        65.0
Light truck                               No.        90.0        1       90.0     1        90.0       180.0      25        45.O
Motorcycle                                No.         8.0        3       24.0     2        16.0        4o.0       25       10.0
Sub-Total                                                          279.0            236.0        515.0               128.8
9. Spares (10% of sub-totals 4,5,7 & 8)                                    328.3             111.6       439.9       20       88.0
10. Lab./Quality Control Equipment            Set       130.0        1      130.0   0.4        52.0       182.0       60      109.2
11. Total                                                                 8,392.4          10,963.5    19,355.9       24    4,494.2
12. Duties                                                                  600.0               8.0       608.o
13. Physical Contingencies  /                                               628.o             989.7     1,617.7       22      371.4
14. Total Processing Plant Cost                                           9,620.4          11,961.2    21,581.6       23    4,865.6
*  Items subject to 40% import duty.
Area requirements based on plant capacity.
| Includes leveling and grading, drainage and sewer, water, roads, parking and fencing.
3/ Metal "silo" type bins provided for paddy; masonry room type bins for maize.
2  Ventilated storage space provided for about 60% maximum seasonal tonnage.
5 Cost of air conditioning is included in unit cost.
Cost per M ton based on Central Warehousing Corporation experience.
7/ Includes chemical store; bag & certification material store; toilets; maingate with watchman cabin; workshop; general store; drying
floor (except for potato storage area where costs accordingly would be lower by Rs. 38,000). The unit cost is
an average for the various areas.
To be fabricated in India.  Imported mechanical graders have not been successful.
2/ Provided for limited width - thickness (size) grading of maize seed.
120  Includes equipment for moisture test, lab model cleaners and graders, hard screen, germinator etc., so as to permit plants to determine
screenings of individual seed lots as well as other quality aspects.
Llj At 10% for civil works; 5% for equipment.
August 19, 1977



ANNEX
Table 
Page
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Orissa SSC - Investment Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
UNIT COST      Sambalpur        Bhubaneswar        TOTAL       Foeign Exchange
UNIT     (Rs. '000)   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   (Rs. '000)   *          Rs. '000
1.  Plant Site                                 ha          15.0       3      45.0       2      30.0          75.0       -        -
2/
2.  Site Development                           ha        150.0        3     450.0       2     300.0         750.0       -        -
3.  Buildings
Receiving, pre-processing                 M2           o.4      400     160.0       -      -            160.0       -        -
Intake pit                                No.         20.0        2      40.0       -      -             40.0      -         -
Drying/bulk storage bins 1/
Metal, round,"silo" type                   No.     55/65.0        8     440.0       -      -            440.0       50       220.0
Processing area                           N2           0.5      600     300.0       -      -            300.0       -        -
2
Storage, ventilated                       M2           o.4   i,8oo      720.0    670      268.o         988.0       -        -
Storage, conditioned 5/                   M            0.8      200     160.0       -      -            160.0      25         40.0
Cold storage (potatoes)                 M N ton        o.8        -      -      1,000     800.0         800.0      25        200.0
Preparation/sorting shed                  y2           0.3      400     120.0    600      180.0         300.0      -         -
(potato, groundnut)                      2
Offices & laboratory                      M            0.4      600     240.0    400      160.0         400.0       -        -
Ancillary bldgs. & areas  /               M2           0.2      875     175.0    375       75.0         250.0      -         -
Staff quarters                            M            0.4      912     364.8    667      266.8         631.6      -         -
Sub-Total                                                        2,719.8           1,749.8      4,469.6       10        460.0
Architect's fee (8% of sub-total)                                       217.6             140.0         357.6
Office/lab furnishings                     Set        20.0        1      20.0    0.5       10.0          30.0      -         _
Fire fighting system                       Set    75/100.0        1     100.0    0.2       20.0         120.0      -
Electrical
(1) Power distribution                  -      Lump Sum        -       70.0      -       35.0        105.0       25        26.2
(2) Internal illumiLnatior.             -      Lump Sum        -      140.0      -       70.0        210.0       25        52.5
(3) Road & boumdary lighting            -       Lump Sum       -      100.0      -       40.0        140.0       25        35.0
Sub-Total                                                        3,367.4           2,o64.8       5,432.2      11        573.7
4. Machinery/Equipment
Drigeluipment
TlFan/heater unit                        No.        50.0        8     400.0       -      -            400.0      35        140.0
*(2) Sweep auger                          No.         6.o        3      18.0       -      -             18.0      95         17.1
*(3) Unloading auger                      No.        10.0        3      30.0       -      -             30.0      95         28.5
(4) Portable, inclined                  No.         10.0       1       10.0      -       -            10.0       50         5.0
drag - flight conveyor
Potato - sorting, washing and drying      No.        100.0        -       -         2     200.0         200.0      25         50.0
system (10 TPH) 2/
Conveyors, horizontal
(1) 20 MT/hr. X 21M                     No.         50.0       2      100.0      -       -           100.0       30        30.0
(2) 10 MT/hr. X 20M                     No.         30.0       -        -        2       60.0         60.0       30        18.0
(3) 20 MT/hr. X 28M with tripper        No.        100.0       1      100.0      -       -           100.0       30        30.0
Vertical bucket elevators
(1) 20 MT/hr. X 22M                     No.         80.0       1       80.o      -       -            80.0       35        28.0
(2) 15 MT/hr. X 8M                      No.         22.0       1       22.0      -       -            22.0       35         7.7
(3) 10 MT/hr. X 8M                      No.         18.0       3       54.0      -       -            54.o       35        18.9
(4) 5 MT/hr. x 5M                       No.         12.0       6       72.0      -       -            72.0       35        25.2
*Scalper - 20 NT/hr.                        No.        50.0        1      50.0       -      -             50.0       95        47.5
*Scalper - 10 MT/hr.                        No.        35.0        1      35.0       -      -             35.0      95         33.2
Air-screen cleaner with indented
cylinder separater
*(I) 3.5 MT/hr.                           No.       250.0        1     250.0       -      -            250.0      95        237.5
*(2) 1.5 NT/hr.                           No.       120.0        1     120.0       -      -            120.0      95        114.0
*Gravityseparator (1 Mt/hr.)                No.        75.0        1      75.0       -      -             75.0      95         71.2
Surge/holding bins with hopper bottom
(1)2 X 2 X 1M                           No.          5.0       2       10.0      -       -             10.0      30          3.0
(2) 2.5 X 2.5 X 2M                      No.         10.0       2       20.0      -       -            20.0       30         6.o
(3) 3 X 1.5 X 0.5M                      No.          5.0       2       10.0      -       -             10.0      30         3.0
(4) 2 X 2 X 2M                          No.          5.0       5       25.0      -       -            25.0       30         7.5
(5) 1.5X 1.5X 1.5M                      No.          5.0       5       25.0      -       -            25.0       30          7.5
*Treater, slurry type 7 MT/hr.              No.        90.0        1      90.0       -      -             90.0       95        85.5
*Bagger - weighing system with bag          No.        50.0        2     100.0       1      50.0         150.0       95       142.5
closer
*Bag closer - portable                      No.        10.0        1      10.0       2      20.0          30.0       95        28.5
Ba Carts
(1) 2 - wheel (100 kg)                  No.          1.0       10      10.0     10       10.0          20.0      10          2.0
(2) 4 - wheel (800 kg)                  No.          3.5       10      35.0      10      35.0          70.0      15         10.5
Bag cleaner                                No.          5.0       1        5.0      -       -             5.0       25         1.2
Bag conveyor, portable                     No.         25.0       3       75.0      2      50.0         125.0       30        37.5
Dust aspiration system                     Set        25.0        4     100.0       -      -            100.0       30        30.0
Sub-Total                                                        1,931.0             425.o       2,356.0      54      1,266.5



ANNEX 
Table 5
Page 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJRFT
Orissa SSC - Investment Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
UNIT COST       Sambalpur        Bhubaneswar        TOTAL      TF ign   chae
UNIT      (Rs. '000)   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   (Rs. '000)    L1 Rs  09
5.  AccesoEquipent
Vacuu cleaner7 heavy-duty)                   No.         10.0        2       20.0       -       -            20.0        25        5.0
Weigh bridge (30 MT)                         No.         30.0        1       30.0       1       30.0         60.0        30       18.o
Air compressor  (5 hP)                       No.           9.0        1       9.0       -       -             9.0        40        3.6
Transformer (100 KUA)                        No.        100.0        1      100.0       1      100.0        200.0        20       40.0
Diesel generator (100 KUA)                   No.        150.0        1      150.0       -       -           150.0        30       45.0
Sub-Total                                                              309.0             130.0        43j. o       25      111.6
6.  AssembLY Installation & Electrification                                     392.0               97.1        489.1
(17.57  of sub-totals 4 & 5)
7.  Miscellaneous Accessories                     Set         75.0        1      75.0       1       75.0        150.0        15       22.5
(Platform scales, tarpaulins,
sprayers, dusters etc.)
8. Vehicles
Car                                          No.         35.0        1       35.0       -       -            35 0        25        8.7
4WD "Jeep" with trailer                      No.         65.0        2      130.0       1       65.0        195.0        25       48.7
Light truck                                  No.         90.0        1       90.0       1       90.0        180.0        25       45.o
Motorcycle                                   No.          8.o        3       24.0       2       16.0         40.0        25       10.0
Sub-Total                                                             279.0              171.0        450.0        25      112.4
9.  Spares (10% of sub-totals 4,5,7 & 8)                                        259.4               80.1        339.5        20       67.9
10.  Lab./Quality Control Equipment i/             Set        130.0        1     130.0    0.4        52.0        182.0        60      109.2
11.  Total                                                                     7,237.8            3,425.0    10,662.8         21   2,263.8
12.  Duties                                                                      3U1.2               28.0        339.2
13.  Physical Contingencies 12/                                                  569.6              292.4        862.0        16      141.9
14.  Total Processing Plant Costs                                              8,n18.6            3,745.4    11,864.0         20   2,4o5.7
^ Items subject to 40% import duty.
i/ Area requirements based on plant capacity.
2/ Includes leveling and grading, drainage and sewer, water, roads, parking and fencing.
3/ Metal "silo" type bins provided for paddy; masonry room type bins for maize.
Ventilated storage space provided for about 60% maximum seasonal tonnage.
a Cost of air conditioning is included in unit cost.
Cost per M ton based on Central Warehousing Corporation experience.
7/ Includes chemical store; bag & certification material store; toilets; maingate with watchman cabin; workshop; general store; drying
floor (except for potato storage area in Bhubaneswar where costs accordingly would be lower by Rs. 38,000). The unit cost is
an average for the various areas.
2/ To be fabricated in India. Imported mechanical graders have not been successful.
2/ Includes equipment for moisture test, lab model cleaners and graders, hard screen, germinator etc., so as to permit plants
to determine screenings of individual seed lots as well as other quality aspects.
1O/ At 10% for civil works; 5% for equipmeat.
August 19, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 6
Page I
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Karnataka SSC - Investment Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
UNIT COST   Chickballapur            Harihar          TOTAL       Foreign Exchange
UNIT    (Rs. '000)   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   (Rs. '000)    'b    Rs. '000
1.  Plant Site        2/                            ha         37.5         2        75.0    1.5       57.0         132.0        -        -
2.  Site Development                                ha        150.0         2       300.0    1.5    225.0            525.0       -        -
3.  Buildings                                        2
Receiving, pre-processing                       M           0.4      400       160.0    256    102.4            262.4       -        -
Intake pit                  3/                  No.        20.0        2        40.0      2       40.0           80.0       -        -
Drying/bulk storage bins -
(I) Metal, round, "silo" type                No.    55/65.0          -        -         3      165.0          165.0       50       82.5
(2) Masonry, square type                      2           0.6      112        67.2      -       -              67.2       -        -
Processing area                                 M           0.5      600       300.0   400       200.0          500.0       -        -
Storage, ventilated -                          M*           0.4   1,600        640.0 1,000       400.0        1,040.0       -        -
Storage, conditioned -                          *           0.8      400       320.0   250       200.0          520.0       25      130.0
Cold Storage (potatoes) 6/                     M ton        0.8   1,000        800.0      -       -             800.0       25      200.0
Preparation/sorting shed                        M2          0.3      400       120.0       -      -             120.0       -        -
(potato, groundnut)                          e2
Offices & laboratory                                        0,4      600       240,0   300       120,0          360.0       -        -
Ancillary  bldgs. & areas 7/                   M2           0.2      875       175.0   875       175.0          350.0       -        -
Staff quarters                                  M2          0.4   1,709        683.6 1,600       640.0        1,323.6       -        -
Sub-Total                                                              3,545.8           2,042.4        5,588.2        7      412.5
Architect's fee (87% of sub-total)                                             283.7              163.4         447.1
Office/lab Furnishings                          Set        20.0         1        20.0      1       20.0          40.0       -        -
Fire fighting system                            Set   75/100.0         1       100.0      1      100.0          200.0       -        -
Electrical
(1) Power distribution                       -      Lump Sum         -        50.0      -       -              50.0       25       12.5
(2) Internal illumination                    -      Lump Sum         -       100.0      -       -             100.0       25       25.0
(3) Road & boundary lighting                 -      Lump Sum         -        60.0      -       -              60.0       25       15.0
Sub-Total                                                              4,159.5           2,325.8        6,485.3         7     465.0
4. Machinery/Equipment
Dryin  epiment
IF n/hter unit                               No.         50.0        2       100.0      3      150.0         250.0        35       87.5
*(2) Sweep auger                               No.         6.0        -        -         3       18.0           18.0       95       17.1
*(3) Unloadling auger                          No.        10.0        -        -         3       30.0           30.0       95       28.5
(4) Portable, inclined                       No.         10.0        4        40.0      1       10.0           50.0       50       25.0
drag - flight conveyor
*Sheller, maize (10 TPH)                         No.        87.0         1       87.0      -       -              87.0       95       82.6
Potato - sorting, washing and drying            No.       100.0        1       100.0      -       -             100.0       25       25.0
system (10 TPH) 8/
Convevors, horizontal
(1) 20 MT/hr. X 24M                          No.         50.0        2       100.0      -       -            100.0        30      30.0
(2) 10 MT/hr. X 20M                          No.         30.0        2        60.0      1       30.0          90.0        30      27.0
Vertical bucket elevators
(1) 20 MT/hr. X 22M                          No.         80.0        -        -         1       80.0          80.0        35      28.0
(2) 15 MT/hr. X 8M                           No.         22.0        2        44.0      -       -             44.0       35       15.4
(3) 10 MT/hr. X 8M                           No.         18.0        3        54.0      2       36.0          90.0       35       31.5
(4) 5 MT/hr. X 8M                            No.         12,0        6        72.0      8       96.0         168.0       35       58.8
*Scalper - 20 MT/hr.                             No.        50.0         1        50.0      -      -              50.0       95       47.5
*Scalper - 10 MT/hr.                             No.        35.0        1        35.0      2       70.0          105.0       95       99.7
Air-screen cleaner with indented
cylinder separator
*(1) 3.5 MT/hr.                                No.       250.0        1       250.0      -       -            250.0        95     237.5
*(2) 1.5 MT/hr.                                No.       120.0        1       120.0      2      240.0         360.0       95      342.0
*Gravity separator (1 MT/hr.)                    No.        75.0        2       150.0      1       75.0          225.0       95      213.7
*Precision grader/separator 9/                   No.        80.0        1        80.0      -       -              80.0       95       76.0
Surge/holding bins with hopper bottom
(1) 2 X 2 X IM                               No.          5.0        2        10.0      2       10.0          20.0       30        6.0
(2) 2.5 X 2.5 X 2M                           No.         10.0        2        20.0      1       10.0          30.0       30        9.0
(3) 3 X 1.5 X 0.5M                           No.          5.0        2        10.0      2       10.0          20.0       30        6.0
(4) 2 X 2 X 2M                               No.          5.0        5        25.0      4       20.0          45.0       30       13.5
(5) 1.5 X 1.5 X 1.5M                         No.          5.0        5        25.0      4       20.0          45.0       30       13.5
*Treater, slurry type 7 VT/hr.                   No.        90.0        2       180.0      1       90.0          270.0       95     256.5
"Bagger - weighing system with MM *i er   "i.               50.0        2       100.0      2      100.0         210.        Os      1Iwo
*Bag closer - portable                           No.        10.0        2        20.0      1       10.0           30.0       95       28.5
Bag Carts
(1) 2 - wheel (100 kg)                       No.         1.0        10        10.0    10       10.0           20.0       10        2.0
(2) 4 - wheel (800 kg)                       No.          3.5       10        35.0      8       28.0          63.0       15        9.4
Bag cleaner                                     No.         5.0        2        10.0      1        5.0          15.0        25        3.7
Bag conveyor, portable                          No.        25.0        3        75.0      2       50.0         125.0       30       37.5
Dust aspiration system                          Set        25.0        4       100.0      4      100.0         200.0       30       60.0
Sub-Total                                                              1,962.0           1,298.0       3,260.0        65   2,108.4



ANNEX 5
Table 6
Page 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Karnataka SSC - Investment Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
UNIT COST   Chickball-vur          Harihar           TOTAL       Foreign Exchange
UNIT     (Rs. '000)   No.   Rs  '000   No.   Rs. '000    (Rs. '000)    %    Rsa  '000
5. Accessory Equi:ment
VAcUUI cleaner (heavy-duty)                  No.        10.0          2      20.0        2    20.0             40.0       25     10.0
Weigh bridge (30 MT)                         No.        30.0          1      30.0        1    30.0             60.0       30     18.0
Air compressor (S HP)                        No.         9.0           1      9.0        1      9.0            18.0       40       7.2
Transformer (100 KUA)                        No.       100.0          1    100.0         1   100.0            200.0       20     40.0
Diesel generator (100 KUA)                   No.       150.0          1    150.0         1   150.0            300.0       30     90.0
Sub-Total                                                             309.0             309.0           618.0       27    165 2
6.  Assembly Installation & Electrification                                     397.4             281.2           678.6
(17.57. of sub-totals 4.& 5)
7.  Miscellaneous Accessories                    Set        75.0           1     75.0      0.5    37.5            112.5       15      16.8
(Platform scales, tarpaulins,
sprayers, dusters etc.)
8. Vehicles
Car                                          No.        35.0          1      35.0        -    -                35.0       25      8.7
4WD "Jeep" with trailer                      No.        65.0          2    130.0         1    65.0            195.0       25     48.7
Light truck                                  No.        90.0          1      90.0        1    90.0            180.0       25     45.0
Motorcycle                                   No.         8.0          3      24.0        3    24.0             48.0       25     12.0
Sub-Total                                                             279.0             179.0           458.0       25    114.4
9.  Spares (107, of sub-totsls 4,5,7 & 8)                                       262.5             182.3           444.8       20      89.0
10/
10.  Lab,/Quality Control Equipment                Set      130.0           1    130.0      0.5    65.0            195.0       60    117.0
11,  Total                                                                     7,949.4          4,959.8         12,909.2       24  3,075.8
12.  Duties                                                                      428.8             253.2           682.0
13.  Physical Contingencies -                                                    645.6             391.0         1,036.6       17    177.0
14.  Total Processing Plant Costs                                              9,023.8          5,604.0         14,627.8       22  3,252.8
*  Items subject to 407 import duty.
1/ Area requirements based on plant capacity.
2/ Includes leveling and grading, drainage and sever, water, roads, parking and fencing.
J/ Metal "silo" type bins provided for paddy; maaonry room type bins for maize.
4/ Ventilated storage space provided for about 60% maximium seasonal tonnage.
5/ Cost of air conditioning is included in unit cost.
6/ Cost per M ton based on Central Warehousing Corporation experience.
7/ Includes chemical store; bag & certification material store; toilets; maingate with watchman cabin; workshop; general store; drying
floor. The unit cost is an average for the various areas.
8/ To be fabricated in India. Imported mechanical graders have not been successful.
9/ Provided for limited width - thickness (size) grading of maize seed.
10/ Includes equipment for moisture test, lab model cleaners and graders, hard screen, germinator etc., so as to permit plants
to determine screenings of individual seed lots as well as other quality aspects.
11/ At 107 for civil works; 5% for equipment.
August 19, 1977



ANNMX 5
Table 7
Page 1
INDIA
SE1COND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Rajasthan SSC - Investment Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
UNIT COST      Suratgarh       Srigaganagar          Kota            TOTAL    Forign Exchange
cJNIT   (Rs. '000)   No.  Is. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   (Rs. '000)               Rs. '000
1.  Plant Site                                ha           40.0       3      120.0      3      120.0      3      120.0        360.0     -        -
_.  Site Developmnent                         ha          150.0       3      450.0      3      450.0      3      450.0     1,350.0      -        -
3.  .uildings
Receiving, pre-processing                 M            0.4      480     192.0    480      192.0    48o       192.0       576.0
Intake pit                J               No.         20.0        2      Z0.0       2      4o.o       2      4o.o        120.0
Drying/bulk storage bins
Metal, roud "silo" type                   No.      55/65.0        8      520.0      8      520.0      8      520.0     1,560.0      50       780.0
Processing area                         0M2              .5     600     300.0    600      300.0    600      300.0        900.0      -       -
Storage, ventilated                                    0. o.4   4,600   1,840.0  4,600   1,840.0  4,000   1,600.0      5,280.0      -       -
Storage, conditioned                     4M2           0.8      400     320.0    400       320.0    400      320.0       960.o      25      240.0
Offices & laboratory                      M0.4                  600     240.0    600      240.o    600      240.0        720.0      -       -
AncillarJ bldgs. & areas                  M M2          0.2     875      175.0    875      175.0    875      175.0       525.0      -        -
Staff quarters                            M2           o.4   1,390      556.0  1,390      556.0  1,390      556.o      1,668.0      -       -
Sub-Total                                                        4,183.0           4,183.0           3,943.0    12,309.0        8    1,020.0
Architect's fee (8% of sub-total)                                        334.6             334.6             315.4       984.6      -        -
Office/lab. furnishings                   Set         20.0        1      20.0       1      20.0       1       20.0        60.0      -        -
Fire fighting system                      Set     75/100.0        1     100.0       1     100.0       1     100.0        300.0      -       -
Electrical
(1) Power distribution                 -        Lump Sum        -      80.0       -      80.0       -      70.0        230.0      25       57.5
(2) Internal illumination              -        Lmp Sum         -     140.0       -     140.0       -     140.0        420.0     25       105.0
(3) Road i boundary lighting           -        LumP Sum        -     100.0       -     100.0       -     100.0        300.0     25        75.0
Sub-Total                                                        4,957.6           4,957.6           4,688.4    14,603.6        9    1,257.5
4. Maclinery/Equiprent
(1) Fan/heater onit                    No.          50.0        4     200.0       4     200.0       6     300.0        700.0     35       245.o
*(2) Sweep auger                         No.          6.o        3      18.0       3      18.0       3      18.0         54.0      95       51.3
* ( 3 ) Unloading auger                  No.         10.0        3      30.0       3       30.0      3       30.0        90.0      95       85.5
(4) Portable, inclined                 No.          10.0        2      20.0       2      20.0       3      30.0         70.0      50       35.0
drag - flight conveyor
,Sheller, maize (10 TPH)                   No.         87.0        -      -          -     -           1       87.0        87.0      95       82.6
Conveyors. horizontal
(1) 20 MT/hr. X 24M                    No.          50.0        2     100.0       2     100.0       2     100.0        300.0      30       90.0
(2) 10 MT/hr. X 20M                    No.          30.0        2      60.0       2      60.o       2      60.o          SC.o     30       54.o
(3) 20 MT/hr. X 28M with tripper       No.         100.0        1     100.0       1     100.0       1     100.0       3I ,U       30       90.0
Vertical bucket elevators
(1) 20 MT/hr. X 22M                    No.          80.O        1      80.0       1      80.0       1      80.0        240.0      35       84.0
(2) 15 MT/hr. X 8M                     No.          22.0        -     -           -     -           1      22.0         22.0     35         7.7
(3) 10 MT/hr. X 8M                     No.          18.0        2      36.o       4      72.0       4      72.0        180.0      35       63.0
(4) 5 MT/hr. X 8M                      No.          12.0        4      48.o       8      96.o       8      96.0        240.0      35       84.0
*Scalper -  20 M/Jr.                       No.         50.0        -     -           1       50.0      1       50.0       100.0      95        95.0
Scalper -10 MT/hr.                        No.         35.0        -     -           1       35.0      1       35.0        70.0      95        66.5
Air-screen cleaner with indented
cylinder separator
*(1) 3.5 MT/hr.                          No.        250.0        -     -           1     250.0       1     250.0        500.0      95      475.0
*(2) 1.5 MT/hr.                          No.        120.0        -     -           1     120.0       1     120.0        240.o      95      228.0
*Gravity separator (1 MT/hr.)              No.         75.0        2      150.0      2     150.0       2      150.0       45o.o      95      427.5
*Precision grader/separator J/             No.          80.0       -      -          -      -          1       80.0        80.0      95        76.0
Surge/holding bins with hopper bottum
(1) 2 X 2 X 1M                         No.           5.0        2      10.0       2      10.0       2      10.0         30.0      30        9.0
(2) 2.5 X 2.5 X 2M                     No.          10.0        4      40.0       4      40.0       4      40.0        120.0      30       39.0
(3) 3 X 1.5 X 0.5M                     No.           5.0        2      10.0       2      10.0       2      10.0         30.0      30        9.0
(4) 2 X 2 c 2M                         No.           5.0        5      25.0       5      25.0       5      25.0         75.0      30       22.5
(5) 1.5 X 1.5 X 1.5M                   No.           5.0        5      25.0       5      25.0       5      25.0         75.0      30       22.5
*Treater, slurry type 7 MT/hr.             No.          90.0       2      180.0      2      180.0      2      180.0       540.o      95      513.0
'Bagger - weighing  system with bag        No.         50.0        3     150.0       3      150.0      3      150.0       450.0      95      427.5
closer
*Bag closer - portable                     No.          10.0       2      20.0       2      20.0       2       20.0        60.o      95        57.0
Bag Carts
17    _ wheel (100 kg)                 No.          1.0       15      15.0      15      15.0      15      15.0         45.0      10        4.5
(2) 4 - wheel (800 kg)                 No.           3.5       10      35.0      10      35.0      10      35.0        105.0      15       15.7
Bag cleaner                               No.           5.0       2       10.0      2       10.0              10.0         30.0     25         7.5
Bag conveyor., portable                   No.         25.0        3       75.0      3       75.0      3       75.0       225.0      30        67.5
Dust aspiration systen                    Set         25.0        4      100.0      4      100.0      4      100.0       300.0      30        90.0
Sub-Total                                                        1,537.0           2,076.0           2,375.0      5,988.0      60    3,624.8



ANNf 5
Table 7
Page   2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED EDOJECT
Rajasthan SSC - Investment Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
UNIT COST     Suratgarh        Srigaganagar         Kota              TOTAL     Foreign Exchange
UlIT    (Rs  '000)   No.  Rs. '000   No.  Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000    (Rs. '000)  -:  Rs., '000
5,,            qi E  ot
Vac  feaner (avy-duty)                    No.       10.0        2      20.0       2      20.0      2       20.0         60.0        25     15.0
Weigh bridge (30 MT)                       No.        30.0       1      30.0       1      30.0       1      30.0         90.0        30     27.0
Air compressor (5 HP)                      No.         9.0       1       9.0       1       9.0       1       9.0         27.0        40     10.8
Transformer (100 KUA)                      No.      100.0        1     100.0       1     100.0      1      100.0        300.0        20     60.0
Diesel generator (100 KUA)                 No.      150.0        1     150.0       1     150.0      1      150.0        45o.0        30    135.0
Sub-Total                                                         309.0             309.0             309.0        927.0        27    247.5
6,  Assembly Installation & Electrification                                323.0             417.4             469.7      1,210.1
(17.55 of sub-totals 4 & 5)
7. Miscellaneous Accessories        .          Set        75.0       1      75.0       1      75.0       1      75.0        225.0        15     33.7
(Platform scales, tarpaulins,
sprayers, dusters etc.)
8. Vehicles
Car                                        No.        35.0       1      35.0       -      -         1       35.0         70.0        25     17.5
4WD "Jeep" with trailer                    No.       65.o        2     130.0       2     130.0      2      130.0        390.0        25     97.5
Light truck                                No.       90.0        1      90.0       1      90.0      1       90.0        270.0        25     67.5
Motorcycle                                 No.         8.o       3      24.0       3      24.o       3      24.0         72.0        25     18.0
Sub-Total                                                         279.0             244.o            279.0         802.0        25    200.5
9. Spares (10% of sub-totals 4,5,7 & 8)                                    220.0             270.4             303.8        794.2        20    158.8
10.  Lab./Ouality Control Equipment             Set       130.0       1     130.0       1     130.0       1     130.0         390.0       60    234.0
11.  Total                                                                8,400.6           9,049.4           9,199.9     26,649.9        22  5,757.1
i2.  Duties                                                                 219.2             401.2             468.o      1,088.4
13,  Physical Contingencies                                                 707.4             748.9             746.3      2,202.6        16    350.7
14.  Total Processing Plant Costs                                         9,327.2          10,199.5           41,414.2    29,940.9        20  6,107.8
* Items subject to 40% import duty.
L  Area requirements based on plant capacity.
Includes leveling and grading, drainage and sewer, water, roads, parking and fencing.
3/ Metal "silo" type bins provided for paddy; masonry room type bins for manze.
Ventilated storage space provided for about 60% maximum seasonal tonnage.
5v Cost of air conditioning is included in unit cost.
Includes chemical store; bag & certification material store; toilets; maingate with watchman cabin; workshop; general store; drying floor.
The unit cost is an average for the various areas.
7/ Provided for limited width - thickness (size) grading of maize seed.
Includes equipment for moisture test, lab model cleaners and graders, hard screen, germinator etc., so as to permit plants to determine
screenings of individual seed lots as well as other quality aspects.
9/ At 10% for civil works; 5% for equipment.
Auigust 3, 1977



ANNDX5
Tabl-e- 
Page
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Uttar Pradesh SSC - Investment Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
UNIT COST       Pantnalar           anpur            Faitabad          TOTAL       Foreign Exchange
I,tNliIT  (Rn_ '000)   l      !      00   No.   Rs.'000   No.   Rs. '000   (Rs. '000)    %    Rs. '000
1.  Plant Site                                   he          40.0          -      -          3      120.0       3      120,0        240.0       -       -
2.  Site Development                             ha         150.0         -       -          3      450.0       3      450.0        900.0       -       -
3.  Buildings
Receiving, yrn-proceasing                    M2           0.4         _                480     192.0    480       192,0         384.0       -      -
intake pit                 3/                No.         20.0         -       -          2      40.0        2      40.0          80.0      -       -
DrYing/bulk storage bins -
Metal, round, "silo" type                    No.      55/65.0                 -          8      520.0       8     520.0      1,040.0        50      520.0
Processing area                              M2           0. 5        _       -        600      300.0    600      300.0         600.0       -      -
Storge,  entiated4/                     M
Storage, ventilated  S/                    1M             0.4                 -     5,500   2,200.0  4,400   1,760.0         3,960.0
Storage, conditioned                         M2           0.8                 -       400      320.0    400       320.0         640.0       25     160.0
Cold storage (potatoes)6/                   M ton         0.8    1,000       800.0  1,000      800.0  1,000       800.0      2,400.0        25     600.0
Prepara.tion/sorting shed                    M2           0.3       200       60.0    200        60.0    200        60.0        180.0       -      -
(potato, groundnut)
Offices & laboratorv                         M            0.4         -       -        600      240.0    600      240.0         480.0y
Ancillary bIdge. & areas 7/                  M2           0.2                 -        875      175.0    875       175.0        350.0       -       -
Staff quarters                               M2           0.4         -       -     1,300       520.0  1,300      520.0      1,040.0        -      -
Sub-Total                                                              860.0            5,367.0           4,927.0    11,154,0         11   1,280.0
Architect's fee (8I of sub-total)                                             68,8              429.4             394.2         892.4
Office/lab furnishings                       Set         20.0         -       -          1       20.0       1       20.0         40.0       -       -
Fire fighting system                         Set    75/100.0          -       _1               100.0        1     100.0         200.0       -      -
Electrical
(1) Pover distribution                    -       Lump Sum         --                 -       80.0       -       80.0        160.0       25       40.0
(2) Internal illumination                 -       Lump Sum          -                 -      140.0       -      140.0        280.0       25       70.0
(3) Road & boundary lighting              -       Lump Sum          -      -          -      100.0       -      100.0        200.0       25       50.0
Sub-Total                                                              928,8            6,236.4            5,761.2    12,926.4        11   1,440.0
4. Machinery/Epuipment
Drying equipment
( Theater unit                     No.         50.0         -       -          6      300.0       8      400.0        700.0       35      245.0
*(2) Sweep auger                           No.           6.0         -      -           3      18.0       3       18.0         36.0       95       34,2
*(3) Unloading auger                       No.          10.0         -       -          3      30.0       3       30.0          60.0      95       57.0
(4) Portable, inclined                    No.         10.0         -       -          2       20.0       2       20.0         40.0       50       20.0
drag - flight conveyor
Potato - sorting, washing and drying         No.        100.0         1      100.0       1     100.0        1     100.0         300.0       25       75,0
systen (10 TPH) /
Conveyors,  oiwna
20 h5r,Aorizon5tal
(1) 20 MT/hr. X 24M                       No.         50.0         -       -          2      100.0       2      100.0        200.0       30       60.0
(2) 10 MI/hr. X 20M                       No.         30.0          -      -          2       60.0       2       60.0        120.0       30       36.0
(3) 20 NI/hr. X 28M  with tripper         No.        100.0          -                 I      100.0       I      100.0        200.0       30       60.0
Vertical bucket elevators
(1) 20 Mr/hr. X 22M                       No.         80.0          -                  1     80.0       1       80.0        160.0       35       56.0
(2) 15 MF/hr. X 8M                        No.         22.0          -                 1       22.0       1       22.0         44.0       35       15.4
(3) 10 Mr/hr. X 8M                        No.         18.0          -                 4       72.0       4       72.0        144.0       35       50.4
(4) 5 MT/hr, X 814                        No,         12.0         -       '          8       96.0       8       96.0        192.0       35      67.2
*Scalper - 20 NI/hr.                          No,         50.0         -       -          1       50.0       1      50.0        100.0       95       95.0
*Scalper - 10 MT/hr.                          No,         35.0         -       -          1       35.0       1      35.0          70.0      95       66.5
Air-screen cleaner vith indented
.-i  a- p8taLor
-(14  3.  'r' INo.                                    250.0         -       -          2      500.0       2     500.0      1,000.0       95      950.0
:  [   ' > r                             No.        120.0         -                  1     120.0       -       -           120.0       95      114.0
Nav    ,,  _alr,I MT/br)  No.        75.0         -       -          2      150.0       2     150.0        300.0       95      285.0
r,      ,  LS  tw hopper bottom
(1) 2    2 X 1M                           No.          5.0         -       -          2       10.0       2      10.0          20.0       30       6.0
'') 2.5 Y 2.5 X 2M                        No.         10.0         -       -          4       40.0       4      40.0          80.0      30       24.0
r3) 3 x 1.5 X 0.5M                       No.          5.0         -       -          3       15.0       2      10.0          25.0       30       7.5
1'   2' 2 X 2Kq                       No.          5.0         -       -          6      30.0        5      25.0         55.0       30       16.5
(55 1.5 X 1.5 X 1.5M                      No.           5.0        -       -          7       35.0       5      25.0          60.0       30      18.0
-'treater, slurry type 7 MT/hr.              No.         90.0         -       -          2      180.0       2     180.0         360.0       95     342.0
*.agger - weighing system with bag            No.         50.0         -       -          3     150.0       2      100.0        250.0       95      237.5
closet
*8batl cl-c - portable                        No.         10.0         -       -          3      30.0       2       20.0         50.0       95       47.5
Bag Carts
(1) 2 - wheel (100 kg)                    No,          1.0         -       -         15       15.0      15      15.0          30.0      10        3.0
(2) 4 - wheel (800 kg)                    No,          3,5         -       -         10       35.0      10      35.0          70.0      15       10.5
Bag cleaner                                  No.        '5.0          -       -          2      10.0       2       10.0         20.0       25        5.0
Bag conveyor, portable                       No.         25.0         -       -          3      75.0       3       75.0        150.0       30       45.0
Dust aspiration system                       Set         25.0         -      -           5     125.0       5      125.0        250.0       30       75.0
Sub-Total                                                              100.0           2,603.0            2,503.0      5,206.0       60   3,124.2



ANNEX 5
Table 8
Page 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIOIAL SEED PROJECT
Uttar Pradeah SSC - Investment Costs of Processing Plants and Storage Facilities
NIIT COST        Pantnagar          Kanpur            Faisabad              TOTAL    Foreign Exchange
UNIT    (Ri. '000)   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Ra. '000   No.   R   '000    (Rse '000)    7    R. '000
5.  Accessory Equipment
Vacuum cleaner (heavy-duty)                    No.         10.0        -       -           2       20.0       2       20.0          40.0         25      10.0
Weigh bridge (30 MT)                           No.         30.0        -       -           1       30.0       1       30.0          60.0         30      18.0
Air Compressor (5 HP)                          No.          9.0        -       -           1        9.0       1        9.0          18.0        40        7.2
Transformer  (100 KUA)                         No.        100.0        -       -           1     100.0        1      100.0         200.0        20      40.0
Diesel generator (100 KUA)                     No.       150.0         -       -          1      150.0        1      150.0        300.0         30      90.0
Sub-Total                                                                                   309.0              309.0         618.0         27    165,2
6.  Assembly Installation & Electrification                                         17.5              509.6              492.1       1,019.2
(17.5% of sub-totals 4 & 5)
7.  Miscellaneous Accessories                       Set        75.0         -      -           1       75.0       1        75.0        150.0         15      22.5
(Platform scales, tarpaulins,
sprayers, dusters etc.)
8. Vehicles
Car                                            No.        35.0         -       -          1       35.0        1       35.0          70.0        25      17.5
4WD "Jeep" with trailer                        No.         65.0        -       -           2     130.0        2      130.0         260.0         25      65.0
Light truck                                    No.         90.0        -       -           1       90.0       1       90.0         180.0         25      45.0
Motorcycle                                     No.          8.0        -       -           3       24.0       3       24.0          48.0         25      12.0
Sub-Total                                                                                   279.0              279.0         558.0         25    139.5
9.  Spares (10% of sub-totals 4,5,7 & 8)                                            10.0              326.6              316.6         653.2         20    130.6
9/
10.  Lab,/Quality Control Equipment -                Set       130.0         -       -          t      130.0        1     130.0         260.0         60    156.0
11.  Total                                                                       1,056.3            11,038,6           10,435.9    22,530.8           23  5,178.0
12.  Duties                                                                                            505.2              433.2         938.4
13.  Physical Contingencies  -                                                       99,3              917,5               860.0      1,876.8         18    330.9
14.  Total Processing Plant Costs                                                1,155.6            12,461,3           11,729.1    25,346.0           22  5,508.9
*  Items subject to 40% import duty.
1/ Area requirements based on plant capacity.
2/ Includes leveling and grading, drainage and sewer, water, roads, parking and fencing.
3/ Metal "silo" type bins provided for paddy; masonry room type bins for maize.
4/ Ventilated storage space provided for about 607. maximum seasonal tonnage.
5/ Cost of air conditioning is included in unit cost,
6/ Cost per M ton based on Central Warehousing Corporation experience.
7/ Includes chemical store; bag & certification material store; toilets; maingate with watchman cabin; workshop; general store; drying
floor. The unit cost is an average for the various areas.
8/ To be fabricated in India. Imported mechanical graders have not been successful.
9/ Includes equipment for misture test, lab msdel cleaners and graders, hard screen, germinator etc.,  so as to permit plants to
determine screenings of individual seed lots as well as other quality aspects.
10/ At 107 for civil works; 5% for equipment,
August 10, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SCC Headquarters - Investment Costs
Unit Cost      Bihar          Karnataka     Orissa        Rajasthan      U. Pradesh       Total    Forein   c=e
Unit         000      No.  Rs'OOO    No. Rsoo00   No. R,Rs000   No.  Rs'000   No.  Rs'000   (Rs'OO               _ Amount
I. Builig 
2
Offices and Laboratory            N2        0.4       1,150   460    1,150   460   1,150   460   1,150   460   1,150   460           2,300
Storage, General                 N2         0.3         100    30       100    30      100    30      100    30      100    30         150
Garage and Shop                  N2         0.2         160    32       160    32      160    32      160    32      160    32         160
Electrification and
Power Distribution               Set      60.0           1    60        1     60        1    60        1    60        1    60         300         25     75
Architect's Fee (8%)              -          -                  47             47             47             47             47         235
Sub-total                                                629             629            629            629            629       3,145          2     75
II. Smiipmant-, And Firnitug 2/
Quality Control Equipment-        Set     120.0           1   120        1    120        1   120      1.5   180      1.5   180         720         40    280
Typewriters                       No.       3.0          10    30       10     30       10    30       12    36       12    36         162
Accounting Machines               No.       1.0           8      8      10     10        8     8       12    12       12    12          50         30      15
Telephone, PBX Exchange           No.      50.0           1    50        1     50        1    50        2   100        3   150         400         30    120
Furnishings
(a) Offices                     Set        1.8          12    22       16     29       12    22       16    29       16    29         131
(b) Staff                       Set        1.0          30    30       36     36       30    30       48    48       48    48         192
(c) Laboratcry                  Set        6.0           1     6        1      6        1     6      1.5     9      1.5     9          36
Air Conditioners                  No.       5.0           5    25        6      30       5    25        6    30        6    30         140         25      35
Water Cooler                      No.       2.0           2      4       3       6       2     4        3      6       3      6          26
Miscellaneous                     -       Lump Sum        -    30        -      30       -    30        -    30        -    30         150
Sub-total                                                325             347            325            480            530       2,007         23    458
III. Vehicles
Car                               No.      35.0           2    70        2     70        2    70        3   105        3   105          420        25    105
Mass Media Van and Equipment    No.        95.0           1    95        2    190        1    95        2   190        2   190          760         25    190
4 WD "Jeep" with Trailer          No.      65.0           2   130        3    195        2   130        3   195        3   195          845         25    211
Motorcycle                        No.       8.0          18   144       32    256       10    80       43   344       63   504        1,328         25    332
Sub-total                                                439             711            375            834             994      3,353         25    838
IV. Physical Contingencies                                          101             116             98               129         139         53          12  72
V. Total Rhadqartrw  Intiwuent Ceets                             1,494           1,803          1,427          2,072          2,292       9,088         10    910
V Headquarters are assumed to be at one of the processirg plant sites.
If separately located costs will increase by about Rs. 150,000 pw Headquarter.
2/ Includes moisture tester, seed analysis and quick test equipse nt.
2/ Includes 40% import duty on approximately 50% of the equipment.
i IOT 1ori buildings; 5% on vehicles, equipmenit and furniture.
August 1, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 10
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Processing Plant - Staffing Pattern
Cost per l/2/                                               3/
Man-Year          Class I Plant-             Class II Plant-/
Staff Description          (Rs. '000)   Man-Years    Rs. '000        Man-Years    Rs. '000
1. Permanent (Fixed) Staff
and Labor
Plant Engineer/
Superintendent                15.6          1            15.6            1           15.6
Assistant Engineer              14.6          1            14.6
Administration-cum-
Accounts Officer               9.6          1             9.6            1            9.6
Senior Accountant                6.2          1             6.2            1            6.2
Junior Accountant                5.8          2            11.6            1            5.8
Quality Control Officer          9.6          1             9.6            1            9.6
Seed Analyst                     6.2          2            12.4            1            6.2
Store (Warehouse) Officer        6.8          1             6.8            1            6.8
Shift Mechanic  4                5.8          4            23.2            3           17.4
Shift Supervisor-4/             11.5         2.26          25.9           1.84         21.2
Foreman-Receiving-               7.2         1.84          13.2           0.84          6.1
Foreman-Drying &
Processing 4/                  7.2         2.26          16.3           1.84         13.2
Foreman-Warehousing-/            7.2         2.26          16.3           1.84         13.2
Senior Clerk                     5.4          2            10.8            1            5.4
Steno-typist                     4.2          3            12.6            2            8.4
Driver                           3.6          4            14.4            3           10.8
Watchman                         2.0          3             6.0            2            4.0
Attendant                        1.8          4             7.2            2            3.6
Labor-Permanent                  3.6         10            36.0            5           18.0
Subtotal                                                268.3                       181.1
Fringe Benefits (50%)                                     134.2                        90.6
FIXED ANNUAL PERSONNEL COSTS                                 402.5                       271.7
(Fixed Staff/Labor Costs per 1,000 Tons of  Seed5/            27                          27
2. Seasonal (Variable) Labor
per 1,000 Tons of Seed
(for receiving, processing,
warehousing & general)              6/           7/                           7/
Wheat, Groundnut, Potato         3.6&-       4.177/        15             4.172/       15
5.217/                           721/
Paddy                            3.66/       5 21-         19             5.21-        19
Hybrids                          3.6-        6.25-         23             6.25-        23
1/ In mid-1977 prices.
21 Annual throughput 15,000 tons or more
3/ Annual throughput less than 15,000 tons
4/ See para 37.
5/ Based on annual throughput of 15,000 tons for Class I plants and
10,000 tons for Class TI plants.
6/ Includes Fringe Benefits.
7/ See para 37.
August 3,1977



ANNEX 5
Table 11
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
State Seed Corporation Headquarters - Overhead Costs-
Unit Cost          Bihar          Karnataka            Orissa          Ralasthan        Utter Pradesh
Unit      (Rs. '000)   No.  Re. '000   No.  Rs. '000   No.  Rs. '000   No.  Rs. '000   No.  Rs. '000
OVERHEAD COSTS IN YEAR 5ff
1. Salaries and Yages
A. Administration
Managing Director    Man-Year           27.0       1       27.0       1       27.0      1       27.0       1       27.0      1       27.0
Company Secretary          "            18.0       1       18.0       1       18.0      1       18.0       1       18.0      1       18.0
Personnel Officer          "            14.4       1       14.4       1       14.4      1       14.4       1       14.4      1       14.4
Office Manager             "            14.4       1       14.4       1       14.4      1       14.4       1       14.4      1       14.4
Clerks                     "             5.4       4       21.6       5       27.0      3       16.2       6       32.4      6       32.4
Steno-typists              "             4.2       6       25.2       7       29.4      5       21.0      9        37.8      9       37.8
Drivers                                  3.6       5       18.0       6       21.6      6       21.6       8       28.8      8       28.8
Watchmen                   "             2.0       3        6.0       3        6.0      3        6.0       3        6.0      3        6.0
Peons & Attendants         "             1.8       4        7.2       5        9.0      4        7.2      6        10.8      6       10.8
B. Production
Production Manager   Man-Year           21.6       1       21.6               21.6              21.6               21.6              21.6
Seed Production
Officer 2/               "           11.5        2.7    31.1       2.7    31.1        1.6    18.4       4.3    49.5        5.9    67.9
Seed Production
Assistant 2/             "             7.2      17.6   126.7    32.0   230.4          9.1     65.5    43.3   311.8    63.0   453.6
C. Processing
Processing Manager   Man-Year           21.6       1       21.6       1       21.6      1       21.6       1       21.6      1       21.6
Others (for plant
staff see Table 8)
D. Quality Control
Quality Control
Supervisor           Man-Year        15.6        1       15.6      1       15.6       1       15.6      1       15.6       1       15.6
Quality Control
Assistants               "             7.6       2       15.2      2       15.2       2       15.2      3       22.8       3       22.8
E. Marketing & Sales
Marketing Manager    Man-Year           21.6       1       21.6       1       21.6      1       21.6       1       21.6      1       21.6
Market Research
Officer                  '           15.6        1       15.6      1       15.6       1       15.6      1       15.6       1       15.6
Market Development
Officer                  "            15.6       1       15.6      1        15.6      1       15.6      1       15.6       1       15.6
Sales/Distribution
Officer             3                 11.5       1       11.5      1       11.5       1       11.5      2       23.0       2       23.0
Marketing  Assistants-   "               7.2       5       36.0      5        36.0      3       21.6      7       50.4    10         72.0
F. Finance & Accounting
Finance Manager        Man-Year         21.6       1       21.6      1        21.6      1       21.6      1       21.6       1       21.6
Accounting Officer         "            11.5       1       11.5       1       11.5      1       11.5      1        11.5      1       11.5
Audit & Cost Control
Officer                  "           11.5        1       11.5      1       11.5       1       11.5      1       11.5      1       11.5
Accountants & Auditors  "                7.2       4       28.8       4       28.8      4       28.8      6       43.2       6       43.2
Fringe Benefits (50%)                                     278.7              338.0             231.5             423.3              514.2
Total Salaries and Wages                                         836.0           1,014.0              694.5           1,269.8           1,542.5
2. Other Overhead Expenses
Repair & Maintenance
- Cars, Jeeps, Vans 4/  1000 miles          1.2      25        30.0    35        42.0    25        30.0    40         48.0    40        48.0
- Motorcycles 4/           1000 miles       0.45/   54        21.6    96         38.4    30        12.0   129        51.6   189         75.6
- Buildings 5/             1000 w2         11.2-      1.4    15.7        1.4    15.7       1.4    15.7       1.4    15.7        1.4    15.7
Travel Allowance 6/         100 days        2.0      18.5    37.0    26          52.0    11        22.0    34        68.0    47         94.0
Office Supplies               -          Lump sum    -        40.0       -       50.0      -       40.0      -       60.0       -       80.0
Utilities                     -          Lump sum    -         50.0      -       60.0      -       40.0      -       80.0       -      100.0
Miscellaneous (10% of
Other Overhead Expenses) -                          -       19.4       -       25.8      -       16.0      -       32.3       -      41.3
Total Overhead Costs (Year 5 ff)                               1,049.7           1,297.9              870.2          1,625.4            1,997.1
PHASING OF OVERHEAD COSTS
Year 1                                                       210                574               174               591                821
Year 2                                                       255                958               537               711             1,070
Year 3                                                       517             1,043                670             1,442             1,446
Year 4                                                       805             1,152                792             1,591             1,722
Year 5 ff                                                  1,050             1,298                870             1,625             1,997
1/  In constant mid-1977 prices.
2/ See para 37,.
3/ Marketing Assistants would be employed approximately at the rate of one per 5,000 tons of cereal seed, pulses, etc.,
and 10,000 tons of groundnuts and potatoes.
4/ Approximate annual usage of cars, vans, etc., 5000 miles; of motorcycles 3,000 miles.
5/  2.5% of investment costs.
6/  50 days per year for officers and assistants in Marketing, Production and Quality Control; 400 days for remainder of
organization.
7/  Based on yearly production hectarage in comparison to hectarage in year 5, but not less than 20% of total in year 5.
August 11, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Variable Processing Costs-/
(Rs./Ton of Clean Seed)
Wheat    Paddy      Maize      Jowar      Bajra    Potato2/   Groundnut
3/
Processing materials-
(bags, packaging, chemicals)           160       160        225        225        225        100          100
Electricity 4/                              8        12        12          8          8         25            2
Other utilities                             1         1          1         1          1          2            1
Fuel oil 4/                                10        30        30         10         10         33            2
Certification materials                    12        12        12         12         12         12           12
(tags, seals)
Variable labor 5/                          15        19        23         23         23         15           15
VARIABLE PROCESSING COSTS                 206      234        303        279        279        187          132
1/ In mid-1977 prices. Processing costs include receiving, cleaning, packaging and treating.
2/ Cost based on cold storage owned by SSC. In rented storage variable costs per ton increase to Rs. 274
per ton. Storage rental costs are Rs. 150 per ton and season; variable labor costs and utility & fuel
costs are reduced to Rs. 9 and Rs. 3 respectively, if seed is kept in rented storage.
3/ Differences are due to varying sizes and materials used in packaging seed.
4/ Differences are due to different drying and cold storage requirements.
5/ From Table 10.
August 3, 1977
pu1 
- Ln



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
CEREAL PROCESSING PLANT LAYOUT                                            l
ADDITIONAL STORAGE
PROCESSING CENTER (10,000 tons)
I INTAKE PIT - BULK OR BAGGED SEED
2  SCALPER (20T/HR.1                         15 HEATER-FAN UNIT
3  VERTICAL BUCKET ELEVATOR (5- 20 T/HR.)     16 DRYING BIN (15T)
4  HOLDING BIN - FLOOR SUPPORTED              17 MAIZESHELLER
5  INTAKE PIT                                18 COB WAGON
6  AIR - SCREEN CLEANER (3.5 T/HR.)          19 HORIZONAL CONVEYOR                                                              STORAGE - BAGGED SEED
7  GRAVITY SEPARATOR                             (UNLOADING)
8 SEED TREATER
9 PACKAGING SYSTEM
10 AIR - SCREEN CLEANER (1.5 T/HR.I
11 SCALPER (1OT/HR.)
12 METAL SILO (23 T DRYING, 60 T BULK STORAGE)
13 HORIZONAL CONVEYOR (TO LOAD BINS)
14                   (TO UNLOAD BINS)
SILO DRYERS & BULK STORAGE               RE N AA                                                              () i0
( i   )      g~~~~~~~~~>    z~~~~~ ~RECEIVING AREA                                                                  0                     SUPPL STORAG
0~~~~
MAIN PROCESSING AREA
- L  I  I         |        | @   |  r<g                            4                                                                            l CHEMICAL STORAGE
L r s l  Il l E t S @                                                                                                                                    BATHROOM
(ii                                                 0                       0
BIN DRYERS (Maize on ear and other send kinds)                                               RECEIVING& SMALL LOT PROCESSING                                 SHOP
SCALE t
0         5M
OFFICE & LABORATORY AREA
W.1Id Bank - 17918



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Quality Control
Introduction
1.        The National Seed Program (NSP) is designed to reorganize, expand,
and improve the seed production and supply industry of the country. The
success of this development effort and its impact on agricultural productiv-
ity in India will be dependent on three major factors: (1) continued
improvements in varieties of major crops to improve their productivity and
increase their resistance to production hazards including plant diseases
and pest; (2) the production and as importantly the marketing of the targeted
tonnage of improved seed; and (3) rigorous quality control throughout all
phases of seed multiplication, production, processing, and marketing to
ensure that the genetic, physiological and physical qualities of the seed
are maintained so that they will perform well in the farmer's field.
2.        In the seed industry, quality control has three important aspects:
(1) establishment of minimum acceptable seed quality standards; (2) formula-
tion and implementation of a system and procedures for achieving (and exceed-
ing) the established quality standards, and maintenance of same; and (3) a
method of approach in identifying the causes of quality problems, and effect-
ing their resolution.
3.        The ideal of high quality and the concept (and application) of
quality control must permeate all phases and segments of the seed industry.
Concern about seed quality and actions to ensure that standards are achieved
and maintained begin with selection of seed for multiplication, extend
through multiplication, production, harvesting, drying, processing, storage
and distribution, and end only with satisfactory performance in the farmer's
field.
Present Situation
4.        India has already taken the major steps toward the establishment
of an effective seed quality control program. After careful consideration,
the India Seeds Act was passed in 1966. The Rules required for implementing
the Act were then formulated and promulgated in 1968. Basically, the Act and
Rules promulgated thereunder, prohibit the marketing of seed of officially
notified varieties of crops which do not meet minimum standards for purity
and germination as prescribed by the Central Seed Committee established under
the Act. In addition to determining which varieties of which crops shall be
notified for different areas, the Central Seed Committee acts as the princi-
pal advisor to GOI on implementation and enforcement of the Act, and all other
seed matters.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        Under the Seeds Act, a Central Seed Testing Laboratory was set up
to serve as a referee laboratory in the event of disputes, and to check on
the performance of state seed testing laboratories. The latter are also pro-
vided for under the Seeds Act. Many states have established and notified
an official seed testing laboratory. Other states, however, have paid little
atterLtion to seed testing and control and have chosen to notify the NSC
laboratory as the official laboratory for their state. All five states
included in this project have notified seed testing laboratories and a seed
control organization, although they need substantial assistance.
6.        In terms of quality control, the most important and far-reaching
provisions of the Seeds Act and Rules relate to seed certification. Under
the Act, each state is empowered to establish a seed certification agency
for the purpose of providing a quality control service to seed producers,
and a third party guarantee of the quality of each seed lot. Only notified
varieties are subject to certification, and certification is entirely volun-
tary. A seed producer is free to use or not use the certification service
at his discretion. The minimum standards for certified seed and inspection
procedures have been promulgated by the Central Seeds Committee. Standards
for certified seed are higher than those for non-certified seed of notified
varieties.
7.        The five states included in this project have already established
seed certification agencies.
8.        India has wisely and realistically formulated seed legislation.  In-
stitutions and agencies for implementing and enforcing provisions of the Seeds
Act have been established at the Center and in most of the states. Except
for the certification services performed by NSC, however, and those in a
few states such as Maharastra and Karnataka, little progress has been made
in quality control and the regulation of seed marketing. Recognizing the
deficiencies in implementation of the Seeds Act and Rules, the Central Govern-
ment has decided to take up a scheme for assisting state governments to estab-
lish independent control and regulatory agencies. These agencies would be
responsible for enforcement of the minimum standards and labelling provisions
of the Seeds Act, and also the Fertilizers Control Order and the Insecticides
Act. Thus, regulation and control of several important inputs would be
integrated under one Authority.
9.        The Central Government has also taken steps to assist the states in
establishing independent seed certification agencies and to evolve an inspec-
tion system to ensure uniform application of seed certification standards
and procedures. A Central Seed Certification Board has been constituted and
the Central Seed Testing Laboratory at the IATI acts as referee on quality
standards.
10.       Both the Central and State Governments have taken up schemes in
the Fifth Plan to establish and/or strengthen seed testing laboratories.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
11.       Deficiencies in quality control procedures have caused substantial
problems in the seed industry. Breeder and foundation seed have not always
been of highest quality, thus, cs .ribut Lg to _oguing r:bl2mE: :nd rejections
at the certified seed level. Testing laboratories have not been able to
render the prompt and accurate services required in a progressive seed indus-
try. In some cases, standards and rules which were workable and effective in
the early stagces of seed industry development, have become cumbersome and act
as a constraint on operational efficiency.
12.       Although the present situation is far more favorable than it would
be in most developing countries much remains to be done to develop the quality
control agencies with capabilities commensurate with seed industry development
targets.
NSP Proposals
13.       The general quality control proposals established in Phase I are
quoted below: 1/
"Varietal Release and Notification
14.       "Established varietal release policies and procedures are adequate.
Both the Central and State Varietal Release Committees, however, should
establish mechanisms for declaring varieties obsolete (de-notification) when
they are replaced by superior varieties of similar adaptability. Private
breeders are developing new varieties and these will be submitted to the
Varietal Release Committees and Central Seed Committee for consideration of
notification. These varieties should be considered on their merits with no
discrimination with regard to source.
"Breeder Seed
15.       "... since the quality of breeder seed has been a source of recur-
ring problems in the seed industry, the following recommendations pertaining
to quality control are made:
"(1) The originatin6 breeder should describe the variety as
accurately as possible. Particular attention should be
given to detailing those characteristics useful to field
and seed inspectors in identifying varieties. The des-
criptions should not just encompass average characteris-
tics but should also establish the limits of variability
of the principal characteristics, and describe all real
variants (off-types) and their incidence in the popula-
tion.
1/   From:  Appraisal of National Seed Project - India.  Report No. 1064a-IN,
Annex 5, paras 7-23.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
"(2) Varietal maintenance and trueness-to-variety of breeder
seed should be closely monitored by a committee compris-
ing the breeder and representatives from ICAR, NSC and
the foundation seed and Certification Agencies from
the State in which the breeder seed are produced.
"(3) ICAR should maintain in cold storage an authenic stock
(1-2 kg) of notified varieties to serve as a reference
for quality control of breeder seed production. The
releasing institution should also maintain a stock of
authenticated breeder seed in cold storage to serve
as a duplicate and immediately available reference.
"Foundation Seed
16.       "The essential task of the seed programs is to multiply breeder seed
up to the quantity required for large scale seed production while maintaining
the highest standards of varietal purity. Use of high quality foundation
seed virtually eliminates seed production problems related to varietal im-
purity.  Rigorous precautions, therefore, must be taken to maintain varietal
purity during foundation seed production. Precautions include: careful
selection of land; isolation as required; thorough cleanup of all harvesting,
drying, cleaning, and packaging equipment and storage facilities; and mainten-
ance of complete and accurate records on each lot of foundation seed production.
17.       "To ensure highest quality of foundation seed, the following actions
are recommended:
"(1) Each foundation seed unit should formulate and implement
policies and procedures for maintaining varietal purity
of the species of seed handled. No deviation from poli-
cies or procedures should be tolerated.
"(2) The originating breeder or his replacement should be re-
quested to periodically visit foundation seed production
fields and make such inspections as he deems necessary.
"(3) All foundation seed production should be under official
seed certification and subjected to periodic inspection
by the most experienced inspectors of the Certification
Agency.
"(4) Post-control field trials should be made on all foundation
seed lots produced to determine varietal purity. These
plots should be observed by the originating breeder and
certification inspectors as well as by foundation seed
personnel. Foundation seed post-control plots will also
serve as "pre-controls" for certified seed production.
Problem lots can usually be identified in advance of
regular certified class inspection and actions taken
accordingly.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
"State Seed Corporations
18.       "The SSC would be the major seed producers in project States.  Al-
though the seed would be produced under certification the SSC would not rely
entirely on certification for quality control. Each would establish its own
internal quality control program. A quality control section would be estab-
lished at SSC headquarters. To ensure objectivity it would be in the Market-
ing Division since this would not be responsible for seed handling, hence
could not effect quality. The section would formulate and implement quality
control procedures applicable to all operations - production through distribu-
tion. It would have a small laboratory at headquarters. In addition, sub-
units would be established at processing plants, they would also be equipped
with testing laboratories. For field work staff of the Production Division
would be used but procedures and quality control administration would remain
with the Quality Control Section of the Marketing Division. Costs of head-
quarters laboratories are included in SSC investments...
"Seed Certification
19.       "... Each State Seed Certification Agency (SSCA) would have a central
headquarters and several field stations (usually two). The latter would be
located in the compact areas. The Agency would station at least two inspectors
at each major processing center to make necessary inspections and control the
packaging and tagging of seed. These inspectors would work closely with the
quality control units of the SSC.
20.       "After establishment and reorganization, each SSCA would initiate
an in-service training program in cooperation with NSC and the State Agricul-
tural University. The varietal evaluation plots of the Agricultural Univer-
sity and the post control plots of the foundation seed program would be used
for training in varietal identification and general field inspection procedures.
21.       "The Agencies would cooperate with foundation seed programs in post
control trials of all foundation seed lots, which would also serve as pre-
control plots for certified seed. They would also institute post control
trials of certified seed lots selected at random up to 20% of the total number
of lots certified. These post control trials could be carried out on Agricul-
tural University farms under a memorandum of agreement.
22.       "Certification regulations and standards must be realistic and re-
flect the growth and modernization of India's seed industry. Processors would
be allowed to bulk seed of different growers that are of the same variety and
from the same lot of foundation seed so as to permit efficiencies in process-
ing operations. The minimum standards for certification and inspection pro-
cedures adopted by each Agency would meet or exceed those established by the
Central Seed Committee. The testing of seed, as required for certification,
would be done by the State Seed Testing Laboratory under a memorandum of
agreement establishing testing priority and fee.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
23.       "GOI has agreed to create the Central Seed Certification Board (CSCB)
with composition satisfactory to the Bank, before negotiations. It would be
responsible for coordinating the work of the State Seed Certification Agen-
cies and monitoring operations to ensure uniformity of standards, rules and
procedures.
24.       "The Agencies would operate at a deficit for one or two years
until work volume increased; these deficits would be covered by the
project.
"Seed Testing
25.       "Efficient and accurate testing is vital to quality control in a
seed industry. Well staffed and equipped laboratories are required to pro-
vide the three essential testing services: for the Certification Agency;
for farmers and non-certified seed producers; and for seed control to deter-
mine compliance with labeling requirements prescribed in the Seeds Act.
Usually one good laboratory per State would suffice.
26.       "The State Seed Testing Laboratories would give priority to tests
for the Certification Agencies. The seasonally excess testing capacity
would be used to expand testing for enforcement of the labeling provisions
of the Seeds Act, and to step up testing of farmer saved seed. The Central
Seed Testing Laboratory would continue to develop and standardize seed test-
ing procedures and monitor the performance of the State laboratories...
"Training
27.       "India is fortunate to have a small cadre of well trained seed
specialists. These would be used to maximum advantage to train the greatly
expanded staffs envisioned in the project. Much of the training required
can be given in India, especially by NSC and at TDC. A few key individuals,
however, would be programmed for observational tours of pertinent seed
facilities and agencies in the developed countries.
"Technical Assistance
28.       "Present recording and accounting procedures are not adequate for
the planned certification work load of SSCA. Improved procedures are neces-
sary to safeguard quality control per se and for cost control to maintain
financial viability. A consultant would be provided, through CSCB, to assist
SSCA develop improved procedures..."
Pro-ject Proposals
29.       The proposals and recommendations pertaining to quality control as
quoted above are adopted and re-affirmed for this project.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
30.        Seed certification agencies in the project states would be strength-
ened and reorganized to provide the certification services needed for the
expanded seed production prograns in the states. Investments required for
strengthening or establishing seed certification in the five states are given
at Table 2. Recommended staffing patterns, projected operating costs, and
revenues are detailed in Tables 3 through 7.
31.        Seed testing in Bihar, Orissa, Karnataka, and Rajasthan would be
strengthened to develop an adequate capability to provide the testing ser-
vices needed for the proposed expansion of certified seed production in
each state. Uttar Pradesh has adequate seed testing establishments at
GBPUAT and CSAUAT. Investments required for strengthening seed testing
in the four states are given at Table 8, and total quality control invest-
ments are summarized in Table 1.
32.       Each State Seed Corporation would have a Quality Control Section
in its organization, a quality control laboratory at headquarters, and
quality control labs at each of its processing plants. Investments pro-
posed for SSC are detailed in Annex 5.
33.       The SSCA Director and Seed Testing Officer from each of the five
states would be programmed for observational-study tours of approximately
1 month duration each in the developed countries. Details are in Annex 7.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Quality Control - Investment Costs Summary -
(Rs '000)
Total       Foreign
Costs       Exchange          -------7- Phasing -----------------
(Rs '000)   %   (Rs '000)  Year 1-    Year 2   Year 3   Year 4
BIHAR
Certification Agency
(1) Capital investments         912        31      285       365         173       260       114
(2) Operating deficit           471         -      -         313         138       -         -
Testing Laboratories             501       40      200        334        -         167       -
Physical Contingencies            90        23      21         16          24       20        30
Subtotal                  1,974        26      506     1,028         335       447      144
KARNATAKA
Certification Agency3/           938       31      292        562         235       75        66
Testing Laboratories             758       30      228        544        -         214       -
Physical Contingencies            91        31      28        -            20       31        40
Subtotal                  1,787        31      548     1,106         255       320      106
ORISSA
Certification Agency
(1) Capital investments         589        31      182       381         151        19        38
(2) Operating deficit           213        -       -         209          24       -         -
Testing Laboratories             521       38      200        354        -         167       -
Physical Contingencies            66       26       17         10          11       20        25
Subtotal                  1,389        29      399       954         186       206        63
RAJASTHAN
Certification Agency
(1) Capital investments       1,343        30      405       631         333       313        66
(2) Operating deficit            56        -       -          56         -         -        -
Testing Laboratories             665       34      227        446        105       114       -
Physical Contingencies           103        30      31          3          18       37        45
Subtotal                  2,167        31      663     1,136         456       464       111
UTTAR PRADESH-4!
Certification Agency           1,784        32     562      1,040         413      208       123
Physical Contingencies            84        31      26        -            15       30        39
Subtotal                  1,868        31      588     1,040         428       238      162
TOTAL QUALITY CONTROL
INVESTMENTS                    9,185       29   2,704       5,264      1,660    1,675        586
1/  Furt'her details in Tables 2 through 8.
2/  Includes expenditures in pre-project year.
3/ No operating deficit is incurred by Karnataka's SCA.
4/ Uttar Pradesh does not require additional investments for testing laboratories and no
operating deficit is expected for U.P.'s SCA.
August 25, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NUTIO01GED FRDJECT
State Seed Certification AMency - Investment. Costs
(Rs.'000)
2/                  2/               2/                    3/                     4/
Unit Cost            Bihar           Karnataka            Orissa            Raiasthan          Uttar Pradesh       Total        Foreign lKhan
Unit    (Rs.'OOO)       No.    Rs.'OOO    No.    Rs.'OOO    No.    Rs.'OOO    No.    Rs.'0oo    No.    Rs.'000    (Rs.1000)              _, S    R.IODO
1 Un.is IngT                  -     lump sum                    35        -         35        -        25        -        45        -         45           ld5
Office equipment              -     lump sum          -         35        -         35       -         25        -        45        -         45           15
Label and tag printer       No.       40.0            3        120        3       120        2         80        4       160        4        240           720         95        684
Vehicles
(1) 4 WD "Jeep" with      No.       65.0            2        130       2        130        1        65        2        130        3        195           650         25       163
trailer
(2) Car                   No.       35.0            2         70       2         70        2        70        3        105        3        105           420         25       1C5
3  Motorcycles           No.        9.0            4       -a         4       _6          2         18       4         34                               162                   Q40
Sub-total                                       2423                                                                                       2,322           3       992
2. Field Officesy
Furnishings                   -     losm              -         15        -         15       -         15        -        40        -         60           145
Office equipment              -     lump sum          -         15        -         15       -         15        -        30        -         40           115
Inspection and sarpling   set          0.5           34         17       32        16       12          6       46         23      56         28            90
equipment
(1) 4 WD "Jeep" with      No.       65.0            2       130        2        130        2        130       4        260        6        390         1,040         25        260
trailer
(2) Motorcycles           No.        9.0           29        261      32        288       12       108       45        405       56        504         i,566
Sub-total                                                                                                                    T 1,2         Z,9562
3.  Total                                                          864                 890                557              1,279               1,688         5,278          31     1,644
14.  Duties                                                         48                  48                 32                  64                 96            288
5.  Physical Contineenciea (5%)                                     4                   45                 28                  64                  X            264        31         82
6.  Total Investment Costs                                         955                983                 617               1,407              1,868         5,830          30     1,726
v   Office space would be rented.
2/  Two field offices
/ Three field offices
Four field offices
Subject to 40% import duty.
August 5, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Bihar SCA: Operating Costs and Revenues
UNIT COST         YEAR 1            YEAR 2             YEAR 3            YEAR 4             YEAR 5 ff
ITEM                    UNIT  (Rs. '000)  No.   Re. '000   No.   Re. '000   No.   Rs. 1000  No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000
A. OPERATING COSTS 1/
1.  Headquarters
Staff Costs
(1) Director                          MY21  19.2          1        19.2      1       19.2        1        19.2     1       19.2       1       19.2
(2) Chief Inspector                   M Y      15.2       1        15.2      1       15.2        1        15.2     1       15.2       1       15.2
(3) Senior Seed Officers              MY       14.4       1        14.4      1       14.4        1        14.4    2        28.8       2       28.8
(4) Admin_cum-Accounts Officer    M Y           9.6       1         9.6      1        9.6        1         9.6     1        9.6       1        9.6
(5) Field Inspector                   M Y       7.2       2        14.4      2       14.4        4        28.8    4        28.8       4       28.8
(6) Senior Clerk                      M Y       5.4       2        10.8      2       10.8        2        10.8    4        21.6       4       21.6
(7) Steno-typist                      M Y       4.2       2         8.4      2         8.4       2         8.4    4        16.8       4       16.8
(8) Driver                            M Y       3.6       3        10.8      3       10.8        4        14.4    4        14.4       4       14.4
(9) Peonis & Watchmen                 M Y       1.8       2         3.6      3         5.4       4         7.2    4         7.2       4         7.2
Fringe Benefits (50%)                                        53.2              54.1                64.0             80.8                80.8
Sxub-Total                                                  159.6             162.3               192.0            242.4               242.4
Other Costs
(1) Office Rental                                -3/               16.0       -      16.0        -        16.0     -       16.0       -       16.0
(2) Office Supplies                    -    Lump Sum      -        10.0      -       12.0        -        15.0     -       16.0       -       20.0
(3) Certification             100 M tons        0.4      30        12.0   152        60.8    281         112.4  362       144.8    437       174.8
Supplies 4/
(4) Travel Allowance            100 days        2.0       1         2.0   1.5         3.0        2         4.0     3        6.0       3        6.0
(5) Vehicle Operation &
Maintenance
(a) 4WD & Car           1,000 miles        1.0        5         5.0    10        10.0      15        15.0   20        20.0       20       20.0
(b) Motorcycle          1,000 miles        0.4        2         0.8      3        1.2       3          1.2    4         1.6       4        1.6
(6) Pre & Post Control
PLot Work 5/                  ha         2.0                           1        2.0       2         4.0     2        4.0        2        4.0
(7) Utilities & Services               -    Lump Sum      -         6.0      -       12.0        -        12.0     -       15.0       -       15.0
Sub-Total                                                    51.8             117.0               179.6            223.4              257.4
2. Field Offices
Staff Costs
(1) Seed Officer                      M Y      14.4       2        28.8      2       28.8        2        28.8     2       28.8       2       28.8
(2) Fie'ld/Seed Inspector             M Y       7.2       4        28.8      9       64.8       17       122.4   24       172.8      29      208.8
(3) Senior Clerk                      M Y       5.4       2        10.8       2      10.8        2        10.8    4        21.6       4       21.6
(4) Steno-typist                      M Y       4.2       2         8.4      2        8.4        4        16.8    6        25.2       6       25.2
(5) Driiver                          M Y        3.6       1         3.6      2         7.2       2         7.2     2        7.2       2        7.2
(6) Peons & Watchmen                  M Y       1.8       4         7.2      4         7.2       4         7,2    6        10.8       6       10.8
Fringe Benefits (50%)                                        43.8              63.6                96.6            133.2               151.2
Sub-Total                                                  131.4              190.8               289.8            399.6              453.6
Other Costs
(1) Office Rentals                               - 3/               8.0      -          8.0      -         8.0     -        8.0       -        8.0
(2) Off-Lce Supplies            1      -    Lump Sum    -           3.0      -          4.0      -         5.0     -        6.6       -        6.6
(3) Travel Allowance            100 days        2.0       4         8.0      9        18.0    17          34.0   24        48.0      29       58.0
(4) Vehicle Operation & Maint.
(a) 4WD & Car           1,000 miles        1.0        5         5.0    10         10.0    12         12.0   14        14.0      14       14.0
(b) Motorcycle          1,000 miles        0.4        8         3.2    18          7.2    51         20.4   87        34.8      87       34.8
(5) Utilities & Services               -    Lump Sum      -         3.0      -          6.0      -         8.0    -        10.0       -       10.0
Sub-Total                                                   30.2                53.2               87.4            121.4              131.4
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                      373.0               523.3              748.8            986.8            1,084.8
B.  PROJECTED REVENUES -/
1.  Certification Fees
(a) Non-hybrid Cereals, Pulses,  100 ha          5.0    0.5          2.5    12         60.0    26        130.0   39       195.0       45      225.0
Cotton, Groundnuts
(b) Hybrids, Potatoes                100 ha      7.5    2.5         18.8    16        120.0    29        217.5   39       292.5       54      405.0
(c) Registration Fee 7/              100 ha   0.832    3.0           2.5    28         23.3    55          45.8   78        64.9      99       82.4
2.  Tag/labeL Sales                 100 M tons        1.2      30        36.0   152        182.4   281        337.2  362       434.4    457       524.4
TOTAL REVENUES                                               59.8              385.7              730.5            986.8            1,236.8
C. OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                                         (313.2)            (137.6)              18.3              0.0              152.0
D. PROJECT OOSTS TO COVER DEFICIT                                         313                138
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                             16                  7
Total to be included in Project Costs                                 329                 145
1/ Constant mid-1977 prices.
2/ Man Year.
3/ 107. of estimated new construction costs for equivalent area used as annual rental expenditure.
4/ 40 sets of labels, tags and forms required per M ton seed at Rs. 0.1 per set.
5/ Plot work could be done at University on a fee basis.
6/ Assumed is 100 days travel per seed inspector and year.
7/ Based on Eee of Rs. 25 per 3 ha, which is the assumed average size of a certification unit i.e., grower.
July 29, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 4
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Karnataka - SCA: Operating Costs and Revenues
UNIT COST       YEAR 1             YEAR 2            YEAR 3             YEAR 4           YEAR 5 ff
ITEM                             UNIT       (Rs. '000)  No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. 1000  No.   i. '0o00
A.              l~~~~~/
A. OPERATING COSTS -
1.  Headquarters
Staff Costs
(1) Director                                       y/          19.2       1     19.2        1       19.2       1       19.2       1       19.2      1     19.2
(2) Chief Inspector                             MY             15.6       1     15.6        1       15.6       1       15.6       1      15.6      1      15.6
(3) Senior Seed Officers                        MY             14.4       2     28.8        2       28.8       2       28.8       2      28.8      2      28.8
(4) Admin-cum-Accounts Officer                  M Y             9.6       1      9.6        1        9.6       1        9.6       1        9.6     1       9.6
(5) Field Inspector                             MY              7.2       4     28.8        4       28.8       4       28.8       4       28.8     4      28.8
(6) Senior Clerk                                MY              5.4       4     21.6        4       21.6       4       21.6       4      21.6      4      21.6
(7) Steno-typist                                M Y             4.2       4     16.8        4       16.8       4       16.8       4      16.8      4      16.8
(8) Driver                                      MY              3.6       3     10.8        4       14.4       4       14.4       4       14.4     4      14.4
(9) Peons 6 Watchmen                            MY              1.8       2      3.6        4        7.2       4        7.2       4        7.2     4       7.2
Fringe Benefits (507.)                                                    77.4                81.0               81.0              81.0             81.0
Sub-Total                                                                232.2               243.0             243.0              243.0            243.0
Other Costs                                                        3
(I) Office Rental                                 -              1 /            16.0        -       16.0       -       16.0       -       16.0     -      16.0
(2) Office Supplies          4                    -        Lump Sum       -     12.0        -       15.0       -       18.0       -       20.0      -     20.0
(3) Certification Supplies -/               100 M tons          0.4      82     32.8      112       44.8    124        49.6    137        54.8   154      61.6
(4) Travel Allowance                         100 days           2.0       1      2.0        2        4.0       3        6.0       3        6.0     3       6.0
(5) Vehicle Operation & Maintenance
(a) 4WD & Car                        1,000 miles           1.0       5       5.0       10       10.0      15      15.0      20       20.0    20       20.0
(b) Motorcycle                 5     1,000 miles           0.4       2       0.8        4        1.6       4        1.6      4        1.6      4       1.6
(6) Pre & Post Control Plot Work -               ha             2.0       1      2.0        2        4.0       2        4.0       2        4.0     2       4.0
(7) Utilities & Services                          -        Lump Sum       -      6.0        -       12.0       -       14.0       -       15.0      -     15.0
Sub-Total                                                                 76.6               107.4             124.2              137.4            144.2
2. Field Offices
Staff Costs
(I) Seed Officer                                M Y            14.4       2     28.8        2       28.8       2       28.8       2       28.8      2     28.8
(2) Field/Seed Inspector                        M Y             7.2      15    108.0       23      165.6      25      180.0      29     208.8    32    230.4
(3) Senior Clerk                                MY              5.4       2     10.8        2       10.8       4       21.6       4       21.6     4      21.6
(4) Steno-typist                                M Y             4.2       2      8.4        2        8.4       4       16.8       6       25.2     6      25.2
(5) Driver                                      M Y             3.6       2       7.2       2        7.2       2        7.2       2        7.2     2       7.2
(6) Peons & Watchmen                            MY              1.8       4       7.2       4        7.2       6       10.8       6       10.8     6      10.8
Fringe Benefits (507.)                                                    85.2               114.0             132.6              151.2            162.0
Sub-Total                                                                255.6               342.0             397.8              453.6            486.0
Other Costs                                                        3/
(1) Office Rentals                                -             -         -      8.0        -        8.0       -        8.0       -        8.0     -       8.0
(2) Office Supplies  6/                           -        Lump Sum       -      3.0        -        4.0       -        5.0       -        7.0     -       7.0
(3) Travel Allowance -                       100 days           2.0      15     30.0       23       46.0      25       50.0      29       58.0    32      64.0
(4) Vehicle Operation & Maintenance
(a) 4WD & Car                         1,000 miles          1.0      10      10.0       10       10.0      12      12.0      14       14.0    14       14.0
(b) Motorcycle                        1,000 miles          0.4      30      12.0       46       18.4      60      24.0      87       34.8    96       38.4
(5) Utilities & Services                          -        Lump Sum       -      3.0        -        6.0       -        8.0       -       10.0     -      10.0
Sub-Total                                                                 66.0                92.4             107.0              131.8            141.4
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                    630.4               784.8             872.0              965.8          1,014.6
B.  PROJECTED REVENUES
1.  Certification Fees
(a) Non-hybrid Cereals, Pulses,               100 ha             5.0       5     25.0         5      25.0       6       30.0       7       35.0      8     40.0
Cotton, & Groundnuts
(b) Hybrid, Potatoes                          100 ha             7.5      63    472.5      105      787.5    115       862.5    127       952.5   142  1,065.0
(c) Registration Fees -                       100 ha           0.832      68      56.6     110       91.5    121       100.7    134       111.5   150    124.8
2.  Tag/label Sales                           100 M tons              1.2     82      98.4      112      134.4    124      148.8    137       164.4   154    184.8
TOTAL REVENUES                                                           652.5             1,038.4           1,142.0            1,263.4          1,414.6
C.  OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                                                       22.1               253.6              270.0             297.6            400.0
D.  PROJECT COSTS TO COVER DEFTCIT                                                     0.0
1/ Constant mid-1977 prices.
2/ Man Year.
3/ 10% of estimated new construction costs for equivalent area used as annual rental expenditure.
4/ 40 sets of labels, tags and for-s required per M ton seed at Rs. 0.1 per set.
5/ Plot work could be done at University on a fee basis.
6/ Assumed is 100 days travel per seed inspector and year.
7/ Based on fee of Re. 25 per 3 ha, which is the assumed average size of a certification unit i.e., grower.
August 2, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 5
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Orissa - SCA: Operating Coats and Revenues
UNIT COST        YEAR 1            YEAR 2            YEAR 3             YEAR 4           YEAR 5 ff
ITEM                            UNIT         (Rs. '000)   No.   e. '000   No.   ReRs.00    No. e. '000   No.Rs Re. '0   No. Re. '000
Al OPERATING COSTS-/
1.  Neadquarters
Staff Costs
(1) Director                                   MY -/           19.2       1       19.2        1     19.2       1      19.2       1       19.2       1      19.2
(2) Chief Inspector                            MY              15.6        1      15.6        1     15.6       1      15.6       1       15.6       1      15.6
(3) Senior Seed Officers                       M Y             14.4       1       14.4        1     14.4       1      14.4       1       14.4       1      14.4
(4) Admin-cum-Accounts Officer                 MY               9.6       1        9.6        1      9.6       1       9.6       1        9.6       1       9.6
(5) Field Inspector                            MY               7.2       2       14.4        2     14.4       2      14.4       2       14.4       2      14.4
(6) Senior Clerk                               M Y              5.4       2       10.8        2     10.8       3      16.2       3       16.2       3      16.2
(7) Steno-typist                               MY               4.2        2       8.4        2       8.4      3      12.6        3      12.6       3      12.6
(8) Driver                                     MY               3.6       3       10.8        3     10.8       3      10.8       3       10.8       3      10.8
(9) Peons N Watchmen                           M Y              1.8       2        3.6        3      5.4       3       5.4       4        7.2       4       7.2
Fringe Benefits (50%)                                                       53.4              54.3             59.1                60.0              60.0
Sub-Total                                                                  160.2             162.9            177.3               180.0             180.0
Other Costs                                                        3
(I) Office Rental                                                _         -      16.0        -     16.0       -      16.0        -      16.0       _      16.0
(2) Office Supplies                              -        Lump Sum        -        8.0        -     10.0       -      14.0       -       16.0       -      16.0
(3) Certification Supplies-/             100 M tons             0.4       72      28.8      150     60.0    183       73.2     205       82.0    218       87.2
(4) Travel Allowance                      100 days              2.0       1        2.0      1.5      3.0       2       4.0       3        6.0       3       6.0
(5) Vehicle Operation & Maintenance
(a) 4WD & Car                      1,000 miles             1.0        5        5.0      10      10.0      15     15.0       15       15.0     IS       15.0
(b) Motorcycle                     1,000 miles             0.4        2        0.8       3       1.2       3      1.2        3        1.2      3        1.2
(6) Pre & Post Control Plot Work 5/            ha               2.0       1        2.0        2      4.0       2       4.0       2        4.0       2       4.0
(7) Utilities & Services                         -        Lump Sum        -        6.0        -     12.0       -      12.0       -       15.0       -      15.0
Sub-Total                                                                   68.6             116.2            139.4               155.2             160.4
2.  Field Offices
Staff Costa
1) Seed Officer                               MY              14.4       1       14.4        1     14.4       1      14.4       1       14.4       1      14.4
(2) Field/Seed Ihepector                       M Y              7.2       8       57.6        9     64.8      10      72.0      12       86.4      14     100.8
(3) Senior Clerk                               MY               5.4       2       10.8        2     10.8       2      10.8       2       10.8       2      10.8
(4) Steno-typist                               M Y              4.2       2        8.4        3     12.6       4     16.8        4       16.8       4      16.8
(5) Driver                                     M Y              3.6       1        3.6        2      7.2       2       7.2       2        7.2       2        7.2
(6) Peons & Watchmen                           MY               1.8       4        7.2        4      7.2       4       7.2       4        7.2       4        7.2
Fringe Benefits (507.)                                                      51.0              58.5             64.2                71.4              78.6
Sub-Total                                                                 153.0              175.5            192.6              214.2              235.8
Other Costs3
(1) Officel Rentals                                                       -        8.0        -      8.0       -      8.0        -        8.0       -       8.0
(2) Offic! Supplies  6                           -        Lump Sum        -        2.0        -      3.0       -      4.0        -        5.0       -       5.0
(3) Travel Allowance-/                     100 days             2.0       8       16.0        9     18.0      10     20.0       12       24.0      14      28.0
(4) Vehicle Operation & Maintenance
(a) 4WD & Car                      1,000 miles             1.0        5        5.0      10      10.0      10     10.0       10       10.0     10       10.0
(b) Motorcycle                     1,000 miles             0.4       18        7.2      21       8.4      24      9.6       30       12.0     36       14.4
(5) Utililties & Services                        -        Lump Sum        -        3.0        -      4.0       -       6.0       -        6.0       -       8.0
Sub-Total                                                                   41.2              51.4             57.6                64.0              73.4
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                     423.0              506.0            566.9               613.4             649.6
B.  PROJECTED REVENUES -
1.  Certificatlon Fees
(a) Non-hybrid Cereals, Pulses,             100 ha               5.0      19       95.0       46    230.0      54    270.0       61      305.0      65     325.0
Cotton, & Grorudnuts
(b) Hybrid, Potatoes                        100 ha               7.5        2      15.0        4     30.0       4      30.0       5       37.5       5      37.5
(c) Registration Fees 7/                    100 ha             0.832      21       17.5       50     41.6      58      48.3      66       54.9      70      58.2
2.  Tag/label Sales                            100 M tons            1.2       72      86.4      150    180.0    183    219.6        205     246.0    218       261.6
TOTAL REVENUES                                                             zi3.9             481.6            567.9               643.4             682.3
C.  OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                                                       (209.1)            (24.4)             1.0                30.0              32.7
D.  PROJECT COSTS TO COVER DEFICIT                                                       209                24
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                                          10                  1
2~19               25
Total to be included in Project Costs                                               219                 25
1/ Constant mid-1977 prices.
2/ Man Year.
3/ 10X of estimated new construction costs for equivalent area used as annual rental expenditure.
4/ 40 sets of labels, tags and forum required per M ton seed at Rs. 0.1 per set.
5/ Plot work could be done at University on a fee basis.
6/ Assumed is 100 days travel per seed inspector and year.
7/ Based on fee of Rs. 25 per 3 ha, which is the assumed average size of a certification unit i.e., grower.
August 1, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 6
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Rajasthan - SCA: Operating Cost. and Revenues
UNIT COST        YEAR 1            YEAR 2           YEAR 3             YEAR 4           YEAR 5 ff
ITEM                             UNIT         (Ra.  000)   No.   Rs.  000   No.   Re '000   No.   Re. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Rs. '000
A. OPERATING COSTS  -/
l.  Headquarters
Staff Costs                                          2/
(1) Director                                   M Y -           19.2        1      19.2        1     19.2       1      19.2       1       19.2       1      19.2
(2) Chief Inspector                            M Y             15.2        1      15.2        1     15.2       1      15.2        1      15.2       1       15.2
(3) Senior Seed Officers                       M Y             14.4       2       28.8        3     43.2       3      43.2       3       43.2       3      43.2
(4) Admin-cum-Accounts Officer                 M Y              9.6       2       19.2        2     19.2       2      19.2       2       19.2       2      19.2
(5) Field Inspector                            M Y              7.2        2      14.4        2     14.4       4      28.8        4      28.8       4       28.8
(6) Senior Clerk                               M Y              5.4       3       16.2        3     16.2       4      21.6       5       27.0       5      27.0
(7) Steno-typist                               M Y              4.2       4       16.8        4     16.8       6      25.2        6      25.2       6       25.2
(8) Driver                                     M Y              3.6       4       14.4        5     18.0       5      18.0        5      18.0       5       18.0
(9) Peons & Watchmen                           M Y              1.8        3       5.4        4       7.2      5       9.0        5       9.0       5        9.0
Fringe Benefits (50%)                                                       74.8              84.7             99.7               102.4             102.4
Sub-Total                                                                  224.4             254.1            299.1               307.2             307.2
Other Costs                                                        3/
(1) Office Rental                                _              _ _        -      25.0        -     25.0       -      25.0        -      25.0       -       25.0
(2) Office Supplies                              -         Lump Sum        -      12.0        .     14.0       -      16.0        -      20.0       -       22.0
(3) Certification Supplies -               100 M tons           0.4     131       52.4      184      73.6    354    141.6       385     154.0    393       157.2
(4) Travel Allowance                        100 days            2.0        2       4.0        2      4.0       3       6.0        3       6.0       3        6.0
(5) Vehicle Operation & Maintenance
(a) 4WD & Car                        1,000 miles            1.0      10       10.0       15     15.0      20      20.0      20       20.0      20      20.0
(b) Motorcycle                5/    1,000 miles            0.4        2        0.8        3      1.2       4       1.6       5        2.0       5       2.0
(6) Pre & Poet Control Plot Work -              ha              2.0        2       4.0        2      4.0       2       4.0        3       6.0       3        6.0
(7) Utilities & Services                         -         Lump Sum        -      12.0        -     18.0       -      20.0        -      20.0       -       20.0
Sub-Total                                                                  120.2             154.8            234.2               253.0             258.2
2. Field Offices
Staff Costs
(1) Seed Officer                               M Y             14.4       2       28.8        2     28.8       2      28.8        2      28.8       2       28.8
(2) Field/Seed Inspector
(a) Ganganagar Zone                        M Y              7.2      10       72.0       12     86.4      25    180.0       27      194.4      28     201.6
(b) Kota Zone                              M Y              7.2       4       28.8        7     50.4      13     93.6       16      115.2      17     122.4
(3) Senior Clerk                               M Y              5.4        3      16.2        3     16.2       4      21.6        6      32.4       6       32.4
(4) Steno-typist                               M Y              4.2        3      12.6        4     16.8       4      16.8        6      25.2       6       25.2
(5) Driver                                     M Y              3.6        2       7.2        4     14.4       4      14.4        4      14.4       4       14.4
(6) Peons & Watchmen                            M Y             1.8       4        7.2        6     10.8       6      10.8        6      10.8       6       10.8
Fringe Benefits (50.)                                                       86.4             111.9            183.0               210.6             217.8
Sub-Total                                                                  259.2              335.7           549.0               631.8             653.4
Other Costs
(1) Office Rentals                                              -          -      16.0        -       16.0     -      16.0        -      16.0       -       16.0
(2) Office Supplies                              -         Lump Sum        -       4.0        -       6.0      -       8.0        -       8.0       -       8.0
(3) Travel Allowance 6/                     100 days            2.0      14       28.0       19     38.0      38      76.0      43       86.0      45      90.0
(4) Vehicle Operation & Maintenance
(a) 4WD & Car                        1,000 miles            1.0       8        8.0       10     10.0      15     15.0       20       20.0     20       20.0
(b) Motercycle                       1,000 miles           0.4       18        7.2       38     15.2      76     30.4       86       34.4     90       36.0
(5) Utilities & Services                         -         Lump Sum        -       6.0        -     12.0       -      15.0       -       15.0       -      15.0
Sub-Total                                                                   69.2              97.2            160.4               179.4             185.0
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                      673.0             841.8          1,242.7            1,371.4            1,403.8
13. PROJECTED REVENUES 1/
L. Certification Fees
(a) Non-hybrid Cereals, Pulses,             100 ha               5.0      66      330.0       97    485.0    204  1,020.0       223   1,115.0    227   1,135.0
Cotton, & Groundnuts
(b) Hybrid, Potatoes                        100 ha               7.5        9      67.5       14    105.0      26    195.0       31      232.5     32      240.0
(c) Registration Fee  7/                    100 ha             0.832       75      62.4      111     92.3    230    191.4       254      211.4    259      215.5
2. Tag/label Sales                            100 M tons             1.2      131     157.2      184    220.8    354    424.8       385      462.0    393      471.6
TOTAL REVENUES                                                             617.1             903.1          1,831.2            2,020.9            2,062.1
C. OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                                                         (55.9)             61.3            588.5              649.5             658.3
D.  PROJECT COSTS TO COVER DEFICIT                                                        56
Physical Contingencies (57.)                                                          3
Total to be included in Project Costs                                                59
I/ Constant mid-1977 prices.
2/ Man Year.
3/ 107. of estimated new construction costs for equivalent area used as annual rental expenditure.
4/ 40 sets of labels, tags and for-s required per M ton seed at Rs. 0.1 per set.
.5 Plot work could be done at University on a fee basis.
6/ Assumed is 100 days travel per seed inspector and year.
7/ Based on fee of Rs. 25 per 3 ha, which is the assumed average size of a certification unit i.e., grower.
August 1, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 7
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Uttar Pradesh - SCA: Operating Costs and Revenues
UNIT COST        YEAR 1           YEAR 2            YEAR 3             YEAR 4           YEAR 5 ff
ITEM                             UNIT        (Rs. '000)  No.   Re. '000   No.   Rs. '000   No.   Re. '000   No.   Re. '000   No.   Re. '000
A. OPERATING COSTS -
1.  Headquarters
Staff Costa
(1) Director                                  H Y-/           19.2     1        19.2       1      19.2       1       19.2      1       19.2       1      19.2
(2) Chief Inspector                           MY              15.6     1        15.6       1      15.6       1       15.6      1       15.6       1      15.6
(3) Senior Seed Officers                      MY              14.4     2        28.8       4      57.6       4       57.6      4       57.6       4      57.6
(4) Admin-cum-Accounts Officer                M Y              9.6     3        28.8       3      28.8       3       28.8      3       28.8       3      28.8
(5) Field Inspector                           MY               7.2     2        14.4       2      14.4       4       28.8      4       28.8       4      28.8
(6) Senior Clerk                              MY               5.4     3        16.2       3      16.2       4       21.6      5       27.0       5      27.0
(7) Sterno-typist                             M Y              4.2     4        16.8       4      16.8       6       25.2      6       25.2       6      25.2
(8) Driver                                    MY               3.6      5       18.0       6      21.6       6       21.6      6       21.6       6      21.6
(9) Peors & Watchmen                          M Y              1.8     3         5.4       4        7.2      5        9.0       5       9.0       5       9.0
Fringe Benefits (507.)                                                    81.6              98.7             113.7              116.4             116.4
Sub-Total                                                                244.8             296.1             341.1              349.2             349.2
Other Costs
(1) Office Rental                                      _               -        35.0       -      35.0       -       35.0       -      35.0       -      35.0
(2) Office Supplies         Q                  -          Lump Sum     -        14.0       -      16.0       -       18.0       _      22.0       -      24.0
(3) Certification Supplies -                  100 M tons       0.4   362       144.8    455      182.0    573       229.2    668      267.2    750      300.0
(4) Travel Allowance                          100 days         2.0     2         4.0       3       6.0       4        8.0      4        8.0       4       8.0
(5) Vehicle Operation & Maintenance
(a) 4WD & Car                           1,000 miles        1.0    10        10.0      15      15.0      20      20.0      20       20.0     20       20.0
(b) Motorcycle                 5        1,000 miles        0.4     2         0.8       3       1.2       4        1.6      5        2.0       5       2.0
(6) Pre & Post Control Plot Work-             ha               2.0     2         4.0       2       4.0       3        6.0       3       6.0       3       6.0
(7) Utilities & Services                       -          Lump Sum    -         12.0       -      18.0       -       20.0       -      20.0       -       20.0
Sub-Total                                                                224.6             277.2             337.8              380.2             415.0
2.  Field Offices
Staff Costs
(I) Seed Officer                              MY              14.4     3        43.2       3      43.2       3       43.2       2      43.2       3       43.2
(2) Field/Seed Inspector                      M Y              7.2    30       216.0      35     252.0      43      309.6      50     360.0      56     403.2
(3) Senior Clerk                              MY               5.4     3        16.2       3      16.2       6       32.4       6      32.4       6       32.4
(4) Steno-typist                              MY               4.2     4        16.8       6      25.2       6       25.2       6      25.2       6       25.2
(5) Driver                                    M Y              3.6     4        14.4       6      21.6       6       21.6       6      21.6       6       21.6
(6) Peons & Watchmen                          MY               1.8     4         7.2       6      10.8       6       10.8       8      14.4       8       14.4
Fringe Benefits (50h.)                                                   156.9             184.5             221.4              248.4             270.0
Sulb-Total                                                               470.7             553.5             664.2              745.2             810.0
Other Costs                                                       3/
(1) Office Rentals                                             -       -        24.0       -      24.0       -       24.0       -      24.0       -       24.0
(2) Office Supplies                            -          Lump Sum    -          6.0       -       8.0       -       12.0       -      12.0       -       12.0
(3) Travel Allowance 6/                        100 days        2.0    30        60.0      35      70.0      43       86.0     50      100.0      56     112.0
(4) Vehicle Operation & Maint.
(a) 4WD & Car                           1,000 miles        1.0     8         8.0     10       10.0      15      15.0      20       20.0     25       25.0
(b) Motorcycle                          1,000 miles       0.4    60         24.0      70      28.0      86      34.4    100        40.0    112       44.8
(5) Utilities & Services                       -          Lump Sum    -          8.0       -      14.0       -       16.0      -       18.0       -      18.0
Sub-Total                                                                130.0             154.0             187.4              214.0             235.8
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                  1,070.1           1,280.8           1,530.5           1,688.6            1,810.0
1/
B.  PROJECTED REVENUES
1.  Certification Fees
(a) Non-hybrid Cereals, Pulses, Cotton,          100 ha          5.0   139       695.0    184      920.0    249   1,245.0    297   1,485.0    342   1,710.0
& Groundnuts
(b) Hybrids, Potatoes                            100 ha          7.5    13        97.5      16     120.0      19      142.5     22      165.0      26     195.0
(c) Registration Fee 7/                          100 ha        0.832   152       126.5    200      166.4    268       222.9    319      265.4    368      306.2
2.  Tag/label Sales                                100 M tons        1.2   362       434.4    455       546.0    573      687.6    668      801.6    750       900.0
TOTAL REVENUES                                                        1,353.4            1,752.4           2,298.0           2,717.0            3,111.2
C.  OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                                                      282.3              471.6             767.5           1,028.4           1,301.2
D.  PROJECT COSTS TO COVER DEFICIT                                                      0.0
1/ Constant mid-1977 prices.
2/ Man Year.
3/ 107. of estimated new construction costs for equivalent area used as annual rental expenditure.
4/ 40 sets of labels, tags and forms required per M ton seed at Rs 0.1 per set.
5/ Plot work could be done at University on a fee basis.
6/ Assumed is 100 days travel per seed inspector and year.
7/ Based on fee of Re 25 per 3 ha, which is the assumed average size of a certification unit i.e., grower.
August 1, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
State Seed Testirg Laboratories - Investments Costs
31                    4/                 5/                    6/
Unit Cost       Bihar             Karnataka              Orissa            Rajasthan              Total       Foreign &Rchange
Unit   (Rs.'OO)       o.                        R.000        No. R'.O000          NO.    Rs.'OOO IR %                         Rs.'OOO
1.  Civil Works
New construction                                        0.5                           300      150                                                       15C
Site preparation (15% of construction)                                                           23                                                       23
Renovation and remodelirg                     M2         0.25     300        75       200        50       400       100        500      125              35C
Fencing                                       -    Lump  um                            -         10                             -        10               2C
Sub-Total                                          77                  233                 100                 135
2. Equipment
Air conditioning and dehumidification
for sample storerooms                     Room       20.0         2        40         3       60          2        40          3       60              20(         25        50
Air conditioning and metal cabinets
for germinator room                       Rooms      10.0         4        40         6       60          4        40          6       60              20(         25        50
*Purity analysis equipment                     -     Lump Sum         -       50         -        60          -       50          -       50              21(         75       158
*Germinators, cabinet type                    No.        50.0         2      100         2       100          2      100          2      100              40(O        95       380
*Special test equipment
(health, vigor, moisture, quick test)         -     Lump Sum        -        40         -       40          -        40          -       50              17          75       1-27
Lab furnishings                               -     Lump Sum        -        30         -        35          -       25          -       35              12L
Office furnishings and equipment              -     Lump Sum        -        15         -        20         -        15          -       25               7
Sub-Total                                          7i                  75                                                     13           7g       775
3.  Vehicles                                      No.       35.0         1       35         2        70          1       35           2      70              21'         25        53
5.  Totals                                                                      425                 678                 445                585             2,131          3d      815
6.  Duties                                                                        76                 Bo                   76                80                31
7,  Physical Contingencies 2/                                                     25                 46                  27                 36                13         31        41
8.  Total Investment Costs                                                      526                 do4                 54d                701             2,57k          33      d56
-Items subject to 40% import duty.
1/ Uttar Pradesh requires no investments.                                                                                                                                        - i
2/ 10% for civil works; 5% for other investments.                                                                                                                                m w
/ Strengthenirg of existing testing laboratory.
New testing lab at Dharwar; strengthening of lab at Hebbal.
5/ Remodeling and strengthening lab at Bhubaneswar and branch at Balasore.
G/ Remodeling and strengthening testing labs in Durgapura and Sriganganagar.
August 1, 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
Training
Seed Technology Research
1.        Development of seed technology research as proposed would require
staff with in-depth training in seed related research techniques and proce-
dures. This type of training can best be accomplished through a graduate
study program in an established seed technology curriculum in one of the
developed countries. Provision has therefore been made in project costs
for one candidate from each of the participating Agricultural Universities
to undertake an advanced degree program in the USA, Europe or Australia.
Processing
2.        Seed processing would be considerably expanded, necessitating train-
ing of plant managers and operatives.  This would be done at existing NSC
and TDC facilities.  Costs would be met out of normal SSC operating budgets.
NSC would be responsible for providing technical services to the seed indus-
try.  To ensure that the responsible engineers were fully abreast of latest
technology, provision was made in the Phase I project for two engineers to
be sent on a two month tour to study operations in developed countries.
Quality Control
3.        With the expansion of certification and seed testing activity con-
siderable staff training would be necessary. Most of this could be given
in India, using mainly NSC and TDC staff and facilities. Costs would be met
out of normal operating budgets. Proposed training in India is:
-    the Chief Inspector and Senior Seed Officer of each
certification agency would be given four weeks on-the-job
training with counterparts at TDC and NSC;
-    the Seed Testing Officer and two Seed Analysts from each
state testing lab would be given four weeks on-the-job
training with the NSC and Central Seed Testing Laboratories;
and;
-    the Quality Control Officer and Assistant Quality Control
Officers of each SSC would be given four weeks on-the-job
training with TDC and NSC counterparts.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
After completion of training, these officers would be in a position to
establish and conduct training courses for their junior staff.
4.        In addition to the above, it is proposed, as in Phase I, that the
Director or Chief Inspector of each SSCA, and the Senior Seed Testing Officer
of each state testing laboratory, undertake a one month observational tour
of established certification agencies and seed testing laboratories in
Australia, Europe or the USA. This would familiarize them with up-to-date
procedures, management systems and equipment, and improve subsequent per-
formance not only in expanding activity but also in training staff. NSC
would make the necessary arrangements and coordinate the overseas training.
Marketing
5.        Training would also be required on a considerable scale in marketing
aspects in order to provide adequate number and caliber of staff required for
the rapid expansion of the seed industry as planned. Much of this training
could be on-the-job. Some of this, however, has to be given outside the
industry -- in Indian organizations marketing other agricultural inputs or in
overseas companies as there are not many institutions with long experience in
seed sales promotion and marketing. Three months of overseas training and
three months local training for each of the five SSC Marketing Managers has
been provided, and in addition, three months local training each for two
other marketing executives of each SSC.
Technical Assistance
Seed Technology Research
6.        Interdisciplinary seed technology research programs would be devel-
oped at all Agricultural Universities included in NSP projects. Because this
would be a new activity provision was made in Phase I for a specialist for two
months to advise Universities on program planning and the facilities to be
developed. This specialist would be a senior staff member from an established
seed technology program. An additional provision for three months has been
made for this specialist to assist the Universities associated with the proposed
project.
Processing
7.        NSC would be responsible for the design, inter alia, of SSC proces-
sing plants. NSC engineers had developed a number of cereal seed plants but
none of the size, and with the range of equipment, proposed for SSC plants.
They have had no experience of cotton seed processing. Provision was there-
fore made in Phase I for five months services of a specialist to be engaged to
assist NSC engineers prepare designs for two proposed cereal plant modules and
for the cotton seed processing units. The specialist was also to help commis-
sion the processing plants and train staff in the operation. No additional
provision is required under this project.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Quality Control
8.        India has the technical expertise to expand quality control
operations. However, administrative procedures had received little
attention. Given the intent to decentralize certification from NSC to
State Agencies technical assistance was considered necessary to develop
satisfactory administrative procedures. Provision was made in Phase I for
the Central Seed Certification Board to engage a specialist for two months
to assist State Agencies in this area. Additional two man-months of this
specialist's services have been included in this project to help the five
participating states.
Marketing
9.        The importance of demand assessment, market research, sales
promotion, sales and distribution in development of the seed industry
cannot be overemphasized. Provision was made in Phase I for consultants
to be engaged by NSC to reorient its marketing efforts, to develop and
run staff training programs and to update the initial demand survey
undertaken by IRAS and NCAER. Provision has been made in this project for:
(i)   seven man-months for setting up a market research division
in NSC and in each of the participating SSC - two man-months
for NSC and one man-month each for the SSC;
(ii)   marketing consultancy services, of three man-months
for each of the five participating states, to assist
in the establishment of a sales promotion section in
SSC's Marketing Division and to assist in the initial
publicity campaigns. It is expected that Indian firms
with marketing expertise would be qualified to undertake
these assignments.
10.       Estimated costs for training and technical assistance are at Table 1.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
(Rs. '000)
No. of       ---------Year ------ --                  Foreign Exchange
Man-months     1        2      3     4        Total         , d Amount
TRAINING
A. SEED CERTIFICATION
SSCA Directors & Seed Officers (10)             10
Travel at Rs. 16,500 each                                83       82     -     -          165       100        165
Expenses Rs. 400/day                                     60       60     -     -          120       100        120
B. SEED TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH
Ph.D Fellowships (9)                           324
Travel at Rs. 22,000 each                                -       66      66    66         198       100        198
Expenses Rs. 50,000/man-year                             -      450    45o   45o        1,350       100      1,350
Tuition & Books Rs. 15,000/man-year                      _      135    135   135          405       100        405
C. MARKETING
Marketing Managers (5)                          15
Travel at Rs. 16,500 each                                82       -      -     -           82       100         82
Expenses Rs. 400/day                                    180       -      -     -          180       100        180-
Marketing Managers & Executives (15)            45
Expenses Rs. 6,000/man-month                             -      270      -     _          270        -          -
CONSULTANTS
A.  SEED CERTIFICATION                               3
Travel at Rs. 20,000                                     20       -      -     -           20        80         16
Fee & Expenses Rs. 55,000/man-month                     165       -      -     -          165        80        132
B.  SEED TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH                         3
Travel at Rs. 20,000                                     20       -      -     -           20        80         16
Fee & Expenses Rs. 55,000/man-month                     165       -      -     -          165        80        132
C. MARKETING
Market Research - Fee & Expenses
Rs. 15,000/man-month  j                      7         70       35     -     -          105        -          -
Sales Promotion - Fee & Expenses
Rs. 15,000 man-month  j                     15         90      135     -     _          225        -          -
Total Base Cost                                     935   1,233    651   651        3,470        82     2,796
One month at each of the five SSC; 2 months at NSC.
Three months at each of the five SSC.
July 22, 1977



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Prosect Costs
Rs. '000)
2/                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Foreign Exchange
Year 1-/  Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total           %      Amount
A. STATE SEED CORPORATIONS (Annex 5, Table 3)
Plant Sites and Civil Works                         11,491    22,985    22,985           -          -   57,461       10       5,752
Machinery and Equipment                              7,405    11,491    11,747       7,660          -   38,303        39     15,017
Headquarters                                           850      3,828     3,827          -          -    8,505       10         838
Subtotal                                   19,746    38,304    38,559       7,660           -  104,269       21     21,607
Contingencies - Physical 1/                                       818     2,455      4,907          -    8,180       18       1,444
- Price 3/                            1,609      7,196    10,988      4,284          -   24,07          9      2,170
TOTAL A.                                            21,355    46,318    52,002    16,851            -  136,526       18      25,221
B. INCREMENTAL PERMANENT WORKING CAPITAL
State Seed Corporations 4/                           2,700    15,200    14,300       9,700      9,900   51,800        -           -
Universities 5/                                      1,220      1,140        780       792          -    3,932        -           -
Subtotal                                    3,920    1b,340    15,080    10,492        9,900   55,732         -           -
Contingencies - Price 3/                               314      2,614     3,619      3,458      4,222   14,227               _
TOTAL B.                                             4,234    18,954    18,699    13,950    14,122   69,959           -           -
C. FARM DEVELOPMENT (Annex 4, Table 1)                 17,845    10,163      4,657      1,000        750   34,415        31     10,601
Contingencies - Physical 1/                          1,413        955        383        50         38    2,839       27         774
- Price 3/                            1,612      2,058     1,352        355        340    5,717        21      1,201
TOTAL C.                                            20,870    13,176      6,392      1,405      1,128   42,971       29      12,576
D. AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES
Breeder Seed Production (Annex 3, Table 5)             441      1,509        560         -          -    2,510       20         502
Foundation Seed Production (Annex 3, Table 8)        7,200    10,030      7,375          -          -   24,605       24       6,021
Seed Technology Research (Annex 3, Table 11)           150     1,384        908        594        596    4,132       17         707
Subtotal                                    7,791    13,423       8,843        594       596   31,247        23      7,230
Contingencies - Physical 1/                              3        259        620     1,164          -    2,046       20         411
- Price 3/                              532      2,416     2,358        615        250    6,171       13         820
TOTAL D.                                             8,326    16,098    11,821       2,373        846   39,464       21       8,461
E. QUALITY CONTROL (Annex 6, Table 1)
State Seed Certification Agencies                    3,557     1,467        875        407          -    6,306       27       1,702
State Seed Testing Laboratories                      1,678        105       662          -          -    2,445       35         855
Subtotal                                    5,234      1,572      1,537        407         -    8,751        29      2,557
Contingencies - Physical 1/                             29         88        138       179          -       434      28         123
- Price 3/                              352        272       418        193          -    1,235       21         256
TOTAL E.                                             5,616      1,932     2,093        779          -   10,420       28       2,936
F. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 6/                   935      1,233        651       651          -    3,470       81       2,796
Contingencies - Price 3/                                89        213       169        228          -       699      87         610
TOTAL F.                                             1,024      1,446        820       879          -    4,169       82       3,406
G. INCREMENTAL RESERVE STOCKS 7/                          100        150        300       400        215    1,165         -           -
Contingencies - Price 3/                                 8         24        72        132         90       326       -           -
TOTAL C.                                               108        174        372       532        305    1,491        -           -
H. PROJECT COSTS                                       55,572    81,185    69,627    21,204    11,461  239,049           19     44,791
Contingencies - Physical 1/                          1,445      2,120     3,596      6,300         38   13,499       20       2,752
- Price 3/                            4,516    14,793    18,976       9,265      4,902   52,452        10      5.057
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                 61,533    9R,098    92,199    36,769    16,401  305,000          17      52,600
_/ Physical contingencies at 10% of civil works and farm development equipment and operations; 5% for other equipment
2/ Includes cost for equipment being procured in pre-project year
3/ For basis of calculation, see Table 2
4/ From Chart I; Inventory valued at procurement price plus variable processing costs and proportionate plant overhead (excluding
depreciation)
5/ Estimated at 8% of SSC's incremental working capital requirements for the following year.
6/ From Annex 7, Table 1
7/ From Annex 13, Table 6; certified seed has been valued at seed procurement price plus 50% of variable processing costs;
foundation seed has been valued at 50% of projected selling ?rice.
August 25, 1977



INDIA
SFCOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Price Contingencies - Percentage 1/
Local Price                                    Foreign Price
Calendar     Project           Local        Accumlated        Contingency      Foreign       Accumulated      Contingency
Year         Year   2/      Inflation        Inflation          Used         Inflation       Inflation          Used
Machinery (&) Equipment  3/
1977            -               6.0            3.0  4/            3             7.5             3.8  4/           4
1978            1              7.0            8.4  5/             8             7.5             9.6  5/          10
1979            2               7.0          16.0                16             7.5            17.8              18
1980            3               7.0           24.1               24             7.0            26.2              26
1981            4               7.0           32.8               33             7.0            35.0              35
1982            5               7.0          42.1                42             7.0            44.5              45
Civil Works
1977            -               7.0           $L5  4/             4             9.0             4.5  4/           5
1978            1              8.0            9.7  5/            10             9.0            11.6  5/          12
1979            2              8.0           18.5                19             9.0            21.6              22
1980            3              8.0           28.0                28             8.0            31.6              32
1981            4               8.0          38.2                38             8.0            42.1              42
1982            5              8.0           49.3                49             8.0            53.5              54
Base: July 1, 1977
1/ Source: Program Division guidelines, February 1977.
2/ Project years commence on April 1 of a calandar year and end March 31 of the following calendar year.
3/ Rates have also been applied to services and working capital.
4/ Pre-project expenditures are assumed to be sprea evenly over the period September 1977 through
March 1978.  Mid-point thus is end December 1977.                                                                                 O
5/ 112 of 1977 annual inflation rate cumulateJ with 3/4 of 1978 annual inflation rate to bring prices
fTiiI July 1, 1977 -to September 30, 1978 (the mid-point of project year 1).
July 21, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS OF STATE SEED CORPORATIONS
240                                                                                                                                                          240__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
200                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200
TOTAL
160~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
180 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 180
160                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~160
140 -                                                                  -~                                                     
_________                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~140
120                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120
INCREMENTAL~ 
100 -                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WORKING                              100
CAPITAL                                     ' #
RSSCUPSC/                                          0
60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II                                                                                    6
___  I                        2'L. ~~~~~~~~~~~~    /                    SSC ~~~lk60
I  .. .......
20  P'-   ***~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~                 j ~~  BSSC
20  O ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~O
A M JJA S0N  DJ  1- MA MJ  J A SON   DJ F MA  M.  J    A S                         NO D1 F MAM J  J A S  O NOJ  F MA M  iJ A S  O ND J FM
1978/79                       1979/80                       1980/81                       1981/82                         1982/83
World B-kr - 17917



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Financing and Disbursement
(Rs. '000)
IDA Financing      __         _G01
Total               Loans Through   GOI Public        Share                        State       Seed               Participating
Costs                   ARD          Expenditure    Capital        Grants       Governments   Growers   ARDC         Banks
A.  STATE SEED CORPORATIONS  1/
Imported Machinery and
Equipment                      18,221   lOO%cif       12,323              -                                                            i
Local Equipment and                                                                  kl2,287                      114,335      {L4,335   f 2,706       9,557
Civil Works                   118,305    6            70 983              _        |       (NSC)    _|||
Subtotal                   ,5                                                 12,27            -          1,335        14,335      2,706      9,557
B.  INCREMENTAL PERMANENT
WORKING CAPITAL
Agricultural Universities 2       4,659     -                                                       i _  _  1,165   -             -        3,145         349
State Seed Corporations  1       65 300     -8-           _                 _            877         _             6,857         6,857    41,1         4,570
Subtotal                 6,2-                     -                -5o                     1,165           6,857        65                       5
C. FARM DEVELOPMENT
Imported Machinery and
Equipment                      12,791   lOO%cif                           -                                       - _
Local Equipment and                  ~24,573                                           7,110   ~ 4,818                                     2,655       3,815
Civil Works                    30,180    69o         ______f-(SFCI) 9/  I(SAU) /                                  -             -                  _ K
Subtotal                 42,971    57%         24,573                            1                          -             -        2,655       3,815
D. AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES
Foundation Seed  /
Dmported MachInery ana
Equipment                       4,178   100%cif                           -           -                           -             -
Local Equipment and                                    Pl8,84l                                     7,8i4                                  2,258       2,344
Civil Works                    27,079    6                                - _         _                           - _           _            _
Subtotal                 31,257    60%          l7,84l                                     7,-14                                --2,258        27,34
Breeder Seed and Seed
Technology Research
lmported Machinery and
Equipment                       1,260   l0o%cif         -                940          -             320
Local Equipment and
Civil Works                     4,155    60%            -             2,510           -           1,645
Seed Technology Research
Operations                      2      79                                             -           2, 792
Subtotal                  8,207       r           -             3,450 4'757                                 -             -         -           -
E.  qJALITY CONTROL
Imported Machinery and
Equipment                       1,786   1o0%cif         -                             - _                                                  -          -
Local Equipment and                                                     b5,661                     {1,935          {2,034
Civil Works                     7,844    60%            -                             - _        x                                                    -
SCA Operati,g Defirits              790                   -                 -           -             790           -
Subtotal                 10,420    54             -             5,661           -          2,7252
F. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                        4,169   100%            -              4,169          -            -               -            -          _           _
G. INCRPMENTAL RESERVE STOCKS         1,491    -              -                              -            447            -             -         _,o 044
H. TOTAL PROJECT                    305,000    46%         126,720          13,280        25,274       21,726         23,226        21,192    51,903       21,679
-------140,000 --------        -----47,000------
-----(US$M16.0)                ----(uS$M5.4)_____       (US$M2.7)      (US$2.4)  (US$5.9)   (US$2.5)
1/ Loans from banks for 70% of project investments; ARDC refinancing 90% of bank loans.
2  Loans from banks for 75% of project investments; grants from GOI for 25% of project investments; ARDC refinancing 90% of bank loans.
May 10, 1978



ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule -/
Cumulative Disbursement
at End of Quarter
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                (US$ Million)
FY 1979
1st  2/
2nd                               0.2
3rd                               0.5
4th                               1.0
FY 1980
1st                               1.8
2nd                               2.8
3rd                               4.2
4th                               5.8
FY 1981
1st                               7.2
2nd                               8.9
3rd                              10.4
4th                              11.8
FY 1982
lst                              13.0
2nd                              14.0
3rd                              14.6
4th                              15.0
FY 1983
1st                              15.4
2nd                              15.7
3rd                              16.0
4th 3/
1/ Calculated from Annex 8, Table 1 and Annex 9, Table 1, assuming
1-2 quarter lags in disbursements.
2/ Estimated date of effectiveness: September 15, 1978.
3/ Estimated closing date: December 31, 1984.
May 11, 1978



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Project Organization and Management
A. General
1.        The government of India (GOI) and the state governments recognize
the need for effective management to ensure successful implementation of the
NSP. Appropriate care has therefore been taken to strengthen institutional
arrangements for implementation of the proposed project. NSC which till 1976
was the major seed production, processing, certification and marketing agency
will, under NSP, give up all but the last function. 1/ NSC will henceforth
concentrate on seed marketing and on overall coordination and promotion of
the national seed industry. State Agricultural Universities would play a
considerably enlarged role in breeder seed and foundation seed production,
the former to be coordinated by ICAR and the latter by NSC. Certification
responsibility is to be passed on to independent State Seed Certification
Agencies (SSCA). State Departments of Agriculture (DOA) and other state
agencies are to phase out of seed production, leaving it to State Seed
Corporations (SSC) modelled on the Tarai Development Corporation (TDC).
State governments are to concentrate on seed law enforcement and providing
extension services to seed growers as well as seed users. Overall organiza-
tion and management of the National Seed Projects is depicted in Chart I.
2.        The ultimate responsibility for the successful implementation of
the National Seed Projects would be that of GOI Ministry of Agriculture.
Overall policy guidance for the development of the seed industry would be
provided by the National Seed Development Council (NSDC). The secretariat
to NSDC would be provided by a Seed Cell in the Ministry of Agriculture with
NSC's assistance. NSDC representation is broad-based to accommodate its
policy guidance role. Agencies already represented on NSDC are: GOI, NSC,
SSC, ICAR, Central Seed Certification Board (CSCB), Agricultural Universities,
state marketing agencies, seed growers, private sector processors and seed
dealers, and state governments. The Central Seed Committee constituted under
the Seed Act would continue to have the responsibility for variety release,
for seed law enforcement and for notification of crops and varieties to which
the Seed Act is applicable. This Committee would act in close consultation
with similar State Seed Committees which advise state governments on seed
matters. SSC and SSCA would be represented on the State Seed Committees.
1/ NSC will, however, continue vegetable seed production.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
B. National Seed Corporation (NSC)
3.        NSC was created to be mainly a promotion agency.  In the absence
of other active agencies, however, NSC found itself in seed production,
processing, certification and marketing activities (Annex 1, para 10). While
NSC would transfer gradually most of these functions to new agencies at state
level, it would continue to play a pivotal role in developing the seed indus-
try. In future, NSC's concentration of efforts would be on marketing,
promotion of the industry, providing technical assistance and other common
services, and general coordination of NSP.
Role in NSP
4.        Specifically NSC would:
(a) contribute to SSC's share capital, nominate its represen-
tative to serve on the SSC board of directors, and actively
assist SSC to take over NSC's seed production and processing
activities;
(b) coordinate certified seed production programs of the several
SSC participating in NSP projects;
(c) assess seed demand and to be responsible for interstate
marketing of certified seed;
(d) conduct biennial surveys of seed demand;
(e) plan and organize the production of foundation seed, mainly
through the Agricultural Universities;
(f) plan the production of breeder seed in consultation with ICAR;
(g) provide technical assistance services to SSC and private
sector processors designing, procuring, and constructing
seed processing plants;
(h) coordinate market research and sales promotion efforts by SSC;
(i) provide training facilities for SSC and other staff partici-
pating in seed industry development;
(j) operate the reserve stock scheme;
(k) provide certification services for states which do not have
established an independent Seed Certification Agency; and
(1) produce vegetable seed for local and export markets.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Capital Contribution and Board Representation
5.        GOI which holds all of NSC's issued share capital would provide the
additional capital required to enable NSC to invest in SSC's share capital, or
to enable NSC to borrow working capital and for developing its vegetable seed
unit. NSC would subscribe up to 30% of SSC's share capital, at least 15% as
equity and the balance as 11% cumulative preference shares. The value of
NSC's processing plants taken over by SSC would be counted as part of NSC's
equity contribution. NSC would be entitled to have two of its representatives
on the board of directors of SSC. The Executive Chairman and the Managing
Director of NSC normally function as NSC's representatives on SSC board. In
order to facilitate coordination by NSC of SSC's certified seed production,
NSC's board has been reconstituted to include SSC managing directors.
Certified Seed Production
6.        NSC's seed production and program, except vegetable seed, in the
project areas would be transferred to the participating SSC. NSC would no
longer contract with seed growers in project areas after the 1977 rabi season.
All NSC growers in the project areas would be invited to become SSC share-
holders 1/ and NSC would assist SSC in enlisting new shareholder growers.
Seed production by NSC outside the project areas would be phased out, in
agreement with SSC, to match the increase in seed production within the
project areas.
Demand Assessment and Production Allocation
7.        Demand assessment would be a key NSC activity.  NSC would undertake
periodical monitoring of the seed market and provide SSC with regular assess-
ment of demand, prices, farmer reaction and seed availabilities. National
seed demand would be projected four to five years in advance and would be
updated on an annual basis or at more frequent intervals if considered neces-
sary. Allocation of certified seed production to participating SSC would be
made at least three months in advance of the cultivation season. All SSC would
be offered the same ex-plant prices to encourage competition. SSC would not
produce seed of all crops and varieties but would specialize in those with
larger volume and best suited for production in the project area.
8.        Demand assessment by NSC would be based on feedback from its
marketing network - NSC's regional offices and retail dealership. These
assessments would be supported by GOI's assessments from zonal conferences
organized twice a year for this purpose. NSC would also undertake demand
and farmer response surveys about every two years using qualified agencies.
NSC receives firm orders from seed dealers backed by advance payment of 10%.
Such orders would be passed on to SSC as firm orders with 10% advances. NSC
would place additional firm orders with SSC based on its own assessment of
1/   Similarly all seed growers who had contracts with DOA in all states,
Agro Industries Corporation in Rajasthan or Agro Seed Corporation in
Karnataka.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
interstate demand. Such advance firm orders would be of help during the early
years when SSC's willingness and ability to take risks would be small. SSC
would be permitted to produce at their own risk any additional quantities
they wished. NSC would offer to charge 50% of the normal service charge on
seed that is produced by SSC at their own risk, and subsequently procured by
NSC. If despite all efforts, SSC together are not able or willing to under-
take production to the level of NSC's projected requirements for interstate
marketing, NSC would be free to continue with a seed program outside the
project areas. SSC agreement with NSC for supply of certified seed would
include suitable provision for payment of damages caused by failure of SSC
to supply or of NSC to procure contracted quantities.
Marketing
9.        Intra-state marketing would be undertaken by SSC.  NSC would continue
with the interstate marketing (Annex 13). No direct SSC to SSC or government
to government sales would take place without obtaining NSC's express consent.
NSC would carry out sample checks of the seed entering its marketing network,
and test it for purity and germination, and this will serve as an additional
quality control measure. NSC would also offer to sell, in the interstate mar-
ket, certified seed produced by private sector processors.
Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
10.       Breeder seed production would be undertaken by breeders at the
Central Research Institutes and Agricultural Universities. ICAR would be
responsible for organizing and coordinating breed seed production. NSC would
keep close contact with ICAR to ensure that adequate seed quantities of the
required crops and varieties are produced (Annex 3).
11.       Agricultural Universities would be responsible for foundation seed
production. SSC would contract with NSC for their requirements of foundation
seed of all-India varieties which form the larger proportion of seed require-
ments. For the smaller quantities of local varieties, SSC would contract
directly with the University concerned. Since foundation seed is produced
at least two years in advance, and it is a key input, it would be included in
the reserve stock scheme. Risks of carry over or absolescence would be met by
NSC and not by the Universities. Foundation seed prices would be set by NSC
to recover all costs of production incurred by the Universities, plus a
margin to cover a reasonable rate of return on capital employed, and all
handling costs incurred by NSC. Foundation seed needs of the private sector
would also be assessed and met by NSC under contractual arrangements similar
to those with SSC.
Reserve Stock Scheme
12.       The reserve stock scheme has been initiated under Phase I.  It is
operated by NSC under the guidance of a committee comprising representatives
from GOI Ministries of Finance and Agriculture and NSC. The committee is
chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture. Details of the scheme are in
Annex 13.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
Technical and Other Services
13.       NSC would provide SSC 1/ with engineering and technical advisory
services, training and other common services which would benefit the seed
industry development in general. SSC would contract with NSC for design,
procurement and construction of processing plants on a turnkey basis. NSC
has strengthened its engineering division with a civil engineer capable of
preparing complete seed processing plant designs. These plant designs would
be reviewed by a plant design consultant provided under Phase I. Civil works
would be contracted out by NSC or SSC, while installation of the equipment
and commissioning of the plant would be NSC's responsibility. NSC would
also help Agricultural Universities and private processors to design, procure
and install their processing plants.
Organization Structure
14.       NSC's organization structure is depicted in Chart II.  NSC's board
chairman is also a full-time 2/ executive of the Corporation. However, the
managing director is effectively the chief executive of NSC and is supported
by five managers, one in charge of each of the following divisions:
(i) Production and Quality Control: responsible for foundation seed and
vegetable seed production, organizing certified seed production outside SSC
project areas, quality control for NSC's seed production activities and test
checks of seed in NSC's marketing network, and seed certification for states
without SSCA. (ii) Engineering and Technical: in charge of designing, pro-
curement, construction, and commissioning of own processing plants and those
for SSC, Agricultural Universities and private sector processors. 3/
(iii) Marketing: demand surveys, market research, sales promotion, storage,
transport, distribution of all generations of seed, including vegetable seed;
operation of the reserve stock scheme; liaison with marketing managers of SSC,
and training of seed marketing personnel. (iv) Finance and Accounting:
responsible for financial and cost accounting, funds managements and banking,
internal control and inventory management, management information; and liaison
with independent auditors. (v) Personnel and Administration: responsible for
all personnel management matters, legal and general administration, public
relations, and staff training. NSC's regional managers report to the managing
director. The main role of the regional offices would be dealer selection
and appointment, dealer training, advance ordering, demand assessments, sales
promotion through dealers and DOA extension staff, liaison with SSC's produc-
tion and marketing divisions.
State Seed Corporations (SSC)
15.       Organizing certified seed multiplication, seed procurement, processing
packaging, storing and intra-state marketing in each participating state would
1/   And also to Agricultural Universities, SSCA and private sector whenever
assistance is required.
2/   The last incumbant was also the Chairman of SFCI.
3/   Private sector, including cooperative societies.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
be undertaken by SSC. They would be legally, financially, and operationally
autonomous. SSC in four project states have been established under the Com-
panies Act 1956 with memoranda and articles of association acceptable to IDA. 1/
In Uttar Pradesh, TDC is being converted to the SSC of that state. Restruc-
turing of TDC is anticipated to be finalized by September 30, 1978. Essential
features of SSC are given in Appendix I.
Capital
16.       SSC's share capital would be contributed by state governments,
NSC (on behalf of GOI) and seed growers approximately in the progDrtion
35:30:35 in that order. Up to 25% of the share capital would be in 11%
cumulative preference shares to be held equally by state governments and
NSC. SSC's equity capital would be subscribed in such proportions that:
(a) state government and NSC would hold approximately equal
percentages;
(b) seed growers would not hold more than the 50% of the total
equity shares;
(c) Agricultural Universities would hold at least 20% of state
government holdings; and
(d) other government agencies or corporations could hold up to
25% of the state government shares.
17.       In this way excessive dependence on seed growers' equity as a
source of project finance is avoided. Shares earmarked for growers, but
not subscribed within three months, would be subscribed equally by NSC
and the state government concerned if cash flow consideration make this
necessary. Such shares would, however, be transferred to eligible seed
growers immediately upon request and payment. Only farmers within the
project area who offer to be seed growers under contract with SSC would
be eligible. A farmer should qualify to buy at least one share. Each
share would be Rs 500/= and share entitlement would be one share per one
acre farm devoted to seed production. Institutions like SFCI and Agri-
cultural Universities producing certifed seed in the project area would
be eligible to purchase shares out of the seed growers' allocation. While
a shareholder would have the option not to undertake seed production in any
one season, he would cease to be a member if he failed to grow certified
seed for his SSC for two consectutive seasons. SSC would offer seed produc-
tion program to farmers in proportion to their shareholdings. In order to
ensure that seed production programs allotted to growers cover a high propor-
tion of the farms offered for seed production, SSC would enroll grower share-
holders phased over four years by expanding the operational project area
progressively to reach the target area in about four years. Terms and condi-
tions of seed production by growers and procurement by SSC would be set out
1/   It was agreed during negotiations that changes suggested by IDA would
be incorporated in SSC's articles and memoranda.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
in an agreement to be entered into between both parties. Registered growers
who find difficulty in paying for their shares would be helped by SSC calling
up their payment in installments. The third payment of bonus payable to seed
growers on seed procured would be accumulated by SSC in growers' accounts to
be used to meet calls made on shares.
Management
18.       A SSC board would be responsible for the Corporation's business
policy. The board would generally comprise more than ten members. Up to three
members in each board would be nominated by GOI and the remaining members
elected by the various groups of shareholders in proportion to their equity
holdings. The board would comprise:
Agricultural Production Commissioner or Secretary
Agriculture in the state;
Managing Director of SSC
Agricultural University Vice Chancellor
Chairman and Managing Director, NSC
GOI Representatives
State Government Representatives
Participating Bank and
Seed Growers' Representatives
The Chairman of the SSC board would be the Agricultural Production Commissioner
or Secretary Agriculture or the Vice Chancellor of a participating Agricultural
University. The chief executive of each SSC would be a full-time managing
director. The managing director would work within the policy guidelines set
by the board, but otherwise have full independence in all operational matters.
He would be appointed by the state government, with GOI's concurrence, upon the
recommendation of the board.
19.       Responsibilities of the board would be:
(a)  formulating SSC's business policy;
(b)  SSC's investment planning;
(c)  approving appointment of SSC's senior executives based
on the managing director's recommendations;



ANNEX 10
Page 8
(d) share capital allocation, issues and calls;
(e) authorizing borrowing limits and sources of finance;
(f) approving production programs and seed procurement and sale
prices, based on NSC/SSC agreement and managing director's
recommendations;
(g) approving annual budgets, and reviewing monthly and quarterly
progress reports, interim accounts, annual draft and audited
accounts and audit reports;
(h) evaluating management performance; and
(i) approving appropriations of profits.
20.       SSC's typical organization is depicted in Chart III and would con-
sist of four major divisions under the managing director:
Production: certified seed production planning, organizing
contracts with growers, field inspection, extension services,
quality control in field, seed procurement from growers, NSC
and Agricultural Universities. Seed production officers
would work as processing plant shift - supervisors and fore-
men during the processing season when field work would be
slack (Annex 5, para 37).
Processing: management of processing plant operations, pack-
aging, obtaining seed certification by SSCA, storage at plant,
transport to and from plants and seed processing budgets.
Marketing: market research, sales promotion, transit storage,
dealer selection and appointment, liaison with dealers, dealer
training, liaison with DOA extension and NSC marketing staff,
demand projections and sales budgets.
Accounting and Finance: budgetary control and funds management,
financial and cost accounting, computation of seed prices,
inventory control, management information, and liaison with
banks and external auditors.
Responsibility for legal and general affairs, personnel management, staff
training, public relations, liaison with state governments, GOI, NSC and
other outside institutions would remain with the managing director who would
be supported by the secretary of the SSC, a personnel officer and other
assistant as he may deem appropriate for these tasks. TOR for the managing
director and the divisional managers are given in Appendix 2.



ANNEX 10
Page 9
Indian Council of Agricultural Research
21.       Breeder seed would be produced by Central Research Institutes and
Agricultural Universities. Breeder seed production of varieties released by
All-India Coordinated Crop Improvement Committees would be coordinated by
ICAR, working from NSC's demand projections for foundation seed. ICAR has
designated a senior official to be full-time coordinator for this work and
to assist the Agricultural Universities in planning their investments under
the National Seed Projects. Breeder seed of local varieties would be produced
by the Agricultural Universities in accordance with orders placed by SSC and
private growers.
Agricultural Universities
22.       Demand estimation and coordination of foundation seed production of
All-India varieties would be the responsibility of NSC. Estimates of founda-
tion seed of local varieties would be developed by the respective SSC. Under
NSP the Agricultural Universities would have the first responsibility for
foundation seed production. The Universities would organize a separate
seed production unit for production of breeder seed and foundation seed.
University Farm Departments would also supervise any certified seed production
program the Universities might be required to undertake. The plant breeder
would be expected to help in the technical supervision of all of the Univer-
sity's seed production program whether it be foundation seed or certified seed
production. Additional staffing would be required for research and seed
production activities but such additions would be kept to a minimum by calling
upon University teaching and research staff to provide technical support.
Close integration of University technical expertise brought to bear on the
project is expected to significantly improve seed quality.
State Seed Certification Agencies
23.       Seed certification, until the advent of NSP, has generally been the
responsibility of NSC - all states had, complying with the Seed Act, notified
NSC as their independent certification agency. However, under NSP, GOI had
decided to support the creation of autonomous seed certification agencies.
Seed certification would be independent of both the producing agency (SSC/NSC)
and the seed law enforcement agency. State Seed Certification Agencies (SSCA)
have since been created or reconstituted under the Societies Act. The Govern-
ing Council of SSCA would comprise SSC, Central Seed Certification Board, seed
growers, seed users, private sector processors and Agricultural Universities.
It would be chaired by the State Secretary of Agriculture.



ANNEX 10
Page 10
24.       A Central Seed Certification Board has been established by GOI.
The CSCB would coordinate SSCA certification programs to ensure interstate
uniformity of standards and procedures. All SSCA would be represented on
CSCB.
25.       Seed law enforcement would continue to be state governments' respon-
sibility. Under the National Seed Projects, support would be provided to
strengthen this activity by improving the state seed testing laboratories.
State governments would also be encouraged to adopt the policy of creating a
special inspectorate to enforce quality standards for seed, fertilizers and
pesticide.
Project Coordination and Monitoring
26.       A Project Management and Monitoring Committee (PMMC) was established
in 1976 to oversee the implementation of NSP. This Committee comprises repre-
sentatives from the GOI Ministries of Agriculture and Finance, NSC, all SSC 1/
participating in the National Seed Projects, ICAR, ARDC and private sector
processors. 2/ The Secretary Agriculture, representing GOI, acts as the
Chairman of PMMC.
27.       The functions of PMMC include:
(a) receiving, coordinating and transmitting to GOI and to
Bank/IDA quarterly and other progress reports on National
Seed Projects;
(b) preparing other special reports on NSP requested by GOI
and Bank/IDA;
(c) coordination of procurement of goods, and detailed planning
of large farm development financed under the National Seed
Projects;
(d) ensuring timely flow of finance from GOI to project institu-
tions;
(e) reviewing problems of NSC, SSC, private sector processors,
lending banks regarding working capital and other financing
matters, and recommending corrective action;
(f) ensuring speedy processing by GOI, Bank/IDA disbursement
requests;
1/   Will now be increased to nine.
2/   Private sector representatives yet to be appointed.



ANNEX 10
Page 11
(g) ensuring that private sector producers, processors and dealers
are not discriminated against, and that they get equal treatment
with SSC and state institutions involved in the seed industry;
(h) assessing needs for further financing and identifying new invest-
ment needs under NSP;
(i) assisting in the recruitment of technical assistance specialists
financed under the National Seed Projects; and coordinating staff
training arrangements;
(j) providing liaison between all participating institutions, GOI,
state governments private sector and Bank/IDA;
(k) monitoring project implementation by and performance of all
project participants - NSC, SSC, ICAR, Agricultural Univer-
sities, SSCA; and
(1) arranging for special studies to be undertaken of topics
directly related to NSP and development of the seed industry
through the National Seed Projects.
28.       Arrangements were made under Phase I for GOI Ministry of Agricul-
ture to provide the secretariat required for PMMC. A GOI Deputy Secretary
of Agricultural (Seed) is responsible for the PMMC secretariat. Executive
staff is provided by NSC. Staffing of PMMC requires strengthening. GOI
has undertaken to provide adequate staff for PMMC during the project period.
Project Evaluation
29.       Project Evaluation Arrangements would be established to follow-up
project progress, identify problem areas and evaluate project benefits. The
evaluation system would mainly provide factual information on costs, benefits,
impact on beneficiaries for comparison with appraisal estimates. This infor-
mation and analysis thereof would be available for basing future policy deci-
sions and would serve as a general feedback for future activities. Such
evaluation would involve a continuous collection and analysis of data over a
period beyond project disbursements. Terms of reference for suitable evalua-
tion arrangements are given in Appendix 3.
Project Implementation Schedule
30.       A time table to be followed in reaching Credit Effectiveness has
been developed in Annex 11, Chart 1. A longer-term implementation schedule
is given in Annex 11, Charts 2, 3 and 4. The details of the various imple-
mentation actions were discussed with GOI and state government representatives
and the schedules have been finalized during Credit negotiations.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page  1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SCC: Articles of Association
Essential Features
1.        Membership of SSC would be restricted to state government, NSC
and seed growers in a well-defined project area who in the view of the SSC
board, possess the necessary skills and facilities to produce quality seed.
Farmers who fail to undertake seed production offered by SSC for two con-
secutive seasons would automatically lose membership. Project area would
be enlarged in a phased manner to reach the target project area in 3 to 4
years. Changes in projects area to be subject to GOI approval.
2.        Share capital.  Seed growers together would own up to 50% of the
equity shares, the balance being with state government and NSC. NSC's
minimum equity holding would be 15% of the total issued capital or 20%
of the equity capital. 11% cumulative preference shares to be held equally
by NSC/state government, would not exceed 25% of the paid up capital.
Shares allocated to growers by them within 3 months, would be temporarily
subscribed equally by NSC and state government and transferred to any eligible
grower immediately upon request. However, such subscription would only take
place after the other subscribed shares had been fully called up, and only
if necessary to raise equity capital required by financing institutions.
NSC/state government would not be candidates in elections to board of direc-
tors representing growers by virtue of holding such proxy shares. At least
20% of state government's shares would be held by participating Agricultural
Universities and up to 25% by other state agencies.
3.        Management.  A board of directors would be elected by the share-
holders, except for up to 3 members nominated by GOI. Elected positions
would be split between groups of shareholders on the basis of proportional
representation. One of the nominated directors would be a representative
of the bank participating in the project financing of the SSC. The chairman
would be either the Vice-Chancellor of a participating Agricultural University,
Agricultural Production Commissioner or the Secretary of Agriculture. The
Managing Director would be a state government nominee and would be appointed
with GOI concurrence subject to board approval.  Secondment of staff from
other agencies would be restricted to maximum one year.
4.        Operations.  SSC would sell all seed outside the state through NSC,
and not deal directly with either state governments or other agencies. NSC
would sell all seed in the state through the SSC. Foundation seed of non-local



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 2
varieties would be procured by SSC for its growers through NSC. NSC would be
contracted to do design, procure, construct and commission processing plants
for SSC. Existing NSC plants in the project areas would be taken over by SCC
at a price to be determined by a NSC/SSC joint evaluation. Contract production
outside the project area by NSC would be phased out to match increased pro-
duction within the project area. SSC would not undertake seed production
outside the project area.
5.        Financial Aspects.  Prices would be determined for interstate
trade with NSC. Intra-state prices may be below ex-plant production costs
only, if the SSC financial reserves position is sound, and debt servicing or
guaranteed divided payments are not affected adversely. Local seed retail
prices would be at least the same percent premium above local grain prices,
as the percent premium applicable on interstate trade. SSC would ensure
profitability so as to gradually build up special funds for expansion,
replacement, loan redemption and research support.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Suggested Terms of Reference for SSC's Senior Staff
1.   Managing Director
The Managing Director of the State Seed Corporation would:
-    be a full-time employee of the Corporation and function as
its chief executive;
-    be responsible and report directly to the Corporation Board;
-    serve as a permanent member of the Corporation Board;
-    coordinate the responsibilities of Managers:
Production, Processing, Marketing and Finance Divisions;
-    be responsible for price setting, personnel management,
legal affairs and general administration of the Corporation;
-    implement the policy decisions of the Corporation Board;
-    present to the Board -
(i) the Corporation's draft annual budget not later than
three months prior to the financial year commencement;
(ii) Corporation's draft annual accounts together with his
own annual progress report not later than two months
after the end of each financial year;
(iii) audited annual accounts and audit report together with
his comments thereon not later than four months after
the end of each financial year; and
(iv) quarterly progress report on the Corporation's activities
not later than one month after the end of the quarter.
Suggested Qualifications
-    be not less than 35 and not more than 60 years of age;



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 2
have a University Degree or equivalent in agriculture,
engineering, economics biusiness administration or finance
and accounting;
have not less than ten years experience in business manage-
ment or public administration of which he should have
served a minimum of five years in the capacity of chief
executive of a recognized agricultural, industrial or
commercial institution;
be experienced in personnel management; and
be able to undertake frequent travel within the project
area.
2.   Production Manager
The Production Manager would:
-    be responsible, and report directly, to the Managing Director;
work in close cooperation with the Processing, Marketing and
Finance Managers and the Secretary of the Corporation;
-    be responsible for:
Corporation's certified seed operations, seed multiplication
by shareholder growers, (and SFCI, DOA, and Universities as
appropriate), Production Division budgets, liaison with
Research Institutes, Agricultural Universities and SSCA,
training of field staff, special extension service to reg-
istered seed growers; seed procurement, and seed quality
control in the field.
Suggested Qualifications
-    be not less than 35 and not more than 55 years of age;
-    have a University Degree in Agriculture;
-    have not less than ten years experience in agriculture
and farm management with at least three years at manager
level;
-    have experience in farm development, and cultivation, budget
preparation, work planning, field costs, and staff training;
and
-    be able to undertake frequent travel to project areas visting
seed growers and their farms, and allied participating institu-
tions.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 3
3.   Processing Manager
The Processing Manager would:
-    be responsible, and report directly, to the Managing Director;
-    work in close cooperation with the Production, Marketing and
Finance Managers and with the Corporation Secretary;
-    be responsible for:
all processing plant construction and operations;
workshops and laboratories;
seed transport;
seed storage pending delivery to distributors;
training of factory and workshop staff; and
Processing Division budgets.
Suggested Qualifications
-    be not less than 35 and not more than 55 years of age;
-    have a University Degree or equivalent in mechanical or
production engineering;
-    have not less than ten years experience in factory manage-
ment with at least three years at the level of Factory
Manager, preferably in agro-industry;
-    have experience in machinery maintenance, production control,
work planning, budget preparation, industrial costs records
and training of factory staff; and
-    be able to undertake frequent travel to processing plants,
workshops and farm sites in the project area.
4.   Marketing Manager
The Marketing Manager would:
-    be responsible, and report directly, to the Managing Director;



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 4
work in close cooperation with the Production, Processing and
Finance-Managers and with the Secretary of the Corporation;
be responsible for:
demand surveys and Market Research;
marketing techniques and strategy;
advertising, publicity, and sale promotions;
liaison with distributors;
after sales service;
sales budgets; and
staff training.
Suggested Qualifications
-    be not less than 35 and not more than 55 years of age;
-    have a University Degree;
-    have not less than ten years experience in marketing of
which a minimum of five years should have been at Manager
level in charge of marketing, preferably in agro-industrial
business;
-    have experience in marketing including:  market research,
marketing methods, advertising and publicity, sales promo-
tion, distribution, and staff training; and
-    be able to undertake frequent travel to visit project areas,
dealers and farmers.
5.   Finance Manager
The Finance Manager would:
-    be responsible, and report directly, to the Managing Director;
-    work in close cooperation with the Production, Processing
and Marketing Managers and with the Corporation Secretary;
-    be responsible for:
preparation of the cash budget;



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 5
coordinating divisional budgets;
funds management;
financial and cost accounting and controls;
seed price computations;
internal control including inventory control;
internal audit;
management information, training of accounting and internal
audit staff;
annual accounts and quarterly progress reports; and
liaison with independent auditors.
Suggested Qualifications
-    be not less than 35 and not more than 55 years of age;
-    be a member of a recognized professional accountancy institute
e.g., Institute of Chartered Accountants or Certified Public
Accountants - preferably with a university degree or
equivalent in business adminsitration/economics or cost/
industrial accounting;
-    have not less than ten years post-qualification experience
in financial and management accounting of which at least
three years gained from working in a large, preferably agro-
industrial, company;
-    have experience in budgetary control, costing, organization,
and methods, internal auditing and staff training;
-    have experience in procurement procedures and inventory man-
agement; and
-    be able to travel frequently to farms and processing plants
in the project area.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 3
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Project Evaluation Arrangements - Terms of Reference
1.        The implementation of India's National Seed Program and the related
projects involve nine producing states participating in the Phase I National
Seed Project (4) and the Second National Seed Project (5), several institu-
tions, thousands of seed growers and millions of farmers using project
certified seed. In order to assist in the successful implementation of the
project as planned and in order to ascertain that the benefits forecasted now
are in fact realized, project evaluation arrangements would be made in GOI
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation.
2.        A Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
would be designated to be in charge of this assignment. He would report to
the Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation. Staff carrying
out evaluation arrangements would be independent of all other institutions
participating in the National Seed Projects, including the Project Management
and Monitoring Committee (PMMC).
3.        Project evaluation would cover physical, technical, financial,
managerial and economic aspects of the project, and would involve the
collection of information from individuals and institutions directly and
indirectly participating in the project. The following documents would
be relevant for the evaluation and reporting work:
Project Appraisal Report;
Development Credit Agreement;
Project Implementation Schedules;
Annual Budgets;                            )
Quarterly Progress Reports;                ) of participating
Draft Annual Accounts;                     )  institutions
Annual Audit Reports;                      )
Correspondence with IDA;
Directives issued and reports by PMMC;
Seed demand studies; and
Seed Corporation Annual Reports.
4.        Information and data required for evaluation would be collected
both from project records and from outside sources. Arrangements would
include field visits to:



ANNEX 10
Appendix 3
Page 2
Headquarters, Branches, District Offices of all
institutions participating in the project;
Seed processing plant and warehouses;
Private sector participants;
Seed growers and farmers; and
Marketing outlets.
5.        Evaluation would also include identification of major problems,
deviations from appraisal estimates and annual budgets, and possible cor-
rective action to be taken either by project managements or by governments.
6.        Topics reported on would include:
Deviations from agreed Implementation Schedule -
causes, extent, effects and action;
Project modifications from original plan - nature,
reasons and effects;
Growth of certified seed demand;
Variations of important assumptions made in the
appraisal report;
Cost overruns and arrangements to meet them;
Efficiency of the participating institutions;
Credit Services to farmers, Seed Corporations
and Universities;
Agricultural extension services;
Verification of project targets realized by
participants and ascertainment of incidence
of benefits - numbers, geographical scatter,
income groups;
Unusual features of significance.
7.        Written evaluation reports would be prepared periodically - at
least annually - and submitted to the Secretary of GOI Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Irrigation. Copies of evaluation reports would be made available
to IDA for information. A Project Completion Report would be prepared
and furnished to IDA not later than six months after the Credit Closing
Date.



ANNEX 10
Chart I
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION & INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONSHIPS1/
GOI
LARDC                           NS C             .ilCAR                                   PSP
PC                                                  s    
GROWERS 
ARDC    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CSCB    Central Seed Certification Board
GO]      Government of India
GOS      State Governments
ICAR     Indian Council of Agriculture Research
NSDC    National Seed Development Council
NSC      National Seeds Corporation
PCB      Participating Commercial Banks
PSP      Private Sector Processors
PMMC    Project Management and Monitoring Committee
SAU      State Agriculture Universities
SCA      State Seed Certification Agencies
SSC      State Seed Corporations
1/ Achieved by membership of Board of Managements.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
NSC: ORGANIZATION CHART
B OARD OF DIRECTORS 
CHIEF
PRO DUCTI|N &                    MARECTON                        P
UAL ITY CONTROLNIEEIGFNAC                                                                                                          DINSRTO
ETARL
|VEGETARLE  ll SALES A                                           RESEARCH &l
SEED UNIT                      DISTRIhUTION |EVELOPMENT
1/ Chief Production would continue to look after any NSC seed production till transfer to SSC;
2  Processing plants, until handed over to SSC, would be managed by Chief, Projects and Engineering;                                                                                  :7f
3/ Breeder seed inspection will be handled here; any NSC responsibilities in certification would be,
until transferred to SCA, handled here.
HO



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SSC: ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
I MANAGING DIRECTOR
COMPANY
~~ ~SECRETARY &
ADIISTRATION
PRODUCTION                               QALITY CNT                             PLANT MANAGERS                         ACCOUNTING &
[SEED PRODUCTION             DILSTRBTO &MARKET PLANNING &                                                  ACUT                        UI
|  OFFICER                   OFIE               DEEOMNlFIEROFCROFC
QUALITYi
CONTROL OFFICER  
HIO
H-q



ANNEX 11
Chart 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Up to Credit Effectiveness
Completion
Main Activity                    Responsibility            Time
1.  Cabinet Approval of Phase I                  GOI               Completed
2. 'Incorporate in SSC memoranda
and articles changes
suggested by IDA                           SSC           September 10, 1978
3.  Incorporate SSC (1)                          GOS                Completed
4.  Constitute SSC Board of Directors (2)        GOS                Completed
5.  Appoint SCC Managing Director (2)            GOS                Completed
6. Expansion of CSCB to include the
five project states                        GOI               Completed
7. Appointment of Executive
Chairman of NSC                            GOI               Completed
8. NSC Chairman assuming full-time
executive functions                        GOI              July 1, 1978
9. Creation of Project Coordination
Committee at state level                   GOS               Completed
10. 1978/79 breeder and foundation
seed planning and allocation               NSC               Completed
ICAR
11.  Prepare processing plant designs             SSC/NSC       September 10, 1978
12.  Preparation of Banking Plan (3)              ARDC            August 31, 1978
13.  NSC/SSC Project Agreements                   NSC             August 15, 1978
14. Inspection and evaluation of
NCS's processing plants                    NSC              July 31, 1978
SSC
15. Arrangements for NSC plant
transfer to SSC                            NSC           September 10, 1978
16.  Publicity of private sector                  SSC
participation                              NSC              June 30, 1978
AFC
(1) Conversion of Tarai Seeds Corporation to the Uttar Pradesh Seeds
and Tarai Development Corporation expected to be completed by
September 30, 1978.
(2) For Uttar Pradesh appointments anticipated by October 31, 1978.
(3) ARDC/Participating Bank agreements anticipated to be completed by
September 30, 1978. Completion of SSC/Participating Bank agreements
expected by November 30, 1978.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - STATE SEED CORPORATIONS
Activity                    Responsible Authority                1978                     1979                      1980
Arrange office accommodation                     SSC
Appoint senior executives                        SSC
Recruit support staff                            SSC
Prepare project work program and
management procedures                           SSC
Prepare specifications for urgent
equipment                                  NSC/SSC
Procure urgent equipment                          NSC
Install urgent equipment                     NSC/SSC
Valuation of NSC processing plants           NSC/SSC
Transfer of NSC processing plants            NSC/SSC
Prepare specification for new
plants                                     NSC/SSC
Clear plant specifications with
IDA, advertise and receive bids                 NSC
Evaluate bids, clear with IDA
and award bids                                  NSC
Receive and deliver processing
equipment to plant site                         NSC
Install plant equipment                      NSC/SSC
Commission processing plant                  NSC/SSC
construction
Construct processing plants                  NSC/SSC
Construct headquarter facilities             NSC/SSC
Procure furniture and equipment
for headquarters                                SSC
Register seed growers                             SSC
Negotiate and sign consultant
services contracts in
consultation with IDA                     SSC/NSC/PMMC
Employ consultants
(a) Market research                        NSC/SSC
(b) Sales promotion                             SSC
Initiate promotional campaign                     SSC
Arrange overseas training for
marketing managers in
consultation with IDA                           SSC
Arrange local training for
(a) Marketing managers and
executives                                   SSC
(bi Plant managers and
processing engineers                    NSC/SSC                                        _t X
(c) Quality control officers
and assistant quality                                                           H
control officers                        NSC/SSC
World Bank - 17916



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES
Activity                        Responsible                     1978                      1979                      1980
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _A uthority
1. Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
Recruit support staff                                 SAU
Prepare work program and management                   SAU
procedures
Prepare specifications for urgent            ICAR/NSC/SAU
processing equipment
Procure and install urgent equipment         ICAR/NSC/SAU
Prepare specifications for non-urgent        ICAR/NSC/SAU
processing equipment
Procure and install non-urgent equipment    ICAR/NSC/SAU                                                            -      -
Commission new facilities                    NSC/SAU
Construct new facilities                     NSC/SAU                                                    -     -
Transfer government land to Universities     DOA/SAU                                  _
Prepare farm plans                           SFCI/SAU
Carry out farm development                   SFCI/SAU                                            -                                             -
Prepare specifications for urgent farm       SFCI/SAU
equipment
Procure urgent equipment                     NSC/SAU
Prepare specifications for non-urgent farm   SFCI/SAU
equipment
Procure non-urgent farm equipment            NSC/SAU                                             -
2. Seed Technology Research
Establish interdisciplinary research unit   ICAR/SAU
Prepare work program, organization and      ICAR/SAU
procedures
Commission new facilities                   ICAR/SAU                                                   - _  _
Construct new facilities                    ICAR/SAU
Process and install seed technology         ICAR/SAU                                                     _                       _
equipment
Negotiate and sign consultant services      NSC/ICAR/SAU
contract in consultation with IDA
Employ consultant                           SAU
Arrange overseas training in consultation   ICAR/SAU
with IDA                                                                                                                      I -   Until        I
_________________  l______ _  1    =      October 1981
World Bank- 17914                        H  1-



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - STATE FARMS CORPORATION;
STATE SEED CERTIFICATION AGENCIES; STATE SEED TESTING LABORATORIES
Activity                 Responsible Authority                 1978                   1979                   1980
1. State Farms Corporation
Prepare farm development plans          SFCI
Procure farm and development            SFCI                                l             -
equipment
Carry out farm development              SFCI                       _          _
Prepare survey and design for
irrigation canal enlargement           SFCI                                        _   -           -
Carry out canal enlargement             SFCI
2. Seed Certification Agencies
Procure equipment                        SSCA                                       -          _-
Arrange overseas training in             SSCA
consultation with IDA
Arrange local training                   NSC/SSCA
Negotiate and sign consultant            SSCA/PMMC
services contract in consultation l
with IDA
Employ consultant                        SSCA
3. Seed Testing Laboratories
Construct or renovate existing           DOA                                                          -
laboratories
Procure urgent equipment                 DOA
Procure non-urgent equipment             DOA                                                         .                          !
Arrange local training
Arrange overseas training in             DOA/CSTL
consultation with IDA
DOA/CSTL
World Bank - 17915



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Credit Services
General
1.        Most of the important investments would be financed from loans from
participating commercial banks at current commercial interest rates. In addi-
tion to long-term investments under the project, arrangements would be made
for the banking system to provide seasonal credit to participants for working
capital for operating and inventory purposes. Certain investments such as
technical assistance and training, seed technology research, quality control
and portions of Universities investments and reserve stocks would be given
to the participants as GOI grants.
2.        Credit services should thus be made available to NSC, SSC, SFCI,
Agricultural Universities, seed growers and seed users (farmers) not only
for long-term but also short-term needs. In India institutional credit for
agriculture is handled by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), the State Cooperative System
and Commercial Banks. The Cooperative Credit system comprises the long-term
structure consisting of the two-tier Land Mortgage Banks (LMB) with the State
Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Banks and Primary Land Mortgage Banks, and
the three-tier short-term structure with the State Cooperative Banks at the
apex, Central Cooperative Banks at the district level, and primary Agricul-
tural Credit Societies at the village dealing directly with the farmer.
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
3.        ARDC was established on July 1, 1963 in the context of the high
priority accorded to agricultural development in the country's Five-year
Plans. Its specific functions are to supplement the resources of existing
institutional agencies disbursing long-term and medium-term credit; reorient
their operational policies; and provide refinance facilities to member banks
for projects which cannot be financed by them either because of the sizeable
outlays or because such lending cannot be brought within their normal rules
of business. ARDC's board has nine members including a Deputy Governor of
RBI, who acts as Chairman, and three GOI nominees. The Managing Director is
appointed by RBI in consultation with the Board. ARDC has its head office in
Bombay and fourteen regional offices in state capitals including one in each
of the five participating states.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Seed Growers
4.        Seed growers would be selected from among farmers in the project
area for their progressive agricultural operations. Most would already have
access to assured irrigation, and to a tractor for timely operations. Thus,
need for farm investment credit is expected to be small. Any loans required,
say for on-farm lined channels, or underground pipe linking two wells, would
easily be met by banks operating in the project area. Should the need for
refinance from ARDC arise, the SSC would assist its lending bank to draw up
a scheme for such on-farm financing of seed growers' needs, and submit it to
ARDC. Under IDA Credit 715-IN and other projects, ARDC has sufficient funds
for such purposes. See Appendix 1, paras 1 through 6.
5.        Seed growers would need short-term credit for agricultural inputs.
Although most seed growers could finance working capital to a large part from
their own resources, institutional finance would be necessary when they in-
crease the area they devote to seed growing. Farmers who need credit mostly
obtain it through cooperative banks (90%) and some through commercial banks
(10%). Under the National Seed Projects, state cooperative banks would con-
tinue to be the prime source of seasonal credit for seed growers. The coop-
erative banks obtain refinance from RBI at about 2% below the bank rate. RBI
limits the maximum borrowing of cooperative banks, but rarely have the banks
been able to fully use their credit limits. In any event, RBI maintains flex-
ibility so that no worthwhile proposals would suffer due to scarcity of funds.
RBI often lends to state governments to invest in the equity of these coopera-
tive banks in order to enable them to borrow more from RBI. Thus, RBI refi-
nance is not expected to be a constraint. The quantum of RBI finance is a
multiple of the cooperative banks' own resources (deposits plus equity). The
multiple, ranging from 1 to 4, depends upon overdues classification of the
cooperative bank concerned. See Appendix 1, paras 7 through 14 for details
of conditions in the project states.
6.        Working capital needs per hectare for seed production of self-
pollinated crops would be only 15-25% higher than that for commercial culti-
vation. Thus, availability of bank seasonal credit for wheat and paddy would
not be a constraint to seed production. However, for hybrid seed cultivation,
where working capital needs could increase by 40% or more, a problem does
exist, since the loan limit for seed production often needs to be signifi-
cantly higher than for crop production. State governments would ensure that
seasonal credit limits for seed production would be set by the State Coopera-
tive Banks in consultation with SSC.
7.        Commercial banks invariably provide working capital support to all
farmers whose on-farm investments they finance. Even though the interest rate
is generally higher than that of cooperative banks, given the simpler proced-
ures and greater efficiency, it does not deter the farmers from borrowing.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
8.        All seed sales of project seed growers would be through SSC.  Thus,
SSC would be in an ideal position to provide collection services to banks
from farmers. The SSC would offer these services to commercial banks as well
as cooperative banks. The latter would be through the Central Cooperative
Bank, acting as agent of the Primary Agricultural Credit societies from which
the seed growers would actually borrow. For those seed growers who do not
have access to a cooperative society, SSC would seek to arrange for seasonal
credit from the SSC's lending commercial bank.
Large Farm Development
9.        Large farm development would be necessary on SFCI's Suratgarh farm
in Rajasthan and on University farms in all five project states. Loans to
finance the development would cover up to 70% of the investments at the SFCI
farm and up to 75% of investments at University farms. The loans would be
handled by commercial banks selected by SFCI and the Universities in consul-
tation with ARDC. All loan proposals would be prepared by the borrowers in
two parts. The first would provide a farm mechanization proposal, supported
by a farm budget and a simple cash flow statement. The second would be a
detailed farm planning exercise including topographical, soil, and ground
water surveys, and a work plan for farm development. Supporting financial
statements would be required for SFCI. Also a guarantee for principal and
interest repayment would be provided by GOI, in the case of SFCI, and GOS,
in the case of Universities. ARDC would refinance up to 90% of participating
bank loans. The balance of the investment funds not provided as loans would
be made available by GOI in the form of grants (Universities) or equity
(SFCI). The Agricultural Universities would be required to create separate
operating and accounting units for the seed operations and make arrangements
for separate collection and disbursement procedures.
State Seed Corporation
10.       SSC would need both long-term and short-term credit.  Long-term
finance would be required to cover investment expenditures and permanent
working capital for carrying seed stocks. Short-term credit would be required
to meet operating costs at seasonal peaks. NSC too would require credit to
enable it to carry seed inventory - foundation seed for distribution to SSC
and private sector producers, and certified seed for interstate marketing.
11.       Long-term credit would cover up to 70% of investment costs, the
balance would be financed from share capital. ARDC would select one commer-
cial bank in each state in consultation with the SSC concerned to be the
participating bank. Refinance from ARDC to the lending bank would be up to
90% of its loans to SSC. Loan requests for processing plant investments would
be prepared by SSC and submitted to the participating banks. The loan



ANNEX 12
Page 4
application would include detailed investment proposals, plant location,
phasing cash flow statements, report on SSC's financial position, managerial
arrangements, and other information the lending bank or ARDC might specify.
The bank concerned and ARDC would scrutinize the application and agree on
the loan terms and the disbursement procedures.
12.       Working capital financing for seed inventory would come from parti-
cipating banks against hypothecation of seed stocks. The participating banks
would normally have adequate funds to cover the working capital needs. How-
ever, seed is a key agricultural input, like fertilizer, and its stocking
prior to use should not be allowed to suffer by any constraints on the resour-
ces of the participating banks. Thus, it was agreed for Phase I that GOI
would constitute a consortium of participating banks, along the lines of an
existing consortium for fertilizer stocking. The banks in the consortium
would agree to assist each other in meeting the working capital needs of the
NSC, SSC and the private sector processors. GOI would undertake to relieve
any legitimate resource constraints the consortium may face in seed inventory
financing. Should NSC, SSC or private sector processors find difficulty in
obtaining adequate seasonal credit for their working capital needs, or the
private sector processors find that they are not being treated at par with the
SSC, they would seek GOI assistance through the PMMC. SSC requirements for
seasonal credit for working capital are likely to reduce as SSC build up their
reserves and it should be possible to discontinue the consortium within five
years.
University Foundation Seed Processing
13.       For their foundation seed processing operations Universities
would need both long-term and short-term credit. Long-term credit would be
provided for up to 75% of processing investment expenditures, the balance
would be financed from grants by GOI. ARDC would select participating banks
in consultation with the Universities and would refinance up to 90% of the
participating banks' loans. Loan requests for foundation seed processing
facilities would be prepared by the Universities and submitted to the
participating banks. Loan applications would include similar information
as requested from SSC (para 11). ARDC and the participating banks would
scrutinize the applications and agree on the loan terms and disbursement
procedures.
14.       Short-term credit for seed inventory financing would be provided
by participating banks against hypothecation of seed stocks.
15.       Lending terms and conditions are summarized in Appendix 2.



ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Long-term Credit to Seed Growers
1.        In Rajasthan, seed growers would be selected from a part of the
Ganganagar district covered under the Gang and Rajasthan Canal Projects and
a part of the Kota and Bundi districts covered under the Chambal Command
Area Development Project. On-farm development would consist of lining of
water courses, construction and repair of field channels and land shaping,
installation of pumpsets, and deepening of wells. The cost of development
on an area of 8,500 ha in Sriganganagar could amount to Rs 12.5 M at an
average cost of Rs 10,000 for a 6 ha farm. In the Kota area too the cost
could be Rs 10,000 for a 4 ha farm and the total cost of development on
7,000 ha could amount to Rs 17.5 M, making a total of Rs 30 M.
2.        Two IDA financed projects for Command Area Development (CAD) are in
operation - the Rajasthan CAD project (502-IN) and the Chambal CAD project
(562-IN). In both projects, the participating institutions are commercial
banks. Land Development Banks were left out because of the large overdues
at the time selection of participating banks was made. Seed growers could
avail of the credit facilities under these projects for developing their farms.
In areas not covered by the projects, seed growers could be financed through
the local Land Development Banks by formulating suitable schemes for refinance
from the ARDC which in turn would obtain reimbursement from the Second ARDC
Credit (715-IN) approved in June 1977. Four of the six Primary Land Develop-
ment Banks operating in the project area are eligible for unrestricted lending
as their overdues at June 30, 1976 were below 25%. No great difficulty would,
therefore, be envisaged for the Primary Land Development Banks in the project
area to provide growers with loans for on-farm development.
3.        In Bihar, the project area covers' 16 of the 22 blocks in Rohtas
district and three out of the 19 blocks in Bhojpur district. Fields selected
for development are well laid out and further investments needed would be
for tractors and other farm machinery, dugwells and installation of pumpsets.
In the project area, there are five branches of the State Land Development
Bank. As their recovery position has been good, all the branches would be
able to undertake fresh lending without any restrictions. They have also
considerable experience of ARDC schemes as they are implementing one of the
more successful minor irrigation schemes in the area. ARDC would obtain
reimbursement from the ongoing Bihar Agricultural Credit Project (440-IN) and
after its completion, under the Second ARDC Credit (715-IN).
4.        In Orissa, the project area covers parts of four blocks in Sambalpur
district, portions of three blocks in Puri district and two blocks in Cuttack
district. The potential seed growers here would not require much on-farm



ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 2
development for the present since it would be possible to select suitable
seed growers from the farmers already having adequate holdings of well levelled
land with adequate irrigation and drainage facilities. Some investments might,
however, become necessary for new growers at a later stage. In the project
area, four Primary Land Development Banks are functioning, of which two at
Puri and Bargarh had loans outstanding of more than Rs 7.5 M on June 30, 1976.
The recovery position in all four banks is satisfactory and when there would
be a need for financing seed growers in on-going schemes, there would be no
restrictions on their advancing fresh loans for the purpose. ARDC would
obtain IDA-assistance through the Second ARDC Credit (715-IN) for any necessary
refinancing.
5.        The Uttar Pradesh project areas include parts of Faizabad, Kanpur
and Jalaun districts. The concentration of seed growers would be close to
the proposed processing complexes - in the Gusaiganj-Akbarpur area of Faizabad
district and the Kanpur area for the Kanpur and Jalaun districts. In both
these districts refinance would be available through the Second ARDC Credit
(715-IN). Schemes for land development have also been sanctioned under the
command of major irrigation projects such as the Sarda Sahayak Irrigation
Project in Faizabad district and the Ramganga CAD project in Kanpur district.
The requirements of seed growers credit for on-farm development could, there-
fore, be met out of the on-going credit schemes in the area. All State Land
Development Bank branches operating in the project area have a good recovery
record which enables them to undertake fresh lendings without any restrictions.
The commercial banks are also active in the area and are participating in the
IDA and CAD projects. They could also help in case of need.
6.        In Karnataka, seed growers would be selected from the project areas
comprising (i) Bangalore North, Devanahalli and Hoskote talukas of Bangalore
district, (ii) Kolar, Mulbagol, Mulur and Chikballapur of Kolar district,
(iii) Davangere and Harihar taluks of Chitradurga district, and (iv) Haveri
and Ranebennur taluks of Dharwar district. Investment credit needed by seed
growers would be mainly for digging wells and installation of pumpsets in
Bangalore and Kolar districts while in Chitradurga and Dharwar the demand
would be for bore-wells in an area already served by canal irrigation. Kolar
and to some extent Bangalore district have little scope for further ground-
water exploitation. There is already a ban on further digging of wells in
Kolar. The wells in the area have been dug through rocky surfaces at great
depths, yet, they are able to irrigate hardly one or two acres due to poor
recharge. Seed growers would therefore have to be restricted to those already
having sources of irrigation.  There are seven Primary Land Development Banks
in these two districts, and commercial banks are also active. They are
providing both short-term and long-term credit to farmers through sericulture-
cum-farmers service societies which are being organized on a large scale in
the project talukas. As a result, the Primary Land Development Banks'



ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page  3
operations will be reduced and confined to non-members of these sericulture
societies. The Primary Land Development Banks in the four talukas of Dharwar
and Chitradurga districts are relatively large institutions and would be able
to meet the investment credit requirements of seed growers. Their recovery
position is satisfactory. This would enable them to undertake unrestricted
lending. Both the commercial banks and Primary Land Development Banks (the
latter through the State Land Development Bank) would have access for refi-
nance facilities out of the Second ARDC Credit Project (715-IN).
Short-term Credit to Seed Growers
7.        In all five states, the seed growers would have to depend largely
on the Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PAC) for obtaining their
requirements of cash (A Component) as well as fertilizers, pesticides and
other inputs supplied in kind (B Component). These societies in turn depend
for resources on the District Cooperative Banks (DCB) to which they are
affiliated.
8.        In Rajasthan, there would be three DCB in the project area - at
Bundi, Kota and Sriganganagar. The last two are fairly large institutions
with outstanding loans exceeding Rs 40 M at June 30, 1976. The number of
PAC and the volume of their loaning operations are significant while their
recovery performance is also satisfactory. The Kota DCB has agreed to re-
laxing of the present limit of Rs 10,000 per borrower if there was a genuine
demand from seed growers. DCB would also be prepared to adjust the scale of
finance to accommodate the cost of additional inputs in the form of fertil-
izers, foundation seed, pesticides and other inputs.
9.        All DCB obtain credit from the State Cooperative Bank which has
access to Reserve Bank of India for sanction of short-term credit limits.
There should therefore not be much difficulty in raising any additional
resources needed to meet the requirements of seed growers.
10.       Bihar presents a different picture.  The two DCB in the project area,
viz. the Sasaram-Bhabua Central Cooperative Bank in Rohtas and the Arrah Central
Cooperative Bank in Bhojpur have been engaged in large lending for short-term
agricultural purposes, with outstandings of Rs 15.3 M and 13.8 M respectively.
Overdues have, however, been heavy in both banks and most of the affiliated
PAC have defaulted in repaying their dues. At the primary level, all PAC are
considered not to be viable and the state government has undertaken a scheme
of reorganization in order to have ultimately only 5,000 PAC in the state.
Commercial banks have also been active in both the districts. In the event
of seed growers not being able to obtain credit from PAC, it would not be
difficult for them to obtain their short-term credit needs from commercial
banks.
11.       Although on-farm investments are not envisaged to a great degree in
Orissa, there would be need for short-term credit to seed growers. Four DCB
function at Sambalpur (Bargarh), Cuttack, Puri and Khurda. All of them have



ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 4
outstanding loans exceeding Rs 12 M.  The Sambalpur DCB is perhaps the largest
DCD in thie state wit;l loa.s exceeding Rs 35 M a' June 30, 1976.  Recoveries,
though satisfactory at the present time would however need watching. PAC in
the project area have built a large loan business.
12.       In Uttar Pradesh, there is one DCB each in Faizabad, Kanpur and
Jalaun districts. The Jalaun (Orai) bank is considered by the RBI (Study Team
on Agricultural Credit Institutions in U.P.) as potentially viable in the sense
that it would become fully viable in the next five years. The other two are
considered as non-viable and it would be some years before they attain a viable
status. At the level of the PAC too, the overdues in absolute terms and as
percentages of demand are large. PAC have been recently reorganized and initial
difficulties arising therefrom might take some time to be resolved. In these
two districts, seed-growers might have to approach commercial banks for obtain-
ing their short-term credit needs if PAC would be unable to provide it.
13.       In the two project areas in Karnataka, there are four DCB.  Of these
the DCB in Bangalore, Kolar and Chitradurga have heavy overdues and are under
a program of rehabilitation. The PAC affiliated to them are being reorganized
into larger units by a process of amalgamation. In view of the weak financial
position of the above three DCB the commercial banks in the area have been
asked to finance PAC and they have already done so in a large number of cases.
In Kolar and Bangalore districts, many seed growers are already obtaining credit
from commercial banks. Seed growers in the project area covered by these three
districts would therefore have to obtain their crop loan requirements either
directly from the commercial banks or through PAC financed by them. The fourth
DCB, viz. Dharwar is a large financially strong institution and is providing
adequate short-term credit facilities to farmers through PAC for their credit
requirements. Commercial banks have adequate resources to meet the demand from
seed growers. The DCB have access to finance from the State Cooperative Bank
which in turn can obtain finance from the RBI.
14.       SSC would take the initiative to formulate specific proposals for
financing seed growers both for farm development and for production credit.
SSC should also take steps for credit arrangements with banks in the area for
both purposes.
Long-term Credit for Large Farm Development
15.       Development of the SFCI farm in Sriganganagar district of Rajasthan
and University farms would be supported under the project. The assistance
would be confined to the facilities needed for growing seed on land already
developed, such as irrigation and farm equipment and would not include the
cost of reclamation and development of any land not under cultivation now.
Farm equipment, irrigation development including lining of water channels,
land levelling, drainage and fencing would be covered, so would buildings
such as implement stores, threshing floors, warehouse for farm produce and
some residential quarters. Loans to SFCI and the Universities would be pro-
vided by banks to be selected by SFCI and the Universities in consultation



ANINEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 5
with the ARDC.  Detailed proposals for farm investments would be submitted to
ARDC through the participating banks. Lending arrangements for loans to SFCI
and the Universities would be regulated and implemented through a Banking Plan.
Long-term Credit for Certified and Foundation Seed Processing
16.        The State Seed Corporations would require bank credit for long term
loans for setting up the proposed seed processing plants as well as for perm-
anent. working capital needed for operating them. As in Phase I the lending
arrangements between the ARDC and participating banks for loans to the SSC
would be regulated and implemented through a Banking Plan.
17.        The proposed locations of the seed processing plants in relation
to existing branches or offices of Commercial Banks which could be considered
for participation are as follows:
Branches/Offices of
Locat ion                           Commercial Banks
Raj as than
Umedganj (Kota District)              Central Bank of India (Lead Bank)
State Bank of India and several
other Nationalized banks.
B ihar
K(hudra (Rohtas District)             Punjab National Bank (Lead Bank)
State Bank of India, Allahabad
Bank and Central Bank of India.
Oris sa
Bargarh (Sambalpur District)          State Bank of India (two branches
of which one is an agricultural
developmnent branch), United Com-
mercial Bank, Union Bank and
United Bank of India.
Bhubaneswar (State Capital)           State Bank of India and all
Nationalized banks.
Uttar Pradesh
(i  Gusaiganj  (Faizabad District)    Punjab National Bank.
or
Akbarpur   (Faizabad District)    State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda.
or
Kathari    (Faizabad District)    Central Bank of India.
(ii) Kanpur       (Kanpur District)         State Bank of India and all
Nationalized banks.
Karnat aka
(i) Chikballapur (Kolar District)          Canara Bank (Lead Bank)
State Bank of Mysore
(ii) Harihar (Chitradurga District)    Canara Bank (Lead Bank), State
Bank of Mysore, Corporation Bank,
Karnataka Bank.



ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
Page 6
18.       Agricultural Universities would require bank credit for long term
loans for establishing foundation seed processing facilities. Lending
arrangements between ARDC and participating banks for loans to the Universi-
ties would be specified in a Banking Plan.
19.       All investment proposals and processing plant designs proposed by
SSC and the Universities would be examined by NSC and appraised by the desig-
nated participating banks in accordance with their usual loan procedures and
the stipulations contained in the agreements under the project. The banks
would submit the proposals to ARDC along with NSC's recommendations. In
order to expedite loan approvals, ARDC would consider joint appraisal of the
proposals by ARDC, NSC and the participating banks. Each proposal would
conform to the technical and financial viability criteria and would be sup-
ported by cash flows of the projects.
Banking Plan
20.       The Banking Plan for financing the investments of each SSC, each
University and SFCI would take into account participation of the (i) State
Bank group (including its subsidiaries), (ii) one or two of the fourteen
Nationalized banks having all-India coverage and, (iii) one or two of the
more active regional banks. As far as possible, one participating bank would
finance a processing plant. Joint financing with another bank in case of need
would not be ruled out. Since the participating banks are expected to provide
the SSC and Universities also with their large requirements of seasonal work-
ing capital, the support of the State Bank group and the fourteen Nationalized
banks with their vast resources would have to be considered. However, the
regional banks would also receive a reasonable share of the project programs.
A certain degree of flexibility in regard to participation arrangements would
be allowed initially to enable ARDC to make any subsequent changes necessary
in the Banking Plan, in regard to dealings with NSC, SSC, SFCI and Universi-
ties.
21.       Each participating bank would enter into a Refinance Agreement with
the ARDC on the usual lines as for other World Bank assisted projects. The
period of loan to be provided by the participating bank to the SSC. SFCI and
the Universities would be determined with reference to the cash flow of the
individual projects with the maximum period not exceeding 15 years. Grace
period on principal can be given to the extent necessary in each case but
would in no instance exceed five years.



ANNEX 12
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
Borrower:                  India
Beneficiaries:             National Seeds Corporation; State Seed Corporations
and Agricultural Universities in Rajasthan, Uttar
Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar and Orissa and State Farms
Corporation of India.
Relending Terms:      (i)  From GOI to ARDC
Repayable over 9 years at 6 3/4% per annum and 7 1/4%
per annum over 15 years with rebate at 1/4 percent
for prompt repayment. Interest on capitalized
interest, if any, to be at same rate as on principal.
(ii) ARDC to Banks
Interest at 8%; repayment to coincide more or less
with payments by ultimate borrowers; refinance of
up to 90% of banks' loans.
(iii) Banks to Borrowers
Interest at 11%; grace period on principal not to
exceed 5 years; no grace period on interest; repay-
ment over periods not exceeding 15 years; loans to
finance up to 70% of SSC/SFCI investments and up
to 75% of Universities farm development and founda-
tion seed processing investments.
Lending Conditions: (i)  For Banks to SFCI
Submission of detailed farm planning proposals,
including soil, topographical and groundwater
survey, farm mechanization and land development
plans, cash flow statements to be provided;
minimum financial rate of return to be 20%,
with suitable cash flow. Security to be in



ANNEX 12
Appendix 2
Page 2
accordance with agreements between lending
banks and ARDC. A GOI guarantee for repayment
of principal and interest would be provided if
banks so desire.
(ii) Banks to SSC
Detailed investment proposal, supported by technical
review and plant design by NSC, to be submitted,
including cash flows and financial position. Secur-
ity to be in accordance with agreements between
lending banks and ARDC.
(iii) Banks to Agricultural Universities
For farm development investments, conditions would
be the same as (i) above, excluding GOI guarantee.
A GOS guarantee for repayment of principal and
interest would be provided if banks so desire. For
foundation seed processing investments, conditions
would be the same as (ii) above.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Demand, Marketing and Pricing
Introduction
1.        The coordination of the supply and demand of certified seed has been
a major problem in recent years. Demand has usually exceeded supply, although
on occasion high losses have resulted from oversupply of certified seed of
some crops. A realistic demand assessment is considered the first key element
of a national seed production program.
2.        Demand of certified seed is closely related to the growth of area
under high yielding varieties (HYV), which in turn is linked to the introduc-
tioII of new improved varieties. Accordingly, promotional efforts to make
farmers aware of the benefits derived from the use of existing HYV as well
as newly released varieties would play an important role in the marketing
strategy of each State Seed Corporation (SSC).
3.        Seed demand is also influenced by the seed replacement rate adopted
by farmers. The farmer's attitude towards seed replacement is determined by
tradition, seed prices and quality, and his knowledge of the benefits that
result from certified seed usage. To make the farmer more responsive to
certified seed of self-pollinated crops, additional efforts would be made by
SSC to demonstrate the yield improvements resulting from the use of such seed.
The recommended replacement cycle for certified wheat and paddy seed is four
to five years. A reduction in germination rate, disease resistance and vigor
over four to five seasons usually deteriorates yields to levels which make it
economical to buy more expensive certified seed. Actual replacement rates
presently are significantly below the recommended level (paras 7 and 12).
4.        Replacement rates differ also by ecological region.  When storing
grain under unfavorable agro-climatic conditions its viability as seed would
be reduced and farmers would tend to purchase seed more frequently.
A. Demand
Past Developments
5.        Details of the historical trends in HYV areas are provided in
Table 1, together with the Fifth Plan Target areas and the projected HYV
areas to 1983/84, Data on total certified seed sales for the years before



ANNEX 13
Page 2
1973/74 are extremely limited. Sales figures for certified seed produced
by National Seeds Corporation (NSC) and Tarai Development Corporation (TDC)
from 1968/69 to 1972/73 and total certified seed sales during the following
three years are shown in Table 2.
6.        The relationship between the growth in HYV areas and the growth
in certified seed sales is presented in Table 3. To smooth possible dis-
crepancies between the years of recording the seed sale and measuring
the HYV area, the comparison has been based on two year moving averages.
The correlation between the two growth rates is very close in the case of
maize, jowar and bajra, but not in the case of wheat and paddy. The over-
riding factor determining the high growth rate for the latter crops has been
the increase in replacement rates.
7.        Although reliable data on actual replacement rates is not avail-
able, an approximate replacement rate can be calculated on the basis of total
certified seed sales during the three years for which total sales are available,
and the estimated total seed requirements for the HYV areas. 1/ The approxi-
mate replacement rates are stated below. To reduce the impact of errors from
allocating seed sales and related crop production to different years, a two-
year moving average has been used in the analysis.
Average Annual
Average Replacement Rate                    Increase
73-74 / 74-75        74-75 / 75-76
Wheat          3.8%                  5.3%                      39%
Paddy          5.1%                  7.4%                      45%
Demand Projection by Joint Working Party (JWP)
8.        To determine a realistic amount of seed production under NSP the
JWP estimated the certified seed demand for 1980-81 by projecting first the
demand for the years 1977-78 and 1978-79 and then extending the incremental
demand in even amounts to 1980-81 (Table 4). The demand estimates for the
years 1977-78 and 1978-79 have been arrived at by:
(a) projecting the HYV areas for these years on the basis of
the Fifth Five Year Plan;
(b) projecting seed replacement rates on the basis of estimated
price developments, differences in agro-climatic regions,
varietal replacement estimates and additional area coming
under HYV.
9.        Further demand surveys have been carried out by the Institute of
Agricultural Research Statistics (IARS) and the National Council of Applied
Economic Research (NCAER). Provision for financing these initial studies
1/   Assumed are seed rates of 100 kg/ha for wheat and 30 kg/ha for paddy.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
and future biennial demand surveys was made in Phase I because it was felt
that a better understanding of the demand development was crucial for pro-
jecting future investment requirements. The seed demand forecasts of both
institutions varied considerably from each other, particularly with regard
to self-pollinated crops, and also differed in many instances significantly
from JWP projections. After reviewing the findings of NCAER and IARS, the
JWP considered its own, often more conservative projections, more reliable.
The survey is not adequate nor representative enough to firmly establish
future seed demand patterns or an all-India forecast. It has therefore
been agreed that a complementary demand study be carried out with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA.
10.       The JWP has exercised caution in finalizing the 1981-82 demand
matrix. However, in light of the unfinished demand survey an even more con-
servative approach has been taken in formulating production targets during
appraisal. As outlined below (paras 11-14), in developing a demand forecast
it has been assumed that the recent growth in HYV area as well as in seed
replacement rates would slow down significantly with the result that for
most crops the JWP demand forecast for 1981-82 would be reached only two
years later in 1983-84. Accordingly, the SSC seed production envisaged by
JWP for 1980-81 has been accepted with a two year delay and is anticipated
to be achieved in 1982-83 (Table 5).
HYV Projection
11.       Table 1 summarizes the past performance in HYV area growth and gives
the projections for the future. Wheat HYV area has been estimated to increase
by only 2% p.a. to reach about 81% of the total wheat area by 1983/84. Because
HYV coverage of the wheat area is already high a significantly higher growth
rate should not be anticipated. For paddy, a rate of 8% p.a. has been assumed.
Growth in the past has been higher for paddy than for wheat and HYV are at
present grown in only about 34% of the total paddy area. At 8% growth, HYV paddy
would cover approximately 63% of the cropped area by 1983/84. For HYV area of
bajra and maize a 4% p.a. growth rate has been estimated. The rate for jowar
is assumed to be 6% p.a. on account of the strong performance over the six year
period analyzed and the acceleration of growth during the more recent years.
Replacement Rate Projections
12.       Hybrid seed has to be replaced each season.  For self pollinated
crops, such as wheat and paddy, seed should be replaced every four to five
years to achieve maximum returns. Replacement rates presently are, however,
not 20% to 25% but, as stated in para 7, about 5.3% for wheat and 7.4% for
paddy. Although the average increase in the replacement rates amounted to
39% and 45% for wheat and paddy respectively, future rates cannot be extrap-
olated at such growth levels. No analysis has been made to explain the high
growth experienced during the last years under review. A major portion
shculd, however, be attributed to the seed price reduction in the years under
analysis (para 31) and, more importantly, to the significant addition to the
HY%F area during this period. Since it is anticipated that HYV area growth



ANNEX 1P
Page 4
will be slower in the future, the growth in the seed replacement rate will
have to be scaled down. Future increases would largely depend on promotional
cf or.s of the SSC and of the government extcrizon ser-c.
13        The annual growth of replacement rates has been estimated to be
7% for wheat and 4% for paddy. Seed replacement rates would reach about
9% and 10% by 1983/84 for wheat and paddy respectively. A lower growth
rate has been assumed for paddy than for wheat because a replacement rate
much beyond 10% is not prudent to plan for at the present time although
the ideal rate is 20% to 25%. This is particularly true for transplanted
crops, like paddy, where the lower germination rate of ordinary seed is of
less importance because it does not materially affect final grain yields.
Table 4 summarizes JWP's demand forecast together with the demand projec-
tions based on the foregoing assumptions.
Seed Production of Potato and Groundnut
14.       Proposals for potato and groundnut production have been made to meet
intra-state demand only. The proposed production targets for the fifth year
have been estimated conservatively at below 10% of total seed requirements.
Future Seed Demand Assessment
15.       In order to establish a more reliable basis for long-term demand
projections the demand survey of NCAER and IARS is to be complemented by an
additional study which would be completed by March 31, 1979.
16.       NSC would be responsible for making short-term demand projections
on which to base seed production programs. For interstate marketing and for
intra-state marketing in states without SSC, NSC would continue to follow
the present procedure of gathering demand data through its regional offices
and dealer network (para 20). SSC would similarly obtain intra-state demand
information and use this as basis of its demand forecasts.
17.       Under Phase I provision was also made to update biennially the
initial demand survey discussed above with the assistance of marketing con-
sultants. Proper assessment of the market, trend developments, potential
prsblem 3 consmer response to prices and other conditions affecting the far-
mers' attitude towards seed, is essential to plan cautiously not only seasonal
seed production and to decide marketing policy but also to prepare for future
expansioa of seed processing capacity. NSC and SSC would therefore concen-
trate -s much on market research as they need to on sales promotion and
distcibution logistics. Provision has been made in the proposed project
for marketing consultants to assist in setting up a marketing research
division in NSC and each of the SSC participating in the project. Details
a.. in Ar'ex 7.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
B. Marketing
Current Distribution Network
18.       Of all seed used for raising the major food crops in 1975/76 only
about 5% went through commercial marketing channels. Some seed is bought
and sold locally through village cooperatives. Most seed, however, is traded
from farmer to farmer or raised by farmers for their own use. For seed
marketed commercially, there are two marketing systems. Seed produced by
State Agricultural Universities or on government farms are sold through
village cooperatives or government extension agencies. This seed is often
unprocessed, and frequently not certified.
19.       On the other hand, commercial seed producing agencies like NSC, TDC
and SSC established under Phase I have developed elaborate marketing networks.
NSC for example uses the following channels:
(a) state governments and their agencies;
(b) private dealers; and
(c) its own sales outlets.
Furthermore, with SSC having taken over seed processing and distribution in
the Phase I states, SSC function as distributor of imported NSC seed. The
majority of NSC sales are presently through state governments who place firm
advance orders for seed, arrange for transport and distribution and usually
set the retail price at low levels. NSC has about 4,000 dealers and 84 sales
outLets scattered all over India. The dealers typically handle other kinds of
seed as well and also other agricultural inputs and commodities. The sales
outlets which play a major role in NSC's marketing research and sales fore-
casting are of lesser importance with regard to seed distribution, handling
only 10-15% of NSC sales.
20.       Private sector marketing varies largely with the size of operation.
Smaller processors are usually organized as producer associations or coopera-
tives and handle local marketing of "truthfully" labeled seed. Large private
companies have well established marketing networks and sell also interstate.
They are mostly concentrated in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil
Nadu and Karnataka.
21.       Cooperatives are also very active in seed distribution.  Seed may
be produced for the cooperatives by its members and sold back to them in
the following season or it may be purchased through the State Cooperative
Marketing Federation or other institutions involved in the seed trade.
22.       The Cooperative Marketing Federations are distributing seed in
Bihar, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. The seed is usually supplied
by the state government, NSC or TDC. In Karantaka and Bihar, State Agro-
Industries Corporation is also involved in seed distribution utilizing its



ANNEX 13
Page 6
network of service centers. In Karnataka the Corporation has been the sole
distributor of seed processed by its subsidiary Agro Seeds Corporation, which
has become the Karanataka SSC. Agro Industries Corporation in Rajasthan has
been producing seed on its own farms for sale within the state.
Future Distributior System
23.       With nine SSC in the four Phase I states and in the five states
under this project, NSC would become the principal coordinator of all SSC
production intended for interstate marketing and would also act as the whole-
sale distributor in interstate seed sales. Under this system production and
supply would be properly coordinated and transport cost minimized by rational
transportation planning and bulk shipments. Bulk storage at optimal loca-
tions has been organized under Phase I. Duplication of sales offices for
SSC, NSC and other public sector seed suppliers would be avoided and seed
of all crops and varieties would be made available with every dealer.
24.       In seed producing states SSC would establish a retail seed dealer
network using any existing NSC dealers. SSC would be free to choose their
dealers, private or cooperative, on the basis of the dealers' effectiveness
in seed marketing. The State Cooperative Marketing Federation would be
utilized in the seed distribution in all project states and would relinquish,
where applicable, seed production of crops handled by SSC. It would operate
under an agreement with SSC and receive a nominal service charge out of the
dealers' 10% commission.
25.       In states without SSC, NSC would expand its retail dealer network,
including private dealers. Cooperatives would be used to the maximum extent
possible. The marketing network of the State Agro-Industries Corporation and
Cooperative Marketing Federation would be employed for this purpose. Under
agreements with NSC both institutions would act as distributor receiving a
nominal portion out of the 10% dealer commission.
26..      When the NSP seed marketing network is fully developed, each Com-
munity Development Block would have at least four sale points. However, the
number of dealers in any area would be related to the total quantity of seed
to be marketed to ensure that each dealer would have a reasonable market
share. The latter consideration would be less important where seed is addi-
tional to a dealer's existing operation. The merchandising capability and
past performance of dealers in selling other agricultural inputs would be
given consideration. SSC and NSC contracts with dealers would clearly specify
their responsibility in sales promotion. Although market development would
primarily be SSC and NSC responsibility, all dealers would be required to do
a certain amount of publicity and advertisement and to participate in meetings
and demonstrations. SSC and NSC would supply publicity material, and under-
take advertising, NSC on a national level and in states without SSC, and SSC
in their home states. Both institutions would work closely with the Depart-
ments of Agriculture.



ANNEX 13
Page 7
27.       Aggressive sales promotion would be essential in the future in
order to meet the established seed production targets. Accordingly, the
emphasis in marketing has to be placed on seed promotion and not, as in
the past, on distribution. A training program to assist each SSC in estab-
lishing effective promotion units within its marketing organization is,
therefore, proposed (Annex 7). Provision has also been made for mass media
vans and demonstration equipment like film and slide projectors which would
be used by SSC's marketing division in its promotion activities (Annex 5,
Table 9).
NSC's Future Marketing Activities
28.       Marketing would become the prime NSC activity.  SSC would be respon-
sible for intra-state marketing, while NSC would handle all interstate marketing
as well as intra-state marketing in states without SSC. The proposed marketing
organization is shown in Chart I. Three major activities - market development,
storage and transport, and sale and supply - would be directed by suitably
qualified managers. Market development activities at NSC headquarters would
focus on policy and national promotion or mass publicity. To foster close
contact between the dealers and NSC, dealership selection and servicing would
be the responsibility of NSC regional offices.  Market promotion would be
performed from the regional office under the overall direction of headquarters.
This would permit better adjustment to local situations and would require a
shift from the current emphasis of regional offices on seed production. A
training program to re-orient NSC staff towards seed merchandising was
proposed under Phase I. In addition, each regional office would have an
extension specialist to work with state government extension services and
to assist the dealers with seed promotion. Biannual dealer meetings to
discuss market development would also be organized.
C. Prices
29.       Because commercial seed of self-pollinated crops can easily be
substituted by the farmer's own grain, seed demand is strongly linked to
seed price and quality. Prices in informal farmer-to-farmer transactions
can hardly be higher than grain prices since the seed is hardly different
from grain. Prices for the small quantities of seed sold as part of govern-
ment extension activities are kept only fractionally higher than grain prices.
Certified seed, on the other hand, must be priced higher because additional
costs are incurred for:
(a) on farm production, where seed production cost are higher by
15-25% for self-pollinated crops, up to 40% for hybrids and
20-25% for potato and groundnut. In addition, the seed grower
has to be paid a premium in order to compensate him for the
additional risk involved in seed production;
(b) seed processing, including removal of broken and foreign
matter and treating;



ANNEX 13
Page 8
(c)  certification;
(d)  adequate storage under conditions that prevent loss of
seed quality;
(e)  transportation and marketing; and
(f)  management overheads and fixed and working capital investments.
Past Pricing Pattern
30.       Generally, commercial seed prices of different producers in the
past followed NSC's price pattern, which is established on a cost-plus basis.
The recent NSC price level for certified seed of the major cereal crops was:
NSC - Certified Seed Retail Prices
(Rs/ton)
Average Annual
Crop       1974/75      1975/76      1976/77 /a    Price Reduction
Wheat       3,200        3,000        2,550              11
Paddy       2,800        2,650        1,950              17
Maize       4,600        4,200        4,000               7
Jowar       8,000        7,300        7,300               4
Bajra      10,500        9,500        6,500              21
/a  Prices in 1976/77 apply also to SSC established in the
Phase I states.
Certified seed prices in the past were high because:
(a)  demand for quality seed generally exceeded supply;
(b)  NSC in determining prices on a cost-plus basis was charging
higher overhead cost per ton when turnover was low; and
(c)  raw seed procurement prices paid to growers often exceeded
the amount necessary to induce farmers to take up seed
growing.
Anticipated Development
31.       With increased seed production under NSP, supply would match demand
more closely and prices could not be kept high on account of unsatisfied
demand. Seed growers would in the future receive adequate premiums above
grain price to compensate for the additional cost and risk of seed production.
In general, the premimus would be lower than the ones paid in the past which
would lead to lower seed prices. Price reductions for certified seed should
also result from,increased price competition among the various SSC and the



ANNEX 13
Page 9
associated pressure to keep overhead cost low. Price competition would be
encouraged by NSC offering to buy from all SSC only at the lowest ex-plant
price offered by an SSC. Seed procurement prices would only be raised, if the
full interstate needs cannot be met at the lowest ex-plant price. To ensure
the availability of a buffer supply in case of an emergency, NSC would offer
to charge only half of its normal service charge on quantities procured from
SSC above the guaranteed offtake.
32.       In setting certified seed prices the financial viability of SSC
would be the overriding criteria. Accordingly, prices have to cover the cost
of procuring, processing and distributing the seed. Overhead costs have to
be absorbed and an adequate rate of return on capital employed has to be pro-
vided for. At present interest rates, a rate of 18% (before taxation) should
be considered a reasonable financial return. Furthermore, prices must allow
that sufficient reserves be accumulated to meet the needs for plant expansion
and replacement, loan redemptions and research support. After having provided
for these reserves and an adequate rate of return on its capital employed,
SSC's objective would be to sell at the lowest possible price to generate
increasing seed demand. Accordingly, ex-SSC plant prices 1/ per ton of seed
could reach the following levels at full development of SSC in 1982/83 (details
are in Annex 14):
Wheat       Rs 2,200
Paddy       Rs 1,750
Maize       Rs 2,800
Jowar       Rs 3,700
Bajra       Rs 4,200
Potato      Rs 1,750
Groundnut   Rs 3,600
Procurement Prices
33.       SSC would organize certified seed production under contract through
registered farmers. Seed growers would be provided with foundation seed by
SSC. SSC would procure foundation seed of national varieties from NSC and
seed of local varieties directly from one of the Agricultural Universities in
the state. Staff attached to SSC's Production and Processing Divisions would
arrange with the seed growers the time schedule for harvesting, inspection and
transport of the crop to the plant site. The seed grower would be responsible
for bagging and transportation.
34.       All seed meeting specified standards would be paid a premium.  The
premium would be determined as a percentage or a fixed amount above the price
realizable for commercial crop at the time of delivery to the plant. Because
there would be a time lag between the date of delivery and the day the accepted
crop could be verified suitable for seed, the grower initially would be paid the
market rate for commercial crop prevailing at the date of delivery. This first
installment would be paid within three days after receipt of the raw seed.
1/   In real terms.



ANNEX 13
Page 10
The second installment, the premium, would be paid after SSC ascertains from
its laboratory the portion of the crop delivered that is suitable for proces-
sing and selling as certified seed. The payment would usually be made not
later than three weeks after receipt of the crop in the plant. Details of
premium calculations are in Annex 14.
35.       The premium to be paid would be adjusted as necessary to account
for screenings that can only be sold at a reduced price and not at commercial
grain prices. To discourage seed growers from delivering raw seed with a
high percentage of foreign matter and to compensate SSC for the high proces-
sing cost as well as the loss from the sale of the screenings, the value of
screenings has been assumed to be 60% of commercial grain price. Thus, the
premium would be adjusted to allow for the 40% reduced value of screenings
compared to commercial grain price originally paid to the grower at delivery
of the crop.
36.       Seed growers would receive a third and final payment as bonus, once
the season's processed seed has been sold and SSC's income for the season can
be determined.
D. Seed Storage
37.       Processed seed generally has to be stored for 4-6 months before use.
Careful storage under safe conditions is crucial to maintain seed quality till
actual use. Storage for seed inventory held pre- and immediately after pro-
cessing would be at each processing plant (Annex 5). For effectiveness in
marketing additional storage as transit stores and bulk distribution depots
was provided under Phase I. High capacity bulk storage with 34,000 tons
total capacity would be established at five locations between processing
plants and consumption areas with suitable dry climate for year-round storage.
The buildings are to be designed and constructed by Central Warehousing Cor-
poration (CWC) for long lease to NSC. Similarly up to sixty-four smaller
transit stores were provided to be located in consumption areas and con-
structed by State Warehousing Corporation (SWC) and to be leased to NSC or
SSC. Additional storage required by NSC or SSC could be rented from CWC or
SWC. No additional provision is considered necessary in the proposed project.
E. Reserve Stock Scheme
38.       A reserve stock scheme for foundation and certified seed was ini-
tiated under Phase I. The scheme had been proposed on the following grounds:
(i) seed production programs may be affected by adverse agro-
climatic conditions or pest-disease problems;



ANNEX 13
Page 11
(ii) natural calamities like floods or long dry spells during
the monsoon season, in turn necessitating resowing or
mid-course correction in cropping programs, may give
rise to sudden unanticipated demand for seed;
(iii) inability to judge farmer reaction to new varieties may
result in unexpectedly high demand for seed of a newly
released variety;
(iv) for foundation seed, reserve stocks become more critical
since foundations seed have to be produced at least 2
years ahead of commercial crop; and
(v) periods of shortages result in abnormally high seed prices
and the sale of sub-standard seed, and during periods of
glut that invariably follow, large surpluses result in
financial loss in the seed industry and economic losses
due to loss of production.
The scheme is to be operated by NSC. Finance required for maintaining the
seed inventory is to be provided by GOI. Storage cost and losses from the
operation of the scheme are to be met by NSC for recovery through sales
margins. The reserve stock scheme should be considered essential in
developing a viable seed industry and carrying the cost of its operation
should not be deemed a hardship to the farmer who is the ultimate beneficiary
of such an investment.
39.       Quantities of seed to be kept in the reserve stock would be related
to the total demand estimates under the project. Initially, the scheme would
be confined to the major cereals. About 3% of anticipated demand for cer-
tified seed of wheat and 2% of paddy seed demand would be held in reserves;
for hybrids, the amount would be 10% of projected demand. Corresponding pro-
portions for foundation seed would be 10% and 50%. Certified seed reserve
stock would preferably be held at processing plants to minimize problems of
quality maintenance and blending, and to minimize condemnation losses, since
seed would be held untreated.
40.       Foundation seed being more valuable and small in quantity would be
held in air-conditioned de-humidified seed stores. The storage cost incurred
by the various institutions like SSC, Agricultural Universities or SFCI would
be borne by NSC.
41.       Under Phase I provision was made for the reserve stock required
in accordance with certified seed demand anticipated for the years through
1980-81 and the foundation seed demand for the years until 1979-80. Under
this project funds would therefore be provided only for incremental reserve
stock requirements resulting from anticipated demand increases beyond the
quantities projected under Phase I. Details are given in Table 6.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Past and Prolected Development of HYV Areas
(million ha.)
Total Cropped                         HYV Area                             V Plan Target                Projected      Projected HYV Area
Crop               Area 1976-77         1969-70   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76 1/            for XYV in 1978-79         Annual Increase   1978-79   1983-84
Wheat                            19.8                5.1        10.9       11.7        13.7                   15.0                        2%            14.5       16.1
Growth Rate 69/70-75/76                          - - - - - - - - -17.9%- - - - - - - -
- - -  -   12.1%       
Paddy                            38.5                4.3         9.6       10.5        13.0                   18.0                        8%            16.4       24.1
Growth Rate 69/70-75/76                          - - - - - - - - -20.2%- - - - - - - -
Growth Rate 73/74-75/76                                     - - - - - - 16.4% - - - - -
Maize                              5.9               0.4         0.75       0.8         0.9                    1.2                        4%              1.0        1.2
Growth Rate 69/70-75/76                          - - - - - - - - -14.5%- - - - - - - -
Growth Rate 73/74-75/76                                     - - - - - - -9.5% - - - - -
Jowar                            16.0                0.5         1.2        1.2         2.2                    2.5                        6%              2.6        3.5
Growth Rate 69/70-75/76                          - - - - - - - - -28.0%- - - - - - - -                                                                             -
Growth Rate 73/74-75/76                                     - - - - - - 35.4% - - - - -
Bajra                            13.1                1.1         3.3        2.2         2.7                    3.3                        4%              3.0        3.7
Growth Rate 69/70-75/76                          - - - - - - - - -16.1%- - - - - - - -
Growth Rate 73/74-75/76                                     - - - - negative 9.5% - - -
1/  Estimated actual.  Source:  Government of India, Economic Survey 1976-77.
HLM
July 14, 1977



ANNEX 13
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Certified Seed Production by NSC & TDC 1/
(tons)
Average Annual
Crop        :1968-69      1969-70       1970-71       1971-72       1972-73       Growth Rate  %
Wheat        6,917         7,807         7,588         12,540        12,373            16
Paddy        2,747         2,499         3,974          5,136         5,311            18
Maize        2,525         1,975         1,892          3,172         3,090              5
Jowar          420           177           108            558           525             6
Bajra          587           872           825          2,297         1,373            24
Total Certified Seed Sales _/
(tons)
Average Annual
Crop        1973-74         1974-75        1975-76          Growth Rate %
Wheat         18,300         67,600         66,500                 91
Paddy         12,900         17,800         39,800                 76
Maize         11,600         13,000         15,600                 16
Jowar          7,800         14,000         17,900                 52
Bajra          6,100         13,400          3,200       Negative 28
1/ Source: NSC
August 11, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Average HYV Area (000 ha)       Average Seed Sales (tons)        Increase (pecrease)
Crop            73-74/74-75   74-75/75-76       73-74/74-75   74-75/75-76        in Area    in Sales
Wheat             11,300         12,700           42,950         67,050           12.4%       56.1%
Paddy             10,050         11,750           15,350         28,800           16.9%       87.6%
Maize                775            850           12,300         14,300            9.7%       16.3%
Jowar              1,200          1,700           10,900         15,950           41.7%       46.3%
Bajra              2,750          2,450            9,650          8,200          (10.9%)    (15.3%)
August 25. 1977
I-Jtx
U, 



ANNEX 13
Table 4
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Seed Demand Projections by Joint Working Party
(tons)
Crop         1977-78          1978-79          1979-80          1980-81          1981-82
Wheat         118,000         124,000          130,000          136,000           142,000
Paddy         48,000           54,000           60,000            66,000           72,000
Maize          11,500          13,000            14,500           16,000           17,500
Jowar         23,000           24,500           26,000            27,5i,0         29,000
Bajra         11,000           12,000           13,000           14,000           15,000
Seed Demand Projection Used for Appraisal
Base Year 1975-76         Projected Annual Growth
HYV Area       Seed Replace-               Seed Replace-         Seed Demand Projection
Crop     (million ha.)  ment Rate          HYV Area  ment Rate          1981-82  1982-83  1983-84
Wheat        13.7            5.3               2           7            122,700  133,900  146,200
Paddy        13.0            7.4               8           4             57,900   65,100   73,100
Maize          0.9         100.0               4           -             17,100   17,700   18,500
Jowar         2.2          100.0               6           -             37,500   39,700   42,100
Bajra         2.7          100.0               4           _             13,700   14,200   14,800
Julv 18, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Seed Demand Projection for 1983/84 and SSC Production Program for 1982/831/
(tons)
Wheat                  Paddy                    Maize                  Jowar                   Bajra
State       Demand    Production   Demand    Production   Demand    Production   Demand    Production   Demand    Production
Andhra Pradesh         -          -          5,500      18,000       1,100        7,000      3,000        2,000       1,000       3,000
Punjab              14,000      25,500         700       2,500       1,000         -          -            -           -           _
Haryana               8,700     29,000         400       3,000        -            -          -            _            800        -
Maharashtra          12,000       -          1,500         -                       -        15,000        8,0o0       3,000       2,000
Rajasthan             9,300     25,000        -          1,500         800          500       -             400       1,300       1,300
Uttar Pradesh        19,000     42,000       3,900      18,100         600        2,000       -            -            300          300
Bihar               22,000       7,000       4,500       3,000       6,ooo        4,000       -                        _ 
Orissa                4,800       -          8,000       8,000        -            -          -            -                       -
Karnataka              -          -          1,500       1,200       1,100        2,000      7,500        6,100         800       2,100
Gujarat               3,600       -           -           -           -            -           200         -          5,000        -
Madhya Pradesh       13,500       -          4,000         -           700         -         1,300         -            200         -
Assam                 5,400       -          1,500         -          -            _     -           -                 -
West Bengal         26,500        -          8,ooo        -           -            -          -            _           _
Kerala                 -          -         22,000        -           -            _-                                  -
Tamil Nadu             -          -          7,000        -            300         -         1,600         -            700        -
Other States          3,200       -          3,500        -          5,900         -           400         -          1,900         _
Total            142,000    128,500       72,000      55,300      17,500       15,500     29,000       16,500      15,000       8,700
1/ For HYV seed.  The JWP demand estimate for 1981/82 and production projections for 1980/81 were taken as a basis.
-  Modifications agreed upon with the states have been incorporated.
October 10, 1977



ANNEX 13
Table 6
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Incremental Reserve Stocks
(tons)
Certified Seed                                 Foundation Seed
Incremental                                    Incremental
Crop    Demand 1982-83   % Buffer   Quantity            Demand 1981-82   % Buffer   Quantity
Wheat        36,700           3          1,100             1,830               10       180
Paddy        29,700           2            590             3,690               10       370
Maize          -             10            -                 -                 50         -
Jowar          -             10            -                                   50        -
Bajra        (5,400)1/       10           (540)              (60)1/            50        (30)
Total        61,000                      1,150             5,450                        520
1/ For Bajra a certified seed demand of 20,400 tons was anticipated under Phase I.
The demand projection for Bajra under this project is only 15,000 tons in the
fifth year of the project. Incremental demand is, therefore, negative.
July 19, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
NSC: MARKETING ORGANIZATION
MANAGER                           MANAGER
(MARKET DEV.)               (STORAGE AND TRANSPORT)                    (SALES AND DISTRIBUTION)
MARKET       EDETNI                                                                                                                                       AE
DEVELOPMENT    EE  XESG            TASOT            STORAGE            EXOT          DISTRIBUTION        SALES         DVLPET            E  XTIENSIO    DISTRIBUTION
OFFICER     OFFICER         SPRIO            SUPERIO           SUPEVISO        SUPERVISOR       SUPERVISOR       D= MN                  CROFFICER
OFIER                                                                                                                     OFICR 
1X
F-   '



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Universities - Foundation Seed Production and Processing
1.        Foundation seed production and processing by Universities would
be undertaken as a commercial venture. Universities would establish foun-
dation seed prices so as to recover all variable and fixed costs associated
with the operation, and yielding at the time of full development, a reasonable
financial rate of return on capital employed. At present interest levels,
18% would be considered adequate. Table 1 shows the cost of foundation seed
production for the major kinds of seed included in the project. The costs
have been developed on the basis of a 300 ha University farm and a cropping
intensity of 130%. On a 500 ha farm, production costs would be lower by
approximately 8% for wheat, paddy and groundnut, 6% for hybrid cereals, and
3% for potatoes.
2.        Prices for breeder seed, which would also be produced and processed
by the Universities, have been assumed to average approximately 150% of found-
ation seed prices. Breeder seed production would not be organized as a com-
mercial self-supporting operation. Salaries included in farm overhead costs
have been allocated at an even rate per hectare, while depreciation and
portions of "other" overhead costs were allocated on the basis of capital
investments required for cultivating the various crops.
3.        Financing costs have been allowed on the basis of an 18% rate
of return on fixed investments and permanent working capital. An interest
rate of 15% was assumed for seasonal working capital. For the calculation
of the average investment capital, farm land has been included at a value of
Rs 9,000 per hectare. For calculating interest on working capital, it has
been anticipated that the variable production costs would accrue evenly over
a 6-month period (average time of capital employment 3 months), while salaries
and other overhead costs (excluding depreciation) would require financing
for a 6-month period.
4.        Yields were estimated on the basis of past experience by NSC and
other foundation seed producers. No attempt was made to differentiate between
varieties. In addition, for hybrid maize, jowar and bajra, yields and produc-
tion costs have been averaged without separating male and female parental
lines. Accordingly, the seed prices for hybrids in Table 2 are estimated
averages.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
5.        Processing costs and transportation costs are detailed at Table 2
together with suitable foundation seed prices that would yield an 18% rate
of return on capital employed. The variable processing costs have been es-
timated on the basis of the processing costs for certified seed (Annex 5, Table
12), assuming a 20% cost increase in the major cost items due to the additional
care required for processing and packaging foundation seed. Processing over-
head costs have been allocated on the basis of total costs for all Universities
participating in the project and the anticipated tonnage of foundation seed in
project year 5. For salary allocation, potatoes and groundnuts were given a
weight of 50% in relation to other crops, and in calculation depreciation
groundnuts were weighted with 70% because of the smaller investment required
for groundnut processing.
6.        Financing costs of processing investments has been allocated in
accordance with the cost of the processing equipment required for the various
crops. For working capital requirements, a six-month time lag has been
assumed between harvesting and distributing the processed seed to NSC, SSC
and private sector producers. Financing costs on fixed investments and
permanent working capital has been determined to yield a return of 18% p.a.,
while interest for seasonal working capital has been calculated at a rate of
15% p.a.
Seed Growers - Certified Seed Production
7.        Table 3 illustrates the production costs for. both, certified seed
and commercial food crops, and shows the premiums required to fully compensate
the grower for increased costs and risks of seed production. A premium above
food-crop prices would be established which would be proportionate to the
increase in production costs after making allowance for screenings (and male
rows in the case of hybrids) and after considering the risk of seed rejection
along with opportunity costs (for jowar and bajra). It has been assumed that
at such a pre.ium the seed grower would be indifferent to seed or grain pro-
duction and that an additional premium of 5% of food-crop prices would be ade-
quate to induce him to seed production. In determining the production costs
it has been anticipated that only progressive farmers would become shareholder
growers who would make optimal use of seed and the other inputs in the produc-
tion of both seed and commercial food crops. The foundation seed prices from
Table 2 have been used in determining seed costs for certified seed production.
Seed costs for food-crop production has been calculated on the basis of the
certified seed prices from Table 4 after including retail margins and trans-
portation costs. A seed replacement rate of 25% was assumed for growing wheat
and paddy food crops.
8.        To determine the cost of seed production the value of screenings
and male parental lines has been credited against production costs. In estab-
lishing the value of screenings, the variable production costs were compared
with the amount that SSC would pay for the screenings, and the lower amount
was used for valuation. For screenings, SSC would reimburse 60% of the food



ANNEX 14
Page 3
crop price to the grower. Male rows were valued at variable production
costs.
9.        An allowance for anticipated rejections has been made on the basis
of incremental production costs incurred in the production of the rejected
crop. For jowar and bajra, opportunity costs have been taken into account.
The progressive farmer would not be engaged in bajra or jowar production but
would grow more profitable maize food crops. For the determination of a
seed price for these crops, it is, therefore, not sufficient to compare only
the cost of seed production with the cost of producing commercial grain. To
induce the farmer to growing bajra and jowar seed he would have to be assured
of a profit that would more than match the forgone profit of maize food crop
production.
10.       The required premiums above food crop prices to cover the increased
costs and risks are:
Wheat              36%
Paddy              27%
Maize              49%
Jowar             106%
Bajra             136%
Potato             31%
Groundnut          28%
Compared with seed prices paid to growers in 1976/77 the suitable seed prices
indicated in Table 3 would be marginally higher for wheat, paddy and maize,
whereas for jowar and bajra prices could be reduced by about 30% and 20%
respectively. Potato and groundnut seed prices variations from state to state
are too wide to permit a general comparison.
State Seed Corporations (SSC)
11.       Price Determination.  SSC would be independent in their price deter-
mination and establish prices which would cover all fixed and variable
costs and provide an adequate financial rate of return on capital employed.
At present interest levels 18% (before taxation) could be considered a reason-
able financial rate of return. Table 4 details the cost and suitable ex-SSC
sales prices for certified seed. Fixed processing plant costs were allocated
on the basis of averages for the total project. Allowance was made for the
lower fixed manpower and equipment requirements associated with processing
of potatoes and groundnuts. Fixed and variable costs for potato processing
have been averaged over the total potato tonnage in order to establish a
single price for potatoes irrespective of the storage facilities used, be it
rented or the SSC's own storage.
12.       Financial costs on investment capital and permanent working capital
have been estimated to yield an 18% rate of return on the average capital
employed at the time of full project development. Total SSC project invest-
ments have been used as basis. For working capital, it has been assumed that



ANNEX 14
Page 4
on the average, SSC would pay the seed grower the full procurement price 6
months before receiving funds from the sale of the certified seed. Working
capital associated- with variable processing costs and plant overheads
(excluding depreciation) have been estimated to require financing for about
3 months.
13.       Headquarters overhead expenses have been allocated on the basis
of total costs for SSC at full development and total throughput in year
5. In the calculation, potatoes and groundnuts have been given a weight
of 60% and 70% respectively, compared to cereals. Headquarters interest
costs and depreciation have also been determined on the basis of total
project costs at time of full development. Financing costs have been
calculated so as to yield an 18% rate of return on the average capital
employed.
14.       Suitable prices for certified seed would not vary markedly from
present seed prices for wheat and paddy, since prices for both crops have
already come down considerably under the National Seed Program in 1976/77.
Future seed prices for hybrid cereals could, however, be lowered from pre-
sent levels by 20% to 40% .
15.       Cash Flows.  On the basis of the targeted seed production (Annex 5,
Table 1), seed procurement prices-(Table 3) and seed sales prices (Table 4)
the cash flow for the Rajasthan SSC has been projected (Table 5). The pro-
jection has been made in half-yearly time increments to account for the esti-
mated time lag between SSC's cash outflow from the purchase and cash inflow
from the sale of seed. The anticipated financial rate of return (ROR) is 20%
before taxation. The analysis does not include jute, pulses, oilseeds and
other crops which would also be processed by SSC Rajasthan (Annex 5, Table 1).
Since prices for these crops would be determined similarly as for cereals,
groundnuts and potatoes, their inclusion would result in a higher ROR and a
more positive cash flow. ROR would also increase, if the anticipated reduction
in hybrid seed prices would be phased over several years until they reach the
levels indicated in Table 4. The ROR remains satisfactory, if processing and
overhead costs would go up by 20% (ROR 16%) or if costs for new plant and
equipment would be higher by 30% (ROR 18%). It would still be 14%, if pro-
cessing costs, overhead and investment costs would all increase by 20%. The
most significant risk facing SSC is projected seed demand. However, since
variable costs amount to between 80% and 90% of total costs, ROR is relatively
insensitive to sales volume. A 20% reduction in output would lower the ROR
by only 4% to 16%.
16.       Other SSC would have similar financial results since prices for
certified seed would be established so as to cover all costs and to provide
for an adequate financial rate of return. Cash flow projections would be
presented to participating banks to support loan requests.
17.       An income analysis of SSC Rajasthan covering the first ten project
years is given in Table 6. The Corporation would earn profits commencing
with project year one.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
18.       SSC Rajasthan's projected Source and Use of Funds statement (Table 7)
demonstrates its ability to service project loans on the proposed terms (11%
interest, no grace- period on interest, 4-5 years grace on principal and up
to 10 years repayment). Accumulation of reserve funds is also shown, and is
expected to be adequate to meet the needs for plant replacement, loan redemption
and research support.
SFCI Suratgarh - Farm Development
19.       Tables 8 to 10 show the financial analysis fo the SFCI Suratgath
Farm in Rajasthan.  Only 4,000 ha would be developed for seed production.
The analysis is, therefore ,limited to incremental costs and revenues related
to this area. Since SFCI is already growing seed, it has been assumed that
the existing cropping pattern would continue. Incremental operating costs
accordingly are low. For combine harvesters that are presently rented,
operating costs would even be lower under the project. Cost and yield as-
sumptions are based on past management levels and tests that were carried
out on 6 ha test plots (Annex 4, para 32). The expected financial rate of
return (ROR) is 24%. In the analysis the total costs for the canal enlarge-
ment has been taken as incremental costs of the 4,000 ha development. Since
this investment will benefit the entire farm, ROR would be higher, if yield
improvements in the remaining 6,000 ha food grain area were taken into account.
ROR is not very sensitive to changes in incremental operating costs.  A 30%
increase would reduce ROR to 23%. A 30% increase in investment costs would
lower ROR to 20%; a 30% reduction in incremental revenue would result in a
decrease of ROR to 17%.  At a 20% increase of all costs combined with a
20% decline in projected incremental revenue ROR would still be 16%.
20.       Incremental revenue during the first two project years would be
insufficient to cover the interest payment on the project loan. Yield
increases from irrigation improvement and land development would be small
until year 3. Grace period for interest payments would, however, not be
required since gross operating profits from seed production would amount to
more than Rs 3 million per annum during the first two years. Loan repayments
could be made over a four-year period commencing with project year 4. At the
end of year 7, reserves would be adequate to provide replacement of farm
machinery.
National Seeds Corporation (NSC)
21.       For handling foundation seed and interstate marketing of certified
seed, NSC would establish service charges adequate to maintain the Corporation
as a financially viable entity. Minimum charges to cover NSC's operating costs
and the costs associated with the reserve stock schemes are detailed in Table
11. The analysis is based on:
(a) Proportionate establishment costs and miscellaneous operating
costs in year 1 would be the same as assumed for Phase I;



ANNEX 14
Page 6
(b) Present surplus staff would be absorbed by SSC, SSCA and
other institutions over a four-year period commencing with
project year 2. (Several employees have already been
taken over by SSCA, SSCA etc. of Phase I states);
(c) Certified seed production of SSC would total about 225,000
tons by 1982/83. Interstate trade through NSC would
amount to approximately 95,000 tons;
(d) 40% of foundation seed production would be distributed
through NSC;
(e) Obsolescence and quality deterioration of reserve stocks
would require the sale of the stock as food grain approx-
imately once in five years.
22.       To cover all costs, NSC's minimum service charges would have to be
about 11.5% of sales in year 1 and reach approximately 8% in year 5. The
minimum charge for the reserve stock operation would be about 4.5% in any
project year whereas the charge from NCS's operation would decrease from about
7% in year 1 to 3.5% in year 5. NSC's service charges would be reviewed
periodically with IDA.



ANNEX 14
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Foundation Seed - Production Costs -
(Rs./ha)
Wheat?2 Paddy2- Maize4/ Jowar5/ Bajra5/ Potato6/ Groundnut7/
A. PRODUCTION COSTS
Variable Production Costs
Land Preparation and Sowing              280       250       280      280       280        550         320
Breeder Seed                             574       143       314      308       154      5,565        804
Fertilizer                               700       750    1,000       650       400      1,565        450
Pesticide/Herbicide                      145       150       150      100        55        275         120
Irrigation                               120       140      200       200       180        200         80
Registration and Certification            50        55        80       80        80         55          55
Transport and Handling                     8        11         8        5         5         20           6
Nursery and rransplanting                  -       200         -        _   -          -                 -
Weeding                                   50       120        90       90        70        240 8/      180
Roguing/Detassling                        90        90       300      150       135         75          75
Harvesting and Drying                    315       400       290 9/   190       165        410 9/      195
Miscellaneous                             85       120       100      120       110         90          85
Subtotal                       2,417    2,812    2,173    1,634                 9,045       2,370
Farm Overhed Allocation 10/
Salaries                                 993       993      993       993       993        993        993
Depreciation                             368       368       274      274       274        274         274
Other                                    365       365       299      299       299        299         299
Subtotal                      1,726    1,726    1,566    1,566    1,566         1,566       1,566
Financial Cost Allocation 11/
Investment Capital                     1,685    1,685    1,601    1,601    1,601        1,601       1,601
Working Capital                          195       195       201      181       165        388         187
Subtotal                      1.880    1.880    18          .72      1.766      1.989        .788
Total Production Costs                   6,023    6,035    6,180    5,521    4,966    12,600           5,724
B. YIELDS (tons/ha)
Foundation Seed                         2.00      2.80     0.50      0.40      0.25       13.5       1.50
Screenings/Male Rows                    0.35      0.50     0.27      0.22      0.13        1.5        0.30
C. PRICES AND VALUE OF SCREENINGS15/
Food-crop Prices (Rs./ton)             1,100       800    1,250    1,350    1,350          900      2,240
Revenue from Screenings                  385       400       338      297       176      1,350         672
D. NET SEED PRODUCTION COSTS
Cost per Hectar                        5,638    5,635    5,842    5,224    4,790    11,250          5,052
Cost per Ton of Seed                   2,819    2,013   11,684   13,060   19,160           833      3,368
E. LOSS FROM SEED REJECTION
Loss per Ton Rejected 12/              1,719    1,213   10,434   11,710   17,81^             0      1,128
Probability of Rejection 13/              10%       10%       107'     15%       20%o       10%         10%
Expected Loss per Ton of Seed 14/        191       135    1,159    2,066    1,453            0         125
F. EXPECTED SEED PRODUCTION COST
PER TON                                  3,010    2,148   12,843   15,126   23,613           833       3,301
1/ Based on a 300 ha model farm
2/ Based on Rajasthan/Uttar Pradesh conditions
3/ Based on Orissa, Rajasthan and Bihar conditions
4/ Based on Karnataka, Rajasthan and Bihar conditions
5/ Based on Karnataka conditions
Wi Based on Bihar/Orissa conditions
7/ Based on Orissa/Karnataka conditions
8/ Includes earthing
9/ Includes sorting
10/See para 2
l1/See para 3
12/Loss per ton rejected = difference between Cost per Ton of Seed and Food-crop Price per Ton
13/Based on Certification Agency experience
14/Expected Loss per Ton of Seed = Loss per Ton Rejected x [l:(l-Probability of Rejection)-1
15/Includes male rows. Screenings and male rows would be sold at food-crop prices
August 25, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Foundation Seed - Processing and Transportation Costs and Seed Prices
(Rs./ton)
Wheat    Paddy    Maize    Jowar    Bajra    Potato    Groundnut
A. Variable Processing Costs
Processing materials 1/
(bags, packaging, chemicals)         192       192      270       270       270        120         120
Electricity 1/                          10        14        14        10       10          30           2
Other utilities                          1         1         1         1         2          1           1
Fuel oil 1/                             12        36        36        12        12        40            2
Certification materials                 12        12        12        12       12         12           12
Variable labor 1/                       18        23        28        28        28        18           18
Subtotal                          245       278       361      333       334        221         155
B. Processing Overhead Allocation 2/
Salaries                               115       115       115      115       115         58          58
Depreciation                           113       113       113       113      113        113           79
Other                                   13        13        13        13       13         13           13
Subtotal                          241       241      241       241       241        184         150
C. Financial Cost Allocation 3/
Fixed capital                          216       216       216       216      216        306         126
Working capital                        113        84       467       494      682         49         127
Subtotal                          329       300      683       710       898        355         253
D. Total Processing Costs                    815      819    1,285    1,284    1,473           760         558
E. Transportation Costs                       50       50        50        50        50         50          50
F. Suitable Foundation Seed Price 4/    3,900    3,000   14,200   16,500   25,200           1,650       3,900         z z
1/ 120% of processing costs for certified seed (Annex 5, Table 12); increase due to higher value packaging,
additional treating and increased care in handling                                                                   4 
2/ See para 5
3/ See para 6
4/ Rounded total of expected seed production costs, total processing costs and transportation costs
August 25, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Certified Seed - Production Costs and Seed Growers' Prices
Wheat 1/                  Paddy s                Maize 5/                  Jowar 5                  Bajra 41                 Potato 41               Groundnut  J
Commercial Certified   Comnerciul  Certified   Commercial  Certified   Co=sercial  Certified   Commercial Certified   Commercial  Certified   Commercial  Certified
A. V$IABLE PRODUCTION COSTS
Lend Preparation and Sowing          250         250          225         225          250         250         250          250         250          250          500         500          275         275
Seed - Commercial                    152          -            35          -            47          -           50           -            19          -         3,005          -           360           -
- Foundation                     -          390           -           90          -           213          -           198          -           101           -        4,125           -          507
Nursery and Trensplenting             -           -           200         200                       -            -                 -            -            -                  -           -            -
Fertilizer                           700         700          750         750        1,000       1,000         600          600          350         350        i,565       1,565          450          45o
Pesticide/Herbicide                   85         125          110         150          105         150          75          100          50           75          190         275          100          120
Weeding                               40          50           80         100           50          75           50          75           4o          60          140o/       200 5/       130          150
Roguing/Detassling                    -           6o           -           6o           -          200           -          100           -           90           -           50           -            50
Irrigation                           120         120          140         14o          14                14o          14io  i4o          110         110          200         200           8o           8o
Certification                         -           55           -           55           -           80          -            80           -           80           -           50           -            50
Harvesting and Drying                220         250          290         320          150 2/      230 9/      110          150           90         130          300 2/      370 2/       150         175
Transport and Handling                8o          80          110         120           6o          70           40          50           40          50          200         200           40           50
Miscelleneous                         59          67           85          98           63          77           56          8i           56           79          24           35          6o           76
B. VARIABLE FINANCIAL COSTS 2/              43           54          51           58          48          63           35          46           25           34         154           190         41           50
Total Variable Costs               1,749       2,201        2,076       2,366        1,913       2,548        1                        1,030       r1,09        S,27          7,760      1,6R6       2,033
C. YIELDS (tons/ha)
Commercial                           2.7                      3.8          -           2.3          -           1.4          -           1.1          -          15.0           -          2.0           -
Seed                                  _          2.3           -          3.0           -         1.50           -         0.90           -         0.72           -          13.5          -           1.7
Screenings                            -          o.4           -          0.8           -         0.23           -         0.14           -         0.11           _            1.5         -           0.3
Male Rows                                         -            -           -            -         0.57                     0 0.36         -         0.27           -             -          -            -
D. PRICE3 AND VALUE OF SCREENINGS
AND MALE ROWS
Food-crop prices (Rs./ton)         1,100                      800                    1,250                    1,350                    1,350                      900                    2,240
Value of Screening LO/                           264                      384                      173                      113                        89                       776                     302
Value of Male Roe e/                                                                               631                      483.                     346
E. NET PRODUCTION COSTS
Cost per Hectar                    1,749       1,934        2,076       1,982        1,913       1,744        1,406       1,276        1,030         974        6,278         6,984      1,686        1,731
Cost per Ton                         648         842          546         661          832       1,163       1,004        1,418          936       1,352          419           517        843        1,018
F. TNCREMENTAL COSTS FROM SEED
REJECTION
Incre-ental Variable
Costs per Ton Rejected 11/                     194                      115                      331                      414                      416                        98                     175
Probability of Rejection  7                        5%                       5%                      10%                      15%                      20%                        lo%                     10%
Expected Incremental
Costs per Ton of Seed L/                        10                        6                       37                       73                      104                        11                       19
0. EXPECTED VARLABLE PRODUCTION
COSTS (Rs./ton)                         648         852          546         667          832       1,200        1,004       1,491          936        i,456         419           528         843       1,037
H. OPPORTUNITY COSTS L2/                                 -                        -                        -                       531                      704                        _
I. COST RATIO (%) LI                                   131                      122                      144                      201                       231                       126                     123
J. SUITABLE PFICE PFEMIOM ABOVE
FOOD-CROP PRICES (,)_L6/                             36                       27                       49                      106                       136                        31                      28
K. SUITABLE GROWER'S SEED PRICE
(Rs./ton)                                1,500                    1,020                    1,870                    2,790                    3,190                      1,180                   2,870
i/  Based on Rajasthan/Uttar Pradesh conditions
J  Based on Orissa, Rajasthan and Bihar conditions
3/ Based on Karnataka, Rajasthan and Bihar conditions
Based on Earnataka conditions
/ Based on Bihar/Orissa conditimos
Based on Oriasa/Karnataka conditions
7/ At 15% p.a. for working capital (80% of variable productbn costs) for 2.5 months assuming that production costs wilL accrue evenly over 5 months until the crop is sold.
|  Ind udes earthing
2   Includes sorting and cob handling
L   See para 8                                                                                                                                                                                                       "_,
l%/ Difference between Net Production Costs per ton of certified seed and commercial grain
M/ Based on Certification Agency experience
13/ Expected Incremental Cost per Ton of Seed - Incremental Variable Costs per Ton Rejected x IL: (-Probability of Rejection)-l3
E/ Opportunity Costs = Difference between profit per hectar from maize food-crop production and production of Jowar or bajra divided by seed yield of jowar or bajra
15/ Cost Ratio - Total of Expected Variable Production Costs end Opportunity Costs for seed divided by Expected Variable Production Costs of Commercial Crop
!E/ 5% above coat increase as determined under C.
Asgust 25, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Certified Seed - Processing Costs and Certified Seed Prices
(Rs./ton)
Wheat    Paddy    Maize    Jowar    Bajra    Potato    Groundnut
A. Costs
Procurement from Growers
(Table 3)                         1,500    1,020    1,870    2,790    3,190          1,180       2,870
Variable Processing Costs
(Annex 5, Table 12)                 206       234       303       279       279        230 1/      132
Fixed Processing Plant Costs
Salaries (Annex 5, Table 10)          27        27       27        27        27         16 2/       19 3/
Depreciation 4/                       70        70        70       70        70         45 fl        49 3/
Maintenance 57                        32        32        32       32        32         25 1/        22 3/
Financial Costs - Processing
Plant 6/
Investment capital                   130      130       130       130       130         90 1/       91 3/
Working capital                      155       115      196       274       309        123         266
Headquarters 7/
Overhead expenses                     60        60        60       60        60         36 2/       42 3/
Interest lost                         10        10       10        10        10         10          10
Depreciation                          10        10        10       10        10         10           10
Total Costs                          2,200    1,708    2,708    3,682    4,117         1,765       3,511
B. Suitable Ex-Plant Seed Price           2,200    1,750    2,800    3,700    4,200          1,750       3,600
1/ About 50% of potato production would be stored in rented cold storage
2/ Allocated at 60% of cereal crop costs
3/ Allocated at 70% of cereal crop costs
4/ At 3.33% p.a. for buildings and 10% p.a. for machinery and equipment
5/ At 2.5% p.a. for buildings and 5% p.a. for machinery and equipment
6/ See para 12
7/ See para 13
August 25, 1977



INDIA
SECOD NATIONAL SEE  PROJECT 
SSC-Rajanthan - Finanein1 Pate of Return
Year 1              Year               Y.er 3             Yer 4              Year             I learn 6-10          Year 11           Year 12            Year 13            Year 14           Yern 15-21    Y-ear 020/
Reb i   Karif      Rabi                                Kharif  OaRb  Kearif    Rat!   Khapif  Rbi    KbiIf  yat    Khrlf  MR    Khrif    RaRt   Kherl   NaO    XIe-if      Rai    Xhaif         Rbi   Kharif   Rabi
A. Revenue |         Wheat              -    22,200         -   26,400         -   50,600         -    53,460        -    55,000        -    55,000
Padd-                      -          875     -           7s      -       0,275      -       r,450      -       o,605      -
Maine                                 840                840      -       1,1 20             1,400              1,4oo                -t )  -nnant fur -rbi
JOear              _       _        1,110     -        1,110      -       1,480      -       1,050              1,850      -   )       and kaerif
Gran                       _        3,360              3,360              4,2oo              5,4        -          ,)4o
O,rnenont          -                il        -        i 44o      -       700        -       70         -                .z..       -        -       _ _        -        _ _        --                 --                 -
OneR-InPien                      -      8,500     1w~   2G,600       4r37    50,50 17;,275  596rT   iR5   5                 19,195   55,000    19,195   55,000    19,195   55,000    19,195   55,000    19,195   55,00      19,195  55,000    97,195
R. Overattreg Oneta
1. Rrnenreaent3/ Wheat           15,000      -       18,000     -       34,500      -      36,450      -      37,500      -      37,500      -
Paddy              -        510        -       510        -     1,326        _     1,428        -    1,530         -    1,530
Maine              -        561        _       561        -       740        _       935        -       935        _       935 )  eunItaut fur rat
Janar              -        837        -       837        -     i1,16              1,395        -     18395 8            1395 )        and khTif
B-Jr.                     0,552        -     20552              3,190)       -      ,008        -     3,3828             3:6812
Grunednet          -      1,148        _     1,148              5 y,740      -    6,314         -    6,601         _     6,601
20  Prnenniag     W Wheat         2,060      -        2,477     -        4,738      -       s,006      -       5,150      -       5,150      -
Padd               -        1-17       -       117        -       304        -       300        -       351        -       351)
Maine              -         91        -        91        _        21                152                152        -       152 )    -onntant fur rsbi
Junar              -         84        _        84        _       112        -       140           _    140           -    140)        an  kharif
Baen               -        223        -       223        -       279               1335                335                 35)
Groundnut          _         53        -        73        -       264        -       290        -       374        -       304)
3. Plnt OverRead
Salaries and Wagen 2           337       337       337      473       473      473       473      473       473     463        473      473
Maintenane, /                  L17       117       292      295       ' 57     1150      717      517       517      517       517      517
4. H-edqart.r. Overhead             29                      3   355          1       21        o                 812      812       812      )12                                                                                             -
Subtttai.                     17/850    73rTh             ;79T    70,296    14,044    43,060   16,931  44,4522 17,373    46,450  17,737    44,450   17,373    44,450   17,373    46,250   17,373 44,452   17,373    44,652   17,373
C. Innutneta
1.3Ta-ur    f 3NC PiantnQ/          800
27  Ne Plante and Headquarter2/ 3,442        ,442     5,53     5531       ,Jj51    5,19    2 1,842  .Z2          -         -         -        _      1.6       ,631.633 1.929   1,929      1 487    1 487  1,104  1.104
Teta1 C-Rh-Outfle            22,952    10,368    26,987   12,827    46,074   20,036   4R,oB4   18,773    44,452   17,373    44,452   17,373    46,035   19,006    46,381   19,302    45,939   18,860    45,556   18,447    44,452   17,373
D. Net Cauh-IR)Ovt)flun           '(22,052)   11,832   (19,362)  13,573   (38,449)  30,564   (28,809)  34,687   (25,792)  37,627   (25,257)  37,627   (26,890)  35.994   (27,186)  35,698   (26,744)  36,140   (26,361)  36,523   (25,257)  37,627    19,195
Financia  Rate ef Return  200%
%/ MA-unta On eonctant rid-1977 priese
0  4x-pleat prie-  feon Table 4
3/ Pen=areenent prie..  n fPn Table 3
4' Preoentag east fraI A-en 5, Table 12
3  Fpon AwueX 5, TPble 10. SRC-RaJnthan  neld h-ve 1 ClOe  I 0l4et -nd 2 CCl-u  II plant,  Rae Clana II Plant be-.en epenitive be khtaif uY prueet pear 2. FPr the uther twe p            plnla, Plant overhead ha bRena asaused at fUtI
an0unt nith begi-ing of pruJeet year 1.
| At 2o5% fur building, and 5% fur -eaehia-ry and equip.eet
7F Preq Anne 5, Tbla li
t/ letieated value uf NSC nqniP-eat tI bR taken uver by SSC. Enti.atin fun thin an-lysin unly.  FiPal valuetin tu be prepared hy 00C and SsC.
| Fr-n A.nen 5, T.ble 3. Replanset uP kdinery and equip-te 10 yearn  fte  nuouleeti-
2 LiquidatiOn of inventory in rabi of prjoect Yeon 22 neeured fur  elynis punpunen only.
nAguan 25, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SSC - Rajasthan - Income Analysis
(Ts. 'COO)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9   Year 10
A.  Revenue -                         22,200    34,025    58,225    69,735    73,660    74,195    74,195    74,195    74,195   74,195
B.  Inventory Increases       2/
Paddy (Rs. 1,580/ton)             790          -      1,264        158        158          -
Maize (Rs. 2,540/ton) 2/          762          -        254        254          -
Jowar (Rs. 3,470/ton) 2         1,041          -        347        347          -          -
Baira (Rs. 3,890/ton)           3,112          -        778        778          -          _          _          _          _         -
Groundnut (Rs. 3,320/ton)-/   1,328            -      5,312        664        332                     -                -         -
C.  Operating Costs I/                24,736    28,752    55,726    60,173    61,825    61,825    61,825    61,825    61,825   61,825
D.  Working Capital Interest -/        1,345      1,716     3,313      3,825      3,935      3,936      3,936      3,936      3,936    3,936
E. Operating Surplus
At mid-1977 prices4             3,152      3,557      7,141      7,938      8,390      8,434      8,434      8,434      8,434    3,434
At current prices 4             3,262      3,938      8,462    10,065    11,385    12,246    13,098    14,017    14,996   16,050
F.  Interest - Long Term Debt -          383     1,140       2,136     2,821      2,824      2,434      1,988      1,488         932       320
G. Depreciation
Plant and buildings (3.33%)       102        355        636        682        682        682        682        682        682       682
Machinery and equipment (10%)   444          895      1,266      1,561      1,561      1,561      1,561      1,561      1,561    1,561
H.  Gross Profit                       2,333      1,548      4,424      5,001      6,318      7,569     8,867    10,286    11,821   13,487
I.  Corporate Tax'es -/                1,167        774     2,212      2,501      3,159      3,785      4,433      5,143      5,911    6,743
J.  Net Iucome                         1,166        774      2,212     2,500      3,159       3,784     4,434       5,143      5,910    6,744
1/  From Table 5                                                                                                                                         m X
2/  Valued at processing costs from Table 4 excluding 50% of interest costs                                                                              a'
3/  At an interest rate of 15% on 70% of average annual working capital requirements (see Annex 8, Chart I)
4/ Assuming a 7% p.a. general price escalation from mid-1977 prices.
51  At 11% p.a. for 70% of capital investment costs.  Borrowing and loan repayments are assumed to take place in mid-year of any
project year.
6/ Taxes of 50% are nominal and may be lower after allowing for faster depreciation, development rebates and bonus payments to
seed growers.
August 25, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SSC - Rajasthan - Source and Use of Funds -
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10
A. Source of Funds                                                                                      - - - - - - -Share Structure- - - - - -
1. Share Capital 2/                                                                                 Equity  Preference  Total   % of Equity
Seed Growers                 1,614      1,357      2,196         736         51                 35%          -        35%         50%
NSC                          1,384       1,162      1,883        631         45                 15%        15%         30%        20%
State Government             1,614      1,357      2,196         736         51                 20%        15%         35%        30%
2. Loans 3/
Investment Capital           5,838      9,045      9,075       3,367
Working Capital              4,923           -      5,569      1,541        343
3. Operating Surplus
after Taxes 4/                  2,095      3,164      6,250      7,564      8,226      8,461      8,665      8,874       9,085      9,307
Total Source of Funds         17,468    16,085    27,169    14,575          8,716      8,461      8,665      8,874       9,085      9,307
B. Use of Funds
1. Fixed Assets
Take-over of NSC
Equipment 5/                 800
New Plants and
Headquarters 6/            7,540    12,921    1.2.964       4,810
2. Inventory Increases 7/          7,033          -      7,955      2,201        490
3. Long Term Debt Service
Interest (at 11% p.a.)          383     1,140       2,136      2,821      2,824      2,434      1,988      1,488         932        320
Amortization                      -          -          -          -      3,300      3,800      4,300      4,800       5,300      5,825
4. Dividends
Preference Shares
(at 11% p.a.)                152        280        487        556         560        560        560        560         560        560
Equity Shares 8/                  -          -          -          -        417        834         834        834        834        834
5. Reserves
Plant Replacement 9/                                  780        780        780        780         780        780        780        780
Loan Redemption 10/             570        498        343      1,730
Research 11/                     78         87        181        209         56         42          49         60         73          88
General 12/                     912      1,159      2,323      1,459        289         11         154        352        606         900
Total Reserves            1,560      1,744      3,627      4,187       1,125        833        983      1,192      1,459       1,768
Cumulative Reserves       1,560      3,304      6,931    11,118    12,243    13,076    14,059    15,251           16,710    18,478
Total Use of Funds            17,468    16,085    27,169    14,575          8,716      8,461       8,665      8,874      9,085      9,307
1/  In current prices.  Amounts are as of the end of a project year
2/ 30% of investment capital and working capital
3/ 70% of investment capital and working capital
4/ From Table 6
5/ Estimated value used in this analysis. Final value is to be determined by NSC/SSC.
6/ From Annex 5, Table 3 after addition of price contingencies.
7/  From Table 6
8/  At 7% p.a. after loan redemption reserve is built up
9/  Plant replacement reserve is to provide for increased equity requirement resulting from inflation until time  of
machinery and equipment replacement (years 11-14).                                                                                                  -_ H
10/ Loan redemption reserve to be built up during grace period.  Amount to cover 50% of following years debt service.                                      4
11/ At  least 5% of total reserves would be placed into a fund to support research efforts by SAU/ICAR through suitable
problem specific grants.
12/ Excess of projected inflows over outflows. Funds could be used for working capital financing. Other possible uses:
bonus to seed growers or dividend increase after year 4.
August 25, 1977



ANNEX 14
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SFCI Suratgath Farm - Incremental Investments and
Incremental Annual Fixed Operating Costs l/
Incremental Investments 2/
Total     Year 1    Year 2    Year 3
Land Development Equipment                4,662       4,238        424
Land Development Operation                3,021       1,007     1,007      1,007
Irrigation System                         3,300         650     2,000        650
Buildings and Roads                       1,925         650     1,275
Farm Equipment 3/                         1,517       1,000        517
Total                         14,425       7,545      5,223     1,657
Incremental Annual Fixed Operating Costs
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Salaries                                     8         15        15         15
Wages - General Fixed Labor                  4          4          4         4
Maintenarce and Repair
Buildings and Roads (2.5%)                16        48         48         48
Irrigation Channel (2.5%)                 16        66         83         83
Land Development Equipment (5%)A/        177       194        194          -
Farm Equipment (5%)                       42        63         63         63
Administrative Supplies and Services        10         20         30        30
Miscellaneous                                5         10         15        15
Total                           278        420        452        258
1/ In constant mid-1977 prices.
2/ From Annex 4, Table 2; spare parts and physical contingencies have been
allocated to each investment category
3/ Two 70 Hp tractors and 2 combines including spare parts, implements and
physical contingencies.
4/ Will be sold in year 4.
August 25, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SFCI Suratgarh Farm - Incremental Variable Seed Production Costs and Revenues
Incremental Costs                                                                Incremental Revenues i/
Fertilizer      Pestieide     Irrigation        Labor       Equipment 3/                   Seed               Screenings          Rejections 4/
Area    Per            Per            Per            Per            Per                      Per   Per            Per  Per             Per.  Per
ha    ha   Total   ha   Total   ha   Total   ha   Total   ha    Total    Total   ha    ha    Total   ha    ha    Total   ha   ha   Total   Total
R    R'00R0         RO RO   2    R'000    BR   R0i    R   R'OO           R'OOO   tons    R    li    tons         R R'OOO   tons   TR   R'O       R'OOO
YEAR 1
Rabi:   Wheat        3,500     -      -       -      -       -      -       -      _       -
Gram,         500    -       -       -                                                   _ -  -            -     -              -     -                    - -
Total Increment                    -
Kharif:  Paddy         500     -      -       -      -       -      -       _      -     (35)   (18)       (18)
BaJra         150                                                  -      -       -      -       -      -              -      -        -
Total Increment                    -              -              -                            (18)    718)
YEAR 2
Rabi:   Wheat        3,500     10     35      5      18      5      17      5      18    (70)  (245)    (157)   0.08   120    420    0.01       7      25   0.01    11       38      483
Gram         500      -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -                                                                     -            -
Total Increment                                                                              (245)      157)                                        25W
Kharif: Paddy         500      10      5      5       3      5       2      5       3    (35)   (18)        (5)  0.08    82      41    0.01     5       3   0.01     8       4        48
Bajra        150     20       3      5       1      5       1     10       2      -      -          7   0.21   670    101    0.03    24        4   0.16  216        32      137
Total Increment                         5                                       1      ; 3  5  T          2  137                                                                  l
YEAR 3
Rai-:   Wheat       3,500     40    140    10       35      30     105     20      70    (70)  (245)       105    0.40   600  2,100    0.07    46     161   0.03    33    116    2,377
Gram         500       5      3    10        5     10       5      5       5      -      -         18    0.07   140     70    0.02    17       9   0.01    14        7       86
Total Increment                                                                              T  X3 110  75  25  3          2,170                   170                   123    2
Kharif: Paddy         500      15      8    10        5     10       5     10       5    (35)   (18)         5   0.15   153      77    0.03    14       7   0.02    16        8       92
Bajra        150     20       3    10        2     10       2     10       2      -      -          9   0.21   670    101    0.03    24         4   0.16   216      32      137
Total Increment                    1               7              7              7                                                                  Ti 17  112
YEAR 4
Rabi:   Wheat       3,500    50    175       10      35    40      140    30      105    (70)  (245)       210    o.65   975  3,413    0.11    73     256   0.04    44      154    3,823
Gram         500      10      5    10        5     15       8     10       5      -      -         23    0.15   300    150    0.03    25       13  0,02    28       14      177
Total Increment                                                 i              1             (25        233                3,563                   29T
Kharif:  Paddy        500     15       8    10        5     15       8     10       5    (35)   (18)         8   0.23   235    118    0.05    24        12   0.02    16       8      138
Bajra        150      40      6    10        2     15       2     15       2      -      -         12    0.31   989    148    0.05    41        6   0.24   324      49      203
Total Increment                   77 7                                           7            IIr        20                  2                      v                     57      31
YEAR 5 Ef'
Rabi:   Wheat        3,500    60   210    10         35     50     175    35    123    (70)   (245)        298    0.81 1,215  4,253    0.14    92      322   0,05    55     193    4,768
Gram         500     10       5    10       5      15       8     10       5      -      -         23    0.15   300    150    0.03    25       13  0.02   28        14      177
Total Increment                  215                            i                            (245)      321                4 337 
Eharif: Paddy         500     20      10    10        5     15       8     15       8    (35)    (18)       13    0.31   316    158    0.07    34       17   0,02    16       8      183
Bajra        150      40      6    10        2     15       2     15       2      -      -         12    0.31   989    148    0.05    41        6   0.24   324      49      20
Total Increment                   ff              7              lo             l0                       25                                         23                    57      386
In constant mid-1977 prices
/ Seed prices and food grain prices from Table 3 used for valuation. Screenings have been valued at 60%
and rejections at 100* of food grain prices. Seed price for gram Rs. 2,000 per ton; food grain price per ton Rs. 1,400.
Difference between operating costs of twn equipalent and equipment rental costs. Since rental costs exceed operating
costsi  incremental costs are negative and have been bracketed.
| Includes male rows of hybrid baJra.
August 25, 1977



AIWl 114
Table 10
m1   1       8         
s
cl91i  S  1N 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. .4.1    442< 
21 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          S  -r                              44' -4
'p.9l4            i-:    I>                                        4448
p.       7 a>                                                           4,  448
r~~~ ;1ASx  
w  ^1   '  1                                                               4,4'
S         I         ' 
o,                  I ;       I                       -4      444     444        4    44
s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~4-                                    4044 .8.    44          4,444
01-4 -eK    .1  -                                                       ot
p.             H   4. ou 
oD  D      '- u             .4         p.    4-    p..    444 a        .4 o
<    >^ 61E   :   914     8f                                         ^.
3   t1  x  (U Ctl ~~4  .                                    gg
t    d                    t   @|         ^             cul ip.e'Dp.j    44.
4,* -r   s,                                                                --444 8           | a44   
Eis   r  0  a a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~444
> ~ ~ ~ ~~4 V1                                                             4 4 41   4 4 
4,  44              44 -> 0J4044444-g^   +    > 
4a        p.   e4  44    4..        0      4                               4  ,..  44
o4 s       .  44-:     44 O -              44    p. s, kg                      .
4444        44                             4,4V 444,444 < 
44  44  44    44    I         4.  4-0.        2           :          44 444
;Tfi|  -             .4           .44 O~                      44            4   4^Oao E.4-
4,.44                 e,  N    N    4.44444               a          4,4,e4
S  _   0   N   N r   MO   N  S                             :      O 2~~~~~44,  .
Cd  Ht   <   O                              O   n   >   V  4-4
v     |~ O    & 3   5                                     
I    4  44 I4                  444 m  01    W             -N      uD eH4 x
X~~~~~~~~~~~4                                ,   p. 44   rW 4|4  .. .h fi-
~1 6cp   -   <1:J ;~|88sg>  



ANNEX 14
Table 11
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
NSC - Minimum Service Charges on Seed Sales
(Rs. Million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5 ff
A. Sales 1/
Interstate Sales of Certified
Seed 2/                            147       166       190       203         208
Sale of Foundation Seed 3/            17        20        22        24          24
Total Sales                           164      186       212       227         232
B. NSC - Operating Costs 1/
Establishment 4/                      7.72     6.83      5.94      5.05        4.16
Administrative 5/                     1.93     1.71      1.49      1.26        1.04
Publicity (0.5% of sales)             0.82     0.93      1.06      1.14        1.16
Miscellaneous 6/                      1.31     1.49      1.70      1.82        1.86
Total NSC Operating Costs           11.78    10.96    10.19        9.27        8.22
C. Minimum Service Charge
to Cover NSC Operating Costs         7.2%      5.9%      4.8%      4.1%        3.5%
D. Operating Costs - Reserve Stocks 1/
Carrying Costs 7/                    3.15      4.07      4.22      4.52        4.75
Obsolescence & Storage Losses 8/   3.68        4.72      4.86      5.20        5.44
Total Reserve Stocks Costs            6.83     8.79      9.08      9.72       10.19
E. Minimum Service Charge
to Cover Reserve Stocks Costs        4.2%      4.7%      4.3%     4.3%        4.4%
F.  Minimum Total Service Charges          11.4%    10.6%      9.1%      8.4%        7.9%
1/  In constant mid-1977 prices.
2/  Interstate trade through NSC in year 5: 50,000 tons wheat; 34,000 tons paddy;
11,000 tons hybrid cereals.
3/  Assuming 40% of total foundation seed requirements will be handled by NSC.
4/ Amount in year 1 from Phase I appraisal report, Report No. 1064a-IN, Annex 12,
Table 12. Take-over of present surplus staff by SSC, SSCA anticipated over
years 2 through 5.
5/  25% of establishment.
6/  Amount in year 1 from Phase I appraisal report, Report No. 1064a-IN, Annex 12,
Table 12. Increase in following years proportionate to sales increases.
7/  Interest at 11% p.a.
8/ 20% of difference between reserve stock valued as seed and as food grain (see
para 21).
August 25. 1977



ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Benefits
1.        The principal economic benefit to India resulting from this project
would be increased grain production. The incremental grain production by
project year nine is estimated at 800,000 tons (Table 2) which would represent
about 0.8% of the current national grain production. At full development,
increase in production of other project seed crops would be about 145,000 tons.
The annual incremental value of all crops grown from project seed would be
US$158 M.
2.        The individual farmer using high quality certified seed would
achieve higher yields than those from mixed low quality seed currently used.
For wheat and paddy, which are self-pollinated crops, it is assumed that the
project certified seed would service areas already planted to HYV. No genetic
impact on yield is assumed. Therefore, no allowance is made for extra inputs -
same cultural practices and standards are assumed for both with and without
project situations. No change in cultural practices also is anticipated for
potatoes and groundnuts. For hybrid seed (maize, bajra and jowar), however,
it is assumed that all project seed would expand HYV area, involving a shift
in farmer technology based on a different package of inputs.
3.        Incremental yield in wheat and paddy is expected to average 7-1/2%
over four years before being replaced. In the case of hybrids the project
seed would be only one part of a package of inputs necessary for high tech-
nology farming. It is impossible to ascertain empirically the proportion
of yield increment attributable to each input in the package. The assumption
used for this analysis is that 25% could be deemded to be yield impact due
to improved seed. Yield increases assumed for all grains are believed conser-
vative. The yield increase for potatoes and groundnuts is anticipated to
average 5.3%. Benefits from farmer-to-farmer exchange of generations of seed
produced from project seed have not been counted.
4.        Incremental production of all crops except bajra and potatoes have
been valued at projected 1985 international prices in 1977 constant dollars
(adjusted for CIF-Indian ports in the case of wheat, paddy, maize and jowar
and FOB-Indian ports in the case of groundnuts). Details are in Table 5.
Bajra and potatoes have been valued at 1977 Indian farmgate prices. Valuing
all incremental production at Indian farmgate prices would reduce annual
project benefits at full development to US$113 M.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Costs
5.        Incremental farm labor, required mainly during the peak demand
season for harvesting is costed at market rates and not shadow priced as
are skilled and semi-skilled labor for processing, marketing, and administra-
tion at Universities, SSC and SSCA. Prices of investment and operating costs
are assumed at mid-1977 levels. Costs of plant breeding, seed technology
research, seed testing laboratories, training and technical assistance are
charged to the project. Import duties and taxes have been excluded from
costs.
Other Assumptions
6.        The following other assumptions were made in computing the economic
rate of return (ROR (E)):
(a) foreign exchange has not been shadow priced;
(b) cost streams are considered for only twelve years which
period is assumed to be the economic life of the pro-
cessing investments; benefit,streams are included for
one additional year to account for the increased crop
yield from seed produced in year twelve.
(c) average lag between each crop multiplication would be one
year. Thus, breeder seed would be produced three years
before achieving related economic benefits. Operating
costs and benefits have been phased accordingly using
6 month time segments.
Economic Rate of Return
7.        Based on the foregoing assumptions ROR (E) would be 158% (Table 3).
A sensitivity analysis shows that ROR (E) drops to 145% if the investment
costs were 20% higher, and to 147% if operating costs increased by 20%.
If benefits were 20% lower, ROR (E) would be reduced to 130%. An increase of
20% in investment and operating costs coupled with a 20% decrease in benefits
would result in a ROR (E) of 111%. An unforeseen two year delay in the gene-
ration of project benefits would reduce ROR (E) to 109%. A reduction in yield
impact that has been attributed to hybrid seed does not significantly affect
ROR (E). Assuming that for hybrid crops the seed would improve yields by only
20% rather than by 25%, ROR (E) would be 147%. The Net Present Value of the
project at a discount rate of 10% p.a. is estimated at US$506 M. The projected
Benefit/Cost Ratio using a discount rate of 10% is 6.3.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
Beneficiaries
8.        About 1.35 million farmers would benefit directly from the project
since the project seed would service 2.7 million ha. 1/ About 21,000 seed
growers would also derive significantly higher farming income. In all, some
6.7 million persons 2/ would benefit directly, being family members of farmer
beneficiaries. In addition, farm workers would benefit. About 13,500 man-
years of seasonal employment would be created for harvesting. SSC, SSCA and
additional seed marketing outlets would provide direct employment to about
1,250 people.
1/   Assuming that on the average a farmer would use project seed on 2 ha
annually.
2/ Assuming an average of 5 members per farming family.



ANNEX 15
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PT:GJECT
Table of Economic Costs and Parameters 1/
Wheat  Paddy  Maize  Jowar  Bajra  Potato  Groundnut
Incremental Crop Cultivation Costs
of Certified Seed User (Rs./ha)2/        22      30     21      19      15       38         14
Variable Processing, Storage and
Marketing Costs of Certified Seed
(Rs./ton) 3/                            451    445    593    637    674        398        482
Incremental Costs of Certified
Seed Production (Rs./ton) 4/             60      72     91    117    140          9        49
Costs of Foundation Seed Process-
ing, Storage and Marketing
(Rs./ton) 5/                            411    444    527    499    500        330        264
Costs of Foundation Seed
Production (Rs./ton) 6/               1,460  1,196  6,812  7,025 10,136         293     1,667
Costs of Breeder Seed Production
and Processing (Rs./ton) 7/           4,300  3,400 16,000 16,600 22,500   2,100         5,000
Seed Multiplication Ratios 8/
From Breeder to Foundation                17      79      28     28      51      3.8        10
From Foundation to Certified              20      90      90     67    135      4.9         12
1/ Costs are in constant Mid-1977 economic prices.
2/ For certified seed users over non-certified seed users; for wheat, paddy, potato
and groundnut, only additional costs are for harvesting, handling and transport.
For maize, jowar and bajra only 25% of incremental yield has been attributed to
improved seed usage; accordingly, only 25% of incremental costs for harvesting,
handling and transport has been allocated to project.
3/ Variable processing costs from Table 12, Annex 5; 75% of retail commissions have
been assumed to be economic costs.
4/ Derived from Annex 14, Table 3; economic value of by-products, certification
charges and difference between seed costs have been deducted; labor has been
valued at financial wage rate.
5/ Derived from Annex 14, Table 2.
6/ Derived from Annex 14, Table 1, net of costs for breeder seed, certification
charges and value of by-products.
7/ Allowing for overproduction of foundation seed (15%) and certified seed (10%) as
a safety margin.
October 4, 1977



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Economic Benefits
Year 1               Year 2              Year 3               Year 4             Year 5         Year 6                Year 7              Year 8           Year  r
Bali- lKsarif  _Ra            Kharif    Rabi       Kharif    Rabi       Kharif  Babi    Kharif  _ab          Kharif   B        Rabi       bi      Rhyarif    ab      Kharif
A. Incremental Seed Production
('lo tons)l/
Wheat                   2.0            -     8.5          -        27.0          -   34.3          -     40.5         -)
Paddy                     -          1.1     2.0        6.5        2.0        10.6    2.5      13.5      2.5       15.9)             Constant
Maize                     -          0.1     0.5        0.6         1.0        1.5    1.5       2.2       2.0       3.6)                 for
Jowar                     -          0.2     1.7        0.3         1.9        0.5    2.3       0.7       3.1       0.8)              Rabi and
Bajra                     -          o.6     1.1        0.7         1.1        1.0    1.2       1.4       1.2       1.6)              Kharif
Potato                  1.9            -    11.3          -       20.6           -   25.0         -      30.9         -)
Groundnut                 -          o.4       -        1.5           -        3.7      -       4.2         -       4.6)
B. Parameters        Seed Rate           - - - - - - - -Increase in Yield -J -   - - - - - -  - - - - -  - _      - -
(tons/ha)
Wheat        0.100          0.o8                0.17                  0.10              0 .050
Paddy        0.030          0.25                0.15                  0.09              0.045
Maize        0,015          0.90
Jowar        0.012           0.75
Bajra        0.004          0.50
Potato       2.500          1.50                0.90                  0.53              0.270
Groundnut   0.130           0.20                0.12                  0.07              0.037
C. Incremental Crop Production ('000 tons) /
Wheat                   -            -       5.6          -        27.2          -   92.1          -    151.4         -      203.0        -    230.1         -    240.0        -    243.1
Paddy                   -            -         -        9.2        16.7       59.7  26.7       124.1     36.8     186.7       42.3   241.6      43.8    268.4      44.5    280.0     44.5    283.6
Maize                   -            -         -        9.0           -       24.0      -      45.0         -      63.0          -    84.o         -     84.o         -     84.o         -     84.o
Jowar                   -            -         -       29.7           -       34.4      -       43.7        -      59.4           -    60.9        -     60.9         _     60.9         -     60.9
Bajra                   -            -         -       53.1           -       56.3      -      68.9         -      81.3          -    87.5         -     87.5         -     87.5         -     87.5
Potato                  -            -       1.2          -         7.5          -   16.8         -      25.0         -       33.1        -     37.3        -      39.1        -     39.7         -
Groondnut               -            -         -        o.6           -        2.7      -        7.3        -      10.8          -    13.4         -     14.7         -     15.0         -     15.1
D. ProLect Benefits (Rs. million)               -      11.22      134.41      8o.41     242.78 220.92    402.89   350,44    561.54       459.22  685.66   514.27   727.44   534.84   745.00   540.99   750.46
/  From Annex 5, Table 1 after making allowance for project independent growth of TDC.
|  For wheat, paddy, potato and groundnut yield increases from certified seed usage extend over a four-year period on a decreasing scale.  hYbrids require annual replacement.
3/ Jowar, maize, bajra seed processed in rabi/summer would be used for sowing in the folloving kharif season. All other seed would be used with a time lag of one season after harvesting the seed crop.
Incremental crop production valued at international prices from Table 5.  Potatoes and bajra have been valued at constant mid-1977 Indian farmgate prices from Annex 14, Table 3, Section D.                    'It
October 10, 1977



it                      A              <A A,           A '~                                                                                           .a     f   , W?n   
n ~ ~ ~   ~                   A -                                       a i   s                           C    A O  8O looo                !|I          | 
aAC      0        0     92                  o2o QC A                                                                          0 c0 o
o~  ~   50                   A a C         8                              2 X                          o    ra 5  o   oC o o o             o      o        |.
~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                    C    A   CO n 
   g   Q   Q   #,  .   O   D   <         .             H    g         H   H   I_  H    H         rq       ,                j             jr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO5  L~0 .
20          ro          C ~       A     a G                                    0AS~                       o   w - W O   O  O'  O  I aI 
0         A                 n -                                                     S w   s    O                         r 0 'C    00|C
~~~~~~~                                      2                  - 9                                                A    L..r-. b -* Lw      |
a   a   a                                                             o > O O                                                  1  - AA
a         A                                             a    0, L,- 0                                                                                  
n      p                3   c      o   lo   S   8 o   8               ;      wO  wO             >- G       |F
0'                 0<8                  A                =                                    C           C   A   A                 AFOO r        C, '0- 
A    Q                              A                  -              -        r                                      -    -wrsu w .>.g
A   n    0                                      0                                                                                                 K          w ~ .|., 0q
0           0    0                                                 8     C  A  A  C    A        A       A   A    C                 Ol 
a'               A                                                                                                                                  0 t         a'     
0   G    A                                                                                                                                         0  
A   0   0o A                                    0I 
80~                                                                 IC      C    C 4;z9                                                     1M
COO                                                                                                                        CC



ANNEX 15
Table 4
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Duties and Taxesl/
(Rs. '000)
 ----------------- Year --------
2/     2       _           L        5      Total
A.  State  Seed Corporations            1,298    4,618    4,964    1,074         -     11,954
B.  Farm Development                    4,075    2,351    1,066        222    167        7,881
C.  Agricultural Universities             624    1,967    1,114        140      48      3,893
D.  Quality Control                      .664       236      326        46       -      1,272
E.  Total Duties and Taxes              6,661    9,172    7,470    1,482    215        25,000
1/ Duties generally at 40% of imported items. Different percentages applicable
for farm equipment. Taxes at 8% of equipment and civil works.
2/ Includes duties and taxes on equipment procured in pre-project year.



ANNEX 15
Table 5
IN4DIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Economic Commodity Prices
(US$/metric ton)
Imported Commodities
Wheat     Paddy       Maize       Jowar
1985 projected price in 1977
constant dollars  1/                          187        207         129        112
Minus milling costs (to adjust
rice price to paddy price)                     -          55
Plus shipping costs to Bombay
or Calcutta                                    30         15          26          26
Economic price -                              207        167         155         138
Exported Commodities
Groundnut
1985 projected price in 1977
constant dollars 1/                           459
Minus 30% to adjust for weight
loss in shelling                              138
Minus costs of shelling                        50
Minus costs of transportation from
farmgate to port, and handling                 15
Minus shipping costs to Europe                 25
Economic price                                231
1/ From IDA Commodity Price Forecasts, June 1977. Prices used: Wheat - Canadian
No. 1, WRS, in store Thunderbay; paddy - rice, Thai, milled, 25 - 35% broken,
f..o.b. Bangkok; maize - US No. 2, yellow, f.qb. gulf ports; jowar - US No. 2
Milo yellow, f.o.b gulf ports; groundnuts - Nigerian, c.i.f. Europe
2/ Transportation costs within India have not been considered. It has been
assumed that the costs for transporting commodities to wholesale markets
would be about the same from farmgate or ports.
October 10. 1977






7,1'         \ /,J         g,                                  805                                                             SO/
/                                                                           ~~~~~~~~ND!A
AFGHANISTAN                                                    '1K -* -N o._\SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
,~J'                 rARCP9su                          !l                           PROJECT AREAS AND PLANT LOCATIONS
I       6 <SnR og.r                  S                  SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT:                     FIRST NATIONAL SEED PROJECT:
'   .                   '                      - -w,  PROJECT STATE BOASNDA EIS                       -    ERAJFC STATE JOUNDARIES
,f                                                           '-I      ,  ,                 -
'7                            " 7/;,.StN/AI   %,.       -  PROJECTD1TTIICTROsNDARIES                          P9DJECTDISTRICT8JUNDARIES
|  '#'' -z  fR/:WE../H   '\                       ,         PROJECT DISTRICT AREAS                             PROJECT DSTR:CT AREAS
JULLUNUR 
PAK ISTAN                       uR,IIAA    A      ClanOgar
3so                                     IFEAREP ZrE     iq                           '                   C              H              I             N             A
/'ANGkNAS     N       DetRnclur 1  -.
A                           L
n_.         ~           ~~~~~~ ELSA R         t HAL                   ,         NEA                           flrgtBUAN9A  
/SRNEESAOR        KY/N                                                   P
K                               L/                  '-~~~~~~~~~~~~    NEPAL        "~~~~~~~~~~~~~"~-XGntok2/   BHUTAN    S                -
'1 ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ g                                                             pupdr:ba:^s-cAR
K)                                                                                                  PRAR                         0 5Aj               I  AR A  1V
RW BaANGLADESHrp
CAIR-R/ACAkRS,R        _                                                             PLANT LOCATIONS
\kA IR/AW
f   <JKDLAR,5 /v;EuMadrfzs                                 4fF~~~~~~~~ PROPOSED PLANTS FOR FIRST NATIONALSREDSPROJECT
0   BungoloreE     }gS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~puug
Q_\XALOfiE',~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ P    ROPOSER NATEONAL SAL KSACSDCARAGE
4   4 R 4  IR 4 ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      A       AORNG  RTIAP51
\  :   ^ <t/  //                                        "     EX ST~~~~~~~~*  D AING TRC PLAN'S
,--t             RAILWAYS
ROP STATE ANDAIONS  EORRS ON  CAPITALS                                      10EC
CochRnCR      ,    j                                                       --   STATE AND UIANTs CERoFRST NATIONLDARIEP
Rhod,4/EA                                                           -.-   INtERNATIONAL TOIJNA ARIEST-A_
rEo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  MAJO tPrC bYIIN _ pLPPNIt 
F  :  Pwoch.ZudErF#hd.                                                                                   NILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RILAI
ER,d,5,,A,C20,.,,eded,3C.                                                                                               S     IRS    200 3AN D            0-9
bF.NP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IENTOA BOUNDH P,
dE1, COp 4C CdMf En8  01,                                                   PEel LAM  TERS ir
rio                           E                                SD              :                                               9 9o                                                       rpri rdu.D4
-                                                                                                                                                                    ._ . , I 5.3s ....... s  .R.   vAEP
PR                        -                00'       -                                           -~~~~~                                                         ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1--  - 0.
____'__eo,                                                                                                                             Op                                                         -,E



