FILE  COPY                         Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Reqpt No. P-2149-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
May 17, 1978
This docet km a restrcled itbibut. and my be ud by recipients oly in the performce of
their oflcia duties. Its cntes may not strise be disclsed withot World Bank a.tboflation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at April 24, 1978)
Rs 1.00             Paise 100
US$1.00             Rs 8.50
Rs 1.00             US$0.1176
Rs 1 million        US$117,600
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.75.)
F:[SCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC - Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOI - Government of India
HYV - High Yielding Varieties
ICAR - Indian Council of Agricultural Research
NSC - National Seeds Corporation
NSP - National Seeds Program
SFCI - State Farms Corporation of India
SSC - State Seeds Corporation
GLOSSARY
Breeder Seed      - seed of high genetic purity, produced by the
plant breeder.
Foundation Seed   - progeny of breeder seed (or of first genera-
tion foundation seed), produced to statutory
quality control standards.
Certified Seed    - progeny of foundation seed, produced to
statutory quality control standards.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiaries:      National Seeds Corporation (NSC); State Seeds Corporations
(SSC) and Agricultural Universities in Rajasthan, Uttar
Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar and Orissa; Indian Council of
Agricultural Research (ICAR) ; and State Farms Corporation
of India (SFCI).
Amount:             US$16 million equivalent.
Terms:              Standard.
Relending Terms:   (i)  GOI to ICAR, NSC and the State Governments
Financing in accordance with the Borrrower's
standard arrangements for development assis-
tance to these Central Government agencies
and the State Governments.
(ii) From GOI to Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC)
Repayable over 9 years at interest of 6-3/4% per
annum and over 15 years at 7-1/4% per annum, with
rebate of 1/4% for prompt repayment.
(iii) ARDC to Banks
Interest at 8% per annum; repayment to coincide
broadly with payments by ultimate borrowers;
refinance of up to 90% of banks' loans.
(iv) Banks to Borrowers
Interest at 11% per annum; grace period on
principal not to exceed 5 years; no grace period
on interest; repayment periods not exceeding 15
years; loans to finance up to 70% of SSC/SFCI
investments and up to 75% of the agricultural
universities' investment.
Project
Description:      The proposed project would be the second phase in the
development of India's National Seed Program to increase
the availability of high quality seed. The first phase
project covered four states. The proposed project extends
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.



- II -
the coverage to five more states--Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa,
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. This project, like the first,
would be concerned mainly with major cereal crops and
would increase seed output by about 125,000 tons.
Project components would include: establishment of State
Seeds Corporations (SSC) in each of the participating states
for the coordination of production and for processing and
marketing of certified seed grown by farmers who would be
shareholders of SSC; assistance to the state agricultural
universities for seed technology research and for the pro-
duction and processing of breeder and foundation seeds; farm
development for State Farms Corporation of India; development
of quality control facilities; technical assistance; and
training.
Estimated Costs:                                                  US$ millions
Local Foreign Total
State Seeds Corporations                9.45    2.47    11.92
Incremental Working Capital             6.37       -      6.37
Large Farm Development                  2.72    1.21       3.93
Agricultural Universities
Breeder Seed                          0.23    0.06      0.29
Foundation Seed                       2.12    0.69      2.81
Seed Technology Research              0.39    0.08      0.47
Subtotal                        2.74    0.83       3.57
Quality Control
Seed Certification                   0.53    0.19       0.72
Seed Testing                          0.18    0.10      0.28
Subtotal                        0.71    0.29       1.00
Training and Technical Assistance    0.08    0.32         0.40
Incremental Reserve Stocks              0.13       -      0.13
Total Before Contingencies             22.20    5.12    27.32
Contingencies
- Physical                            1.23    0.31      1.54
- Price                              5.42    0.58       6.00
Subtotal                        6.65    0.89      7.54
Total Project Costs                    28.85    6.01    34.86



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                              US$ millions
Local Foreign Total
IDA                                10.0      6.0    16.0
Local Sources:
GOI                               5.4       -       5.4
State Governments                 2.7       -       2.7
ARDC/Participating Banks          8.4       -       8.4
Seed Growers                      2.4       -       2.4
Total                         28.9      6.0    34.9
Estimated
Disbursement:                                     US$ millions
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Annual               1.0    4.8    6.0    3.2    1.0
Cumulative           1.0    5.8   11.8   15.0   16.0
Rate of Return:    158%.
Appraisal Report:  No. 1725a-IN, dated May 16, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$16 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance the expansion and development of India's seed in-
dustry. The proceeds of the credit would be channeled two ways. The bulk
of proceeds (US$14.5 million) would be channeled through the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation to commercial banks for financing
sub-borrowers' investments in foundation and certified seed production,
processing and marketing. The balance, which would finance breeder seed
production and processing, research, technical assistance and training,
would be channelled by GOI to the institutions and State Governments in-
volved. Relending terms are discussed in the Credit and Project Summary.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys many
of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development. Although
literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well trained
1/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Gujarat Irrigation Project (Report No.
P-2285-IN),,dated May 10, 1978.



- 2 -
si-ministrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entrepreneural
Liass. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by international
comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is relatively well-
placed with regard-to primary fuel sources. There are very large reserves of
coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric potential. Recent
petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited and prospects are
bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the infrastructure
needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute terms the
irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are each among
the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed, world. However,
cornsiderable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly from state to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass' of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foc,dgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
ticn is still not universal. T'he labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exist. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950's; life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940's to 45-50 years in the 1970's; school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children in primary school ages and from 5% to 29% of children in
secondary school ages since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950's to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960's and early 1970's, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An



- 3 -
adverse shift in terms of trade starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction in the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production in iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have been on average of 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared
with 1.3 million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved
extension system, which has been getting heartening results, has been intro-
duced in several states and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent rabi crop expectations, price stability
and good prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange.
The circumstances present a great opportunity for further promoting the devel-
opment of the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed
though not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this
challenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development towards improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step towards complet,e removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft PLan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will bea provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
refLects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978-79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



- 5 -
15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970's. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension of more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid 1960's--large
unutilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and
low productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one
of the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries,
which make up a significant portion of the sector. Low buoyancy of demand
for industrial products from all sources--not only from investments but also
from agriculture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint.
Further import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufac-
tured goods in the future because most opportunities for efficient import
substitution have been exploited. Higher effective demand from increased
growth of real incomes from greater productivity in both agriculture and
manufacturing, sustained increases in exports and increased investment,
particularly from the public sector, all can raise demand for industrial
production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing, and, within the small scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to



- 6 -
the small scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
IE policy measures chosen.  Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques.  Some small scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as'rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality will not fall as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 thousand to the end of the century,
implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best guess" pro-
jection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many of the
benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the
century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier change
in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow more
slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the primary
and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will continue to
grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990's, result-
ing in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force from
40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The government's goal to eliminate unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development in the next few years. With good medium-
term prospects for India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in
invisible receipts and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments,



- 7 -
the net availability of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is
projected to rise over the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7
billion in 1977/78 to US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum.
Given the unlikely need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally
important items -- e.g., petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and
cotton -- other imports can increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next
five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of GDP
from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income, the present
situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will be
sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will be
necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort will
be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks in
pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs of
its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 53 loans and 97 development
credits to India totalling US$2,013 million and US$4,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$890 million has been
repaid, and US$2,120 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1978,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$29.4 million, US$22.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



- 8 -
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in finencing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's Lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
ful'Ly adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India shouLd include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures.  India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium and small scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains smal'L in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



- 9 -
lending. As of March 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,159
million, of which US$594 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$565 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1976/77, about 14% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND SEED IN INDIA
General
30.       Agriculture is the mainstay of India's economy; it engages 70% of
the labor force and contributes 43% of GNP. Consequently, investments in
agriculture, particularly to increase the output of foodgrains, have been
given priority by GOI and the State Governments, especially since the mid-
1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
31.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged about 3%. Although the major determinant of year-to-
year production remains the weather, continued expansion of irrigation and
greater use of improved technology have given India greater immunity to the
vagaries of weather and have contributed towards a steeper upward trend in
production. The success of high yielding varieties of wheat produced in-
creases in wheat production of about 20% per annum between 1967 and 1971.
Other foodgrain crops have enjoyed less success but increasing progress is
being made in the use of high yielding varieties of rice and of other grains.
32.       In recent years, high quality seed has been more and more recog-
nized as a necessary input to sustain the growth of crop production. India
has made substantial progress in developing disease and pest resistant
varieties, improving seed quality and increasing the availability of quality
seed. To increase production levels further, new efforts are required to
make high quality seeds available to the farmers.
Seed Industry
33.       The seed industry was little developed until the early sixties when
plant breeding breakthroughs made the production of high yielding variety (HYV)
seed possible. In 1961, the first maize hybrids adapted to Indian conditions
were released, followed by hybrids of sorghum and pearl millet, high yielding



- 10 -
dwarf rice varieties and finally by the high yielding dwarf wheats. These
a seeds were highly responsive to higher input use, gave greater profits
and created a strong demand for quality seed.
34.        In response, there was a rapid ,growth of private sector seed com-
pariies. These could not fully meet the demand and had to be supplemented
with seed production and processing facilities in the public sector. In most
states, small public seed farms; were established. However, the Government
of India (GOI) soon recognized that a wide scatter of small seed farms was
inappropriate to the technological needs of seed production, particularly for
hybrids, and decided to create a central seed organization. GOI also recog-
nized there was a need for legislation to establish seed quality control.
Thus in 1963, the National Seeds Corporation (NSC) was established and in
1966 a Seeds Act was passed. N[SC was charged with promoting seed industry
development and establishing a system of quality control.
35.        Through the mid-sixties, seed output expanded rapidly.  During this
period, NSC was concerned mainly with foundation seed production 1/ and, after
the passing of the Seeds Act in 1966, with seed certification. The certi-
fied seed producing area increased from 360 ha to 35,000 ha between 1963/64
and 1968/69. This was mainly in the private sector, with the Bank-supported
Tarai Seeds Project (Loan 614-IN) coming in towards the end of the period.
36.        Demand for seed grew more slowly than expected in the late sixties.
In the self-pollinated crops - wheat and rice - farmer retention and farmer-
to-farmer transfer accounted for much of the seed used; some of the HYV were
inferior in grain quality to traditional types and thus lost favor. Sub-
stantial overproduction occurred and large stocks accumulated with State
Governments. Thus, 1968-71 was a period of retrenchment with State Govern-
ments curtailing their seed prciduction and many private companies withdrawing
from seed production.
37.        After the good crop year of 1970/71, demand for certified seed, as
for other purchased inputs, began to pick up again. The industry, however,
lacked the resources and confidlence to meet it. NSC stepped in and developed
a program which in 1974/75 produced 73,000 tons of seed (about 50% of national
output), making NSC by far the largest seed producer in the country. Seed was
produced almost entirely through contracts with progressive farmers. A feature
of this NSC program was the introduction of scientific seed processing. Pre-
viously seed had little or no processing, to the detriment of quality.
National Seeds Program
38.        Against this background, GOI decided in late 1974 to reorganize
and improve the seed industry to make it more responsive to the growing
requirements of Indian agriculture. In 1975, a nationally coordinated seed
development program was prepared by the Government to support all facets of
1/   See Glossary for a definition of the different terms for seed used in
this report.



- 11 -
seed production, from production of breeder and foundation seed through pro-
duction, processing, storage and marketing of certified seed.
39.       In June 1976, GOI initiated with Bank assistance the first phase
of the National Seeds Program in four states. The main features of the pro-
gram include a change in NSC's role from that of a seed producer to an agency
responsible for overall coordination and development of the seed industry.
NSC has also been given responsibility for interstate marketing of certified
seed. NSC's seed production activities devolve upon State Seeds Corporations
(SSC) established in states with a comparative advantage for producing certain
crops. Agricultural universities are closely integrated into the program to
produce improved quality breeder and foundation seed. The program also
addresses problems in seed technology research, quality control, and buffer
stocks. In addition to the public sector, seed processing in the private
sector receives assistance under the program. The private sector is also
to be represented in all major institutions involved in the program.
Tarai Seeds Project
40.       The design of the National Seeds Program reflected the experience
gained under the Tarai Seeds Project (Loan 614-IN), signed in 1969. The Tarai
Development Corporation (TDC) has been successful in establishing itself as a
producer of quality seed and its products are in wide demand. Many of the
concepts which have proved successful in the case of Tarai have been incorpo-
rated in the National Seeds Program. These concepts include a compact area
approach under which seed is produced in compact areas around each processing
plant by growers with a shareholding in the SSC. This approach improves effi-
ciency in quality control, supervision and transport. Quality also benefits
from the vested interest which shareholder growers have in the success of the
program. The agricultural universities of the states also hold shares and be-
come responsible for breeder and foundation seed production. The Tarai Seeds
Project itself has been successfully completed, although the Closing Date
had to be extended twice (to December 31, 1977) due to delays in delivery of
equipment and a general slowing down of TDC's investment program as a result
of cautious TDC management. Under the proposed project, the TDC is being
incorporated into the framework of the National Seeds Program and will form
the basis for the establishment of the Uttar Pradesh State Seeds Corporation.
The First National Seed Project
41.       The First National Seed Project (Loan 1273-IN of June 1976) covers
four states--Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab. It is designed
to put into effect the reorganization of the National Seeds Corporation (NSC)
along the lines proposed under the National Seeds Program, and to create and
develop basic organizations at the state level such as state seeds corpora-
tions and state seeds certification agencies. The project also covers devel-
opment of seed technology research capabilities; all facets of seed pro-
duction, from breeder and foundation seed production through certified seed
production, processing, quality control, storage and marketing; expansion of
private sector seed operations; establishment of a reserve stock for certi-
fied and foundation seed; technical assistance; and training.



- 12 -
42.       The project was declared effective according to schedule, and insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, proceeded reasonably satisfactorily. Project implementation lagged
behind schedule subsequently, however, mostly because of coordination problems
at the Centre. These resulted mainly from delays in finding a suitable re-
placement for the Chairman of NSC whose service with the Corporation termin-
ated in December 1976; objections of some NSC staff to the proposed reduction
in the Corporation's role as a producer in favor of SSC; and reluctance of the
Indian Council for Agricultural Rlesearch (ICAR) to play its role of coordinat-
ing foundation seed production and processing investments. However, progress
under the project, although still behind schedule, has begun to pick up
and the major problems which hamlpered initial progress have been resolved.
The more important steps taken include:  strong endorsement to the basic
concept of the national program and the project was given by the new Govern-
ment in September 1977; NSC is to take over all activity regarding foundation
seed production and processing, relieving ICAR of this responsibility; and
appointment by GOI of a chairman of NSC, who would be assigned full time
responsibility before credit effeactiveness (Section 5.01(e) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was prepared by a GOI/Bank working group with assistance
from FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. It was appraised in April/May 1977. The
appraisal report (No. 1725a-IN, dated May 16, 1978)   is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington
in April 1978. The Borrower's delegation was headed by Mr. R. K. Rath, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, GOI.
Project Description
44.       The main purpose of the proposed project is to increase foodgrain
production through increased availability of high quality cereal seed. The
project would be the second phase in India's seed industry development under
the National Seeds Program (see paras 38 and 39). The project would cover
five additional seed producing states: Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa, Rajasthan
and Uttar Pradesh. It would increase the production, processing and market-
ing of certified seeds of wheat, paddy, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses,
potato and groundnut, and lesser quantities of oilseeds, cotton and jute.
Project components would be similar to those provided at state level under
the first project and would include:
-    establishment and equipment of a State Seeds Corporation (SSC)
in each of the five states;
-    assistance to State Agricultural Universities and research
stations for breeder and foundation seed production and
processing, and seed technology research;



- 13 -
development of university farms for foundation seed production;
development of 4,000 ha of State Farms Corporation farms for
certified seed production;
development of State Seed Certification Agencies and seed
testing laboratories;
provision of incremental permanent working capital required by
the universities and SSC and NSC's reserve stock operation; and
technical assistance and training.
45.       Annual incremental seed production at the end of the five-year
project period would be about 125,000 tons--wheat about 45,000 tons, paddy
20,900 tons, maize 5,600 tons, sorghum 3,900 tons, pearl millet 2,800 tons,
groundnut 4,600 tons, potato 30,900 tons and other crops 10,800 tons. The
proposed size and scope of the project have been determined on the basis
of expected national demand for seed and the production capabilities of
the participating states.
Project Implementation
46.       Overall responsibility for the National Seeds Program and the pro-
jects under the program lies with the GOI Ministry of Agriculture. A Project
Management and Monitoring Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture,
GOI, has been created to monitor and coordinate project activity, including
procurement, and report progress to the Government and the Association. NSC's
planning cell, of which the Deputy Secretary (Seeds), GOI, is the ex-officio
director, provides the Committee's Secretariat. A National Seed Development
Council, also chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture, GOI, has been estab-
lished to provide continuous policy guidance to GOI, state governments and
the private sector for the development of the seed industry. These arrange-
ments, created under the first project, would also be used for the proposed
project. In addition, GOI would make arrangements, within the Ministry of
Agriculture, to evaluate the impact of the project (Section 3.14(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
47.       Experience with the first project has shown the need for a more
effective arrangement at the state level for project coordination and moni-
toring. Under the proposed project, each participating state has, therefore,
set up a State Project Coordination Committee comprising representatives of
all project participants in the state. The Committee is chaired by the Agri-
cultural Production Commissioner or the Agriculture Secretary of the state.
No one below the rank of Deputy Secretary would act as its chief executive
and necessary support staff would be provided.
National Seeds Corporation (NSC)
48.       NSC would continue to be responsible for overall coordination of the
national seed industry. NSC's functions would include: active guidance and



- 14 -
assistance to the State Seeds Corporations (SSC) by equity participation and
ouard representation; estimation of seed demand, and coordination of market
research and sales promotion; interstate marketing; coordination of foundation
seed production; operation of the reserve seed stock scheme; training; and provi-
sion of technical and common services to the seed industry. GOI would continue
to hold all NSC equity, and provide additional equity as required. Partici-
pation by NSC in the share capital of SSC, and NSC representation on every
SSC board of directors would strengthen NSC/SSC relationships. Signing of
agreements embodying such relaitionships would be a condition of disburse-
ment for the respective states (Paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
State Seeds Corporation (SSC)
49.       There would be one SSC in each of the five participating states,
in the pattern of the SSC's established under the first project, with a full
time Managing Director in each SSC. SSCs have already been established in
all the project states except lJttar Pradesh, where the Tarai Development
Corporation is being restructured to become that state's SSC. Full-time
Managing Directors of SSCs have been appointed in Bihar, Orissa and Karnataka,
and formal appointment in Rajaisthan is expected in June 1978 and in Uttar
Pradesh in October 1978. Memoranda and Articles of Association for SSCs have
been finalized in consultation with IDA, and any amendment would require
prior consultation with the Association (Section 2.10 of each State Project
Agreement). Under the project, SSC would organize and supervise production
of certified seed by SSC's shareholder growers. The SSC would buy the seed
from growers and process it for marketing. Intrastate marketing of certi-
fied seed would be handled by SSC; interstate marketing would be handled
by NSC on a commission basis.
50.       The State Government, NSC and seed growers would subscribe to the
capital of the SSC approximately in the proportion of 35:30:35. Given the
profitability of seed growing and the successful experience with the share-
holder grower concept under the Tarai Seeds Project, no difficulty is
expected in attracting farmers to participate. Initial funds required by
the SSCs have already been provided through the NSC's and State Government's
equity contributions in all states except Orissa, where arrangements are
being completed.
Seed Production
51.       Breeder seed production would be carried out by six agricultural
universities located in the participating states. ICAR would coordinate the
production of these universities and assist in preparing their investment
plans. A senior official, already appointed under the first project with
full-time coordination responsibility, would also cover the additional insti-
tutions included in the proposesd project (Section 3.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement). As shortages in supply of breeder seed could be detri-
mental to the subsequent stages in seed multiplication and adversely affect
food production, a reserve stock of breeder seed would be carried over each
season in controlled environment storage.



- 15 -
52.       Responsibility for foundation seed production would rest with the
agricultural universities. NSC would estimate the demand for, and coordinate
production and distribution of foundation seed of, national varieties; seeds
of local varieties would be handled directly between the universities and
State Seeds Corporations. Some of the participating state agricultural
universities possess adequate farm land which would be brought under founda-
tion seed production. The universities in Rajasthan, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh
would, however, require additional lands, and the respective State Governments
have agreed to provide adequate additional land suitable for this purpose
(Section 2.06 of each State Project Agreement). The university lands would
require development, mainly land levelling, improvement in irrigation, farm
machinery and buildings. Technical criteria for developing these farms would
have to be agreed with the Association (Section 2.07 of each State Project
Agreement).
53.       Certified seed production would be organized by the SSC of each
participating state through shareholder growers. The growers would be mostly
private farmers with farm sizes ranging between 1 and 10 ha. Although a large
number of seed growers would be involved in each state, they would be concen-
trated in a number of compact areas to increase organizational and operational
efficiency. Concentration of well-developed farms and progressive farmers were
two important factors considered in project area selection, since production
of quality seed depends on use of inputs and good farming technique. On-farm
development needs, to the extent required, would be financed under existing
agricultural credits, in particular the Second Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation Credit (Cr. 715-IN). In some areas certified seed
would be produced on large institutional farms, the largest of which would be
the Suratgarh farm in Rajasthan belonging to State Farms Corporation of India.
Development of about 4,000 ha of the Suratgarh farm would be financed under
the project; technical criteria to be applied for its development would have
to be agreed with the Association (Section 3.12 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Quality Control
54.       Primary responsibility for quality control and seed certification
would be at the state level, with monitoring and coordination at the national
level. Seed certification at the state level would be undertaken by indepen-
dent State Seed Certification Agencies (SSCAs) which have been established in
all participating states. For national level coordination, a Central Seed
Certification Board has already been established. GOI operates a Central
Seed Testing Laboratory to develop and standardize seed testing procedures
and monitor performance of the laboratories located at the state level.
States are to intensify seed inspections under the project.
Seed Technology Research
55.       Applied research in seed technology is essential to the systematic
development and increased efficiency of the seed industry. Provision was made
in the first project to support the development of interdisciplinary programs
at the universities in the states included in that project. Provision has been



- 16 -
made in the proposed project to support such programs at Kanpur and Faizabad
universities in Uttar Pradesh and at the Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa and Rajasthan
state universities. Project costs include capital as well as operating costs
of the seed technology departments through the project period. Seed technology
programs thereafter could be financed out of contributions from the State Seeds
Corporations.
Seed Processing and Storage
56.       State Seeds Corporations would be responsible for certified seed
processing. They would construct processing plants with adequate storage in
each project state and would take over all processing activities (excluding
vegetables) from the National Seeds Corporation together with processing
equipment.  Transfer arrangements between NSC and SSC satisfactory to IDA
would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement). Incremental seed processed annually at full
development would amount to about 79,000 tons of cereals, 31,000 tons of
potato, 5,000 tons of groundnut and small quantities of other seeds. Potato
seeds would require cold storage facilities; additional cold storage for
14,500 tons potato seed would be provided under the project. Drying yards
and storage required for groundnut seed would also be provided. As in the
first project, SSCs would contract with NSC for plant design, for assistance
in procurement, and installation of equipment. Design of each processing
plant satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of Credit disbursement
(paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement). Until
the new processing plants come on stream by the end of 1979, existing plant
capacities would be temporarily increased by purchasing new equipment which
would be subsequently transferred to the new plants. Retroactive financing
of tip to US$200,000 has been provided (see paragraph 60) mainly to facilitate
the urgent procurement of this equipment.
Training and Technical Assistance
57.       The project would provide advanced study programs on seed technol-
ogy research to one person from each participating agricultural university
in selected overseas institutions. Short overseas study tours would also
be provided, as under the first project, for key staff of the State Seeds
Corporations and Seed Certification Agencies. Local and on-the-job
training would also be provided in production, processing and marketing
aspects in order to provide an adequate number of high caliber staff for the
seed industry's expansion.  Technical assistance provided under the first
project for processing plant design would cover this project as well. Pro-
visions for technical assistance would, however, be made under the proposed
project to help the seed certification agencies, and for designing seed
technology research programs for the additional agricultural universities
participating in the project. Additional funds would also be provided for
marketing consultancy services in the areas of market research, sales pro-
motion and distribution logistics. GOI has agreed to recruit the consultants
provided under both projects by December 31, 1978 (Sections 3.02 and 3.16 of
the Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total project cost is estimated at about US$34.9 million equi-
valent (including duties and taxes of about US$2.9 million), of which the
foreign exchange component is US$6 million. The proposed credit of US$16
million would finance 50% of project costs net of duties and taxes, and cover
the whole of foreign exchange costs plus about US$10 million of local costs.
The remaining local costs would be financed by GOI (US$5.4 million), State
governments (US$2.7 million), ARDC and participating banks (US$8.4 million),
and seed growers (US$2.4 million).
59.       The bulk of IDA funds (US$14.5 million) would be channelled by GOI
through ARDC to participating banks for financing investments in production,
processing and marketing of foundation and certified seeds and for farm
development by agricultural universities. The preparation by ARDC of a
banking plan satisfactory to the Association is a condition of Credit Effec-
tiveness (Section 5.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement). IDA funds for
research, breeder seed production, quality control, training and technical
assistance (US$1.5 million) would be channelled through the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research, State governments, and the National Seeds Corporation.
(See Credit and Project Summary for further details of cost estimates and
financing).
60.       In order to ensure timely start of project implementation and, in
particular, to facilitate urgent procurement of seed processing equipment
(see para 56), it is proposed to provide retroactive financing of up to
US$200,000 for expenditures made after December 1, 1977.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       Major items of seed processing machinery, laboratory equipment, farm
machinery and office equipment (US$12.1 million) would be procured by interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Local
manufacturers would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15%
or prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. It would not be practical
to bulk all machinery and equipment because of the many and varied individual
items and the large number of institutions involved. Contracts for minor
items of equipment, not exceeding US$50,000 each and estimated not to exceed
a total of US$1.5 million for the entire project, would therefore be procured
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Urgent purchases of minor
equipment costing up to US$10,000 each and up to a total of US$1 million
would be procured by prudent shopping.
62.       Bulking would not be practical for civil works and building con-
struction (US$10.3 million) because of their small and varied sizes, and
scattered locations. Contracts for these would therefore be let after com-
petitive bidding advertised locally. On-farm development (US$1.3 million) by
State Farms Corporation of India (SFCI) and agricultural universities would
be carried out by the respective institutions on force account or on contract
to be let after competitive bidding advertised locally. The small size of the



- 18 -
contracts would not warrant int:ernational bidding. Vehicles (US$1.2 million)
\.ould also be procured by compoetitive bidding advertised locally since small
numbers of different types of vehicles would be purchased throughout the
project pe-od.  Motorcycles (US$0.4 million), which would be owned by staff
and not as part of institutional fleets, would be purchased by the individuals
concerned according to their p(ersonal preferences. Technical assistance serv-
ices and arrangements for overseas training (US$0.5 million) would be on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The balance of project costs (US$8.2
million) would cover reserve stocks, working capital and operating costs not
involving procurement.
63.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows:  (i) 100%
of foreign expenditures, 100% of ex-factory cost or 60% of total costs of
locally procured equipment and material; (ii) 100% of technical assistance
and overseas training; and (iii) 60% of expenditures for civil works, building
construction and engineering and on-farm development by agricultural univer-
sities and SFCI. Disbursements would be made against full documentation
except for on-farm development for which disbursements would be made against
certificates of expenditure, based on documents which would be available for
inspection by IDA during the course of project supervision.
Economic Benefits and Risks
64.       The main project benefit. would be increased crop yields resulting
from improved availability of better quality seed. At full development, the
annual increase in production of commercial grain and other crops would be
245,000 tons wheat, 325,000 toiis paddy, 85,000 tons maize, 60,000 tons sorghum,
85,;000 tons pearl millet, 40,000 tons potato, 15,000 tons groundnut and 90,000
tons of other crops including jute, pulses and oilseeds. The incremental
vaLue of these crops would be about US$158 million per year against the incre-
mental costs of US$17.5 million per year for seed production and processing.
It is estimated that 1.35 million farm families would derive direct benefit
from the project which would provide adequate seed for 2.7 million ha. In
addition, 13,500 man-years of seasonal employment would be created for har-
vesting the incremental crops produced. Based on quantified costs and bene-
fits, the economic rate of return would be 158%. A sensitivity analysis to
test the effects of different investment costs, operating costs and benefit
levels indicates that the project is economically viable under any realistic
set of assumptions.
65.       The most significant risk to the project is that seed demand might
be lower than expected. Safeguards have, therefore, been taken by planning
the production and processing on the basis of conservative demand estimates
and by emphasizing the marketing function, improvement in demand studies, and
market research and sales promotion. Another significant risk lies in the
fairly complex organizational arrangements involved in project implementation
which, unless carefully managed, could delay some aspects of the project.
Experience gained so far under the first project and the provision of a Project
Coordination Committee in each state under the proposed project should help
minimize this risk. A further risk lies in the fact that the long term suc-
cess of the project depends upon gaining consumer confidence in the quality



- 19 -
and reliability of seed.  This requires control of quality at every stage of
seed production so that the seed industry develops and maintains sound tech-
nical standards. Careful consideration has been given to this matter and the
project focusses on strengthening of quality control organizations, technical
standards and provision of related technical assistance and training.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft ARDC Agreement between the Association and ARDC, the
draft State Project Agreements between the Association and the States of
Bihar, Karnataka, Orissa, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to Executive Directors separately.
67.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
68.       The additional conditions of effectiveness, specified in Section 5.01
of the Development Credit Agreement, would be:
(a) completion of arrangements for transfer of plant and
equipment by NSC to SSCs;
(b) preparation of a banking plan by ARDC; and
(c) functioning of the Executive Chairman of NSC in that
capacity on a full time basis.
69.       The conditions of disbursements specified in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement would be:
(a)   for expenditures against the development cost of State
Agricultural Universities, that adequate land suitable for
foundation seed production is transferred by the States to the
Universities;
(b) for expenditures against the cost of each seed processing
plant, that the design of such plant is approved by the
Association; and
(c) for expenditures against any category made by a State,
that the agreement between NSC and SSC setting out their
respective responsibilities under the project has been
executed.



- 20 -
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 17, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                                  INDIA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     3280.5                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.   1797.5                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      60.0     lQ0.0      150.0              130.0        230.0      550.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)          434.9      547.6    620.4  /a             117.6        36.9       92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      133.0      167.0     189.0                62.0       123.0         11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       247.0      308.0     345.0               411.0       375.0        49.0
VITAL STATIStICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         43.2       41.0       37.0                45.9        44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          23.9       19.0       17.0                20.6        13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       139.0/a       ..      130.0                  *-       81.0       110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       41.7       47.2       49.5                  ..       55.6        59.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2        2.9        2.8                 3.2         3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.0        2.3        2.1                2.0          3.0         2.9
URBAN                                 2.5/b      3.2        3.1                 3.7/a       4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           17.9      19.8       20.6                t7.5        27.6        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.0       41.6       40.1               44.0        45.6        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.9       55.3       56.7               53.5         51.6       55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.1        3.1        3.2                 2.5         2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        0.8        9.8                 0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               :1 1/C     I./a       L L/,                *-         1.5         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)         71.0   14585.0   37658.0                259.3       320.0       250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..       18.7                  ..         2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       175000.0  218000.0 261000.0/a                         12400.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         71.0       69.0      69.0                             55.OLa     40 4
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)           4.8 /d   4.4 /b   4.4/c,d                             7.6         7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.7       25.0 IC      ..                  ..          ..        35.0/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7       53.1  I      *                   ..       540         62.o7ia
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.1        4.7 3R ..             ,         .-        3.6         3.0
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.6       13.1                                       3 6 ..  1.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..        45.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..         1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             5B40.0 L!. 4890.0    4220.0             26370.0           ..      1910 0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5310.0MA05220.0/d  3680.0]e              7630.0/C         *-     3220.0jL
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2590.0 Z   1610.0         .              1640.Z    850.0         260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         95.0       92.0       89.0                91.0        93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0       53.0      48.0                 43.0        45.0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.o0/    16.0       12.6                 14.0       22.0         39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            44.0         ..         ..                  ..         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHDOL                       41.0      63.0       65.0                75.0        113.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     23.0       30.0      29.0                15.0         49.0        68.0
YEARS DF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       11.0                12.0        10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      8.0         ..         ..                29.0         6.0 /b     17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 24.0      33.0       36.OA.              59.0          ..        64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6       2.8          ..                 ..         2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER ()                          ..        ..         ..                  ..        76.0        73.0 /C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..        ..         ..                  ..        23.0        48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..        ..         ..                  ..         7.0         8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           5.0      21.0       25.0               114.0       39.0         60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0.7        1.0        1.0                2.0         8.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            46.0      114.0     143.0                20.0       235.0       491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2        0.3        0.3                0.3         2.0         2.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Pagte 2
NOTES
Ilnesooterwsenoted, d.t. for 1960 refer to coy year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 b--xo   1967  -00 1971, end for Most Re..ent Estimate betw..n
9 73 nd 1976.
BraJIl h.. been *.leoted as an objective Country bocause of its ci.e and comparabl. probleuc of regional inequality.
1960     /a  1951-61 average;        /b  1951-601       /c  Ratio of popuiction under 15 and 65 ond over to labor forCe aga 15 and over;
/d Estimated by Niational Sample Survey, in terws of the average numnber of preron/weeks of unemploymoent a. pert.etge
of total persom/weeka in the lab or force;          /a  1962:       /f  Registered, not oil practicing in the country;              /&  Including
msidwives;     /h  1958;       If  I960-62.
1970    L.R  Ratio of pop.lation under 15 end 65 and over to total labor -force  age 15 and over;                  /b  Eatio,at.d by RNneti 1 SmPl.
Survey, in terms of the aevrage number of person/week. of unsoployment an percentage o-ftotal person/week. in the total
labor force:      /c  1967-68;    Id  Including midwives.
MO-ST RECENT ESTIKtATE:      Ia  1978 mid-year population end labor forte estim,ated at 640.4 and 261 millions respectively,                     /b  Ratio of
population under 15 &ed 65 and over to total labor force;               /c  1977;      /d  Estimaated by National Sample
Survey, in terms of the average number of pereon/weeke of unem~ploymentt as peorcentage of total person/weeks
in the labor force;        I.  Including midwivee;         If  Population 10 years and over.
INDONESIA       1970    /c  1961-71;    /b  1971;          /c  Including midwives.
PSHILIPP NES   1970      Ia  As percentsag  of amploymunt;         /b  Not including private vocational schoole.
BRAZIL          1970    /e  Econnically active population;    /b  Hospital personnel;                  /c  Inside only.
R13, May 2, 1976
DIEF3tTI(U  Oly SOCIAL INDICATORS
led ~Area~ kro.)j                                                                               Populstlo per nureina parson - Popustion divided by nomber of praticing
7.t.1   Total surface area c-prising land area and inland water,                                  male end female graduate nurosa, "tra.ined" or "certified" nur..e, and
jgic   Most recan.t estimate of agricultural ares "ed temporrily or perm-                           -uoli.ry peronnel with training or experienc...
nently for  -rpa, pastures, market & bitcban gardens or to li. fall...                        Population per hospital bed - Population divided by .,mber of hospital beds
available in public and private genera -1sod p-ciali..d ho-pi-al sod
GN  oapr ..pit. (US$) - OR? per c.pita estlmate. at current markat pricaa,                         rehabilitation. cantr.; esolude nursing homcs and .at.blihln..nt. for
C.lcu1ated hp sam conversion method a. World Sank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                        cutodi.1 and preventive Care.
1960; 1970 cad 1976 data.                                                                     Per capita supply of caloriea 17 of reoutrome.ts) - Computad from  enegy
equivalent: of oat food supplies avilable in Country par capita per day;
Popu~lation end vital atati.tijs                                                                  avail.ble supplies comprise domeatic Production, imports I.a. exports, and
Itopclation (.id-year   Illion) - A. of July first:  if not availshl., average                    Changesa in stock; net supplies exclude snimal feed, eceds, quatities used
o- two and-ysor as timetee; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                           in food procesaing and l-osse  in distributin; req.iramnte  were estimated
by FAO baoed on physiological needs for normal activity and health -onid-
1-pocultion density   panr squsr. ma - Mid-year population per square kilomter                     eriog evirooete1 tempertur, body weights, age and sax dietributione of
(1.00 hectaree) of total area,                                                                  population, snd al11uing 107. for waste st house hold level.
P.  IClaion denaity   peor square kmof agri.. land - Computed .e shove for                      Per capita supply of protein  (ea.m   p-r dcv) - Protein context of Pec capita
.erlcullur.1 land only.                                                                         not supply of food per day; nat supply of food is dafined aso above; require-
ma.te for elI Countries astebliahod by USDA iconomic Research Servic.s
YVicsl etatiatics.                                                                                 provide for a miniamum allowance  of 60 grossa of total protein per d.p, end
Crude birth rete par thousand. sy-sea    - Ansnual liv. birth. per th .ound of                     20 gas-  of animal and pules protain, of whic,h 10 groea should be .nimal
.td-yea  poplaftion; tem-year arithmasti  averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; these ata.dards are lower thea  those of 75 grats, of total protein
erAd fiva-yesr average ending in 1975 for most r-cst estimate,                                  and 23 grem   of sotimal protisi  as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
cru,de death rats per thodsond. avoralte - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-y.ar                  in the Third World Food Survey.
po,pla.tion; ten-y.sr arithastic averages a.ding in 1960 and 1970 and five-                   Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year everage endIng in 1975 for moa t r ....t estimate,                                         derived from  animals and pulses in gras per day.
Infant mortality rate I/thou)   AnBnual deaths of infants under oneyeasr of age                 Death rate I/thou) ages. 1-4 - Annual deatha per thouaand in age groop 1-4
p tr ihcad liebirtha.                                                                           years, to Children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Liferexpcan,  at hir th fyrs) -Average aebar of years of life remaining et                         malnutrition.
birth; usally five-year ovarage. ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                                Education
Ironsrsprouctrateis- Averga comber of lire daughters asom              11il  hear          Adjusted enr olloent ratio - pri-ay ..h-!i - nEollamn.t of all ages as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she aeperiencee preasent ag-s-pecific                      cetage of primacy school-age p.pulationi includes children aged 6-11 years
f.rtility retes; usually fiva-yar  -vrages a"ding in 1960, 1970 and 1971                        but adjusted for different lengtha of priLmary education; for countries with
for developing Couatries.                                                                       universal education, e-ollaent may aeceed 1507. since som  pupils cr, below
tplotion growth rats 17.) - tot.1 - Compound aunual growth ratee of mid-year                     or above the official achool age.
populetion fur 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondarr school - Computed asabsove; secondary
Population oroth reta1.5   urban - Computed lika growth ret. of total                              education requires at least four years of epproved primary isatruction;
population; iiff.r*ct deinitionsa of urban cress may affect Comparability of                    providea genteral, vocational or teacher trsining imsatructiona for pupila
dote anong couctrise.                                                                           of 12 to 17 ysere of age;  rorespondanos courses ar  generaly eatlud.d.
Urbac pupulatio - ( of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                   Yearn of schwoliua provided (first and second levels) - Total yeara of
definitione  of urban areas- mapffect comparbility of data amog countries,                      schooling; at ssrondcry leve, vocational instruction may be partially  or
Completely exclded.
Age as tructLure (percent) - Children (I-l4 yesse) , working-age (15-64 years),                 Vocational ..rallmant Cl of aecomdery; - VoCatlunal institutions  iInclde
end retIred (65 yeara and ovsr) as parcen.itsge   of mid-year population.                       technical, industrial or ocher progrm  whih operae independentlyora
Axoo d.p..d.ncy ratio  - Ratio of population under 15 and 61 sad ove,r to those                    deperbmatsot  of secondary instit.tiona.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                        Adu1t literac   rate  (%) - Literate adults (able to read and -lits) as por-
E-onoic dep.ndency ratio - Rlatio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                        centege of total adult population aged 11 years and over.
the labor force in ago group of 15-64 pears.
Eai_ly ol-oin  -  ceo           .u catl.tis., thou) - Cuxulti-a nuber of acceptors              gowain
of birth-control devices under  usupices of national family planning program                  Persona per room  (urban) - Average  -b-s of parsons Per roo  in oocupied
am... i-cption,                                                                                 conventional dwellings in urbao areas; dwellings exclode non-permanet
F-I._I_R. plning-usera (7. of married woa) Percentages of married wome  of                         atrotura.soad unoccupid parts.
child-hearing age (15-A-  years) who use birth-control d-vicee to all married                 Occ.oi.d dwellinca withouat piped ..ter Cl; - Occupied convetional ds.elings
coeti-      n  age gro,tp.                                                                       to urban end rura  areaa without inside or octaids piped  -eter f-cilities
as Percen tage of all oncupied dwellings.
E.flofm5t                                                                                        Access tO electricity Cl of .ii dwelinjgs) - Convantiona1 dwellings with
ItOcc Inhor ~fort  (thousend) - EconomIcaly  cotiva persona, including armd                        electricity in living quater  as peccant of tcora  dwellings in urban and
fortaa and -uteployed but excluding houasw,ive., s tudents , etc. ; definitions                 rualar1    a
i,, verioca Countries are nonr comparable.                                                    Rural dwellings conected to electricity (%) - Computed  s above for rur1
Lo.bco forte in agriculture  C75 - Agricultural labor force (in farmIng, forestry,                 dwellings only.
bun.ting and fishing) as perentage of total labor fore..
Unexplorad (% of labor farcm) - Iemplpad are usually defined as person  who                     Consumption
are able and willing to take   job, ont of c Job on a given day, Committed out                Radio receivers (par thou pop) - All types of rciesfor radio brosdt... t
of a job, and seeking work f or a specified minimum period not excee..ding one                   to general public Per thou.snd of population; sec ludes omlicen.ed rece.ivers
-ok; may not he comparable be,ween Countries du. to different definitions                       in  ountri.a and in yeara when registration  of radio ..te was in effect;
of ucemployed and source of data, e.g. , employment office statiatic, sample                     data for recent years my not be comparble since most countries abolished
."rv.Y., compola-y anemplepaont inaur-nce.                                                       licensing.
PM ...nAer osre (par thou pop) - Passeengr cars Comprise motor car.s easting
Intam di.trib,ution - Parcentsge of privete incom   (both in cash end kind)                        less than eight peroons; ..tludee embulanr-, h..rs.. and nilitary
r.-et-d by rich-o  57, rirh-a  207., pooes  201, and pooreet 407. of howee-                     vehicle..
holds.                                                                                        Electricity fkwb/vr per cap) - Aannual Coneomption of industrial, Coom.r.ia1,
public and private electricity in kilowtt hours per capita, gener.Ily
RLietribution of land  oowrerhip - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 107.                    based on production data, without allowece for losses in grids but allo--
sd pooreat 107. of land owners.                                                                 ing f-o imprta cod exports of electricity.
Ngeeepri.t: (kx/yr per Cap) - Per capita an.nual contauption in kilograms
Health and Nutrition                                                                               *stimeced from domastic production plus net Imports of  -awprint.
Ppopultion par physician - Population divided by n..sr of practicing
physiriena qualified from c mdical school at university leve.1



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOD(T DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976    USS 1t0
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77 _2/                                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (N. oonetant priose)
USS Bln.       9                                              1960/61-1964/6S     1965/66-1969/70      1970/71-1975/76
GNP at Market Prices            86.04      100.0                                                  3.9                  3.8                 2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       16.62       19.3
Gross National Saving           18.18       21.1
Current Account Balance          1.56        1.8
Resource Gap                     0.95        1.1
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value Added (at faotor cost)             abor For                  VA. Per Worker
USS Bln.             %                Mil,                         V          of  ationl Averae
Agrioulture                     30.2                43                179.0      69                169          63
Industry                        16.7               24                  33.9      13               494          193
Services                        23.4               33                  48.0      18               488          133
Total/average                   70 3              100                 261       100               277          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Govermentm                                                Central Government
B(Rs.Bln)      :        of GDIP                                  (Rs. E'n'% of GDP
1976/77       1976/77    1974/75-1976/77                        1976/77        1976/77    1974/75-1976/77
Current Receipts                  147.46         19.1            17.9                               83.78          10.9          10.4
Current Fxpenditures              140.18         18.2           16.2                                84.2S         10.9            9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit             7.28          0.9             1.7                              - 0.47           -             0.8
Capital Elxpenditures ./           59-05          7.6            7.1                                40.39          5.2            5.0
External Assistance (net)          11.21          1.5             1.7                               11.2i          1.5            1.7
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES         1970/71    X12L4/n  R 973/74         1974/75     1975L6      1976/J77     September 1976      September 1977
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period
Money and Quasi Money             105.7       142.2        169.0       186.9       215.0       262.6           238.2              284.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)  56.9        82.5        92.9        102.6       109.1       117.3           112.7              130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector      56.7        76.0         90.1       109.5       127.5       161.0           144.0              170.0
(Peroentage or Index Numbers)                           Janurv 1977         January 1978
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  24.3        27.3         26.4        25.5        27.6        31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                100.0       116.2       139-7       174.9        173.0       176.6           178.8             183.3
Annual percentage changes ins
Wholesale Prioe Index               7.7        10.0         20.2        25.2        -1.1         2.1             7.5               2.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  8.6        19.6         12.6        10.4         6.3         7.5             4 71/            15 8  _
Bank Credit to Private Sector      17.3        18.0        18.5         21.5        16.4        26.3            24.9J             11.9.E/
y' The per capita GNP estimate is at market prioes, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/ Quick Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
g Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
1/ Net bank credit to Government Sector.
g/ Bank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 4
lkTCz or PAMDS                          1974/75       19    6s                      t7h
i7VI7        1976/L7        1977/78                            MCRCNDISE EXPORTS (AJLG   1974/75 - 1976/77)
Export. of Goods                          4,174        4,665          5,760          6,400                             Engineering Goods           515            t1
Isporta of Goods                         -5,665       -6,084         -5,950         -6,600                             Sugar                       379             8
Trade B  1m                             -1,491        -1,419         -  190         - 200                              Tea                         296             6
IFS  (not)                                  215           310            46'           500                             Jute Usnufactures           294             6
Leather end Leather
Resouroe Ga;                            -1,278        -1,109            215            300                                      Products           268             5
Intt Pamnts (not) V                      -  198       -  216            135         _  130                             Clothing                    257             5
Other Paotor Pa"ments (not)                  -             -                                                           Cotton Textiles             223             5
Net Trsfer   1/                             257           470            73T          1,000                            Others                     2396            49
Total                     4866           1 00
Balno$ an Ournt Aoeut                  -1,217       -  855            810          1,170
Offioial Aid                                                                                                              XiT L  IT, MARIRCR 31, 1977  /
Disburseents                         1,761         2,341         1,953           1,840
Amortiastion                          -515          -531          -560             630                             Outatanding and Disbursed                 13.6
Transactions with D1F                       522           242         -336             330                             Undisburesd                               362
All Other Items-59                                       -40.3        -2223                                            Outstanding, incl.ding Undisbursed        16.8
Increae in Reserres (-)                      38         -794        -1,575          -2,073                             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976177           14.4   peroent
Gross Reervee (end year)                  1,378         2,172        3 747           5,820
Net Reserves (end year)  5/                 758         1,565        3,276           5,670                             IBdD/IDA LENDING. December 1, 1977  (USt wIn.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                                                IhR          IDA
Imports                                   1,451        1,417         1,580         1,800                               Outstanding and Dlsbursed         489.0      3,560.5
Of whieh  Petroleum                   1,451         1,417         1,580         1,800                               Undisburased                      674.9      1,257.0
Outstanding, including
Exports                                      26            43           37          n.a.                                     lndi.bureed               1,163.9      4,817.5
of which, Petroleum                       17           22            21          n.a.
RATi3 OF NICB IIGS
Prior to mid-Deoember 1971    s    US$1.00 = Re 7.5                                                                    After end Jine 1972    t    Floating Rate
RO 1.00 = UJ30.133333                                                             Spot Rate January 31, 1978
lid-Deoemsber 1971 to                US$1.00 = Re 7.27927                                                                         approx. US$1.00 = Re B.063
end June 1972                    Rs 1.00 = USto.137376                                                                         approx. Rs 1.0o = US201124
JO Estimated.
F/ igures given oover all investment incos (net). Major payments art interest on foreign loans  and
charges paid to 7JW, and major receipt is intereet earned on foreign asets.
/  ligures given include workere' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is included
within offioial aid disbureements.
/ Exoludes net use of f1lP credit.
Amortisation and interest payments on foreign oane as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OpERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31.   1978)
US$ Million-
Loan or
Credit No.          Year     Borrower                     Purpose                                (Net of Cancellation)
Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                                1,lOO.6
51 Credits fully disbursed                                                                           2,604.6
267-IN              1971      India         Wheat Storage                                    --        5.0        3.4
294-IN              1972      India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                       --       14.0        9.1
312-IN             1972       India         Population                                       --       21.2        6.1
342-IN             1972       India         Education                                                 12.0        9.3
356-IN              1972      India         IDBI                                             --       25.0       10.5
377-IN              1973      India         Power Transmission III                           --       85.0        3.1
378-IN              1973      India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                      --        8.0        6.9
902-IN              1973      ICICI         Industry DFC X                                  67.5       --         5.8
390-IN              1973      India         Bombay Water Supply                              --       55.0       25.3
403-IN              1973      India         T-lecommunications V                             --       80.0        3.4
427-IN              1973      India         Calcutta Urban Development                       --       35.0       10.1
440-IN              1973      India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                        --       32.0       14.9
456-IN              1974      India         HP Apple Processing & Marketing                  --       13.0        9.9
481-IN              1974      India         Trombay IV                                       --       50.0       11.6
lOll-IN              1974      India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                         52.0       --        34.8
482-IN              1974      India         Karnataka Dairy                                  --       30.0       26.0
502-IN              1974      India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                              --       83.0       52.5
520-IN              1974      India         Sindri Fertilizer                                --       91.0       18.2
521-IN              1974      India         Rajasthan Dairy                                  --       27.7       25.8
522-IN              1974      India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                             --       16.4       15.3
526-IN              1975      India         Drought Prone Areas                              --       35.0       24.3
1079-IN              1975      IFFCO         IFFCO Fertilizer                               109.0       --        66.2
1097-IN              1975      ICICI         Industry DFC XI                                100.0       --        27.4
532-IN              1975      India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                      --       45.0       22.2
541-IN              1975      India         West Bengal Agricultural Development             --       34.0       25.4
562-IN              1975      India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                     --       24.0       18.4
572-IN              1975      India         Rural Electrification                            --       5710       46.0
582-IN              1975      India         Railways XIII                                    --      110.0       16.7
585-IN              1975      India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                       --       40.0       36.4
598-IN              1975      India         Fertilizer Industry                              --      105.0       90.8
604-IN              1976      India         Power Transmission IV                            --      150.0      149.6
609-IN              1976      India         15adhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                    --        4.0        3.8
610-IN              1976      India         Integrated Cotton Development                    --       18.0       17.7
616-IN              1976      India         Industrial Imports XI                            --      200.0        1.7
1251-IN(TW)          1976      India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                      145.0       --       142.8
1260-IN              1976      India         IDBI II                                         40.0       __        37.0
1273-IN              1976      India         National Seed                                   25.0       --        25.0
1313-IN              1976      India         Telecommunications VI                           80.0       --        36.1
1335-IN              1976      BtRDA         Bombay Urban Transport                          25.0       --        21.2
680-IN              1977      India         Kerala Agricultural Development                  --       30.0       30.0
682-IN              1977      India         Orissa Agricultural Development                  --       20.0       20.0
685-IN              1977      India         Singrauli Thermal Power                          --      150.0      137.0
687-IN              1977      India         Madras Urban Development                         --       24.0       23.5
695-I.              1977      India         Gujarat Fisheries                                --        4.0        4.0
1394-IN(TW)          1977      India         Gujarat Fisheries                               14.0       --        14.0
690-IN              1977      India         West Bengal Agricultural Development             --       12.0       12.0
712-IN              1977      India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development          --       10.0       10.0
715-IN              1977      India         Second ARDC Credit                               --      200.0      175.9
720-IN              1977      India         Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                        --       23.0       23.0
728-IN              1977      India         Assam Agricultural Development                   --        8.0        8.0
1473-IN              1977      India         Bombay High Offshore Development               150.0       --       104.5
736-IN              1977      India         Maharashtra Irrigation                           --       70.0       70.0
737-IN              1977      India         Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                 --       13.0       13.0
740-IN              1977      India         Orissa Irrigation                                --       58.0       58.0
1475-IN              1977      ICICI         Industry DFC XII                                80.0       --        79.0
* 747-IN              1978      India         Second Foodgrain Storage                          --     107.0      107.0
* 756-IN              1978       India        Second Calcutta Urban Development                 --      87.0       87.0
A 761-IN              1978       India        Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research           --       8.0        8.0
*1511-IN              1978       India        IDBI Joint/Public Sector                         25.0      --        25.0
Total                                                                2,012.I 4,933.9
of which has been repaid                                             854.4      35.5
Total now outstanding                                                1,158.7  4,898.4
Amount Sold                              133.2
of which has been repaid               111.5                          21.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       1,137.0  4,898.4
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                        593.8  1,299.0
* Not yet effective.
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                            Aoril 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                               Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5        -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4        -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7       0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8       1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0       0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0       0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1       3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                            6.6       -         6.6
TOTAL                            49.6       8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                               6.0       1.6        7.6
Repaid                           14.5        -        14.5
Cancelled                         6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                         22.9       6.5       29.4
Undisbursed                       5.3        -         5.3



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
1/
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,893
million as of March 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
73% and 88% of total loan amounts respectively as of March 31, 1978, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit No. 440 provides US$32.0 million over three years in support
of a lending program for 50,000 units of tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than esti-
mated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
->i.h appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date by one year
to June 30, 1978, and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of
Bihar. The physical targets should be achieved by revised closing date and
disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; IIS$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 197SI
The above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credit 715 is a continuation nationwide of the previous program of agricul-
tural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart from
initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due to
the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective D)ate: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  April 6, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The US$15.9 million project, co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000 ton capacity bag warehouses envisaged
under the project (as revised) were completed and became operational in 1975.
The construction of five grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after
delays due to cement shortages and is expected to be completed by December
1978. The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain
Storage Study was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating
the proposal for the Second Grain Storage Project which was appraised in
February/March 1977 and approved by the Board on November 15, 1977.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project provides US$13.0 million to promote the development
of apple processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading
and packing centers, cold storage facilities, a juice processing plant, road
improvements and cableways. Thes project also includes on-farm cold storage
and oak mushroom production. The main executing agency is the Himachal
Pradesh Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC).



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
The project encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical prob-
lems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome these difficul-
ties. Land is expected to be acquired for all packing and grading sites
by early 1978. The Project Preparation Report for the juice processing
plant has been completed and found satisfactory, and tenders on the equip-
ment are being called. The road improvement programme is progressing
satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites are also expected to be completed shortly. As a
result of the significant improvement in project implementation during the
past year, disbursements have recently gathered momentum.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1978, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Creiit 377 was slow initially and as a consequence
it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date to September 30, 1978
(originally September 30, 1977). However an amount of US$84 million had been
disbursed by the end of March 1978 and the balance of US$1 million should
be disbursed well before the revised Closing Date. Disbursements under
Part A of Credit 604 (US$120 million) have been slow with only US$0.4 mil-
lion disbursed at March 31, 1978. However, contracts aggregating about US$50
million had been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements should now accelerate.
This Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million under Part B to
meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; of this
amount some US$26 million has been committed leaving an amount of US$4 million
for load despatch equipment which should be committed by June 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about 18 months due to longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment and to reflect the current situation
with respect to the use of the Credit proceeds. Under the Sindri project
plant construction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule
except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some
materials. Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978.
The anticipated cost to complete the project is presently running within bud-
get. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change
in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering
contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as
feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being
ordered, and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed
to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-
projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the
above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka.  Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory.  The project includes
training of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and
evaluation of the project's economic impact.  As of June 30, 1977, develop-
ment plans had been completed for 48 of the 50 project markets.  The remain-
ing 2 are pending land acquisitions. Appraisals and loan sanctions had been
completed for 13 and was in progress for 18 markets.  Farmers and traders
served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka
project is improving. As of August 1977, when the project was last reviewed
appraisals for 36 of the 39 project market yard plans had been completed by
participating banks and 25 of these 36 approved by ARDC. Construction is in
progress at 33 markets. In an attempt to accelerate project progress, more
liberal lending terms have been provided to APMCs and Market Intermediaries
(MIs) for construction of shop-cum-godowns. The project is expected to be
completed by the closing date (December 1979) and to achieve its major
objectives of making farm produce marketing more efficient and improving
farmers' terms of trade.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements which have been slow because of initial delays should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1551  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 978; Effective Date:  May 31, 1978 (expected);
Closing Datp: March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-March 1978.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and an unforeseen addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and
it is forecast that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply
of additional water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of
water treatment works for the wihole supply by the end of 1979 is realistic-
ally forecast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August
1977) has allowed engineering design of the project sewerage components to
proceed, so that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled
for 1980 two years later than originally forecasted. Financial performance
of the project entity is satisfactory and all covenants are being met.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date:  January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: D,ecember 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 10, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases in
project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to
accommodate the project to funding available. It is now expected to be
substantially completed by March 1979. Agreements have been reached on
consultants services and technical assistance, as provided for under the
project.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city.  The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
erativeg with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress.- Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works aEnd equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date:  December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)           Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 11, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October _1i,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infriastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory. An April 1978 mission which supervised Cr. 720
Periyar Yaigai found that construction of the project commenced in March 1978.
The Public Works Department (PWD) has set up a strong construction organization
headed by a Special Chief Engineer in order to complete the project on schedule.
Monitoring of flows in irrigation canals will start in June 1978. A system
operation plan is under preparation and GOTN has appointed a Committee to
study water and water-related charges in Tamil Nadu.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$34.0 million over four years mainly for
minor irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro serv-
ice centers, and support of related government services. Although disburse-
ments have been slower than anticipated there has been a considerable improve-
ment in project organization and administration during the past six months
and disbursements are expected to improve considerably during the next twelve
months. The physical progress of shallow tubewells, and of deep tubewells
for the Minor Irrigation Corporation is satisfactory. IDA, GOWB and ARDC
are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such as organizational
problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service centers; and
finalization of designs for water distribution systems and irrigation
schemes. Positive results, particularly for the water distribution systems
are expected shortly.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 16, 1978 (expected); Closing Date:
June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 6,
1978 (expected); Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects totalling US$63 million finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these prcjects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The project's components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areais Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. ThLe rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components; is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers.  It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated f'or intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research.  Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Pro-
ject actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Eff'ective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project consists of' a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now twelve States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time of



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the cumulative
value of contracts entered into or about to be entered into at February 28,
1978 was US$50.32 million leaving an outstanding uncommitted balance of
US$6.68 million. The full amount of the Credit is expected to be committed
by mid 1978 and it should be fully disbursed by the closing date of
December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project. Dis-
bursements as of March 31, 1978 were 85% of the total credit amount.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. (Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit.) A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This project supports seed industry expansion in the public and
private sectors; improvements in seed quality control; strengthening of
breeding and seed technology research; and development of a reserve stock
scheme. Institutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly
at the state level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project imple-
mentation, however, slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to
organizational problems. Project progress is now being made since approval
of the project by the new Government in September 1977 and is anticipated
to gain further momentum as GOI is about to appoint the two top officers
of the National Seeds Corporaticin.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed somewhat because of delays in pro-
curement action. However, contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single
deck and 175 double deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have
been delivered.  Bids for an additional 200 buses are being evaluated.  Civil
works contracts have been awarded for 8 to 15 bus facilities, and 13 of about
traffic engineering schemes.  Delays are expected in implementing some BMC
traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps are
being taken to minimize such delays.  Consultants in organization, adminis-
tration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Devel-
opment Authority. The beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corp-
oration and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have selec-
ted consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management assist-
ance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Singrauli project is the first stage of the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in the Gov-
ernment's program for the development of large Central thermal power stations
feeding power into an interconnected grid. It is proposed that the Bank
Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to
construct and operate these power stations, and the development program has
gotten off to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily and the project is proceeding on schedule with land acquisi-
tion almost complete. Site levelling is in progress and contracts have been
awarded for major plant (turbogenerators, boilers, transformers).
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and are expected to be commissioned
by May 1978. Bids for well and processing platforms at Bassein have been
received and are under review. Disbursements increased rapidly during March
at US$45.5 million and is expected to keep pace with appraisal estimates.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year.
(b) The agency which prepared the project
GOI/Bank Working Group with assistance from
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
February 1976                   December 1976
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
April 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 28, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1978
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOI to assign full time responsibility to the
Chairman of NSC, as a condition of effectiveness
(para 42).
(b) GOI to make arrangements to evaluate the impact
of the Project (para 46).
(c) NSC and SSCs to sign agreements specifying mutual
responsibilities and relationships, as a condition
of disbursement (para 48).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)  NSC to make arrangements to transfer its seed
processing plant and equipment to each concerned
SSC, as a condition of effectiveness (para 56).
(e)  The States to provide adequate land suitable
for foundation seed production to the respec-
tive state agricultural universities as a con-
dition of dispursement (para 52).
(f)  SSC to submiit designs of processing plants for
IDA's approval as a condition of disbursement
(para 56).
(g)  GOI to recruit the consultants provided under the
first and second Seed Projects by December 31, 1978
(para 57).
(h)  ARDC to prepare a banking plan satisfactory to the
Association as a condition of effectiveness (para 59).



a    It0go,
1 VJ f                   -\                                                                             INDIA
AFGHANISTAN                                                rE&                                           SECOND NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
/                          PROJECT AREAS AND PLANT LOCATIONS
-A t4AIU o.r.] D9           'EECONDNATIONALSEEDPROJECT.                                        FIRST NATIONALSEED PROJECT.
.ROOCT STATESAUNAR ES                            E rROJECTSTATETOIK-DADlS
fEl --.   S   ,-  N -aN    --- ---PROJECT DISTRICT EBONTAR ES                     PROJECT DISTPICT FLINLJAIES
IUL AS                                                                                                         I`/D_Sh    '  PRDECT OISTRICT TARTS  PROJECT DISTRICT AREAS
PA K I STAN                   -UnlanDel    OI DST5SE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \T  ^At I f 2
-S'  FER3ZFDt,/7/,@ CS'9-?   v   \   C  H  I  N          A
[AK I  R     gar             N EPA L                                        T
A:-~~~~~~~~~~~~1
AMIUR A~~~~AM 
,/GTA Ag                    NEPA                                    ,         A2f                     shIr s
NG E tX <f>BHUTAN
< g < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BURMA
50:  :X   03:XS4PAS4tt            & f  ;f   n;   0:  S t;                       PLA~~A AJORS ESSTIER EI.ARRRS                      00    00
t   : 0  3   t 0-   '\            t5 E':                   0: ;I            '                      *'    EJETR TOE PRP,5 LANoFTsrSf.yENLASJO 3 - - -0 
N31       ,                                                                                           AYAj?u  ;  :  ,--    RAILWAYS
IS'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'F
.                                     ->     g           .,                                          (9~~~~~4    STATE ARES UNION TERRITORY CAPITALS                           IdP
-.>li                    [                                                                   S TADE ANO ANION TERRITORY EsANRA 0155
J KERA-fl                          =                                     _-_  INTERNATIONAL RESSfARIES                                   _]
TIIriSdrLTR                                SRI  L A N K A
Re p TA  EOP,.,bV4A,,RR                                                                                                             MILES
e R.f V E Y sywEwa~~P    A 
RRAV a,"nROf  A n USE
fp ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~~~~           ~         ~~~         ~     ~          ~         ~~~       ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f 0 .  REO)ECTffD: 
SR URIORERRE. R'ARCA RElIC  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ A          MAORNS EISTEMETSRSW
W,UER,'ER,AA',PERwe> ERR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     STEAN tIO  ER.TR   CITL
94    ARA  h..'yswAo.e  - 
.RR.ER.A,URAR EResARRA,. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ KLOETR
ZR  -                                                                                 5  -  -    -                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



