CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 816 IN
Bihar Project Agreement
(Second National Seed Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF BIHAR
Dated July 17, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 816 IN
BIHAR PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and STATE
OF BIHAR, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Bihar).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (her.nafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Bihar agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS Bihar, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Bihar shall carry out or cause to be carried
out those portions of Parts A, B, D, E and F of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement for
which Bihar shall be responsible with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
agricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose, including
adequate and qualified staff.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Bihar undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Bihar to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Bihar
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Bihar shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modification  thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) Bihar: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit so made available
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.05. (a) Bihar shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
t'e Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) Bihar shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Bihar of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Bihar shall make available to Rajendra Agricul-
tural University adequate land suitable for the production of
foundation seed by June 30, 1979 or such later date as may be
agreed by the Association.
Section 2.07. In order to carry out Part B of the Project,
Bihar.shall cause Rajendra Agricultural University to employ the
criteria for farm development to be agreed with the Association.
Section 2.08. For the purpose of enforcing minimum seed
quality control standards under the applicable laws, Bihar shall
carry out adequate seed quality inspection.
Section 2.09. Bihar shall cause its SSC to enter into an
agreement with NSC satisfactory to the Association. The said
agreement shall, inter alia, set out the respective responsibil-
ities of NSC and the SSC in the carrying out of the Project.
Bihar shall not permit its SSC to assign, amend, abrogate or waive
such agreement without prior consultation with the Association.
Section 2.10. Bihar shall not make or permit to be made, any
change in the memorandum and articles of association or other
instrument governing its SSC without prior consultation with
the Association.
Section 2.11. Unless otherwise agreed with its SSC, Bihar
shall not produce or process any seed variety which is also
processed by such SSC.
Section 2.12. Bihar shall cause its SSC, SSCA and Rajendra
Agricultural University to separately prepare and furnish to
the Association:
(a) an annual work program within two months prior to the
commencement of their financial year; and
(b) quarterly progress reports within one month of the
close of each quarter.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Bihar shall maintain and cause its SSC, SSCA
and Rajendra Agricultural University to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. Bihar shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and those of its SSC, SSCA and Rajendra
Agricultural University, for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) fur-
nish and cause its SSC, SSCA and Rajendra Agricultural University
to furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish and cause its SSC, SSCA
and Rajendra Agricultural University to furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Bihar thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Bihar
of this event.
Section 4.03. All-the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Bihar:
Agricultural Development Commissioner
and Principal Secretary
Agriculture Department
Government of Bihar
New Secretariat
Patna 1, Bihar
India


﻿-6-
Cable address:
AGRICULTURE SECRETARY
Patna, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Bihar may be taken or executed by Bihar or
such other person or persons as Bihar shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Bihar shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Bihar,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by Bihar pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF BIHAR
By /s/ N. A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


