Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20059-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.5 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
FOR A
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
March 1, 2000
Poverty Reduction andEconomic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of February 22, 2000)
Currency Unit = Albanian LEK
LEK 1= US$ 0.0072
US$ 1 = 138.85 LEK
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 - Country Assistance Strategy
COE                 - Council of Europe
CPAR                - Country Procurement Assessment Report
EU                  - European Union
FOA                 - Friends of Albania
FY                  - Fiscal Year
GDP                 - Gross Domestic Product
GOA                 - Government of Albania
ICR                 - Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 - International Development Association
MIS                 - Management Information System
MOE                 - Ministry of Education
MOF                 - Ministry of Finance
MOJ                 - Ministry of Justice
NGO                 - Non-governmental Organization
OSCE                - Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PIU                 - Public Implementation Unit
PHRD                - Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SAC                 - Structural Adjustment Credit
SOEs                - Statement of Expenditures
UNDP                - United Nations Development Programme
USAID               - United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager/Director:   Pradeep Mitra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Gary J. Reid



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      8
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          9
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 14
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                15
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      16
3. Benefits and target population                                                     18
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      19
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         25
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           26
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   28
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        29
E. Sunimary Project Analysis
1. Econornic                                                                         30
2. Financial                                                                          30
3. Technical                                                                          30
4. Institutional                                                                      30
5. Social                                                                             31
6. Environmental assessment                                                           32
7. Participatory approach                                                             32
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     33
2. Critical risks                                                                     33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     36



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           36
2. Other                                                                             37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         38
Annex 2: Project Description                                                           44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       52
Annex 4: Not Available                                                                 53
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  54
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     55
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          69
MAP(S)
EBRD Map No. 28467R



ALBANIA
Public Administration Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPE
Date: March 1, 2000                                Team Leader: Gary J. Reid
Country Manager/Director: Arntraud Hartmann        Sector Manager/Director: Pradeep K. Mitra
Project ID: P069939                                Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Cl Loan         1 Credit        El Grant         El Guarantee    rl Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 8.50
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard IDA                            Service charge: 0.75%
.,..,,^w00m0g_ ~~......
Government                                                       0.47            0.00          0.47
IBRD
IDA                                                              0.00            8.50           8.50
Total:                                                           0.47            8.50           8.97
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Responsible agency: PRIME MINISTER OF ALBANIA
Unit for Project Inplementation, Prime Minister's Office
Address: Blvd. "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Contact Person: Mirsa Titka, Unit Director
Tel: (355-42) 25982                Fax:                  Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Department of Public Administration
Address: Council of Ministers
Bul. "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Filloreta Kodra, Director
Tel: (355-42) 359-37              Fax: (355-42) 284-98                Email: fkodra@km-dap.tirana.al
Ministry of Finance
Address: Bul. "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Adriana Berberi, Deputy Minister
Tel: (355) 42 283-73              Fax: (355) 42 283-73                Email:



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
E1MY               2
Annual     0.0          0.5         2.0         4.0        2.0
Cumulative    0.0          0.5         2.5         6.5        8.5
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
OC9 PAD F- 0ADt 9'.1 1
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Government of Albania has adopted a comprehensive policy reform program to strengthen Albania's
weak institutional and governance capacity. This policy reform program is being supported by a Structural
Adjustment Credit, which was approved by the Bank in June of 1999. The overall objective of the
proposed Public Administration Reform Project is to provide required resources for technical assistance,
training, goods and incremental operating costs that are needed to implement the Government's Institutional
and Public Administration Reform agenda effectively.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
It must be recognized at the outset that the task of strengthening Albania's public administration capacity is
monumental. Approaching western European standards of institutional and governance capacity will
require decades, not simply the four-year time horizon available under this project. Moreover, the Bank's
experience working in the Albanian environment demonstrates unequivocally that progress in building civic
institutions is peripatetic; i.e., small steps forward are inevitably followed by non-trivial setbacks.
Nevertheless, progress is possible. For instance, during preparation of this project the Government became
convinced of the need to prepare and get an entirely new Civil Service Law enacted. More than a year of
effort, with active and close support of the donor conmmunity, was required to achieve that goal, which is,
admittedly, only one small but essential step toward a more professional, merit-based, depoliticized civil
service. Moreover, that goal was not achieved without numerous important setbacks along the way. This
experience can be expected to be replicated throughout implementation of the Government's institutional
and public administration strategy. This project, as an important initial step in that process, will be no
exception. By design, this project's time horizon is being kept relatively short. This is intended both to
keep pressure on the Government to ensure minimal slippage during project implementation, as well as to
permit preparation of a follow-on operation if progress under this project demonstrates promising impacts.
This also allows tailoring of any such follow-on operation to evolving needs, which could not be
realistically predicted at this time.
In light of these considerations, the project will include a number of performance indicators, some of which
are intended to serve more to focus the Government's attention on the longer term objectives of its reform
effort, and others of which are intended to capture the more immediate and concrete progress that can
reasonably be expected to be achieved during project implementation.
Monitoring project execution: The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) identifies activities that will be
undertaken to achieve these objectives. Project execution will be monitored and assessed on the basis of the
extent to which programmed activities in the PIP have been undertaken according to schedule, as well as by
subjective assessments of the quality of the work financed by the project. The PIP, however, is expected to
be regularly revised over the course of project implementation. Project execution will be judged relative to
the most recent revision of that PIP. In addition, as with all IDA-financed projects, quarterly financial
reporting on project progress will provide frequent information on the degree to which the project is
undertaking its programmed activities. Serni-annual supervision missions will assess project execution by
reviewing both those quarterly financial statements and evidence on the direct products of project-financed
activities (e.g., progress reports by consultants hired under the project, summaries of training undertaken
and measures of its quality, reports produced, regulations, decrees or other sub-legal acts resulting from
project efforts, systems developed and implemented with financing provided under the project and reports
being produced by those systems).
-3 -



Monitoring intermediate institutional impacts: Institutional impacts can be expected to materialize slowly
and fitfully, both because of the complexity of the causal factors affecting institutional performance and
because many of those factors are not fully within the control of government authorities. Accordingly,
intermediate institutional impact indicators are specified without pre-judging the extent to which
improvements should be expected. The Government commits to monitoring these indicators, while the joint
challenge facing the Government and the IDA supervision team will be to assess what progress can be
adduced from those indicators. Those assessments will be based on the indicators, on the extent and quality
of project execution (see above), as well as on consideration of exogenous factors that may have augmented
or attenuated project impacts during a given supervision period.
Table 1 identifies a core set of measures of impacts on institutional performance being sought by the Public
Administration Reform Project. The Government has committed to monitoring these core measures with
varying degrees of periodicity (as indicated in the table) during the implementation of these reforms. These
measures have been selected to meet the twin needs of ease of monitoring plus comprehensiveness with
respect to capturing the major objectives of the Government's institutional and public administration reform
agenda. Additional guidance on monitoring public sector improvements on policy formulation and
implementation, public expenditure management and human resource management may be found in the
Public Expenditure Management PremPak toolkit and Civil Service PremPak toolkit which have been
recently developed by the World Bank and have been made available to the Government. These toolkits
provide guidance on the core indicators as well as a larger set of institutional indicators that can be used to
obtain a more complete picture of public sector performance. These measures could be refined and
improved, with the agreement of both government and the World Bank, during project execution.
Table 1: Indicators of institutional performance
Indicator        Underpinning assumption          Proposed method of calculation
Policy and public
expenditure
management
Level One-
Aggregate fiscal
discipline
Inflation rate   The ultimate measure in terms of  Inflation rate will be measured as the percentage change of
macro fiscal impact is inflation and    annual consumer price index (CPI), published in the
the budget should be a mechanism  government's fiscal bulletin and monitored under the IMF
for maintaining a sustainable level of  program. (Periodicity: annual)
aggregate expenditures
Revenue          Unplanned revenue shortfalls reflect   "Revenue predictability" will be measured as the difference
predictability   low administrative capacity and/or  between actual central government revenues and those
deliberate overestimates to avoid  projected in the budget adopted by Parliament at the
difficult spending reductions.  beginning of the fiscal year. (Periodicity: annual)
-4 -



Fiscal aggregates    Fiscal aggregates are in line with    End-period gross official reserves (in months of imports of
Government's economic program, as   goods and services (Periodicity: annual)
agreed with the IMF                  * External current account deficit (in percent of GDP)
(Periodicity: annual)
Level two-
Strategic
Prioritization
Policy volatility   The budget should be a credible      Policy volatility is calculated as the median of the year to
signal of government's policy        year policy changes (absolute values) in each functional
intentions - and radical variations  classification over the preceding 4 years, where policy
indicate that there is no coherent set    changes are defined as the difference between the percentage
of policy priorities and that officials    share in the budget from year n to year n+l, calculated as a
charged with implementation will     proportion of the year n figure (Periodicity: annual)
not take policy statements seriously
because it is likely to change.
Delays in auditing    The government should be held      "Delays in auditing" will be measured as the elapsed time
accountable by the legislature for its    between the end of the financial year and the tabling of
policy actions. Lengthy delays are an    externally audited financial statements in the legislature.
indication that the government is not   (Periodicity: annual)
held accountable by the legislature
for its actions.
Deviation from      The government should be held        "Deviation from functional appropriations" will be
functional          accountable by the legislature for its    calculated as the sum of all (absolute values of) deviations
appropriations      policy actions.                      between approved and implemented budgets by functional
classification. High deviation indicates poor quality of
planning and/or implementation, and lessened credibility in
the budget. (Periodicity: annual)
Level three -
Operational
Efficiency
Representative      Spending units should know in         "Representative deviation at sector level" is the average
deviation by        advance what their budget funding    proportional deviation between (i) budgeted allocations for
spending units at    will be as a prerequisite for       non-personnel costs (operations and maintenance) and other
sector level        operational efficiency and           recurrent costs and (ii) actual expenditures under these
managerial accountability.           appropriations for each major sectoral spending unit in 5 key
sectors: health, education, defense, roads and agriculture.
Major sectoral spending unit to be defined as that which is
appropriated at least half of the total personnel costs,
operations and maintenance, and other recurrent costs and
actual expenditures for the sector. Where no spending unit
satisfies that criteria, then the sum of the differences (not
deviations) for a range of spending units which between
them are appropriated at least half of the total personnel
costs, operations and maintenance, and other recurrent costs
should be used. (Periodicity: annual)
-5-



Transparent,      Procurement rules and procedures    Once the Public Procurement Agency develops capacity to
competitive       should enhance transparency and   monitor public procurement, they will report on the
procurement       competition.                      incidence of permitted forms of procurement (international
competitive bidding, national competitive bidding, direct
procurement, etc.). Increasing reliance on international
competitive bidding (for contracts above a given threshold),
for instance, would indicate increasing competition.
(Periodicity: annual, once monitoring capacity is established)
This measure will be complemented by survey-based
information. The corruption surveys of firms to be
conducted in 2003 will include questions probing firms
about their perceptions of the transparency and
competitiveness of public procurement practices. Results
will be compared to baseline results found in the 1998
corruption surveys, in particular, that (a) more than half of
the firms surveyed in 1998 claimed that they did not
participate in specific government procurements because
competition is unfair, (b) almost 50% of firms requiring
clearance for participation in government procurements
admnit to paying bribes for such clearance, and (c) these
latter firms claimed to pay bribes 70% of the time. The
project will look for improvements (i.e., reductions) in all
three of these indicators. (Periodicity: At least once during
project execution, in addition to the baseline surveys
undertaken in 1998)
Public Sector
Human Resource
Management
Fiscally sound pay
and employment
practices
Numbers of civil    Government should be a responsible    Government will provide data as nearly as possible
and public        employer, restraining employment  congruent with the employment categories suggested in the
servants in       costs while ensuring that         Civil Service PremPak Toolkit. Comparator data from other
comparison with    remuneration arrangements do not  countries are available from the 1997 Schiavo-Campo, de
international     establish perverse incentives.    Tommaso and Mukherjee study on public sector pay and
practice                                            employment, and are now being updated. Salvatore
Schiavo-Campo, Giulio de Tommaso, and Amitabha
Mukherjee, "Government Employment and Pay: A Global
and Regional Perspective," Policy Research Working Paper
No. 1771 (The World Bank: Washington, DC, May 1997);
and Salvatore Schiavo-Campo, Giulio de Tommaso, and
Amitabha Mukherjee, "An International Statistical Survey of
Government Employment and Wages," Policy Research
Working Paper No. 1806 (The World Bank: Washington,
DC, August 1997). (Periodicity: annual)
-6 -



Fiscal weight of   Government should be a responsible    Three separate measures will be provided:
public             employer, restraining employment          Wage bill as % of GDP
employment in      costs while ensuring that                Wage bill as % of government expenditures
comparison with    remuneration arrangements do not         Goods and services expenditures as % of government
international      establish perverse incentives.          expenditures
practice -                                             Comparator data will be obtained from the Government
Financial Statistics, from the updated database on public
sector pay and employment collected by Schiavo-Campo et
al, or from the Civil Service PremPak Toolkit. (Periodicity:
annual)
Competitive and
non-arbitrary
remuneration
Civil service pay  Vertical decompression outside the  The key measure is the median of the ninth decile salaries
(vertical          range 1:7 to 1:20 undermines        divided by the median of the first decile salaries - but for
compression)       incentives for public officials to  comparison with the OECD, ninth decile salaries divided by
pursue a career and take disciplinary    median salaries and median salaries divided by first decile
threats seriously.                 salaries could be provided. Comparator data from other
countries is available through the Civil Service PremPak
Toolkit. (Periodicity: annual)
Civil service pay  Average central government wages    A survey of salaries in the Albanian public and private
(comparisons with   as a proportion of average private  sectors will be undertaken in 2000. Results of that survey
the private sector)   sector manufacturing wages below  will provide several baseline measures of public/private pay
0.5 provides inadequate attraction for  relationships. Thereafter, the Government will report on
skilled staff, or above 1.5 indicates  civil service and other public employee salaries, whose
capture by existing personnel.     changes will be tracked relative to changes in measures such
as GDP and CPI, to assess whether public salaries are
adjusting as desired, given their starting point. (Periodicity:
Once for baseline. Annual for tracking changes within the
public sector relative to changes in GDP and CPI.)
Civil service pay  Horizontal decompression              Central pay and employment registry currently being
(horizontal        (discretionary allowances over and  developed by the government will, once up and running,
compression)       above base pay) in excess of 1:1.2  produce reports on the composition of the budget-financed
provides opportunities for excessive    wage bill by component of salary, as defined in the Civil
managerial discretion, facilitating  Service Law, including variance in that composition across
organized corruption and           public agencies. (Periodicity: Semi-annual, once the pay and
rent-seeking.                      employment registry is functioning).
A survey of public officials is being completed in early
2000. Data from that survey, as well as from the
public/private salary survey to be undertaken later in 2000,
will allow identification of a baseline assessment of
horizontal compression. The survey of public officials will
be repeated in 2002, permitting assessment near the time of
the project's midterm review of progress on reducing any
excessive horizontal decompression. (Periodicity: Once for
baseline. At least one follow-up survey)
7-



Human resource
management
based on rules,
performance and
fairness
Rule credibility   The credibility of rules governing the   Spot surveys of officials will be repeated periodically over
public administration contributes  the course of project implementation, asking questions that
significantly to effective human  permit calculation of an index of rule credibility based on
resource management. Key factors    these six determiniants of rule credibility. The index will be
contributing to such rule credibility  modeled after the "rule credibility index" developed in Nick
include: (i) existence of rules in  Manning, Ranjana Mukherjee and Omer Gokcekus, "The
recruitment; (ii) existence of rules in   Experience of Public Officials in Bolivia: What works in a
evaluation; (iii) existence of rules in    weak institutional environment," draft report (The World
training; (iv) existence of rules in  Bank: February, 2000), pp. 15-16. Improvement in rule
recording; (v) fairness in treatment;   credibility as measured by that index is an objective of the
and (vi) predictability of one's career   project. (Periodicity: At least twice over the course of project
path.                             implementation)
Limited incidence   Government employees should be    The incidence of "non-political appointees" will be measured
of political       held in some respect by business and   as civil service appointees as a % of total central
appointees in the    the general public, partly on the basis  administration employment. This ratio is zero as of 15
civil service      that they have been transparently  February 2000. Implementation of the Civil Service Law
appointed on merit.               should increase this incidence. (Periodicity: Annual)
Policy
Formulation and
Coordination
Policy credibility    Policies are more reliably      Spot surveys of officials will be repeated periodically over
implemented when they are credible;  the course of project implementation, asking questions that
i.e., when policies (i) have reasonable  permit calculation of an index of policy credibility based on
consistency over time, (ii) are   these four determinants of policy credibility. The index will
communicated clearly to employees,   be modeled after the "policy credibility index" developed in
and (iii) are supported by public  Nick Manning, Ranjana Mukherjee and Omer Gokcekus, "
officials responsible for their   The Experience of Public Officials in Bolivia: What works in
implementation who (iv) are not    a weak institutional envirornent," draft report (The World
subject to political              Bank: February, 2000), pp. 16-17. Improvement in policy
interference/micro-management as  credibility as measured by that index is an objective of the
they undertake to implement those  project. (Periodicity: At least twice over the course of project
policies.                          implementation)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18161 AL                   Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/30/98
The 1997 crisis brought into focus the inherent problems in Albania's economic governance capacity and
the inability of the Government to enforce its laws and regulations. The 1998 CAS, therefore, places
central, cross-sectoral emphasis on governance and institution building and identifies the need to adopt and
imnplement reforms to build an accountable and transparent state as the most important challenge facing the
Government of Albania. The CAS progress report, presented to the Board on March 21, 2000, confirms
-8 -



the agreement between the government and the Bank that these themes are still fundamental. The progress
report notes that the foundations for institutional and public administration reforms are in place, but that
continued institutional strengthening is still needed to help implement the comprehensive policy reforms,
complementing substantial support from other donors and the Stability pact. IDA strategy focuses on three
priorities: (i) governance and institution building; (ii) promoting sustainable private sector growth; and
(iii) promoting human development and poverty alleviation. The CAS lending program envisages
support for public administration reform through three related operations and complementary economic and
sector work: (i) a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), approved by the Board on June 3, 1999, supporting
the policy program adopted by the government in these areas; (ii) a Public Administration Reform (PAR)
Investment Credit that helps finance the implementation of this policy program; followed by (iii) a second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II, FY01), which will help to further improve public expenditure
management, ensuring that public resources are allocated toward alleviating poverty; all of which will be
complemented by (iv) a Public Expenditure and Institutional Review, which aims at assisting the
Government to strengthen the strategic prioritization capacities of its budget processes and practices. The
Public Administration Reform investment credit will contribute mainly to the first priority of governance
and institution building, but will also have a positive impact on the second priority, namely promoting
sustainable private sector growth.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Effective governance requires institutions capable of both formulating and imnplementing public policies as
well as engendering legitimacy of those institutions and the policies they establish. Such institutions must
respond to the demands of the citizenry and elicit the collaboration of that citizenry in the design and
imnplementation of those policies. They must provide credible benefits to the citizenry in a way that is
recognizably fair, responsive and equitable. Moreover, they must do so within the financial and human
resource constraints of Albania's economy and public sector. Public institutions for ensuring such
governance capacities include: (i) those that formulate and coordinate policies and laws (including
Parliament, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and
Trade, the Ministry of Justice, as well as certain elements of all line Ministries); (ii) those that ensure the
rule of law (the Ministry of Justice, the Judiciary, the Public Prosecutor and the police forces, among
others); (iii) those whose responsibilities are to ensure transparent. accountable and effective management
of public resources (the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Department of Public
Administration, the soon to be created Civil Service Commission, the Supreme Audit Institution, to name
the most obvious); (iv) those who are charged with implementing particular policies and programs (e.g.,
line Ministries, autonomous and serni-autonomous budget institutions, regulatory agencies, local
governments, etc.); as well as (v) those responsible for providing avenues of redress should citizens or
public officials have reason to question whether the public institutions are meeting their mandates (e.g.,
elected officials, the newly created Ombudsman, the Judiciary, the Judicial Inspectors' Office of the High
Council of Justice, and the soon to be created Civil Service Conmmission).
The Government's strategy for strengthening the public institutions required for more effective governance
addresses all five of these types of public institutions: policy formulation and coordination, ensuring the
rule of law, public administration, policy and program implementation, and redress.
Policy formulation and coordination
In order to make policy formulation and coordination more rational and more responsive to the priorities of
the citizenry, the Government's institutional and public administration reform strategy includes three major
initiatives: (a) strengthening of the functioning of the Council of Ministers; (b) taking initial steps toward
-9-



building capacity to systematically monitor the impacts of policies and programs mandated under acts of
Parliament, including the annual budget; and (c) establishing guidelines and providing technical assistance
to line Ministries and other public institutions charged with irnplementing particular programs and policies,
designed to help those organizational units to enhance citizen involvement in the design and delivery of
public programs and services.
Strengthening of the Council of Ministers will be based on a recently completed functional review of the
Council of Ministers (CoM). It will focus on (i) rationalizing the management of the policy formulation
processes within the CoM, (ii) building stable professional capacity within the CoM to provide systematic
analyses of policy issues and tradeoffs raised by legislative and policy proposals, and (iui) providing
technical assistance to the CoM to assist it in reviewing and implementing the reconmmendations of the
functional review completed in March 1999.
Taking initial steps to build capacity to systematically monitor the impacts of policies and programs will
be accomplished through: (i) undertaking a pilot donor-led survey of public officials aimed, in the first
instance, at identifying and publicizing impacts of the institutional and public administration reform
process, and (ii) repeating that survey during the third year of project execution, albeit with the
Govermnent taking primary responsibility for the execution of that survey, with close supervision by the
World Bank, and publicizing the results, particularly in comparison to the results of the original survey.
Enhancing citizen-responsiveness of budget instituti    is being accomplished by: (i) creation and
strengthening of an independent Ombudsman (People's Advocate) reporting directly to Parliament (see
"Redress" below); (ii) creating capacity within the Department of Public Administration to establish
guidelines and provide technical assistance to budget institutions on enhancing the citizen-responsiveness of
their organizations (see "Policy and Program Implementation" below); (iii) support to line Ministries in
developing sector strategies that explicitly address means by which their policy and program
implementation efforts can be made more participative (see "Policy and Program Implementation" below).
Public administration
On public administration, the CAS identifies the need to restore and build trust in the govemment as the
main priority. The more recent Country Economic Memorandum stresses two key issues that must be
addressed in order to build such trust: accountability and public administration capacity. The Government's
strategy for strengthening its public administration addresses these weaknesses through two inter-related
sets of interventions: (a) strengthening public financial management, including the management of both
public expenditures and revenues; and (b) strengthening human resource management.
Strengthening of public financial management is being accomplished by strengthening core public financial
management units (Ministry of Finance, Supreme Audit Institute, Procurement Directorate within the
Office of the Prime Minister) as well as the financial management units within each line agency (e.g.,
budget departments within line Ministries).
Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance includes its public expenditure management functions
(budget formulation and execution, macroeconomic forecasting/modeling, treasury and cash
management, accounting, intemal auditing), its revenue administration functions (tax and customs), as
well as strengthening of its own internal management capacities. On the public expenditure
management side of this work, with the support of the EU/PHARE, the Government prepared and
Parliament recently enacted a New Organic Budget Law (NOBL) (Law No. 8379, dated 29 July 1998).
EU/PHARE is providing a long-term adviser and other support to help imnplement that NOBL. The
- 10-



IMF has also provided assistance through its Fiscal Affairs Department. Substantial assistance will be
provided through this PAR project consistent with the strategic context laid out in the ongoing Public
Expenditure and Instituional Review (PEIR), whose main objective is to strengthen the strategic focus
in the budget management process by initiating a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF). The
assistance given through this project will support the PEIR program by addresing each of the public
expenditure management functions within the Ministry of Finance (budget formulation and execution,
macroeconomic forecasting/modeling, treasury and cash management, accounting) as well as internal
management capacities, including internal audit.  It will focus on enhancing transparency,
accountability and predictability of public expenditure management practices.  On the revenue
administration side, the Government has and continues to receive considerable assistance through the
Customs Administration Mission (CAM), financed largely by the Italian Government and the EU. A
new Customs Law resulted from this assistance recently (January 1999, subsequently amended, put
into force May 15, 1999). In addition, the CAM-supported reforms are making substantial
improvements in both the management and perfornance of the Customs Department.  Tax
administration modernization is being supported by an existing IDA-financed Tax Administration
Modeniization Project (TAMP).
Strengthening of the Supreme Audit Institute is being supported under the EU/PHARE State
Institutions and Public Administration Reform (SIPAR) programme. That programmne supported the
formulation of provisions in the recently approved Constitution creating an independent Supreme Audit
Institute (SAI) reporting directly to the Parliament. SIPAR includes an extensive program of
assistance to help the SAI to provide probative, reliable and timely external audits by: (i) building its
external audit capacities through implementing audit standards and methods, (ii) modernizing the SAI's
audit technologies (e.g., comnputerization, power supply backup), and (iii) improving its relations with
Parliament, to whom it reports. At a later date, support for building performance auditing capacities
within the SAI will be considered, but the initial priority is to bring conventional financial auditing
capacities up to modem standards.
Strengthening of the Procurement Directorate is being supported both through the SIPAR programme
and through technical assistance provided by World Bank missions. Primary foci of that support
include: (i) revision of the existing public procurement law; (ii) development and dissemination of
detailed regulations, guidelines, forms, etc. governing public procurement procedures and practices;
(iii) strengthening of the oversight capacities of the Procurement Directorate; and (iv) establishing the
capacity and practice within the Procurement Directorate to prepare and disseminate periodic reports
on the quantity and quality of public procurements. This project will continue and build on this
assistance.
Strengthening of public sector human resource management will be addressed in two major stages: civil
service reform and broader public sector human resource management reform. The first stage aims to
create the managerial and professional nucleus required to lead any serious efforts to improve the
accountability and performance of public institutions. The second stage will address the larger body of
public employees who must also be productive and accountable for their work if public policies, prograrns
and services are to be delivered reliably and cost-effectively. While stage two will largely follow and build
on stage one, work on broader public sector human resource managernent reform is expected to commence
before the civil service reform process is complete. In addition, stage two interventions will be more varied
across sectors, as some of the larger sectors (e.g., education, health care) will require unique legal
frameworks. Finally, the Government aims to integrate its stage two interventions into sector-specific
modernization processes, which will introduce additional variability in the timing and design of stage two
reforms across sectors.
- 11 -



Civil service reform will be addressed by: (i) implementing the new Civil Service Law, so as to lay a
firmer foundation for an independent, merit-based, competitively recruited, career civil service
protected by adequate redress; (ii) creating an independent Civil Service Commission, with centralized
responsibility to create a professional, merit-based, highly skilled, depoliticized civil service protected
by adequate redress; (iii) strengthening the capacity of the Department of Public Administration to
support that Civil Service Commission as well as to support more professional human resource
management throughout the public sector; (iv) revising policies governing the conditions of
employment, including salary structures within the civil service; (v) strengthening central payroll and
personnel monitoring capacities within the Department of Public Administration; (vi) strengthening
training capacities for civil servants; (vii) monitoring the impacts of civil service reforms; and (viii)
providing the Council of Ministers with periodic, and at least annual, assessments of those impacts and
recommendations for further improving civil service and human resource management performance.
As part of the strategy for implementing these civil service reforms, the Government will require line
ministries to undertake administrative and organizational changes aimed at streamlining and improving
their performance. This will be supported by activities aimed at: (i) establishing guidelines and
standards for organizational structures and staffing to meet conmmon function requirements (policy
formulation and coordination, financial management, human resource management, accountability for
meeting policy and program objectives); (ii) clarifying policy and program objectives of the
organizational units encompassed by a functional review and identifying means by which the Ministry
could regularly monitor, evaluate and report on progress in achieving those objectives; (iii) aligning the
functions of the Ministry to those appropriate for a market-oriented economy, consistent with
Constitutional obligations and social priorities, and eliminating inappropriate functions; and (iv)
providing recommendations on steps the Ministry could take to improve its accountability and
performance in achieving program and policy objectives within its mandate in a more cost-effective and
citizen-responsive manner (e.g., through process re-engineering). This process has begun with the
Council of Ministers, the public expenditure management elements of the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local Government.
Broader public sector human resource management reform will build on both the experience and the
enhanced human resources resulting from the civil service reform process.  This stage of the
Government's public sector human resource management strategy will involve six major elements: (i)
revising the legal framework governing non-civil-service positions so as to enhance transparency,
competitive forces, accountability and redress, but without necessarily creating the career system
envisioned for the civil service; (ii) strengthening the capacity of central authorities, particularly the
Department of Public Administration, to provide oversight and technical assistance for human resource
management functions exercised by budgetary institutions; (iii) strengthening human resource
management capacities within budgetary units; (iv) revising salary structures for non-civil-service
positions and/or establishing regulatory frameworks and oversight capacity within which budget
institutions may improve non-civil service salaries within a hard wage bill constraint subject to meeting
agreed conditions (e.g., on management accountability); (v) monitoring the impacts of these broader
public sector human resource management reforms; and (vi) providing the Department of Public
Administration and, in turn, the Council of Ministers with periodic, and at least annual, assessments of
those impacts and recommendations for further irnproving overall human resource management
performance throughout the public sector.
- 12 -



Policy and program implementation
Improving policy and program implementation will require sector-specific strategies and interventions,
which will more often than not benefit from active donor support and expertise. To ensure that the
Government's institutional and public administration reform strategy will complernent those sector-specific
reforms, - the following principles will guide concerted sector-specific reform initiatives aimed at
significantly and sustainably improving the implementation or delivery of policies, programs and services
within a given sector:
1. Establish partnerships with independent, highly qualified and strongly motivated teams of experts and
change agents (e.g., provided through donors or NGOs) when concerted efforts are launched to
systematically and sustainably improve the implementation of a given sector's policies and programs
(e.g., education, health, infrastructure, social services, etc.).
2. Before launching any concerted program, policy or service delivery reform initiative, prepare a reform
strategy for the sector, which addresses, among other issues, the following design elements:
*   Objectives: Establish clear objectives, including means of regularly monitoring and assessing the
extent to which those objectives are being achieved.
*   Partnership: Identify means of ensuring active involvement, even to the point of full partnership,
with the intended beneficiaries of the programs, policies or services in both the design and
operation of the delivery system (e.g., in the design and operation of schools, health clinics, etc.).
3   Management: Identify means of ensuring adequate management systems and capacities (e.g.,
financial management, personnel management, performance monitoring and reporting).
•   Marketing: Identify means of ensuring widespread dissemination of information to intended
beneficiaries that will help to increase their awareness of the services and service provision
standards they should expect, how they can access those services, as well as the resources that are
being spent on providing those services, so that they will be in a position to hold the providing
agency accountable.
*   Feedback and redress: Identify means by which intended beneficiaries can provide feedback and
seek redress, particularly if posted service provision standards are not met.
3. Coordinate the overall public administration reform effort with sector-specific reform initiatives. This
would include:
3   Concentrate efforts to strengthen public expenditure management capacities within a sectoral
Ministry in the early stages of a sector-specific reform effort.
* Target civil service positions within a sectoral Ministry undertaking a program, policy or service
provision reform effort during the early stages of that sector-specific reform effort.
* Employ the functional review of the sectoral Ministry, when available, as a means of launching
important aspects of the sector-specific reform effort, particularly the specification of objectives
and their monitoring and establishing adequate management systems and capacities.
The Department of Public Administration, the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Prime Minister
will provide technical assistance and oversight of the Government's effort to effect these policy and
program implementation reform guidelines. The Department of Public Administration will take direct
responsibility for ensuring coordination of the Government's overall public administration reform process
with sector-specific reform initiatives. Technical assistance provided under the PAR project will assist the
Department of Public Administration, the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Prime Minister to
establish the capacities to meet this mandate.
- 13 -



Redress/Citizen Voice
The final dimension of the Government's overall institutional and public administration reform strategy is
providing avenues of redress should citizens or public officials have reason to question whether the public
institutions are meeting their mandates (e.g., elected officials, the newly created Ombudsman,  the
Judiciary, the Judicial Inspectors' Office of the High Council of Justice, and the soon to be created Civil
Service Commission). This complements the previous four dimensions, providing one more means of
ensuring that the Government and its public administration does not lose touch with its clients -- the
citizenry. Major elements of the Government's strategy for improving redress include:
*   Direct citizen redress: (i) Creation and strengthening of an independent "People's Advocate" or
ombudsman  (January 28, 1999), to respond to concerns raised by individual citizens about the
performance of the public administration and its representatives; (ii) creation of capacity to
systematically monitor citizens' perceptions of the impacts of policies and programs (see "Policy
Formulation and Coordination" above); and (iii) creation (through the sector-specific reform
initiatives discussed above) of avenues by which intended beneficiaries of particular policies,
programs or public services can directly appeal to the public agency responsible for delivering or
implementing that policy, program or public service should the citizen be dissatisfied with the
agency's or its representatives' performance.
3   Lezal redress: Strengthening of the Judiciary, including creation and strengthening of the Judicial
Inspectors' Office of the High Council of Justice (see above), to meet citizens' needs for legal
redress.
*   Administrative redress for public officials: Creation and strengthening of an independent Civil
Service Commission, to provide, among other functions, administrative redress when public
employees have reason to question the fairness or legitimacy of personnel actions within the public
administration.
Elements of each of these objectives will be supported under the PAR project, under the Legal and Judicial
Reform Project, as well as by assistance provided by other donors.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A.    Re: policy formulation and coordination
The project will address the policy formulation and coordination initiatives identified in the Government's
strategy enunciated above. Technical assistance provided under the project is defined so as to complement
and avoid overlap with technical assistance being provided by other donors.
B.    Re: public administration
The project will address the following elements of the public administration dimension of the Government's
institutional and public administration reform strategy:
Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance's public expenditure management capacities
Strengthening of procurement capacities within the Public Procurement Agency
Civil service reform, including strengthening the capacities of the Department of Public Administration
Because other donors are already providing substantial assistance in strengthening of the Supreme Audit
Institute, the PAR project will not address that area.
- 14 -



Finally, broader public sector human resource management reforms will largely be postponed beyond the
time horizon of the PAR project, since establishing a professional, merit-based, highly skilled, depoliticized
civil service protected by adequate redress is a sufficient and prior challenge, given the time frame of the
PAR project and the limited absorptive capacity of Albania's public administration. All assistance for the
public administration reform dimension of the Government's institutional and public administration reform
strategy will be defined so as to complement and avoid overlap with technical assistance being provided by
other donors.
C.    Re: policy and program implementation
The PAR will not directly assist sector-specific reform efforts aimed at improving policy, program and
service delivery performance. Its contribution will be limited to providing assistance to few pilot ministries
in their preparation of sector strategy statements in the context of the preparation of the medium term
expenditure framework under the PEM  component.   It will, instead,  seek to leverage other
donor-supported efforts in support of sector-specific reforms by addressing the framework-setting,
coordination and facilitation interventions identified above. Donor conmnunity cooperation will be sought
to ensure that donor-assisted efforts to directly assist sector-specific reform efforts (e.g., in education,
health, infrastructure, local government, etc.) comply with the Government's guidelines and focus on the
objectives of the Government's strategy along this dimension of its institutional and public administration
reforn strategy, as enunciated above.
D.    Re: Redress/Citizen Voice
The PAR will address the redress dimension of the Government's institutional and public administration
reform strategy enunciated above by supporting the implementation of the Civil Service Commission as
well as by helping to establish capacity to monitor and publicize citizens' perceptions of the impacts of the
public administration reform effort itself. Other dimensions of redress/citizen voice are being supported by
the Legal and Judicial Reform Project as well as by other donors.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The PAR project will aim to address the objectives underlined in the above strategy by focusing on some of
the most important elements that lay the foundations for a more efficient and transparent functioning of the
state. While the Government's institutional and public administration reform strategy addresses the five
broad challenges explained above, the project includes components addressing three crucial elements of that
strategy: (i) public expenditure management strengthening, (ii) human resource management strengthening;
and (iii) policy formulation and coordination strengthening. The project will also include a fourth
component to handle (iv) management of the project itself
The public expenditure management component will address five elements of the public expenditure
management system, plus strengthening the management of the Ministry of Finance (MoF) itself: (a) budget
formulatiion, (b) budget execution (treasury), (c) macroeconomic and fiscal forecasting and analysis, (d)
accounting, (e) procurement, and (f) management of the MoF. The human resource management
component will include three sub-components: (a) implementation of the recently enacted Civil Service Act,
(b) strengthening of the Department of Public Administration, which is lodged within the Office of the
Prime Minister, and (c) support of the establishment of an Albanian Institute of Public Administration,
which is being established under a separate project financed by the UNDP. The policy formulation and
- 15 -



coordination component will strengthen the professional (civil service) capacities to provide the Council of
Ministers with policy analysis and support its coordination function. Finally, the project management
component will (a) ensure project management and imnplementation, including supporting all the required
project administration capacities (e.g., accounting, audit, procurement, disbursement management,
monitoring and evaluation), and (b) support several specific initiatives for monitoring and publicizing the
intermediate impacts of the Government's institutional and public administrative reform program.
I. Public Expenditure Management   Institutional       5.74      64.0       5.59      65.8
Development
II. Human Resource Management      Institutional       2.32      25.9       2.24      26.4
Development
III. Policy Formulation and        Institutional       0.40       4.5       0.31       3.6
Coordination                       Development
IV. Project Management            Institutional        0.51        5.7      0.36       4.2
Development
Total Project Costs                    8.97      100.0      8.50     100.0
Total Financing Required                    8.97      100.0      8.50      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Important policy and institutional reforms have already been taken, which will help to lay a firm foundation
for the Government's institutional and public administration reform strategy. Many of these were taken in
the months leading up to the Public Expenditure Support Credit and the Structural Adjustment Credit,
some as tranche release conditions. Additional measures have been undertaken with support of the SAC.
The PAR project will provide technical assistance targeted on the public expenditure management, public
sector human resource management and policy formulation and coordination elements of these prior
actions, in order to ensure that these initiatives bear fruit. Key reforms taken to date within the
Government's overarching institutional and public administration reform effort include:
Policy formulation and coordination
* Issuance of decree establishing "Anti-Corruption Action Plan" (August 1998) and implementation
of that action plan underway
* Issuance of decree establishing Inter-Ministerial Committee for histitutional and Public
Administration Reform (January 1999)
*   Functional review of Council of Ministers undertaken (March 1999)
*  Continue Monitoring and publicizing of progress on implementation of institutional and public
administration reform program continued and substantial progress made on implementation of the
Anticorruption Action Plan (March 2000)
*   Survey of public officials undertaken and publicized with assistance of IDA (July 2000)
Public administration reform
Strengthening public financial management
* Revenue Administration:
- 16 -



*  Implement Tax Administration Modernization Project
*  Enact new Customs Code (January 1999, subsequently revised, placed in force May 15,
1999)
*  Introduce testing for recruitment of Customs officials (January 1999)
*   Strengthen Customs Department with assistance of Customs Assistance Mission (CAM)
(ongoing)
* Public expenditure management
*  Enact New Organic Budget Law (April 1998)
*  Create independent Supreme Audit Institution (SAI) (Constitution approved November
1998)
* Complete functional review of public expenditure management side of Ministry of Finance
(November 1999)
*   Submit to the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Economic Policy bi-monthly Budget
Framework Memorandums (BFM) in 1999 (initial BFM submitted May 1999)
*  Take steps to integrate the investment and recurrent budget planning process. (December
2000)
*  Implement public expenditure tracking study on health, public works and local government
budget, as the sectors most affected by the Kosovo crisis (December 2000)
*  Institutional strengthening to imnplement the public procurement system
Strengthen public sector human resource management
*   Staff up Department of Public Administration (January 1999)
*   Submit to Parliament revised Civil Service Law and begin preparation of the detailed norrs
and procedures related to that Law that would lay an adequate legal foundation for
competitive, transparent management of the civil service. (August 1999)
-  Enact new Civil Service Law (November 1999)
*  Appoint members of Civil Service Commission (May 2000)
*  Complete the recruitment of 50 civil servants under transparent, competitive, merit-based
procedures as established under the human resources management legislation in a manner
acceptable to IDA. (September 2000)
*  Issue decree revising public sector salary structure. (September 2000)
•  Complete functional reviews of Council of Ministers, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice
and Ministry of Local Government and begin implementing of recommendations aimed at
enhancing policy formulation and coordination and public administration capacities and
eliminating or contracting out functions identified as either unnecessary or better undertaken by
the private sector. (Dec. 1999)
Policy and program implementation
*  Develop, with assistance of IDA, brief policy strategy statements for policy sectors likely to be
heavily impacted by Kosovo refugee crisis (May-June, 1999).
Redress/Citizen Voice
* Issued law creating independent "People's Advocate" (Ombudsman), reporting directly to
Parliament (January 28, 1999)
* Actions to create an independent Civil Service Commission (see "Public administration reform"
above)
* Law on Administrative Procedures, No. 8485 dated May 12, 1999
* Law on Freedom of Infornation, No. 8503 dated June 30, 1999
- 17-



3. Benefits and target population:
It is anticipated that the institutional reforms will have a positive impact, directly and indirectly, on
Albanian society as a whole. The following table summarizes key anticipated benefits. The project will
contribute directly only to the benefits in italics. The remainder will be addressed by the Government's
overall institutional and public administration reform strategy.
Target Population
Benefit                            Direct Beneficiaries         Indirect Beneficiaries
Improved policy formulation and coordination:
Improved quality ofpolicy deliberations.    Government                          Parliament, citizenry
Citizens' voice plays a more important role in    Citizenry                     Parliament, Government,
policy deliberations.                                                           line Ministries
Improved coordination ofpolicies            Government, line Ministries         Parliament, citizenry
Increased credibility ofpolicy making process.   Government                     Parliament, citizenry
Better public administration
Better quality civil servants (including greater   Ministers and political appointees (e.g., Citizenry
professionalism, skill levels, merit-orientation,   Deputy Ministers, Directors General)
integrity).                                 managing those civil servants.
Improved civil service management (including   Civil servants, line Ministries,  Citizenry
less politicized, more meritocratic, more   Government
competitive, better at building needed human
capital skills)
Improved administrative arrangements        Line Ministries, Goverrnment        Civil servants
(including more conducive to coordination,
clearer assignment of responsibilities)
Improved public expenditure management      Ministry of Finance, Government     Line Ministries and their
(including greater accountability, predictability,                              managers
transparency and better balancing of
expenditures between personnel, M&O and
investment)
Increased credibility of the public administration Governmnent, public administration  Parliament, citizenry,
taxpayers
Better policy and program implementation
Better coordination of policy and program   Government, line Ministries         Parliament, citizenry
implementation.
Greater accountability for achieving programn and Government, Ministry of Finance  Citizenry
policy objectives.
Increased credibility of public institutions  Line Ministries/public institutions  Government, Parliament
responsible for implementing/delivering policies,  responsible for implementing/delivering
programs and services.                      policies, programs and services
- 18-



Enhanced redress and voice options
Enhanced capacity to have a voice in policy  Citizenry                        Government, Parliament
formulation and implementation.
Enhanced protection from arbitrary personnel   Civil servants                 Citizenry
actions.
Greater protection of legal rights.        Citizens requiring legal assistance  Citizenry
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The project is expected to be implemented over a four-year period (2000-2004),
closing on December 31, 2004.
Project Implementation: The Government has created an inter-ministerial committee to implement and
oversee measures that will be taken in the context of the public administration reform for strengthening the
financial management system and human resource management system. This inter-ministerial committee is
under the leadership of the Prime Minister and is comprised of the Minister of Finance, Director of the
Department for Public Administration, and Minister of Justice. While this Committee will have overall
responsibility for implementing the Govermnent's overall institutional and public administration reform
strategy, immediate responsibility for project implementation will rest with the Unit for Implementation of
the Public Administration Reform Program (UIPARP) which the Government recently created within the
office of the Prime Minister. The Unit will carry out the day to day project implementation, including
procurement and disbursement. The Unit consists of a Unit Director, two Project Coordinators (one from
the MOF and one from the Council of Ministers), one Procurement Officer, and one Financial Management
Officer.
Project Coordination:  Project coordination will be ensured through the inter-ministerial committee
mentioned in the above paragraph, as well as by close collaboration between the Deputy Minister of
Finance, the Director of the Department of Public Administration and the Secretary General within the
Council of Ministers.
Monitoring and Evaluation Design:    The Department within the Office of the Prime Minister for
implementation of the Public Administration Reform Program will have a monitoring and evaluation
systern for which an appropriate computerized Management Information System (MIS) will be set up under
the project. It will track three main types of variables, which are identified in the detailed Project
Implementation Plan and the implementation monitoring plan identified above:
* financial indicators
* intermediate impact indicators
* physical indicators
The UIPARP will provide IDA with sermi-annual reports on project progress by April 30 and October 31 of
each year, beginning in October of the year 2000. Furthermore, surveys will be taken to obtain
stakeholders' evaluations of the impact of reforms implemented under the Project. In particular, a survey
of officials has already been undertaken to establish baseline measurements of a wide variety of aspects of
the quality of the current public administration. That survey will be repeated during the penultimate year
of the project to capture progress in changing officials' views of how well the public expenditure
management systems and processes as well as the human resource management practices meet key
- 19 -



performance standards. In addition, a number of spot surveys of individual issues will be undertaken over
the course of the project, to capture and publicize citizens' views on salient issues. In addition, the project
will collect data produced by both public expenditure and human resource management systems, so as to
monitor their functioning on an ongoing basis throughout project implementation.
As a complement to these monitoring efforts, anti-corruption surveys were undertaken as a precursor to
project preparation, to gauge citizen perceptions of corruption and related phenomena. Those surveys will
also be repeated during the penultimate year of the project, so as to permit pre- and post-project
comparisons. While the project is not expected to have measurable impacts on perceptions of corruption,
the repeat of this survey should provide an instrument for contributing to enhanced citizen awareness of
corruption issues, and thereby make a modest contribution to helping to nurture public pressure on the
government to address the underlying factors that contribute to the pervasive levels of corruption evident in
the first set of anti-corruption surveys.
Accounting. financial reporting. and auditing arrangiements. The newly established UIPARP within the
Office of the Prime Minister will be responsible for the overall fnancial managernent of the Project. IDA
carried out an accounting and financial management assessment to determine whether the project has an
adequate financial management system in place as required by IDA under OP/BP 10.02. The project
satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The UIPARP will maintain this system
and further upgrade it according to a time-bound action plan, to ensure proper managemnent of the
accounting, reporting and financing aspects of the Project according to IDA's requirements. At the latest
by June 30, 2001, the system will provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on
the status of the project (PMR) as required by IDA for PMR-based disbursements.
Accounting systems: The UIPARP has just been recently established. Therefore, technical
assistance was needed to design the basic accounting and financial management system. The short term
Accounting Consultant assisted the UIPARP accountant in: (i) the design and implementation of the
Project's accounting and financial management system; (ii) the drafting of the accounting and financial
Manual; and (iii) the computerization of the accounting and financial system with an appropriate integrated
software. The new system will enable the UIPARP accountant to produce full quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs) in a timely and accurate basis.
Staffing: The UIPARP employs a full-time newly hired accountant.
Audit arrangements: The UIPARP will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing
IDA the audited financial statements within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The accounts and
financial statements of the project will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit
will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of funds, and
expenditures incurred) and it will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing.
The appointment of the auditor will be handled under a project portfolio-wide basis agreement by the
Ministry of Finance.
Disbursement arrangements: The Project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional
Statement Of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving to the Project Management Reports
(PMR)-based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the Borrower and IDA.
- 20 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
While perhaps an infinite variety of alternatives could have been considered, we highlight a few of the more
obvious alternatives and why they have been left out of this project in the following table:
- 21 -



Institutional capacity or issue that could have    Why this project does not address this issue or
been addressed                                    capacity
Audit capacities, particularly within the Supreme    First, the EUs SIPAR project has included for some
Audit Institution (SAI)                       time a substantial component to address this need.
Second, adding a component to this project to
address this need would have added substantially to
the difficulties of project imnplementation. Third,
given the difficulties the EUs SIPAR project has
faced in their efforts to strengthen the SAI, the risk
of failure was judged as too high at this moment to
make it prudent for the Bank to tackle this sector at
this time within this project.
Decentralized (i.e., local governnent) administrative First, USAID is heavily involved in supporting the
capacities -- including public expenditure    strengthening of decentralized administrative
management capacities, human resource         capacities, primarily through its Public
management capacities, and policy formulation and  Administration Project for Albania (PAPA). The
coordination capacities                       Council of Europe is also heavily involved in this
issue. Second, the challenges of addressing
decentralized administrative capacity needs were
judged as well beyond the capacity of this project to
address. Making modest progress in strengthening
central administration capacities is a daunting
enough challenge.
Sector-specific policy and program design,    Sector-specific interventions, primarily through
implementation and delivery capacities        sector-specific donor-financed projects were judged
to be a considerably more appropriate vehicle for
addressing sector-specific policy and program
design, implernentation and delivery capacities. In
line with this, the Bank's Transition to Education
Reform project now includes a component for
precisely this purpose.
In addition, certain features of this project could have been designed differently in any number of ways. A
few of the more important design features that could have been designed differently and the reasons that
they were not are summarized in the following table:
-22 -



Design feature and how it might have been   Why this design feature was not altered in this
altered                                        way
Heavier emphasis could have been given to     First, based on the analysis presented in the 1998
increasing salaries, making that the lynchpin of  CEM (Report No. 18658-ALB), we judged that
creating-a modem civil service.               depolitizication of the civil service is, at this
moment, a more pressing need in Albania than
increasing salaries, even though better salaries are
desirable. Detailed analysis of the previous Civil
Service Act showed it to be fundamentally flawed
with respect to the institutions (i.e., rules of the
game) required to make it possible to create a
depoliticized civil service. Hence, the centrality of
the new Civil Service Act during project preparation
and its implementation during project
implementation. Second, we recognize that Albania
does need to improve civil service salaries.
Accordingly, project preparation and the project
itself are providing technical assistance to help the
Government to modestly revise its public sector
salary scales. At the same time, Albania simply
cannot afford to make civil service salaries fully
competitive with the domestic private sector, let
alone with the donor-financed local consultant
community. Consequently, an important
consideration in that revision exercise is to ensure
that new salary scales will be fiscally sustainable.
This precludes major salary increases, and hence
precludes making salary improvements the lynchpin
of civil service reforn.
Public expenditure management (PEM) systems   Given the rudimentary PEM practices and capacities
could have been made state of the art.        within Albania's central administration, it was
udged prudent to keep the proposed modernization
of the PEM systems modest.
-23 -



The mechanism for monitoring and publicizing the  This was an extremely difficult issue to sort out.
impacts of the Government's institutional and public Widespread distrust of the domestic NGO
administration reform strategy could have been  community made lodging this responsibility with an
lodged either in the Parliament or with some  NGO unacceptable. While Parliament may be a
representative of "civil society", e.g., with some  good option, the modality by which the project could
particular NGO.                             help establish such capacity within the Parliament
remain to be worked out. Moreover, concern has
been espressed that creating such capacity could
simply create another bureaucracy. Moreover,
having the World Bank integrally involved in the
admninistration of the surveys that form the
centerpiece of such a monitoring and publicizing
effort provides much needed credibility. Given all
these considerations, the Bank's strategy is to pair
this project with other Bank-supported efforts, such
as the SAC and a Public Expenditure Review (PER)
focused on strengthening the Government's budget
formulation process. This project will finance
various monitoring initiatives (surveys, compilation
of administrative data), which could provide useful
information on the Government's policy and budget
performance. The SAC includes conditionality
requiring that the Government publicize results of
such monitoring exercises. Finally, the PER will
work with the Government to try to adjust both its
formal and informal budget formulation and
execution processes in ways that will reinforce the
Government's commitment to publicize such impact
monitoring evidence on its policies, budget decisions
and their iimpacts.
Project management could have been undertaken by Given the objective of strengthening public
a consultant-staffed Project Implementation Unit   administration capacities themselves, the
(PIU), rather than by a civil service-staffed  Government decided that it would be more
Department created within the Office of the Prime   consistent with those aims to avoid creating a
Minister.                                   parallel administration in the person of a PIm.
Consequently, even though it may prove more
difficult to attract highly qualified personnel, the
Government chose to mainstream the needed
capacities within its administrative apparatus.
-24 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
: -: -:ecto ris--e            :-::---                  ::Projec  -P1I {Rei
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objetive (DO)
Tax administration modernization  Tax Administration              S             S
Modernization Project
Economic recovery, institution-building Recovery Program Technical  S           S
and policy/program formulation   Assistance Project
Institutional and governance reform    SAC (Board 6/99)           S             S
Public expenditure management during Public Expenditure Support  NA            NA
crisis situation                 Credit (Board 5/99)
Strengthening policy planing and  Education Reform I (expected
administrative capacities within  Board date: May 2000)
education sector (component of a larger
project)
Other development agencies
EU/PHARE: Institutional and public   State Institutions and Public
administration reform -- including civil Administration Reform 
service, public expenditure      (SIPAR) Programmne
management, strengthening of Supreme
Audit Institution
EU/PHARE: Public Investment      EU/PHARE funds
Planning
EU/PHARE: Customs administration   Customs Assistance Mission
modernization and professionalization
USAID: Local government           Program of Assistance to
administration strengthening-- support Public Administration (PAPA)
to local governments.                                          . . . ..
USAID: Local government           Urban Institute is providing
administration strengthening-- support support.
to Ministry of Local Govermment
USAID: Strengthening of Treasury    Provision of an adviser --
Department within Ministry of Finance suspended 10/98 because of
threat on US Embassy in
Tirana.
Soros Foundation: Public          Public Administration Project
Administration Project provides, among
other interventions, salary supplements
to public officials with foreign graduate
degrees
- 25 -



UNDP: public sector trainig          TA to establish Institute for
Training in Public
Administration                               ...'....
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of the project is consistent with the lessons identified in the recently enunciated Bank strategy,
as well as the ECA regional strategy, for public sector institutional reform Such lessons fall into two
broad categories: content and design elements aimed at reinforcing commitment throughout the reform
process. Regarding content, the ECA regional strategy for public sector institutional reform states:
"VhMle a wide variety of institutional arrangements within the public sector are workable,
well-functioning governments are generally thought to have certain important characteristics in
conmmon. They are responsive to the citizenry and reasonably efficient in the delivery of public
services. Their decisionmaking processes and the decisions they result in are in general transparent and
predictable. Oversight mechanisms (i.e., checks and balances) exist to guard against arbitrariness and
to ensure accountability in the use of public resources, but these oversight mechanisms do not eliminate
the flexibility and delegation that is needed to respond quickly to changing circumstances."
The PAR  includes elements aimed at improving each of these important characteristics of a
well-functioning government. Important examples include the following:
Desirable Characteristic                            Design Element
Responsiveness to the citizenry                 Undertake impact monitoring exercise/surveys
Monitor and publicize citizens' perceptions of the
impacts of policies and programs
Create capacity within the Department of Public
Administration to establish guidelines and provide
technical assistance to budget institutions on
enhancing the citizen-responsiveness of their
organizations
Reasonably efficient in the delivery of public  Create capacity within Department of Public
services                                        Administration to establish guidelines and provide
technical assistance to line Ministries in the
application of principles to guide concerted
sector-specific reform initiatives aimed at
significantly and sustainably improving the
implementation or delivery of policies, programs and
services within a given sector.
Coordinate overall institutional and public
administration reform effort with sector-specific
reform initiatives.
- 26 -



Decisionmaking processes and the decisions they    Rationalize the management of the policy
result in are in general transparent and predictable.  formulation processes within the CoM.
Build stable professional capacity within the CoM to
provide systematic analyses of policy issues and
tradeoffs raised by legislative and policy proposals.
Provide technical assistance to the CoM to review
and implement recommendations of the functional
review of the CoM completed in March 1999.
Strengthen public expenditure management
functions (budget formulation, budget execution,
treasury and cash management, debt management,
accounting).
Initiate Budget Framework memorandum process.
Oversight mechanisms (i.e., checks and balances)   Strengthen public expenditure management
exist to guard against arbitrariness and to ensure   functions (budget formulation, budget execution,
accountability in the use of public resources, but   treasury and cash management, debt management,
these oversight mechanisms do not eliminate the    accounting).
flexibility and delegation that is needed to respond   Undertake survey baseline and one follow-up survey
quickly to changing circumstances.          of public officials.
Undertake Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys.
Create independent Civil Service Commission and
support the development of its capacities.
Strengthen Department of Public Administration.
The various design elements aimed at ensuring responsiveness to the citizenry should partially address the
need to reinforce commitment throughout the reform process. Direct Bank involvement and assistance in
undertaking and ensuring widespread dissemination of key impact monitoring inteventions will be
particularly important in this regard These include the surveys of public officials, as well as the Public
Expenditure Tracking Surveys. In addition, intensive and close supervision of the PAR by the Bank will be
required to continuously adjust strategy and tactics to rapid and constantly changing conditions and
challenges. To this end, the pairing of the PAR with (i) related Bank policy operations (the PESP and
SAC), and (ii) complementary ESW (Public Expenditure Review) should help to address the Bank's
capacity to continually reinforce counterpart commitment.
-27 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
A turbulent enviromnent, both domestically and with regards to the Kosovo crisis, makes any indication of
borrower commitment and ownership in Albania unavoidably of fleeting significance. This is why a
number of design elements cited above will provide mechanisms for continually putting a very public
spotlight on the extent to which the Government's instirtutional and public administration reform efforts are
achieving results. It is also why close, intensive and sensitive Bank supervision will be required.
Nevertheless, a numnber of clear signs of Government commitment to this reform process are evident.
These can be conveniently summarized within three broad categories: (i) actions that have helped to
establish a legal framework more conducive to the institutional and public administrative reform objectives;
(ii) actions aimed at creating the institutional capacity and leadership required to mount such a reform
effort; and (iii) initial steps in actually implementing the Government's reform strategy.
Establishing a better legal framework
* Albania's first post-Communist Conlstitution approved (November 1998)
* Decree establishing Inter-Ministerial Committee for Institutional and Public Administration
Reform issued (January 1999)
* New Civil Service Law drafted and forwarded by Council of Ministers to Parliament (May 1999)
* New Civil Service Law enacted by Parliament (11 November 1999)
* Draft institutional and public administration reform strategy prepared (April 1999)
* New Organic Budget Law approved (April 1998)
*   New Customs Code enacted and amended (January 1999; amended subsequently; became effective
May 15, 1999)
Creating institutional capacity and leadership for the reform effort
*   "Anti-Corruption Workshop" staged by Government, with assistance from the World Bank, in
June/July 1998. Press was invited. This was followed by widespread press coverage of the
Workshop, its findings on citizens' and officials' perceptions of the extent, nature and locations of
corrupt behavior.   An "Anti-Corruption Action Plan", developed by the Government, with
asssitance from the World Bank, resulted from the workshop. This was later followed by a decree
mandating implementation of that "Anti-Corruption Action Plan."
- Department of Public Administration reinforced with nearly a full complement of staff (January
1999)
* New Constitution created Independent Supreme Audit Institution (SAI)
* Law creating independent "People's Advocate" (Ombudsman), reporting directly to Parliament
(January28, 1999)
* Ombudsman office established and the Obdusman appointed (February 2000)
* New Constitution provided adequate legal basis for judicial independence, and for publication of
any normative act before its application (November 1998).
*  Law establishing Central Budget Unit for Courts enacted (November 1998); Director and key
staff appointed.
Commencing institutional and public administration reform effort
* Functional review of Council of Ministers completed (March 1999), and functional reviews of
Ministry of Local Government and Ministry of Finance commenced (March 1999).
* Judiciary Inspection Office began functioning. New internal regulation for the Organization and
Functioning of the High Council of Justice has been prepared.
* Testing of judges commenced (May 8, 1999)
- 28 -



*  Testing for recruitment of Customs officials commenced (January 1999)
* Customs Department being strengthened with assistance of Customs Assistance Mission (CAM)
(ongoing)
* Public Expenditure Support Program designed to ensure that Kosovo crisis does not disrupt policy
and public expenditure priorities and their implementation -- supported by emergency Public
Expenditure Support Credit from IDA (Board approved May 1999)
* Structural Adjustment Credit negotiated with IDA, focused on institutional and governance reform
(May 1999; Board consideration slated for June 1999).
*  Initial Budget Framework Memorandum  submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Committee for
Economic Policy (May 1999)
* Functional Review of Ministry of Finance completed (August 1999)
* Public Expenditure and Institutional Review initiating a medium term expenditure framework
(MTEF) process (December 1999)
In addition, Government counterparts have been actively involved in the preparation and appraisal of the
project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The major sources of value added by the Bank's support for this project are fivefold: integrated strategic
vision, mutually reinforcing operations, sector-specific expertise, credibility and ensuring that lessons can
be learned from the experience. The Bank's SAC, PESC, PEIR and PAR teams have and will continue to
help the Govermnent to develop an integrated strategic vision for the overall institutional and public
admninistration reform process.  That vision may be found in the SAC and PESC designs and
documentation, as well as in the Govermnent's strategic approach delineated above (Section B.2). Related
to this, the SAC, PESC, PEIR and PAR operations are mutually reinforcing. They share a common and
integrated strategic vision, while the SAC and PESC provide the leverage and the PEIR and PAR provide
the technical assistance. Bank-provided sector-specific expertise complements similar expertise being
provided by other donors, particularly the EU through its support of SIGMA's involvement in the SIPAR
programme. Importantly, the close collaboration between the Bank's team, the EU/SIGMA team and
OSCE has enhanced both quality of advice and Government receptivity. We expect such close
collaboration to continue, with similar results. An example of the results of this collaboration is the
completely new Civil Service Law enacted by Parliament on 11 November 1999. Bank staff were deeply
involved in preparation and revision of that law, from its initial drafting all the way tbrough Parliamentary
Comniission and finally full Parliamentary hearings on the bill. That close Bank staff involvement,
complemented with assistance from other key donors, such as OSCE and SIGMA, proved pivotal in
bringing the Civil Service Law back on track after it was seriously compromised immediately prior to the
initial Parliamentary Commnission hearings on the bill. Regarding credibility, the Bank will shoulder
front-line responsibility for launching a number of key elements of the reform strategy aimed at enhancing
accountability of the Governmnent for achieving impacts through this reform effort; in particular, the initial
survey of public officials and the Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys. The credibility of the Bank is
essential for these exercises to yield their desired impacts. This credibility factor was strikingly illustrated
when the Bank took the lead in undertaking the public officials' and citizens' surveys underlying the
"Anti-Corruption Workshop" staged in June/July 1998. Finally, the Bank's recent development of a variety
of systematic instruments for measuring the impacts of institutional reform efforts is already providing the
basis for both the suevey of public officials as well as the Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys. The use
of these instruments and the experience previously gained by the Bank in their use will help to ensure that a
systematic approach can be taken to learning lessons from the Government's reform process.
- 29 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Not applicable
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
Not applicable
Fiscal Impact:
The implementation of the new Civil Service Law that the project is supporting will require staffing
changes in the government ministries as well as a revised salary structure. The public expenditure
management work under this project, as well as the Bank's ongoing work with the Government, particularly
through the Public Expenditure Review, will help to ensure that any fiscal costs occasioned by these
changes will fit within the government's overall fiscal program. Consistent with this, the Government has
been making employment reductions under its ESAF agreement with the IMF, in part to ensure fiscal
capacity to improve civil service wages. There are no incremental taxes or subsidies associated with the
project. The government's overall fiscal position is consistent with the IMF economic program and
expenditure allocations required to operate the sectors are deemed appropriate. Some incremental
allocations and counterpart funds that will be required during the implementation of the project will not be
significant and the government will consider those at the time of budget preparation for the next three years,
a process that the project is supporting under the Public Expenditure Management component.
3. Technical:
The technical design of the project in all the three components is being kept simple following a more
gradual approach towards more sophisticated information technology systems. This gradual (modular)
approach will apply in particular to the Treasury subcomponent, considering the curent use of the
information technology in the public administration and limited computer skills of the staff that will be
operating the systems. In addition, intensive in-house training is envisaged to overcome these problems.
Moreover, the TA under the project is to be provided through long term consultants that will allow for
tailoring the technical assistance to particular circumstances for each major component.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
*   Unit for Implementation of Public Administration Reform Program within the Office of the Prime
Minister
*   Department of Public Administration within the Office of the Prime Minister
*   Ministry of Finance
b. Project management:
The Government has created an inter-ministerial committee to implement and oversee measures that will be
taken in the context of the public administration reform for strengthening the financial management system
and human resource management system. This inter-ministerial committee is under the leadership of the
Prime Minister and is comprised of the Minister of Finance, Director of the Department for Public
- 30 -



Administration, and the Minister of Justice. While this Committee will have overall responsibility for
implementing the Government's overall institutional and public administration reform strategy, immediate
responsibility for project implementation will rest with the Unit for Implementation of the Public
Administration Reform Program (UIPARP), which the Government recently created within the Office of
the Prime Minister. The UIPARP will carry out the day to day project implementation, including
procurement and disbursement. The UIPARP will be responsible for facilitating project implementation,
including among other tasks, operating a sound accounting and financial management system and
producing the required fnancial statements to monitor eligible expenditures and meet audit requirements.
The UIPARP consists of a Unit Director, two Project Coordinators (one from the MOF and one from the
Council of Ministers), one Procurement Specialist, and one Disbursement Specialist.
Project coordination will be ensured through the inter-ministerial conmmittee mentioned in the above
paragraph, as well as by close collaboration between the Deputy Minister of Finance, the Director of the
Department of Public Administration and the Secretary General within the Council of Ministers.
5. Social:
In the early years of transition following its emergence from communismn, Albania made very substantial
progress in macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms, and achieved impressive results. Real
GDP growth reached around 9 percent per year during the 1993-96 period, virtually all of it coming from
private sector activities.
The impressive achievements on the economic front were, however, not paralleled by similar progress in the
building of a state with the capacity to govern. The harshness of the communist regime had instilled a
strong distrust in the state among the Albanian people. After the fall of communism, the Albanians
reverted back to their pre-conumunist clannish allegiance, which remains more important to them than trust
and participation in a public system and public institutions. It has therefore been very difficult in Albania
to build institutions intended to foster political, economic and social cooperation and collaboration that
extend beyond families and clans, in other words, to develop among the Albanian people strong loyalties to
a nation state.
The distrust of the Albanian people in their state became evident with the massive destruction of public
property during 1997, including institutions directly benefiting people, such as education and health
facilities. Even after the civil disturbances had been quelled and a new Socialist Government was selected
in mid-1997, disappointrnent, frustration and distrust continued to simmer. In early 1998, more than 60
percent of the population blamed the previous Democratic Government for their monetary losses under the
pyramid schemes. More than 40 percent of citizens believed they had to bribe public service officials in
order to obtain medical care. About 15 percent of citizens believed they had to bribe public service
officials in order to obtain basic public services (ACER and the World Bank, " Governance and Corruption
in Albania: The Imperative of Institutional Refonrs -- A Prelimninary Empirical Inquiry and Implications",
a handout prepared for the Albania Anti-Corruption Workshop (Tirana, Albania: June 30, 1998)).
Widespread crime and corruption continue to plague the country, particularly in customs, where millions of
dollars are reported to be ending up in the pockets of civil servants. Thousands of assault weapons remain
in circulation. Unemployment remains high, fueling additional potential unrest.
The domestic discontent with the Socialist Goverrnent, together with rising political tensions in the
absence of a constructive political dialogue between the opposing parties, and the destabilizing effects of
the recent crisis in neighboring Kosovo, culminated in a coup attempt in mid-September 1998. The coup
failed, but within weeks the Prime Minister resigned and a new Socialist Government was formed.
- 31 -



These recent events, following as they did similar events (though of a much larger scale) ofjust a little over
a year earlier, highlight the major challenge facing Albania in its transformation into a democracy and a
market economy. For markets and citizen-responsive governance to yield their promised benefits, each
must be grounded in a set of supportive institutions. Institutions will be more supportive of markets when
they facilitate economic transactions between as many and wide a variety of economic actors as possible,
both within a country and internationally. Institutions will be more supportive of citizen-responsive
governance when they facilitate cooperation, collaboration and mutual respect among all members of a
given society or State; not just a privileged elite. While family and clan loyalties may provide a supportive
environment for citizen-responsive governance and markets whose scope is limited to the family or clan,
new and more inclusive institutions will need to be forged if Albania is to reap the full benefits of markets
and democratic governance, including a more stable and predictable path toward economic growth.
No simple quick fix can fully address this challenge of building the more inclusive institutions needed to
foster effective markets and citizen-responsive governance capacities in Albania. There is also no blueprint
for the creation of such institutions. Rather, Albania will unavoidably have to undertake a long, arduous,
uncertain and risky process of building more inclusive institutions, bit by bit, step by step. Such a process
will probably need to begin by building on the family, clan and village loyalties that already exist, but do so
in ways consciously designed to help build more far-ranging networks of inter-dependence and trust. (For
evidence on the importance of "trust" in fostering economic progress, see Stephen Knack and Philip Keefer,
"Does Social Capital have an Economic Payoff? A Cross-Country Investigation", Quarterly Journal of
Economics, 112 (November 1997): 1251-1288.) The Public Administration Reform project is one element
of the Government's strategy, supported by the IDA, to address these needs for developing more inclusive
institutions.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Categoiy: C
NA. The project provides only technical assistance. It raises no environmental issues.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
See Section C.3.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The project includes resources to solicit systematic feedback from public officials and citizens on their
perceptions of the impacts of the Government's efforts to implement its institutional and public
administration reform process (Component 4; see also Section A.2, above). In addition, the Government
has agreed, under the SAC, to publicize the fiindings of those feedback gathering efforts. The aim is for
the Government to hold itself accountable for the impacts of its institutional and public administration
reform process by regularly subjecting itself to feedback from civil society.
- 32 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government's institutional and public administration refonn strategy, supported by the project,
includes a number of features that should provide a firm foundation for sustainability if they are
successfully implemented. The more important of these include:
*   A variety of measures are intended to enhance the citizen-responsiveness of public sector
institutions (e.g., the imnpact monitoring arrangements, assistance to line Ministries to encourage
and help them to operate in a more citizen-involving manner). These measures, if successful,
should help to build pressures from the citizenry directed at the Parliament, the Government and
the public administration to meet the reform objectives. Such pressures should increase the odds
that the Parliament, the Government and the public administration will implement the strategy as
intended.
*   Involvement of NGOs and other donors, such as the Soros Foundation, the Friends of Albania,
OSCE, etc., have been achieved during project preparation and will continue to be encouraged
throughout project implementation, so as to bring another source of pressure on the Parliament, the
Government and the public administration to implement the strategy and project as intended.
Substantial efforts are already being devoted to ensuring close collaboration among donors. These
efforts will be expanded to include other elements of civil society, such as NGOs.
*  Public expenditure management strengthening element of the project aims to strengthen all three
levels of budgetary performance: aggregate fiscal discipline, resource allocation and use based on
strategic priorities, and efficiency and effectiveness of programs and service delivery. The project's
support is being complemented by the Public Expenditure and Institutional Review, as well as by
the SAC and the planned SAC II. Better public expenditure management should enhance
sustainability of all elements of the institutional and public administration reform strategy.
*   The functional review process includes among its aims the identification of functions that could be
more efficiently performed by the private sector, so that they could be subsequently privatized in
one form or another. To the extent that this element yields results, fiscal sustainability should be
enhanced.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
-isk  Ri.sk Rat-ng      Ri-k MIgingint..n Me.sur.
From Outputs to Objective
Policy formulation and coordination:        H         (a) The Prime Minister's Office will shoulder
Council of Ministers will ignore citizen             responsibility for the impact monitoring effort
feedback and professional policy advice               and its publication, with active support from the
made possible by the project, for a variety           Bank. This should help to build ownership.
of reasons, including the volatility of the          (b) The entire donor community active in
political and national security situation in          Albania strongly supports this effort. Active
Albania occasioned by the Kosovo crisis.              and public donor community support should
help to build pressure on the Government to
listen to their constituents.
(c) Publication of the impact monitoring and
corruption survey results should help to put
pressure on the Government to be responsive.
- 33 -



Public administration: Informal norms of       S          (a) Publication of measures of the impacts of the
behavior within the public administration                reform process, so as to create public pressure
prove resistant to the full constellation of              on the bureaucracy to shape up.
formal project outputs (independent Civil                (b) Creation of "People's Advocate"
Service Commission, detailed personnel                   (Ombudsman) will provide another vehicle for
manageinent guidelines, revised civil                    bringing citizen-pressure to bear on the
service salary structure, modernized                     bureaucracy.
accounting systems, Budget Framework                     (c) The entire donor community active in
Memoranda, Public Expenditure Tracking                   Albania strongly supports this effort. Active
Surveys, etc.)                                           and public donor community support should
help to build pressure on public administration
to listen to their constituents.
Policy and program implementation:             H         (a) Donors (including other sectoral units within
Project does not directly strengthen policy              the Bank) will be encouraged to pressure and
and program implementation capacities.                   help their counterparts to build on and take full
That is left to sector-specific initiatives              advantage of the improved enabling conditions
(e.g., other donor-supported projects                    for more effective and citizen-responsive
focused on a specific sector). Instead, the              program and policy implementation created by
project directs its support to creating                  this project. Importantly, Bank's Country Unit
better enabling conditions for effective                 is committed to ensuring coordination of sectoral
policy and program implementation (e.g.,                  work with the institutional and public
ensuring more reliable cash flow,                         administration reform efforts being supported by
providing guidance to sectoral Ministries                the SAC, PESC and PAR project.
on how to prepare policy and program                     (b) Publication of measures of the impacts of the
implementation strategies that are more                  reform process, including measures of the
citizen-responsive, etc.). Because of this,              perceived quality of particular public programs
there is a risk that the public entities                  and services, should help to create public
responsible for policy and program                       pressure on sectoral Ministries to improve their
implementation will fail to take full                    policy and program implementation and service
advantage of this support.                                delivery performance.
(c) Imposition of requirements for public posting
of information on service standards and means
of complaining if those standards are not met
should help to create pressures on sectoral
Ministries to meet those standards.
(d) Creation of "People's Advocate"
(Ombudsman) will provide another vehicle for
bringing citizen-pressure to bear on sectoral
Ministries.
- 34 -



Redress and citizen voice: Citizens and     H         (a) Donor community, led by the World Bank,
public officials will refuse to take                 will assist the Government in undertaking the
advantage of new and strengthened                     impact monitoring effort in order to provide
avenues for redress and for exercising               badly needed credibility.
voice due to insurmountable lack of trust            (b) Multiple avenues for redress and voice will
in public sector institutions (i.e.,                 be strengthened (Ombudsman, impact
alienation).                                          monitoring surveys, public posting of
information on service standards and means of
complaining if those standards are not met, and,
to the extent that sectoral Ministries cooperate,
efforts of line Ministries to create more
citizen-involving means of delivering public
services and implementing public policies and
programs). By diversifying the portfolio of
redress and voice options, the risk of all options
lacking credibility should be reduced.
From Components to Outputs
Policy formulation and coordination: (a)    S         (a) Means of enlisting PM interest and
Prime Minister may choose not to follow               commitment and involvement in project design
recommendations aimed at strengthening                and execution will be explored during project
professional policy analysis capacity                 preparation.
within CoM; (b) Parliament may fail to                (b) SAC condition requiring Impact Monitoring
support creation of a small unit within its           Exercise should provide some pressure to meet
structure for monitoring impacts of                  this need.
policies and programs.
Public administration: Frequent changes     S         (a) Multiple counterparts provide some
in counterparts leading the public                   protection against disruptions occasioned by the
administration reform efforts could                   departure of any given counterpart.
undermine implementation                              (b) Close and collaborative supervision by a
task team that has developed a very strong
working relationship with all key counterparts.
(c) Active cooperation with EU and SIGMA,
whose SIPAR programme addresses a largely
overlapping set of issues, will strengthen our
capacity to cope with disruptions created by
turnover of key counterparts.
Policy and program implementation:          S         Means of addressing this risk will be explored
Because policy and program                            during project preparation.
implementation is not at the core of
DoPA's mandate, DoPA may not focus on
this component as energetically as will be
required.
- 35 -



Redress and citizen voice: Responsibility   H         (a) Bank has taken the lead in undertaking key
for this component of the project may be              measures during the initial stages, and will assist
too diffuse, and its intended benefits may            the Government in continue these efforts during
be too amorphous and long term, thereby               project execution; e.g., the initial survey of
undermining ownership and cormmitment                 public officials, the Public Expenditure
to its success.                                       Tracking Surveys. This should both help to
ensure that the tasks get done as well as provide
an opportunity to provide concrete illustrations
of the outputs and their benefits.
(b) Close and collaborative supervision by a
task team that has developed a very strong
working relationship with all key counterparts.
Overall project implementation:             S         (a) Close and collaborative supervision by a task
(a) Volatility of the political and national         team that has developed a very strong working
security situation in Albania occasioned              relationship with all key counterparts.
by the Kosovo crisis could undernine                  (b) Ongoing joint Govemment/Bank efforts will
Government focus on the project, thereby              help to ensure coordination of project related
hampering project implementation.                     activities and their counterpart funding for them
(b) Inadequate project counterpart                    on a timely basis. Moreover, with the Ministry
financing.                                            of Finance as one of the project's counterparts,
the project should be well positioned to obtain
required counterpart funding.
Overall Risk Rating                         H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
From a technical point of view the project is not undertaking any particularly controversial activities. From
a within-country social and political point of view, certain activities are already proving to be controversial.
Thus, for instance, the creation of the Civil Service Commission (CSC) with oversight and appeals
authority over public sector human resource managernent, is already proving to be politically difficult.
Certain elements of the major opposition party are attempting to boycott the process, which was designed
to be inclusive, for nominating members of that CSC. This sort of controversy has to be expected from the
outset in a project that seeks to create a more accountable and inclusive set of public sector institutions,
since such accountability threatens economic rents being generated for certain limited but powerful
segments of the population. This unavoidable challenge is recognized above in the assessment of "critical
risks", and will have to be appreciated throughout project implementation. It will require both constant
vigilance on the part of the IDA's supervision team and the Government's project implementation teamn, as
well as a nuanced evaluation of the difficulties posed by such an effort.
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i)    The Unit for Implementation of the Public Administration Program within the Council of Ministers
has adequate project coordination, procurement and financial management/disbursement skills, and
adequate office space and equipment;
(ii)    The Unit for Implementation of the Public Administration Program within the Council of Ministers
- 36 -



has adopted, and begun the implemention of, a Project-related financial management system
acceptable to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
l 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Gary J. Reid/                     Pradee J.                         Arntraudt
Team Lead                         Sector ManagerlDirector           Country ManagerlDirector
- 37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: Public Administration Reform Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*Establish transparent and   *Governance and Institutional *Monitoring and supervision  *Improved transparency and
accountable public service   reform impact monitoring    of the PAR project  accountability of the state
provision by improving   surveys agreed to be     eMonitoring and supervision  structures, and strengthened
goverance and building   undertaken under the SAC   omtorogram an    institutions that function
institutions that have the  program                Public Expenditure Support  under the rule of law will
capacity to govern within an oAnti-corruption program  Program (PESP)         trm dlo ent ng
adequate and improved    surveysrgrprogrepo                          e       term development
legal and judicial                                oProgress reports on the imp
framework.                                         lementation of the
anti-corruption program
*Promoting sustainable
private sector growth                             *Reports from Impact
Monitoring Surveys
*Progress reports on the im
plementation of the
anti-corruption program
*Public Expenditure tracking
study
*Implementation Completion
Report of the project
-38 -



Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
*Improve policy analysis and *Progress in rationalizing  oProject monitoring and  *Government adopts and
and coordination at the   management process within  supervision reports       implements the
center of the governemnt by:  the CoM                                          recommendations and
*Reports from monitoring   maue  rpsdih
*  Strengthening capacity  *Improved professional   impacts surveys            measures proposed i the
in the Council of     capacity within the CoM to    mplementation Completion CoM functional review
Ministers             provide systematic analyses
*  Creating conditions that  of policy issues       Report of the project
will encourage budget  *Cabinet decision making
institutions to become    arrangements and practices
more citizen-responsive   are improved
*Engender trust in public    *Improved public expenditure *Data from repeated surveys *Government implements
administration by building a  management, (absolute  of public officials, citizens    policy measures in the area
professional, merit based  deviation of actual vs.   and the private sector, which  of governance and
civil service and increasing   budgeted resources declines   yield measures of perception  institutional reforms under
accountability through:   over the course of project    that indicate an        the Structural Adjustment
*  strengthening public  execution)                 improvement in the impact   Credit.
indicators listed in the
expenditure          *Improved public expenditure  previous column (see section
management             management practices      A2)
*  strengthening public    (budget formulation, budget
sector human resource   execution and treasury  *Civil service turnover rates
management            procedures, accounting)    move towards EUIOECD
*Improved civil service    norms. Data gathered from
quality (professionalism,  the Budget Department (BD)
skill level, merit orientation,  and DoPA.
integrity)               *Data from the BD.
*Improved civil service
management; (personnel
performance is evaluated,
personnel actions are merit
based, integrity of civil
service management,
*Improved administrative
arrangements and
procedures; turnover rates
decline)
- 39 -



*Improve policy and program  *Improved coordination  *MTEF introduced and       *Government implements
implementation through:   between MoF, Ministry of   implemented throughout the  measures to improve the
Economic Cooperation and    course of the project for  current process for budget
*  establishing           Trade and line ministries in   budget preparation and  formulation anticipated
partnerships           the budget formulation    evaluation                 under the project component
* preparing brief sectoral  process through a medium    *Sector strategy reports  oGovernement implements
strategic priorities and   term expenditure framework  prepared             the recommendations and
guidelines            (MTEF)       of            impocts fromth             the new approach for budget
*  coordinatingabishentof thert foverallnt rmgplanning under the PER
pbloricnadministhovratio  partnerships itmproves   impacts surveys
reform effort d ith sector  implementation of sector                       *Government implements
refrmefor wih ecorpolicies and programs                                SAC measures for
specific reform       p          pr                                         integrating investment
initiatives          *Improved coordination                                 planning into the budget
between overall public                               process.
admninistration reform efforts
and sector specific reform
initiatives
-40 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
*Strengthened public      *Detailed project activities    *Consultants' reports  *Government implements
administration through:   and output indicators are   *Progress reports from the  policy measures in the area
surnuarized in the project    unir   rortsrromth     of governance and
*  improved public       planning and monitoring    umt for project            institutional reforms under
expenditure            workbooks prepared for each  Implementation          the Structural Adjustment
management             project component.       *Project Supervision Reports   Credit.
*  improved human
resource management                             *Project Completion Report
practices
*Improved policy analysis and *Detailed project activities    *Consultants' reports  *Government implements
coordination at the center of  and output indicators are   *Project Supervision Reports  policy measures in the area
government                summarized in the project                             of governance and
planning and monitoring    *Project Completion Report   institutional reforms under
workbooks prepared for each *Update reports from the PIU. the Structural Adjustment
project component.                                   Credit.
*Improved policy and      *Detailed project activities    *Consultants' reports  *Government implements
program implementation    and output indicators are                             policy measures in the area
through improving DoPA    summarized in the project   *Project Supervision Reports   of governance and
and other central authorities  planning and monitoring    *Project Completion Report   institutional reforms under
capacities' to coordinate  workbooks prepared for each *U  d      fr           the Structural Adjustment
overall public administration  project component.     pate reports om the PIU   Credit.
reform process with sector
specific initiatives.
- 41 -



Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                          Outputs)
1. Strengthen Public      * US$5.74 million         * Consultants' reports
Expenditure                                         * Project Supervision
Management                                             Reports
* Project Completion
Report
* Update reports from the
PIU
* Strengthen the
strategic focus of the    * US$ 0.77 million
budgetformulation
process by introducing
a medium term
expenditure framework
* Strengthen treasury,
functions by improving   * US$ 2.57 million
financial planning and
information technology
* Strengthen
Macoreconomic and
Fiscal analysis and  * US$ 0.87 million
forecast
* Strengthen accounting
functions by improving
the legalframework   * US$ 0.46 million
and organizational
processes
* Strengthen general
management
capacities in the MOP   * US$ 0.75 million
* Strengthen
procurement policies
and practices
* US$ 0.32 million
2. Public Sector Human   *  USS 2.32 million         * Consultants' reports
Resource Management                                  * Project Supervision
Reports
* Project Completion
Report
* Update reports from the
PPU.
-42 -



* Imlement the Civil      * US$ 0.58 million
Service Act
* Strengthen Department   * USS 1.50 million
of Public Administration
* Assist in the           * US$ 0.24 million
establishment of
Institute for Training in
Public Administration
3. Policy Formulation       * US$ 0.40 million        * Consultants' reports
and Coordination                                      * Project Supervision
* Build stable and        * US$ 0.40 million           Reports
professional capacity                             * Project Completion
with the Council of                                 Report
Ministers                                        * Update reports from the
PPU.
4. Project Management   * US$ 0.51 million            * Consultants' reports
* Demonstrate importance                            * Project Supervision
and means of           * US$ 0.35 million           Reports
automatically                                    * Project Completion
monitoring and                                      Report
publicizing the impacts
ofpolicies and                                   * Update reports from the
programs                                             PPU.
* Manage Public
Administration Reform    * US$ 0.16 million
Project
- 43 -



Annex 2: Project Descrption
ALBANIA: Public Administration Reform Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$5.74 million
1. Public Expenditure Management
Strengthening of public expenditure management will be supported by a range of activities including
technical assistance, training and computer hardware and software complementary to the TA and training.
The public expenditure management component will address four elements of the public expenditure
management system, plus strengthening the management of the Ministry of Finance (MoF) itself: (1)
budget formulation, (2) treasury, (3) macroeconomnic and fiscal analysis, (4) accounting, plus (5)
management of the MoF. It will also aim to assist in building capacity to pilot sector ministries in
formulating strategic and realistic budget plans that are able to link policy programs and priorities with
available resources.
1.1. Strengthen the strategic focus of the budget formulation (US$ 0.77 million):
1. Advance on the preparation and the implementation of a medium tern expenditure framework
(MTEF)
*  Provide a long term (intemational) periodic advisor to help in coordinating and facilitating
the MTEF process
*  Prepare a new budget manual that takes account of the medium term perspective in the
budget formulation
*   Strengthen capacities in pilot line ministries to:
*   formulate policies and identify priority programs
*  provide better information and analysis on financing plans and budget submissions
for sector priorities and pogroms
2. Implement organizational changes and streamline the core functions of the Budget Department
(BD)
*   Organize the Budget Department into functional units and assign a coordinator for each
function
* Develop an internal regulation for the BD institutionalizing the reorganization
* Appoint an investment coordinator to serve as a liason between the investment
programing department in the MOECT and budget analysts in the MOF and train
current budget analysts on investment programing
* Prepare an action plan for the training process
* Review the functions of the district budget offices (DBO) so that they can play an
evaluative role for the budget submissions from budget instituions
* Prepare an internal regulation instituionalizing the new role of the DBO
3. Improve the legal and regulatory framework for the budget process
* Implement the New Organic Budget Law (in cooperation with SIGMA)
*  Prepare an action plan for the preparation of the all necessary regulations and guidelines
for the implementation of the NOBL
*  Prepare a timetable for the implementation of the action plan and various requirements of
the NOBL
4. Improve budget classification (in cooperation with the IMF)
*  Design and implement an economic classification
- 44 -



*   Design and implement a functional classification
*   Implement a unified classification for the recurrent and investment budgets
5. Develop and provide training in budget formulation techniques
1.2. Strengthen treasury functions (US$ 2.57 million)
1. Develop a system for improving the revenue accounting in the Treasury
2. Provide a long term periodic advisor to assist in improving cash management functions of the
treasury department:
* define specific forecast products
* define specific cash flow forecasting models
*   implementation through the course of one-budget year
3. Provide a long term periodic advisor to assist in the implementation of a Treasury Ledger System
*   Preparation of the functional design, related manuals and procedures and systems
specifications
*   Design of the technology architecture required to implement the information system
*   Investigation of altematives for application software
*   Preparation of tender documents for and acquisition/development of hardware and
software
o   Development/ upgrading and agency data processing organization
o   Pilot systems implementation
*   Replication of the system across other sites
o   Develop and provide training required to implement the new system and strengthen
treasury capacities
1.3. Strengthen macroeconomic and fiscal analysis (US$0.87 million)
1. Inplement organizational changes
*   Transfer Fiscal Information Unit to the new Information Technology Department
*   Take decision on merging the Macroeconomic Department and the Fiscal Analysis
Department based on expert's recommendations
2. Provide a long term periodic advisor to:
-   Review the functions of the two macro departments with the view of exploring the
possibility of merging
-   Assist in improving the economic and fiscal forecast capacities
* Define specific forecast products to be produced
* Provide simple modeling templates for producing basic macroeconomic forecasts
* Asses the availability, validity and utility of the existing data for economic and
fiscal forecasts and suggest ways for improving them
* Develop and acquire more sophisticated models for improving medium term
macroeconomic and fiscal forecasting
*   Assist in improving economic and fiscal analysis capacities
* Define specific macroeconomic and fiscal analytical products and reports
* Implement and monitor macroeconomic and fiscal analytical products
*   Assist in improve fiscal statistics reporting
3. Develop and provide training required to strengthen macroeconomic. and fiscal analysis and
forecast capacities
1.4 Strengthen accounting function (US$0.46 million)
- 45 -



1. Provide a long term periodic advisor to assist the Accounting Department in:
* Reviewing the functions of the department with the view of strearlining them to better
serve the objective of the Ministry of Finance
*  Develop and implement the Plan of Treasury Accounts
*  Improve the legal and regulatory framework of government accounting
- * Review and asses the needs for forrnulation of the consolidated balance sheet of the public
sector
*  Implement the recommendations of the review undertaken
2. Develop and provide training required to strengthen accounting capacities
1.5. Strengthen general management capacities (US$ 0.75 mil)
1. Provide a long term periodic advisor that will assist the Ministry of Finance on
*  Clarifying the mission of the MoF and main departments responsible for the PEM
functions
* Prepare job descriptions and classifications
*  Develop management and specific technicalprofessional skills according to the needs of
each department
* Review the internal audit function within the MoF
*   Produce and publicize annual assessment of MoF's activities and results
*  Develop and provide training required to strengthen general management capacities within
the MoF
2. Training
*  Training of trainers for key Ministry staff in public expenditure management
* Study tour on governance for key Ministry staff
3. Establish the information technology department in the MoF
*  Undertake IT needs assessment of general management function within MoF
*   Integrate and coordinate all IT needs assessments and their follow-on investments
undertaken within the MoF
o  Provide IT identified by IT needs assessment
*  Develop and provide training required on information technology
1.6 Strengthen procurement policies and practices (US$0.32 million)
1. Periodic long term advisor (international) provides advice to Public Procurement Agency (PPA) on
improving procurement practices
2. Assist PPA staff to prepare and disseminate procurement enabling regulations, guidelines and
manuals required to enforce the provisions contained in the law on public procurement
3. Training
*  Training-of-trainers to PPA staff
*  Finance participation of PPA staff in pre-packaged procurement training events (international)
*  Assist PPA staff to stage workshops to introduce the procurement system and procedures to
users
These activities were identified from a consultant team that visited Albania several times during the period
March-August 1999. The team prepared a detailed report which includes a review and assessment of
Albania's public expenditure management functions and processes. The identification of the activities
draws also on a report prepared by a technical assistance team from the IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department
"Further Reforms in Public Expenditure Management" issued on July 1999. This component will also
benefit from the analysis and assessment of the upcoming Public Expenditure Review, as well as an
-46 -



Expenditure Tracking Study, both to be implemented during the first half of 2000. Several other reforms to
support the objective of strengthening financial management systems are being supported outside the PAR
project, from the WB and other institutions such as IMF and EU. Those include strengthening of revenue
administration (tax and customs), independent external audit systems and procurement.
Project Component 2 - US$2.32 million
2. Public Sector Human Resource Management
Strengthening of pubic sector human resource management will be supported with technical assistance,
training and computer hardware and software complementary to the TA and training. The TA will support
three related sets of activities: (1) implementation of the Civil Service Act (CSA) that was enacted on 11
November 1999; (2) strengthening of the Department of Public Administration; and (3) assisting in the
establishment of an Institute for Training in Public Administration (ITPA).
2.1 Implement Civil Service Act (CSA) (US$0.58 million)
1. Periodic long-term advisor (international) provides ongoing advice on:
*   establishing framework and procedures for implementation of CSA (e.g., setting up of Civil
Service Conmmission; clarification of roles of Ministers and Deputy Ministers; specification of
groundrules for appointments of Secretaries General and for holding them accountable for
implementation of CSA within their Ministry; specification of job requirements for Personnel
Directors; recruitment and promotions procedures; performance appraisal procedures and
systems; disciplinary procedures, systems and practices; organizational blueprints for common
functions of ministries; etc.)
*   marketing of CSA and the Government's Public Administration Reform (PAR) Strategy
*   implementation of CSA and means of providing assistance to individual public agencies in
doing so
*   monitoring and evaluation of imnplementation of CSA and the Government's PAR Strategy
2. Establish implementation framework and procedures
*   Periodic long-term advisor (see above)
3. Market CSA and its implementation strategy
*   Periodic long-term advisor (see above)
*   Assist DoPA  staff in undertaking marketing initiatives (e.g., newsletter, workshops,
development of press releases, roundtables, focus groups, awareness campaign targeted at
legislators, etc.)
4. Support public agencies as they implement CSA within their units
*   Periodic long-term advisor (see above)
*   Assist DoPA staff in providing assistance to ministries in implementing CSA
*   Assist DoPA staff in providing assistance to other budget institutions in implementing CSA
5. Monitor and evaluate implementation of CSA
*   Periodic long-term advisor (see above)
*   Assist DoPA staff (learning-by-doing relationship) in evaluating progress and impacts of
implementation of CSA and PAR strategy (including, but not limited to, establishing systems
to monitor training provided as part of implementation of CSA, providing regular updates on
progress of CSA implementation, annual assessment of activities undertaken and results of
implementation of CSA, etc.)
2.2 Strengthen Department of Public Administration (US$1.50 million)
1. Periodic long-term advisor (international) provides ongoing advice to DoPA management on:
-47 -



*   Pay and employment control issues
* HRM issues
*   DoPA organisation and management issues
2. Strengthen DoPA capacities to control public sector pay and employment
1. Periodic long-term advisor (see above)
2. Training
*   Training-of-trainers to DoPA staff in pay and employment control issues
* Finance participation of DoPA staff in pre-packaged training events (intermational) in pay
and emnployment control issues
3. Assistance to ministries in establishing pay and employment control and monitoring capacities
1. Assistance to ministries
*   Assess IT needs of ministries for setting up pay and employment monitoring systems
(registry)
*   Provide TA to ministries in establishing their personnel registries and providing required
reports to DoPA., including providing hardware, software and training as needed.
Contract requires use of DoPA staff in providing this TA, in a learning-by-doing approach
2. Assistance to other budget institutions
*   Assess IT needs of other budget institutions for setting up pay and employment monitoring
systems (registry)
*   Provide TA to other budget institutions in establishing their personnel registries and
providing required reports to DoPA., including providing hardware, software and training
as needed.  Contract requires use of DoPA  staff in providing this TA, in a
learning-by-doing approach.
4. Strengthen DoPA capacities to support modem human resource management (HRM) practices
within Albania's public sector
1. Periodic long term advisor (see above)
2. Training
*   Training contract (international) provides training-of-trainers to DoPA staff in HRM
issues
*   Finance participation of DoPA staff in pre-packaged training events (international) in
HRM issues
3. Provide TA to ministries in developing modem HRM capacities. Contract requires use of
DoPA staff in providing this TA, in a learning-by-doing approach.
5. Strengthen structure and management of DoPA itself
1. Periodic long term advisor (see above)
2. Training
*   Training contract (international) provides training to DoPA staff in technical/professional
skills they require
* Finance participation of DoPA staff in pre-packaged training events (international) in
technical/professional skills they require
*   Study tour on govemance for key DoPA staff
3. IT upgrading and modernisation
*   Assess IT needs of DoPA and prepares bidding documents for needed IT
*   Provide needed hardware, software and training.
4. Provide TA to DoPA staff in undertaking pilot evaluations of impacts of DoPA's efforts. Pilot
evaluations are designed to be learning-by-doing exercises for DoPA staff, so as to build
DoPA's capacities to undertake such evaluations with its own staff.
-48 -



2.3 Assist in Establishment of Institute for Training in Public Administration (ITPA) (US$0.24 million)
1. Periodic long term  advisor (international) provides advice on establishment of Public
Administration Training Institute
2. Design, build and assist in implementation of sirnple system for tracking training received, by
recipient, and monitoring data required to assess training targeting and results (e.g., instructors'
evaluations of how well each trainee mastered the material in any given training event, tracking
career development histories of training recipients, etc.).
3. Provide assistance to ITPA and DoPA staff in undertaking pilot evaluations of ITPA training
targeting and impacts. TA to be delivered as a learning-by-doing exercise.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.40 million
3.     Policy Formulation and Coordination
Strengthening of policy formulation and coordination will be supported with technical assistance, training
and computer hardware and software complementary to the TA and training. The TA will support the
Government's efforts to (1) build stable professional capacity within the CoM to provide systematic
analyses of policy issues and tradeoffs raised by legislative and policy proposals, and (2) strengthen
procurement policies and practices. Key steps to be undertaken by the Government with the assistance of
this technical assistance would include:
3.1 Build stable professional capacity with the CoM (US$0.40 million)
1. Periodic long term advisor (international) provides advice to PM, CoM and Secretary General on
means of strengthening strategic focus and effectiveness of CoM's policy formulation and
coordination efforts
2. Training
*   Training of key CoM Staff in cabinet decision-making and policy formulation and coordination
*   Finance participation of CoM staff in pre-packaged training events in cabinet decision making
issues and policy formulation and coordination
* Study tour on governance for key CoM staff
Project Component 4 - US$0.51 million
4.    Project Management
The project management component will support both normal project management requirements as well as
technical assistance required to build support within Albania for establishing the capacity to systematically
monitor and publicize the impacts of policies and programs. Activities to be supported include:
4.1   Demonstrate importance and means of systematically monitoring and publicizing the impacts of
policies and programs (US$0.35 million)
1. Surveys
*   Undertake follow-on survey of public officials in 2004 to assess progress in improving public
expenditure and human resource management performance within Albania's public sector
*   Undertake follow-on surveys of corruption perceptions in 2003 to assess progress in fighting
corruption.
* Undertake spot surveys of citizens' perceptions of government and public agency performance
in response to issues that arise during project implementation
2. Publicity campaign
* Assist Government in mounting campaign to publicize findings of these surveys and other
-49 -



evaluations of project impacts and to seek citizen feedback on these reports and the
Government's efforts to implement its institutional and public administration reform strategy,
including implementation of the Civil Service Act of 1999.
*   Produce and publicize assessment of the publicity and citizen feedback campaign
4.2 Mafiage Public Administration Reform Project (US$0. 16 million)
1. Establish and maintain PIU capacities in CoM throughout project implementation
*   Director: Coordinates overall PAR project implementation, ensuring coordinated, timely and
effective implementation of all activities, consistency with project design, achievement of major
project objectives and compliance with all legal covenants under the IDA credit; ensures
consolidation of all project implementation and impact monitoring and evaluation information
and timely provision of same to government authorities responsible for the PAR project (Prime
Minister, Deputy Minister of Finance, Director of DoPA, Secretary General of the Council of
Ministers) and IDA.
*   Public Expenditure Management Coordinator: Coordinates and ensures timely and effective
implementation of all activities within the PEM component of the project (including
preparation of all TOR and other supporting documentation required for procurement of goods
and services under those TOR, advertising as required under IDA procurement procedures,
selection of winning bidders under procurement procedures acceptable to IDA, and oversight
of the quality of delivery of all goods and services under contracts procured under those TOR),
ensuring consistency with project objectives and design; establishes and maintains
implementation and impact monitoring system for PEM component; provides periodic and
on-demand assessments of project implementation and impacts (quarterly reports, annual
reports, midterm review and project completion review, plus responses to specific project
implementation/impact assessment requests on an as needed basis.)
*   Public Administration Reform Coordinator: Coordinates and ensures timely and effective
implementation of all activities within the Public Sector Human Resource Management
component and the Policy Formulation and Coordination component of the project (including
preparation of all TOR and other supporting documentation required for procurement of goods
and services under those TOR, advertising as required under IDA procurement procedures,
selection of winning bidders under procurement procedures acceptable to IDA, and oversight
of the quality of delivery of all goods and services under contracts procured under those TOR),
ensuring consistency with project objectives and design; establishes and maintains
implementation and impact monitoring system for these two components; provides periodic and
on-demand assessments of project implementation and impacts (quarterly reports, annual
reports, midterm review and project completion review, plus responses to specific project
implementation/impact assessment requests on an as needed basis.)
*   Financial Officer:  Establishes and maintains accounting system and project accounts for
project acceptable to IDA and in compliance with all legal covenants of the IDA credit; ensures
tirneliness and accuracy of all information tracked by that system; provides periodic financial
reports on the project, as required under the IDA credit, as well as on-demand financial reports
to government authorities responsible for the PAR project (Prime Minister, Deputy Minister of
Finance, Director of DoPA, Secretary General of the Council of Ministers) and IDA.
*   Procurement Officer: Ensures that all procurement under the PAR project is undertaken in
compliance with IDA procedures, as specified in the IDA credit legal agreernent; prepares all
required procurement documents (e.g., bidding documents, such as Letters of Invitation, etc.,
bid evaluation reports, etc.); maintains procurement files on all procurement actions and on all
contracts let under the IDA credit, consistent with IDA requirements and provisions of the IDA
- 50 -



credit agreement; provides periodic procurement summary reports on the project, as required
under the IDA credit, as well as on-demand procurement reports to government authorities
responsible for the PAR project (Prime Minister, Deputy Minister of Finance, Director of
DoPA, Secretary General of the Council of Ministers) and IDA.
* International Procurement Specialist: Supports and trains procurement officer during first
I year of project execution.
* Incremental operating costs: Incremental operating costs required for effective functioning of
the PIU.
2. Annual project audit (local)
- 51 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: Public Administration Reform Project
1. Public Expenditure Management                        0.15          5.59         5.74
II. Human Resource Management                            0.08         2.24         2.32
III. Policy Formulation and Coordination                 0.09          0.31         0.40
IV. Project Management                                   0.15          0.36         0.51
Total Baseline Cost                                      0.47          8.50         8.97
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs              0.47         8.50         8.97
Total Financing Required              0.47         8.50          8.97
Goods                                                      0.20          1.97         2.17
Services                                                   0.20          5.62         5.82
Incremental operating cost                                 0.07          0.06         0.13
Unallocated                                                0.00          0.85         0.85
Total Project Costs     0.47          8.50         8.97
Total Financing Required     0.47           8.50         8.97
- 52 -



Annex 4
ALBANIA: Public Administration Reform Project
NOT APPLICABLE
- 53 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: Public Administration Reform Project
Years Ending
6/30/xx
| Year I  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0       0.5        2.1       4.2        2.1       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0,0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0       0.5        2.1       4.2        2.1       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             0.0        0.5        2.1       4.2        2.1       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0        0.5       2.0        4.0       2.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.0       0.1        0.2       0.1       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0       0.5        2.1       4.2        2.1       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-54 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Public Administration Reform Project
Procurement
The procurement of goods and services would be done in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines on
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by
the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999). The Bank's
standard bidding documents for goods, and the standard forms of contract and request for proposals will be
used under the project. Any goods or services not fnanced by the World Bank will be procured in
accordance with the public procurement regulations of the country or the co-financing institution's
procurement regulations. A general procurement notice will be published in the United Nations
Development Business in March 2000.
The Inter-Ministerial Commnittee will be responsible for the overall policy direction, project implementation
and progress monitoring. This Committee is under the leadership of the Prime Minister and is comnprised of
the Minister of Finance, the Director of the Department for Public Admninistration in the Council of
Ministers, and Minister of Justice. A Unit for implementation of the Public Administration Reform
Program, located in the Council of Ministers, will carried out the day-to-day implementation of the project.
The Unit will consist of a Unit Director, two Project Coordinators, one Procurement Officer, and one
Financial Management Officer. The Unit Director will report directly to the Prime Minister. The Unit has
no experience with Bank procurement procedures, therefore, procurement handling capacity should be
strengthened to ensure the success of the project. For the first year of operation, the government will need
to retain the services of a qualified and experienced procurement consultant to supplement the Unit's
procurement capacity. The Procurement Officer will work with the procurement consultant and will assume
the procurement function after necessary training, on-the-job and abroad, at the end of the assignment of
the procurement consultant. All other staff in the Unit will take necessary trainings immediately after
negotiations. After one year of implementation, the Bank will review the Unit's capacity to effectively
manage the project.
The Bank in association with the Government is in the process of updating the Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) which was completed in 1997, and the new CPAR is expected to be drafted by
April 2000. The conclusions of the 1997 assessment report are generally positive. The institutions in the
public sector are well established, but are relatively inexperienced. The Public Procurement Law (PPL) is
fairly comprehensive and transparent and is promoting econornic and competitive practices. However,
there is a general lack of awareness about its contents and application and a lack of strong support and
supervision by the Public Procurement Agency for implementation of the provisions contained in the law.
The main weaknesses highlighted in the CPAR are: inadequate capacity and capability in the country, for
which the main constraint is recruitment of qualified staff and training; and lack of country standard
procurement documents and manuals. The updated CPAR will reconmmend a series of actions to overcome
the institutional and system weaknesses. The irplementation of the action plan which will be prepared
under the updated CPAR will further improve the procurement environment and enhance the transparency
and accountability of procurement actions and decisions.
There are 34 Bank financed projects under implementation in Albania. The overall procurement
performance under these projects has been generally satisfactory except some cases of procurement delays,
which are mainly attributable to the inexperience of the procurement staff, and inadequate coordination
- 55 -



among the agencies involved in project implementation. In some cases, subjective interpretation of bids also
led to long delays and a perception of non transparent environment.
The project launch workshop shall be conducted immediately after the effectiveness of the loan.
Summary of Procurement Activities, Methods, and Schedule
Activities         Type  Method  No. of  Estimated   Preparation of  Invitationl    Evaluation/       Con-       Contract
Con-   Contract       BDIRFP/       GPNIS-PN    Recommend-    tract    Completion
tracts    Value         TOR/                      afion Award    Signing
Shortlist
1.1 Consulting services for
budget formulation           CS    QCBS        1      S30,000        612000        912000        1212000       2/2001      12/2003
1.2 Consulting services for  CS    QCBS        1      800,000        8/2000        11/2000       2/2001       412001       4/2004
rnacroecononmic & fiscal
analysis
1.3 Consulting services to   CS    QCBS        1     1,150,000       9/2000        12/2000       4/2001       6/2001      11/2003
strengthen treasury and
accounting functions
1.4 Consulting services to   CS    QCBS        1      500,000        9/2000        12/2000       4/2001       6/2001       6/2003
implement Civil Service Act
1.5 Cconsulting services to  CS    QCBS        1     1,250,000       9/2000        12/2000       4/2001      6/2001        3/2004
strengthen managernent
cpaicity of MoF, Department of
Public Adnministration, line
Ministries, and other public
agencies
1.6 Consulting services to
strengthen the policy analysis    CS    QCBS   1      180,000        6/2000        9/2000        11/2000       1/2001      2/2004
capacity of CoM
1.7 Consultant to prepare
bidding document for         CS      SIC       I       90,000        2/2001        4/2001         6/2001       8/2001      12/200
procurenment of software and
hardware for the treasury
1.8 Procurenment specialist for
the UIPARP                   CS   QCBS         1      160,000        3/2000        5/2000         6/2000       6/2000      6/2001
1.9 Technical and training
specialists on public        CS   QCBS         1      400,000       10/2000        2/2001         6/2001      1012001      10/2003
procurement
1I.10 Consulting services to
establish Institute for Training    CS   QCBS  1      200,000        12/2000       4/2001         8/2001      10/2001      6/2003
in Public Aadministration
- 56 -



1.11 Trainingoftrainers     T      SS    multi.o  350,000        12/2000                    7/2001      9/2001      10/2001
(abroad) in pay and                        ver 4                 7/2001                     10/2001     12/2001     5/2002
employment control, Human                  years                 3/2001                     8/2001       9/2001     12/2001
Resources Management and
public expenditure management
1.12 TrainingofCoM'staff
(abroad) on policy fornulation    T  SS     1      65,000        3/2001                     8/2001       9/2001     12/2001
and coordination
1.13 Trainingofproject
implementation staff
T      SS    multi.   50,000         6/2000                     8/2000      9/2000      6/2001
1.14 Study tour on governance
T      SS       1      40,000        6/2001                     8/2001      10/2001     12/2001
1.15 Survey ofpublic officials CS    CQ   1     70,000       1/2001         4/2001      8/2001         10/2001   3/2004
and citizens on imrpovement of
public expenditure and HR
management performance
(multiple surveys)
1.16 Survey of corruption
perceptions               CS    CQ        I      80,000      1/2002         4/2002      7/2002         9/2002    6/2003
1.17 Project audit
CS    LCS       1      40,000      4/2001                     6/2001         7/2001    10/2004
2.1 Procurement of software  G     ICB       1    2,035,000      8/2001        12/2001       3/2002      6/2002      6/2003
and hardware for the treasury
2.2 Procurement of PCs and
accessory for MoF           G       IS      I      100,000       2/2001        6/2001       10/2001     12/2001      1/2003
2.3 Procurement of office
equipmnents and furniture for  G   NS      multi   50,000        3/2000        4/2000        5/2000      6/2000      7/2000
the project implementation Unit
3.1 Incremental Operating        SOE             60,000
Cost (translations, tel. fax,
consumables, etc.) _
QCBS          - Quality Cost Based Selection
CQ            - Selection based on consultants' qualifications
LCS           - Least Cost Selection
SIC           - Selection for Individual Consultants
ICB           - International Competitive Bidding
IS            - International Shopping
NS            - National Shopping
SOE           - Statement of Expenditure
SS            - Sole source
- 57 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods: All goods contracts estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent each shall be subject to
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts estimated to cost over US$50,000 to US$100,000
equivalent each shall be subject to International Shopping (IS) and contracts US$50,000 or less each shall
be through National Shopping (NS).
Consulting services, training, surveys and study tour: Selection of consulting firms, training providers and
surveys shall be through Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) process as defined in Annex 6, Table on "Summary of Procuremnent Activities,
Methods and Schedule". Selection of individual consultants will be through a competitive process in
accordance with the provisions 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Single-source selection of consultants does not provide the benefits
of comnpetition in regard to quality and cost, and lacks transparency in selection, and could encourage
unacceptable practices. Therefore, this method would be used only in exceptional cases, such as staff
training abroad and study tour.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
|B W _ ~~~~~~~rouer0t m _ _
1. Works                           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                           2.24           0.00           0.15           0.00          2.39
(2.04)         (0.00)        (0.15)         (0.00)        (2.19)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00           6.45           0.00          6.45
0(.00)        (0.00)         (6.25)         0.00)         (6.25)
4. Miscellaneous (incremental      0.00            0.00          0.13           0.00          0.13
operating cost)
0.00)         (0.00)        (0.06)         (0.00)        (0.06)
Total                            2.24           0.00          6.73           0.00           8.97
(2.04)         (0.00)        (6.46)        (0.00)         (8.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 58 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           5.68      0.00      0.00      0.04      0.15      0.50      0.00      6.37
(5.48)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.04)    (0.15)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (6.17)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.90      0.00      0.90
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.90)    (0.00)    (0.90)
Total   5.68     0.00      0.00      0.04      0.15       1.40      0.00      7.27
(5.48)    (0.00)  , (0.00)    (0.04)    (0.15)    (1.40)    (0.00)    (7.07)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 59 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts and the first IS contract shall be subject to prior review by the Bank. The consultants'
contracts estimated to cost over US$50,000 for firms and US$20,000 for individuals, as well as all sole
source contracts, and all TORs and methods for selection of consultant contracts, irrespective of the value,
shall be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review by the
Bank's supervision missions or by focused procurement review or audit missions. The Bank missions will
review at least one out of five contracts which are subject to post review. For study tour and training (both
in country and abroad training), CV of the trainees, the course content, fee, per diem, transportation, will
be subject to Bank's prior review. Incremental operating cost will be discussed and agreed annually with
the Bank.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                         N/A                      ICB                        1
2. Goods                       50 or less                  NS
above 50 to 100               IS                       0.10
100 above                  ICB                     2.035
3. Services                   (Indiv.) 20                 Other
Firm) 50            QCBS/CQILCS/SS                 6.125
4. Total                                      _                                    8.26
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    8.26
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 60 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the loan proceeds will be administered by the UIPARP. The Credit is expected to be fully
disbursed over four years. The Bank would fnance: (i) 100% of expenditures for consultant services,
surveys, -studies and training; (ii) for goods, 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports, 100% of local
ex-factory costs for locally manufactured items and 80% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; and (iii) incremental operating cost will be financed 90%.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
,;.                                                   .   .,g*....       U . .   nX{t.f.
Technical assistance                        5.62                          100
Goods                                       1.97           100% of foreign expenditures for directo
imports, 100% of local ex-factory costs
for locally manufactured items and 80%
of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Incremental operating cost                  0.06                           90
Unallocated                                 0.85                          100
Total Project Costs                         8.50
Total                                       8.50
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
(a)    Goods: expenditures under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
(b)   Consulting firms: contracts estimated less than US$50,000 equivalent
(c)  Individual consultants: contracts less than US$20,000 equivalent
(d)   Training, study tour and incremental operating costs: all contracts
Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained at the Project Implementation Unit, and made
available for review by Bank supervision missions and auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a commercial bank. The
authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$700,000 representing approximately four
months of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness, the borrower may withdraw an amount of
US$350,000 representing 50% of the authorized allocation. When the funds withdrawn from the Credit
Account and any outstanding Special Commitments amount to SDR 1.5 million, the borrower may
withdrawn the remaining amount of US$700,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
The commercial bank holding the SA would be chosen on the basis of open competitive bidding, and
would, as a pre-condition, be required- to meet the following criteria:
- 61 -



(a)   It snould be financially sound as demonstrated by its latest accounts which would be audited by an
internationally recognized audit firm;
(b)    Have significant foreign correspondence banking in all major currencies;
(c)    Have some experience, or at least the capacity to acquire experience, in issuing letters of credit and
transacting direct foreign payments;
(d)    Be a member of SWIFT, or plan to use the facility to expedite payments;
(e)    Must issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the SA would not be set, seized or
otherwise attached to satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the Borrower;
(f)    Be willing and able to adequately maintain accounts as required by the Bank, including regular
statements, and any other inforrnation that may be considered necessary; and
(g)    Charge competitive rates for services and other transactions fees.
Financial Management
General: The newly established UIPARP within the Office of the Prime Minister will be responsible for
the overall financial management of the Project. The UIPARP will, amongst other things, oversee and
coordinate the Project, manage Project expenditures from the Special Account, ensure compliance with the
Development Credit Agreement, and maintain the Project's financial records.
Accounting systems: The UIPARP accountant, with the assistance of a short term Accounting Consultant,
established an accounting and fnancial management systern that meets IDA's minimum requirements.
Work so far included: (i) design and implementation of the Project accounting and financial management
system; (ii) drafting of the accounting and financial Manual; and (iii) computerization of the accounting
and financial system with an appropriate integrated software. The UTIPARP will maintain this system and
further upgrade it according to a time-bound action plan, to ensure proper management of the accounting,
reporting and fnancing aspects of the Project according to IDA's requirements. The upgrade includes the
development of the system so that is will be able to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the project (PMR) as required by IDA for PMR-based disbursements.
Staffing. The full-time UIPARP accountant will be responsible for the accounting and financial activities.
Disbursements Mechanism: The Project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional
Statement Of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving to the Project Management Reports
(PMR)-based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Association. A
Special Account will be opened and managed by the UIPARP at a bank acceptable to the Association.
Internal Controls. The accounting and financial Manual, prepared by the UIPARP accountant with the
support of the short term consultant, will detail, amongst other things, the operational procedures and
controls.
Audit Arrangements. The accounts and fnancial statements of the project will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable by the Association. The audited annual project financial statements will be submitted to
the Bank within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The audit will be carried out in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing. The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project
and the Terms of Reference of the auditors should include both audit of financial transaction and an
assessment of the operation of the financial management system, including the review of the internal control
mechanisms. The lJIPARP will provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records,
and information required by the auditor for the purpose of the audit. Auditors will be appointed under a
project portfolio-wide basis agreement by the Ministry of Finance.
- 62 -



Reporting Arrangements. In addition to the submission of annual audited financial statements, the
WIPARP will produce full quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs).
-63-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: Public Administration Reform Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      21                            21
First Bank mission (identification)             06/30/98                      06/30/98
Appraisal mission departure                      12/04/99                     12/04/99
Negotiations                                    02/09/2000                    02/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2000
Prepared by:
Gary J. Reid, Alma Kanani, Lingzhi Xu
Preparation assistance:
Haye Group (Declan Keamey, Lead consultant) -- public administration/human resource managernent
Euroservices (Larry Seale, Lead consultant) -- public expenditure management
SIGMA (Michal Ben Gera and Simon James -- cabinet decision making, council of ministers functioning
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
"a""' '"'"'Speciity.".-'"'-'''"',""-'iI,'':";"' '
Gary J. Reid                      Public Administration, Team Leader
Alma Kanani                       Public Expenditure Management
Lingzhi Xu                        Procurement
Sandro Zanus Michiei              Project Financial Management
Madalene O'Donnell                Project Management
Jana Orac                         Public Officials' Survey
Nimfa Campos                      Team Assistant
Rohit R. Mehta                    Senior Disbursement Officer
Ahmed Mohammed Jehani             Senior Legal Counsel
Junko Funahashi                   Legal Counsel
Johnson Appavoo                   Environmental Issues
Malcolm Holmes                    Peer reviewer (Public Expenditure Management)
Nick Manning                      Peer reviewer (Public Sector Human Resource Management)
- 64 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: Public Administration Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Public Expenditure Management: Workbook for planning and monitoring project components (in
electronic form)
2. Human Resource Management: Workbook for planning and monitoring project components (in
electronic form)
3. Policy formulation and coordination: Workbook for planning and monitoring project components (in
electronic form)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Project concept stage
*  Project Concept Documents
*  Comments from peer reviwers on the PCD.
*  Minutes of the PCD review meeting
*   Statement of objectives (TOR) for the preparation mission
*  BTOR and Aide Memoire from the preparation mission
2. Project appraisal stage
*  Project Appraisal document
*   Comments from peer reviwers in the PAD review meeting
*  Minutes of the PAD review meeting
*  Mission announcment letter to the PM
-  BTOR and Aide Memoire from the appraisal mission
C. Other
I. Background documents - Public Expenditure Management (PEM)
*  Review of the PEM functions and processes with proposed technical assistance: Initial draft
(consultant report)
*   Review of the PEM functions and processes with proposed technical assistance: Final draft
(consultant report)
*  Comments from Bank staff on the initial draft
*  Comments from Bank staff on the Final draft
*  TOR's for the prepraration of the report
*  Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys: LOI, TOR, proposals, and Consultant Evaluation
Report
*   "Report and Recommendation of the President of the Intemational Development Association to
the Executive Directors on a Public Expenditure Support Credit in an Amount of SDR 22.1
Million to Albania", April 21, 1999
*   Structural Adjustment Credit:
2. Background documents - Public administration component
*  Report on project implementation plan for the public administration component
*   Comments from the Bank staff on the initial draft
* Comnments from the Bank staff on the final draft
3. Other background documents
- 65 -



*  Discussion document for the Ministry of Education and Science on what it means to be a pilot
ministry for the new civil service law
*   Report on a review of the functions for the Ministry of local goverunents
*   Comments from Bank staff on the initial draft
*   Comments from Bank staff on the final draft
*   TOR's for the functional review
*  Report on a review of the functions for the Ministry of Justice
*   Functional Review of the Office of the Prime Minister
*   Comments on the draft
*   TORs for the functional review
*   Comments from the Bank staff on the Civil Service Law
*   Strategy of the Public Administration Reform for the Government of Albania (prepared by the
Government)
a
*Including electronic files
-66 -



Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)                                       Page  1 of  1
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Closed 7
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                              Expected and Actual
Board
Date                                                   Supcrvision Rating b/              Orikinal Amount in US$ Millions            Disbursements"
Fiscal                                             Development   Implementation
Year  Active Projects                              Devlobment veProres                 IBRD          IDA       Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig.  Frm Rev'd
1994     P008260     DURRES WATER SUPPLY                 U               S                   0         11.6           0        2.5       1.49          0
1994     P008269     SCHOOL REHAB. AND CA                 S              S                   0          9.6           0        0.4       0.12           0
1995     P008253     HEALTH SERVICES REHA                 S              S                   0         12.4           0        4.8       5.04           0
1995     P008270    IRRIGATION REHABILITION               S              HS                  0           10           0          0       -1.14          0
1995     P008267     RURAL ROADS                          S              S                   0           15           0        1.1       2.14       -5.52
1995     P008272     TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.                 S              S                   0            4           0        1.6       1.45           0
1996     P035787     AGROPROCESSING DEVEL                 S               S                  0            6           0          2       2.12           0
1996     P008271     FORESTRY                             S               S                  0            8           0          5       2.27           0
1996     P036060     NATIONAL ROADS                       S               S                  0           25           0       15.2      10.41           0
1996     P034491     POWER TRANSM. & DIST                HU              U                   0         29.5           0        18.7     19.62           0
1998     P040818     DURRES PORT                          S              U                   0           17           0       15.9       8.75           0
1998     P045312     HEALTH RECOVERY                      S               S                  0           17           0        16.8      6.68           0
CN     1998      P040975     LAND DEVELOPMENT                     S               S                  0           10           0        9.8       3.06           0
1998     P051602     PRIVATE INDUSTRY REC                 S               S                  0         10.3           0          7        6.94          0
1998     P054384     RECOVERY PROG. TA                    S               S                  0            5           0         2.3       1.14          0
1999     P051309     COMMUNITY WORKS                      S               S                  0           14           0        12.4       1.14          0
1999     P043178    IRRIG. & DRAINAGE 11                  S               S                  0           24           0        23.3      -0.56          0
1999     P051310     MICROCREDIT                          S               S                  0           12           0        11.4       -0.6          0
1999     P055160     SAC                                  S               S                  0           45           0        25.6     24.86           0
2000     P068853      EMG ROAD REPAIR                                                         0         13.7           0       13.6          0          0
2000     P066491      WSIURGENTREHAB.                                                         0          10           0          10          0          0
Total Active Projects:                           21                                                   309.1            0      199.4      94.93       -5.52
Note: Public Expenditure Support project is not included because fully disbursed in FY99, and as such, considered inactive.
Commnunity Works project and its supplemental project are counted as one operation.
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Albania
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 2/15/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Approval Company          Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998 AAP                 0   28.5      0     0    0   7.89      0     0
1999 SEFEurotech        1.2     0      0     0   1.2     0      0     0
1999 SEFFEFADBank        0   1.01      0     0    0      0      0     0
Total Portfolio:        1.2  29.51     0     0   1.2  7.89      0     0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998 Patos Marinza      30      0      0    50
2000 NCB                  0      2     0     0
Total Pending Commitment:     30      2     0    50
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: Public Administration Reform Project
Eurooe &                                                    9W17199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central      Low-
Albania       Asia  Income         Development diamond'
1998
Ponulation. mid-vear (millionsl                           3.4        473       908                   Life expectancy
GNP ner canita tAtlas method. USS)                        810      2.190      1.710
SNP (Atlas method. USS billions[                          2 7      1.n3q      1.157
Averame annual arowth. 1992-98                                                                             T
Pooulation (%l                                            0.8        0.1        1.1
Laborforce t%l                                            1.2        0.6        1.5      GNP                     *      I   Gross
Most recent estimate ilatest vear available. 1992-981                                    capita                            ,, primart
Povertv ff4 of ooaulafion below national DOvertv line)                                    pt ..   ..
Urban nonulation f% of totat oaoulationl                   38         88         58
Life exoectancv at birth tvearsl                           72         69        68
Infant mortalitv /oar 1. 000 five births)                  26         23        38
Child malnltritinn t% of children undei 51                            ..         .-                Access to safe water
Access to safe water t% nf oooufationl                     76         ..         75
Illiteracv (% of Dooulafion aoe 15+1                        ..         4         14
Gross orimarv enrollment t% of school-aae Dooulationl     107        100        103               -Albania
Male                                                    108        101       105            .      Low-income grovp
Female   -108                                                       99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios*
GDP fUSS billions)                                ..      2.2        2.3        3.0
Gross domestic investmentGDP                      ..    28.4        16.0       16.0                      Trade
Fxnorts nf nands and servicRs/tlrnP                      1i 5       10.         9i.T
Gross domestic sevinos/GDP                        ..    28.3         -9.1      -6.7
Gross national savinos/GDP                        ..       ..        4.0        9.9                         T
Ctrr.nt acoun,t hal4anclfGlP                             n0.7      -17 1       -Ri                        .
Interest oaementstGflP              -                 -..  0.0       0.9        0.2      Domestc    N                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                     --               30-9       26.9      Savings
Total-debt servicelexoorts                        ..       ..        7.2        2.2
Present value of debt/GDP                          .        ..      21.0
Present value of debtfoxoorts                                       7 72.0        -
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowthl
GDP                                   °19       -0.5     -7.0        8.0                         --"Albanie
GNPaercaoita                            ..       6.1     -9.1        6.1                         --------- Low-income arouo
EXoDrts of noods and services           ..    13.6    -29.5         17.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and Investment I%)
(% of GDPI
Acriculture                                       ..    33.2        56.0       54.4
Industrv                                          ..    45.8        23.6       24.5      200
Manufacturino
Services                                           -     21.0       20.4       21.0       o
Private consumotion                               ..    62.0        97.7       96.5    .100      9      4    s    96   97   98
General oovernment consumotion                    ..      9.6       11.4       10.2                  -GDI        - -GDP
Imoorts of moods and services                     ..    15.6        35.7       32.2
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
taveraoe annual orowthl
Aariculture                                      2.4      5.5         1.0       5.0     300
Industrv                                         2.2     -8.4        -5.9      12.2     200
Manufacturino                                    ..       ..         ..
Services                                         0.6      0.4      -24.4       11.3     100
Private consumotion                               ..      61         -9.3      10.1       °     ;'
General oovernment consumotion                    ..      -3.9     -16.5       -0.6              93   94   95    0        7    90
Gross domestic investment                       -0.6     19.9       -4.1       21.0    .100
Imorts of ooods and services                      ..    16.7       -20.2       16.1                -Exports       '"lnrls
Gross national nroduct                            ..      6.5       -8.1        7.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds shnw fmir kev indicators in the coujntrv fin holdl comnared with its inc,me-or,,n averane. If data are missina, the diamond will
he inro.mnlete
- 69 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      InflatIon (%)
Domestic prices                                         199
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                    33.2      21.9    120
Implicit GOP deflator                                              30.8      24.8      ax
Government finance                                 o                      _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     a
Current revenue                                         49.2       16.8      20.3        93     94      95    9s       97      Da
Current budget balance                                  23.7       -8.6       -5.3              - DP deflator  '-Cpl
Overall surplusideficit                                 -1.7      -12.6     -10.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1977      1987      1997      1998       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      311        16T       205     1,000
Minerals and fuels                                                 46        S7 4611
Food, beverage, and tobacco                                        18        22       75       
Manufactures                                                       99       122
Total imports (fob)                                      316        GaS       826 8* 
Food                                                              164       197       25
Fuel and energy                                                    71        86
Capital goods                                                      99       120        o
92   93   94   95   96  9,7  98
Exoort once index (t993=100)                      ..
Imoort orce Index /t993=1001                     ..       ..         ..        .. )               Exports      N Imports
Terms nf trade (193=*1 001
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1 99s     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
fUSS millions)
Exports of goods and services                            334        239       289 o
Imports of goods and services                            336        816       980                                 t
Resource balance                                          -2       -577      -691
Net income                                                 0         51        65
Net current transfers                                               250       440     -30
Current account balance                                    5       -276      -186     JC
Financing items (net)                                      7        303       25?     -so
Changes in net reserves                                  -12        -27       -71     -ro
Memo:
Reserves inciudino oold (USS millions)                             342        401
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSSI                 ..      8.0      149.6     151.2
EXTERNAL DEbT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     19S7       1997      199t1
IUSS millionsl                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS mililons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                706       820
IBRo                                            ,                   0         0                       G 3
IDA                                                               148       220
Total debt service                                                   39        37                                   B, 220
IBRFD                                                              t0         0
IDA                                             .        ..1                  1
F: 271
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 .        ..        77        89
Official creditors                                                 46        79                                      C 64
Private creditors                                                 -1          0
Foreign direct investment                                          42        45                                   D: 21
Portfolio equity                                                    0         0                       E: 20
World Bank program
Commitments                                                        34         4      A - IBRO                     E - Bilatral
Disbursements                                                      19        64      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                                0         0      C - IMF                      G short-term
Net flows                                                          19        64
Interest payments                                                   1         1
Net transfers                                                      18        63
Development Economics                                                                                                     9"17/99
-70 -



IBRD 28467R
18'30'   }        )~~~~~9'00I 91930' ,                              20 00                                             2)3t  2'00'
-->_ {                                    t  )   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FED.   REP.   qF   YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA I                                                              tw5t8 (SERBIA /MOJNTENEGRO)
42b30'                                                                                  ~                                                          9braoJE\  42'30'
o9)*tir.  
o- \  .  _<X. '. ;   wi As'  l~~
0          ~~~~~~ALBANIA                                       .;  p'.0
o SELECTED) CITES                                                                            0 A Xi 2 : tS    
43 DISTRICT CENTERS                            v     8 t t                   lDT                
NATlONAL CAPITAL                                     L         R-rs  Krn8s   
-  NAT10fNAEROADS                                           '   t 2                         9BR                  -/
RAILRZOADS                                                                                       .;esopi,^
-- -RIVERS                                    Fu95,AlauI i,
-   *DISTRICTBOLt2NDARtES                        t     <Muut£_               -MT\;
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        >     \:-KIJ               '        *2
41°30'    fif\EtVATIONSIN METERS:                               DGRS         .      .j \              ,                           F.Y.R.         4'0
rJ200             O reX    'IRANE    .f                            >    <&  MACEDONIA
120                                    urr                 :TIRA.-                                    t.
ja  F  , dz >a.{            >  RAZHD. 
41 00'                                                                                                                                              "'O--  >     '   /'. 10
V  lP  v9EwL   P  P                                     A                            X \;  t                   W~~~LUHINJ
Ais   proucedbyhitoprrigntAofTbtwfAd&  ~/  t  --+                  * ' ER-AT\*L-                                  s  ie     . 
rne=t.etbn  ratrtM&oeiermairat X s°sdt - > x. ~~~ u t0w« \ J 0SetiRAM;H r
s~~onas^sbntunwlyt<7t^pureglSlt           \ Ka~~~FuIR,         Dh)*t- trts  
z  >   <, REP    >N ~~~~~~~~j  UKRAINE                    <,    t'. {\  {~~~~~~LAK  RKRAS PA R
t    ~~    tNI y LITHUANIA                                                     PELEN
BELARU.                            .         tetp el                                    __



