Report No. 1660a-UV                                                        FIL               COPY
Appraisal -of                                                              FILE COP
Upper Volta
Urban Development Project
January 3, 1978
Urban Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1      =  CFAF 245
The CFA (Communaute Financiere d'Afrique) Franc is fixed with respect to
the French Franc (1 FF - CFAF 50) and floats with respect to the US
dollar. In this report the following conversion has been used:
US$ 1     =  CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million = US$4,082
ABBREVIATIONS
BND     -   Banque Nationale de Developpement - Haute Volta
CCCE    -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CESAO   -   Centre d'Etudes Economiques et Sociales de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Agency
CNPAR   -   Centre National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux
FAC     -   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED     -   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FONASEN -   Fonds National d'Assainissement et Entretien
HER     -   Hydraulique et Equipement Rural
KfW     -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
ONE     -   Office National des Eaux
OPEV    -   Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique
ORD     -   Office Regional de Developpement
SACS    -   Service d'Assistance, Conseil et Soutien
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................    i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .....         .....................................       1
II.   BACKGROUND:  THE URBAN SECTOR IN NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                  I
A.   Migration and Urban Growth ......................                1
B.   Managing Urban Development ..           ....................     3
C.   The Search for Solutions:  The Cissin Experience                 5
D.   Implementing National Urban Development Policy:
Phased Intervention ...........................               6
III.   THE PROJECT ..........         ................................        7
A.   Objectives ..          ....................................      7
B.   Main Components ....... ..............                           8
C.   Detailed Features ...............................               10
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ................                      16
A.   The Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and
Town Planning .................................              17
B.   The Municipalities .          .............................     18
C.   National Water Office (ONE) .....           ................    19
D.   The Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee   ....             20
E.   Implementation ...         ...............................      20
V.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND COST RECOVERY .21
A. Cost Estimates    ..21
B. Financing ..                                                      23
C. Cost Recovery   ..26
D . Procurement   ..31
E. Disbursements                  ..32
F. Supervision   ..32
G. Monitoring and Evaluation   .                  .32
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ................................                33
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED ...................................                36
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission, consisting of
Mr. Cohen (chief of mission), Ms. Tager, Messrs. Biderman, Delapierre, Mould,
and I. Nahmias (consultant), which visited Upper Volta in February, 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



-2-
ANNEXES
1.  The Urban Sector
2.  Community Organization:  Expanding the Cissin Experience
3.  IDF Project
4.  Organization and Management of Project Entities
5.  Design Standards and Detailed Cost Estimates
6.  Monthly Charges and Target Population
7.  Cost Recovery and Cash Flows
8.  Technical Assistance
9.  Economic Evaluation
10.  Monitoring and Evaluation
11.  Supervision
12.  The Municipal Assistance Component
13.  Construction Loan Program
SKETCHES
Construction Stages - Traditional Housing   No. 17303
Typical Plot Layout - Traditional Housing   No. 17304
MAPS
IDA Project Locations                              12845
Ouagadougou                                        12842
Bobo-Dioulasso                                     12843
Indicative Upgrading Layout                       12844



UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Upper Volta has requested an IDA credit to imple-
ment its national urban development policy through a phased program of infra-
structure investment, training, and "learning by doing" in three urban centers:
Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, and Gaoua. The project, the first IDA credit in
the urban sector in Upper Volta, one of the "least developed countries",
extends and improves the experience of a UNDP-financed pilot squatter upgrad-
ing and sites and services project in the Cissin neighborhood of Ouagadougou.
The proposed project builds on low-cost methods of provision of infrastructure
developed in Cissin, increasing the scale ten-fold, while emphasizing cost
recovery, strengthening of local municipal institutions, and a phased approach
to the implementation of all components. The project seeks to expand the
capacity of national and local institutions to provide low-cost urban services
and to extend improvements in housing, water supply, and drainage, to some
100,000 persons.
ii.       The Government has two objectives in the urban sector:  to improve
living conditions and to increase productive employment. The urban project
addresses the first of these objectives and is closely linked to an artisan
and small enterprise project to be financed by IDA which will address the
second. These projects have been prepared together, are designed to reinforce
each other and will be implemented simultaneously with several components
operating in the same neighborhoods of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
iii.      The Government faces serious constraints in improving living
conditions in its rap'dly growing urban sector. These include insufficient
budgetary resources to allocate to urban development in a largely rural
country, a scarcity of qualified personnel, financially weak local institu-
tions unable to maintain past investments, much less undertake new ones, and
the urgency of extending health care and education and other social services
to the needy rural areas. The Cissin project offered a low-cost method for
improving urban living conditions through self-help and community participa-
tion. This approach was adopted in late 1975 as the cornerstone of Government
policy in the sector following a national seminar which evaluated the project.
IDA assistance was requested at that time and the present project was prepared
during 1976 with the financial support of the Project Preparation Facility.
iv.       The project includes the following components:
(a) Squatter Upgrading: servicing of about 11,000 plots on
432 hectares with water standpipes, stormwater drainage
and earth roads in two neighborhoods in Ouagadougou (7,000
plots) and one in Bobo-Dioulasso (4,000 plots);
(b) Sites and Services: preparation and servicing of about
1,100 plots with water standpipes, stormwater drainage



- ii --
and earth roads on 50 hectares in Bobo-Dioulasso and
a pilot project for 100 families in Gaoua;
(c) Water Supply Distribution: public standpipes in three
additional neighborhoods of Ouagadougou, inhabited by
approximately 20,000 persons;
(d)  Home Construction Loans:  loans for house construction
and improvements;
(e) Community Facilities: construction of neighborhood com-
munity centers, markets, rehabilitation of 65 schools
and 17 dispensaries in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso,
a pilot community development project for community
education, public health, and women's activities;
(f)  Assistance to Municipalities:  technical asslstance for
training of maintenance personnel, improving financial
management and tax collection, reorganization of the
Departments of Roads and Buildings, expansion of Municipal
Housing Offices; equipment for maintenance activities,
11 garbage trucks, and insecticide spraying;
(g) Technical Assistance to Department of Town Planning: 168
man-months of technical assistance for project execution,
training, and preparation of a second project; consultant
services for detailed engineering and supervision; equipment
purchase, and operating costs of Project Unit;
(h) Monitoring and Evaluation: a study evaluating the per-
formance of project components during and after project
execution.
v.        Estimated plot development costs in upgraded neighborhoods and
sites and services areas will vary from about CFAF 63,600 (US$260) to CFAF
131,872 (US$538), including the cost of land acquisition, at present municipal
rates of CFAF 10 or CFAF 100 per square meter, according to previous tenure
status. The implied monthly charges, including water charges, municipal
taxes, and home construction loans, represent from 15 to 25% of average
household monthly incomes in squatter areas.
vi.       Total project costs are estimated to be CFAF 2,656.2 million
(US$10.8 million), including contingencies, of which 55% is foreign exchange.
Taxes amount to CFAF 437.9 million (US$1.8 million) or 16% of total project
costs. The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.2 million to the Government will be
used to finance 90% of total project costs net of taxes (CFAF 2,218.3 or
U$9.1 million). It will cover 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$6.0 million)
and 72% of local costs net of taxes (CFAF 745.2 or US$3.0 million). The
balance of CFAF 209.3 million (US$0.9 million) will be provided by Government.



- iii -
vii.      All contracts over US$50,000 for the procurement of equipment and
vehicles will be through international competitive bidding in accordance with
World Bank guidelines (US$2.1 million, with taxes, but without contingencies).
These contracts will be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 whenever
possible. The channeling of the Zogona gulley, amounting to US$1.1 million,
will also be offered for international competitive bidding. Civil works con-
tracts for water supply, plot surveying, and off-site drainage (US$1.0 mil-
lion), and construction of community facilities, and office repairs (US$0.3
million) will be too small to attract international contractors and will there-
fore be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, advertised locally
in accordance with local procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. Earth road
construction and on-site drainage (US$1.0 million) within individual neighbor-
hoods will be carried out by force account by the Ministry of Public Works,
Transport, and Town Planning. Consultant services will be procured according
to procedures acceptable to IDA (US$1.9 million).
viii.     Project implementation will take about 3.5 years.  Execution of
civil works will be the responsibility of the Department of Town Planning
within the Ministry of Public Works. Household selection, plot allocation,
distribution of urban occupancy permits, and collection of plot charges will
be carried out by the Municipal Housing Offices in Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso. The Gaoua pilot project will be designed by the Department of Town
Planning. The water supply components will be executed by the National Water
Office. The channeling of the Zogona Gulley will be executed by the National
Fund for Land Reclamation and Maintenance (FONASEN), a service of the Depart-
ment of Water Affairs.
ix.       The Borrower will be the Government of Upper Volta which will pass
on funds to the Department of Town Planning, the Municipalities, the
National Water Office and FONASEN.
x.        The project will improve the living conditions of some 100,000
low-income persons in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. The economic rate of
return of the project, accounting 75% of total project costs, is 34%. The
economic rate of return for squatter upgrading varies from 24% to 40%, accord-
ing to neighborhood, and 37% for the sites and service area. The economic
rate of return for the water supply component is 37%.
xi.       Given the scarcity of qualified personnel and the weakness of
existing institutions, the project involves considerable risks. However,
final project design reflects these constraints as well as opportunities
inherent in this project to build up an urban development capability in the
country. In addition, given the strong interest expressed by Government in
this project, and the substantial benefits derived from the project, these
risks are worth taking.
xii.      Subject to the agreements set forth in paras. 7.01 and 7.02, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.2 million.






UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Upper Volta has requested IDA financing to
implement its national urban development policy whose objectives are the
improvement of living conditions through provision of low-cost urban services
and the generation of productive employment. The proposed project, the first
IDA credit in the urban sector in Upper Volta, represents the Government's
effort to replicate and expand its experience with a UNDP pilot project in
the Cissin neighborhood of Ouagadougou, which demonstrated the feasibility
of providing low-cost infrastructure and housing through self-help methods
and community participation. The project will extend the Cissin experience
to other neighborhoods in Ouagadougou and two other towns, Bobo-Dioulasso
and Gaoua, and seek to strengthen the capacity of national and local insti-
tutions to provide urban services through a phased program of training,
infrastructure investment, and "learning by doing".
1.02      The project is linked to an artisan and small-scale enterprise
project to be financed by IDA and implemented by the Government and the
National Development Bank. These projects have been prepared together and
are designed to be mutually reinforcing, with some components to be executed
in the same neighborhoods of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
1.03      The Government prepared the project during 1976 with the assistance
of consultants financed by the Project Preparation Facility and in close
coordination with UNDP and the UN Center for Housing, Building and Planning.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission
consisting of Mr. Cohen (chief of mission), Ms. Tager, Messrs. Biderman,
Delapierre, Mould, and Mr. I. Nahmias (consultant), which visited Upper Volta
in February 1977.
II. BACKGROUND: THE URBAN SECTOR IN NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Migration and Urban Growth
2.01      Upper Volta, with a population of 6 million and average GDP per
capita of US$110 in 1976, is classified by the United Nations as one of the 25
"least developed countries". It is also one of the most rural countries, with
more than 90% of its labor force working as self-employed farmers and animal
herders, and only 8.2% of its population living in urban areas in 1975. Low
agricultural productivity, providing less than 35% of GDP, declined during the
1971-73 drought, stimulating steady out-migration from rural areas.



2.02      To reverse this trend, the Government is pursuing an agricultural
development strategy, emphasizing self-sufficiency in food production,
increasing production of all crops in rainfed areas, freeing fertile lands
infested by river blindness, and a program of regional development being
implemented by 11 regional development organizations (ORDs). The Govern-
ment is also encouraging migration from the densely populated Mossi plateau
to the relatively under-populated, fertile, southwest region of the country.
However, these efforts will have essentially medium and long-term impacts
which will not markedly affect out-migration from rural areas in the fore-
seeable future.
2.03      The slow growth of the rural economy has fueled very large out-
migration of Voltaics, about 200-250,000 annually, consisting of about
100-150,000 seasonal workers, 40-50,000 temporary migrants (staying less
than 5 years), and 20-25,000 permanent migrants, in search of employment
in towns and in coastal African countries, such as Ghana and the Ivory Coast.
If opportunities for wage employment did not exist in these countries,
rural-urban migration within Upper Volta would be many times greater than
the present rate. Existing migratory patterns have resulted in population
leficits in some regions and the rapid growth of the few urban centers with-
in the country. The two largest towns, the capital Ouagadougou (220,000),
and Bobo-Dioulasso (150,000), are presently growing at 7% per year, but
some squatter areas on the periphery of the cities are expanding up to 20%
annually.
2.04      Over the past decade, urban growth reached 5% annually in comparison
to a national growth rate of 2.7% and is expected to increase the urban
population from 500,000 in 1975 to 1.7 million by 2000, doubling the urban
share of national population. More than half of this growth can be attributed
to rural-urban migration caused, in the recent past, by extreme deprivation
and drought in rural areas. Urban growth thus represents a relocation of
households from rural to urban areas and traditional rural settlement patterns
on the periphery of a few rapidly growing towns. Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso,
and Koudougou (60,000) account for 430,000, or 86% of the total urban popula-
tion. The remaining population is found in small semi-urban centers such as
Dedougou, Fada N'Gourma, Gaoua and Ouahigouya, each with a population of about
10,000.
2.05      Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso historically developed around admin-
istrative and commercial areas in the town centers, surrounded by residential
neighborhoods. On the periphery of these neighborhoods, squatter areas extend
in all directions. The principal differences between the older central neigh-
borhoods and the squatter areas are the legal tenure system and grid layout.
There is also a skeletal infrastructure network consisting of some paved
streets and lighting, public water taps, and drainage ditches. However, en-
vironmental conditions are as hazardous as in the newer squatter neighbor-
hoods, because municipal maintenance and repair of existing services simply
do not exist.
2.06      Squatter areas cover about 1,500 hectares (1,300 in Ouagadougou and
200 in Bobo-Dioulasso) and are populated by about 150,000 persons (120,000 in



Ouagadougou and 30,000 in Bobo-Dioulasso). These lower density areas cover
more than half the area of the capital, with between 40 and 90 persons per
hectare living in family compounds of mud huts. Most families are young,
with an average household size of 6.4 persons and are recent migrants to the
city. Most have no piped water supply, garbage collection, waste disposal,
stormwater drainage, schools or clinics. Of the 58 standpipes in Ouagadougou,
only 4 are found in the squatter areas. Clean water is purchased from private
vendors who buy water at public standpipes in central neighborhoods and
resell it to squatters at five times the price. Squatter households buy the
equivalent of 7-10 liters per capita per day from vendors during most of the
year, and consume an additional amount from shallow, polluted wells. During
the 2-3 month hot season, when wells are dry, households may purchase up to
15-20 liters per capita per day.
2.07      Squatter households depend on traditional chiefs for permission to
occupy a designated plot of land. Households pay the chiefs a fee, either in
money or in kind, for traditional occupancy rights. They rarely pay taxes and
are individually unknown to the municipal administration. In 1976, about 83%
of the households in Ouagadougou owned and occupied their houses, with only a
small minority renting rooms. In contrast to the lack of municipal jurisdic-
tion, traditional chiefs continue to wield substantial authority over the
squatter areas, determining the physical layouts, type of construction, and
most importantly, influencing the popular will, such as community reactions
to improvements which are proposed by Government and private agencies.
2.08       Urban growth has not been accompanied by increased labor produc-
tivity or substantially higher incomes for migrants who have remained outside
the formal sector. About 80% of the urban labor force of 120,000 work within
the many branches of the informal sector, earning an average household monthly
income of CFAF 10,000 (US$40). Only some 37,000 persons work within the
formal sector. The majority of squatters are under-employed within the in-
formal sector. Only 10% of the Ouagadougou population is literate, but even
if they had educational qualifications they would face many obstacles to
finding productive employment within the very small formal sector. Outside
of the public administration, which employs about 19,000 persons, there are
very few jobs in small enterprises. The lack of training, access to credit,
the costs of transport and marketing, and the small size of local markets,
have inhibited growth of the private formal sector, which now numbers about
18,000 persons. Many migrants have moved to Ouagadougou, the center of public
sector employment, but have been unable to obtain desired positions. Others
have passed through Bobo-Dioulasso, the commercial capital in the relatively
prosperous southwest region, on their way to Ghana and the Ivory Coast.
B. Managing Urban Development
2.09      Institutions - Responsibility for urban development is jointly
shared by several ministries: the Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and



-4-
Town Planning, the Ministry of Interior, which supervises all municipal
activities, and the Ministry of Rural Development, whose Department of
Water Affairs supervises rural and urban water supply. The Ministry of
Public Works, through its Department of Town Planning, proposes urban de-
velopment policies and projects which are reviewed by the National Town
Planning Council before submission for approval to the Council of Ministers.
Decisions concerning urban development are highly centralized, with the
President and Council of Ministers reviewing all legal documents affecting
urban infrastructure, including site plans for neighborhood development.
2.10      Although responsible for execution of urban projects, the Depart-
ment of Town Planning lacks sufficient personnel and equipment to carry out
its assigned tasks. The three-year UNDP pilot project consumed the majority
of its resources even with a large technical assistance component. Many
Voltaic staff, have left the Department to continue their studies or to enter
the private sector.
2.11      The Ministry of Interior and the Department of Water Affairs of
the Ministry of Rural Development perform important supervisory functions
over the municipalities and the National Water Office (ONE), but do not have
major roles to play in the daily execution of urban development programs.
The ministries participate in the deliberations of the National Town Planning
Council and the Council of Ministers but do not initiate policies and programs
in the urban sector.
2.12      At the local level, the municipalities are responsible for (a)
maintenance of streets and drainage canals and social service facilities,
including schools and clinics; (b) environmental sanitation, such as garbage
collection, insecticide spraying, and waste disposal; (c) fire prevention;
and (d) regulation of land development and housing construction. However,
these have not been performed effectively, if not abandoned altogether be-
cause of meager budgetary resources.
2.13      The Municipality of Ouagadougou has a budget of only CFAF 347.5
million (US$1.4 million), or $6.50 per capita for a city of 220,000 persons.
About half is allocated to personnel expenditures with 17% devoted to services
and only 3% for investments. The combination of a low income tax base, low
tax rates, infrequent and inaccurate assessments, and inadequate collection
procedures limits the ability of the Municipality to fulfill its responsi-
bilities, because it lacks necessary equipment, trained manpower, and operat-
ing funds. A municipal reform decree for Ouagadougou was issued in 1976 and
a new Prefect-Mayor appointed to reorganize and revive municipal administra-
tion. This process has started, but requires substantial technical and
financial support.
2.14      The Municipality of Bobo-Dioulasso is in slightly better condition
with a longer tradition of municipal administration and maintenance, going
back to its previous role as colonial capital. However, as in the case of
Ouagadougou, the Municipality requires training of its staff, purchase
of equipment and tools, and assistance in management and fiscal reform
to upgrade and increase its operations as the city continues to grow.



- 5 -
2.15      Urban Development Programs - The above institutions have faced many
serious constraints in implementing urban development programs. These irclude
the difficulty of allocating scarce budgetary resources to urban development
in a largely rural country, the almost total absence of skilled manpower in
urban-related fields, such as architecture, planning, and engineering, and
the inability of municipal institutions to maintain past investments, much
less undertake new ones.  Efforts to provide urban services have been stymi_u
by these problems, leading to partial solutions whereby limited services have
been provided for upper income groups. Prior to the Cissin experiment, a
broad mandate to address urban development as national policy did not exist,
resulting in ad hoc responses to the demand for services and virtually no
dialogue among agencies with responsibilities in the urban sector.
2.16      These dilemmas are well illustrated in the case of primary educa-
tion and health care delivery, and are further complicated by seemingly
overlapping interests and responsibilities among ministries and agencies.
National development strategy places increased emphasis on the "social
services" sector, which is community or village-based, and embraces a spectrum
of activities from well-digging to functional literacy. At the same time,
ministries tend to exercise their mandates on more traditional, sectoral
lines. The lack of coordination and a clear policy orientation are parti-
cularly acute problems and have been the focus of an emerging national
discussion on development options. While the priority need for all services
is in the rural areas, scarce resources and trained personnel for health and
education tend to be assigned to urban areas. Nevertheless, existing urban
programs have few funds for operations and reach a very limited population.
Schools and health clinics have never been maintained and are frequently
unsanitary and unsafe. These conditions suggest that a program of construc-
tion be deferred until critically needed improvements are made to existing
facilities and national policy and strategy are more clearly formulated.
2.17      Against this background, the Government has devoted increasing
attention to urban development, particularly as the demand for housing, urban
water supply, drainage, and social services has increased dramatically in the
past few years. Infrastructure investments of the colonial period and of the
period immediately following independence in 1960 are no longer sufficient to
meet the needs of a growing urban population. This realization is coupled
with the understanding that the Government must also increase the capacity of
national and municipal institutions to formulate and implement policies and
programs consistent with the scale of this growth.
C. The Search for Solutions: The Cissin Experience
2.18      In 1973, the Government, with UNDP assistance, launched its three-
year experiment to improve the housing conditions of poor households in
Cissin. The project provided 600 serviced plots and upgraded an adjacent 8
hectares of squatter area, inhabited by 266 families. Initial infrastructure



-6-
works included roads, minimal drainage, pit latrines, and wells. Households
were given urban occupancy permits, as guarantee of land tenure. This
legalized tenure arrangement stimulated neighborhood participation and led to
the emergence of community organizations and activities. Community investment
in infrastructure and private investment in housing construction and improve-
ments have substantially improved the living conditions of people in the
neighborhood.
2.19      Although modest in scale, this pilot effort proved extremely popular
and highlighted the extreme shortage of serviced plots throughout the city.
Some 1,800 applications were filed for the 600 serviced plots in the two weeks
of open candidacy. The community organizations, known as caisses populaires,
started in one area of Cissin, have spread throughout a larger area and now
include 1,600 members. Most importantly, the project demonstrated that
housing and community improvements could be carried out at costs lower than
conventional methods and that households were willing to participate in these
efforts.
2.20      By late 1975, the Cissin project had attracted considerable atten-
tion within the Government and interest outside the country. The Minister of
Public Works convened an international conference in November 1975 to evaluate
the experience and to determine its applicability on a larger scale. While
this evaluation was not entirely positive--the economic and financial arrange-
ments for the project, such as cost recovery and loans for construction and
improvements, needed improvement--the Government endorsed the Cissin concept
as the cornerstone of its policy towards the provision of urban services.
The importance of this experiment has also not been lost on other sectors, as
the Ministry of Education has adopted Cissin construction methods, using
stabilized earth bricks, in building rural schools. While this pilot project
represents a major step in the formulation of a low-cost approach to urban
development, the task of replicating and improving this experience on a
larger scale still faces formidable constraints.
D. Implementing National Urban Development Policy: Phased Intervention
2.21      To expand the Cissin experience into a viable national program for
the provision of urban services, the Government acknowledges the need for (a)
strengthening urban institutions, particularly the Department of Town Planning
and the municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, through training,
purchase of equipment, and technical assistance in specialized areas, (b) im-
proved methods of cost recovery and tax collection to recover public invest-
ments in infrastructure and extend services, and (c) improved environmental
sanitation not only for neighborhoods to be included in individual projects,
but for entire urban areas, which are poorly serviced. All of these areas not
directly addressed in a pilot project become more critical with an increased
scale of upgrading and sites and services operations. In view of manpower and
budgetary constraints, however, these improvements cannot be undertaken simul-
taneously, but must be phased according to a plan of progressive reinforcement



- 7 -
and expansion of infrastructure networks, institutions and financial mech-
anisms. Thus, the IDA project and each of its components reflects a delib-
erate effort to shape project design to the realities of these especially
severe constraints.
2.22      The principle of phased intervention constitutes the basis for
the Government's urban development policy and the rationale for the pro-
posed project. This principle operates at several different levels: 1) not
all towns can be provided with infrastructure improvements in the short
term, 2) within selected towns, not all neighborhoods can be included, but
some must be postponed for future operations, 3) within neighborhoods, not
all infrastructure improvements can be introduced at once, but must be
gradually phased according to their urgency and size of population served,
4) infrastructure standards must be minimal in the first stage, but pro-
vide for progressive upgrading, 5) institutional development and train-
ing must be gradual, building on initial experiences to develop the basis
for further increasing local capacity to plan and implement programs, and
6) not all services can be provided in first phase operations, but given
present Government priorities in areas such as rural health care delivery
and primary education, direct intervention must be postponed to subsequent
phases.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      Based on the Cissin experience, project objectives are:
(a)  to assist the Government in the implementation of its
phased urban development policy;
(b)  to provide low-cost services to low-income households
in urban areas;
(c)  to strengthen national and local institutions responsible
for urban development, through a program of training,
technical assistance, and purchase of equipment;
(d)  to establish a system of cost recovery for urban services
in order to permit replicability of projects of this type;
and
(e)  to strengthen the maintenance and tax collection capacity
of municipalities.
3.02      The project is closely linked to an artisan and small scale enter-
prise project whose objectives are:



- 8 -
(a) to stimulate investment in small enterprises, particularly
those located in and with an impact on neighborhoods to be
upgraded;
(b) to strengthen the Banque Nationale de Developpement (BND)
as a financial intermediary, particularly for small and
medium scale enterprises;
(c) to develop and deliver a program of technical assistance
to small entrepreneurs and artisans through the Centre
National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux (CNPAR)
and the Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique (OPEV).
3.03      Together, these two projects represent a major Government effort
to improve urban living conditions and productivity in Upper Volta. They
are intended to reinforce the capacity of public institutions to implement
similar programs, focused on the urban poor, in the future.
B. Main Components
3.04      The project consists of the following components:
(a) Upgrading: Provision of basic urban infrastructure
including water supply, drainage and earth roads to
approximately 11,000 plots in existing squatter
neighborhoods, covering 432 hectares in Ouagadougou
(7,000 plots) and Bobo-Dioulasso (4,000 plots);
(b) Sites and Services: Preparation and servicing of
about 1,100 new plots, a planned residential area
covering 50 hectares adjacent to the upgraded neigh-
borhood in Bobo-Dioulasso. A pilot site and service
area for 100 families will be developed in Gaoua;
(c) Water Supply Distribution: In addition to the
upgraded neighborhoods and sites and services area,
water supply will be provided to some 20,000 persons
living in three other squatter neighborhoods in
Ouagadougou;
(d) Construction Loans: Financing of loans for housing
improvements and start-up construction;
(e) Social Services and Community Facilities: Rehabilita-
tion of 65 schools and 17 dispensaries in both cities;
construction of neighborhood community centers, and



markets, a pilot community development project to
finance experiments in community education, public
health and women's activities; and purchase of in-
secticide, spraying pumps, and a small truck for
insecticide spraying in Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso.
(f) Assistance to the Municipalities:
(i) technical assistance for:
- training maintenance workers;
- improving management and tax collection
procedures;
- reorganization of technical services; and
- expansion of housing offices;
(ii) equipment:
- garbage trucks for the Municipality of Ouagadougou;
- tools for vehicle repair, carpentry, metal works,
and construction; and
- vehicles and equipment for municipal housing
offices;
(iii) rehabilitation of the Ouagadougou municipal garage for
maintenance vehicles; and
(iv) start-up costs for garbage collection in Ouagadougou
and insecticide spraying and municipal housing
offices in both cities for two years;
(g) Assistance to the Department of Town Planning:
(i) technical assistance for project execution;
(ii) consultant services for feasibility study and de-
tailed engineering and design of the project,
and preparation of a second project;
(iii) start-up costs of the Project Unit within the
Department of Town Planning for three years,
from 1978 to 1980;
(iv) purchase of equipment, supplies, and vehicles; and



- 10 -
th)  Monitoring and Evaluation:  Local consultant services for
sample surveys and case studies of the performance of
project components during and after project execution.
C. Detailed Features
Squatter Upgrading
3.05      The Cissin approach, emphasizing self-help, affordable standards,
and use of local materials, will be applied in the proposed project and
modified where necessary. Upgrading and sites and services areas are shown
on the maps of the project towns (see Maps 12842 and 12843).
3.06      Improvements will be provided to 300 hectares in Ouagadougou:  200
in Cissin and 100 in Zogona; and 132 hectares in the Sonsuribugu neighborhood
of Bobo-Dioulasso. In Ouagadougou, these areas represent older settlements
dating from the late 1950s. Sonsuribugu, meaning "in a temporary situation"
in the Bobo language, is a more recent neighborhood which has grown rapidly
since the expulsion of Voltaics from the Ivory Coast. These neighborhoods
were chosen according to the following criteria: Government desired to
complete the upgrading of the Cissin area within its first phase operations.
Given the UNDP experience in Cissin, it was also felt that it would be easier
to expand the scale of upgrading activities here than in other neighborhoods.
Government designated Zogona as top priority due to its poor conditions com-
pared to other neighborhoods. In Bobo-Dioulasso, Sonsuribugu was chosen
as the largest squatter area, with the highest potential for absorbing new
residents through densification.
3.07      Upgrading operations will follow the existing settlement pattern,
with realignment and widening of roads and footpaths to increase access
within sub-neighborhoods. All plots will be within 120 meters of vehicular
access. Secondary and tertiary roads will be 15 and 10 meters wide, respec-
tively. The stormwater drainage system will consist of lateral earth drainage
channels. Water standpipes will be constructed at intervals of 400 meters,
each serving about 1,500 people. Human waste disposal will be provided by
owner-installed pit latrines in accordance with municipal requirements.
In Ouagadougou, garbage collection will be extended to project areas by the
Municipality with trucks financed under the credit. Plots will be reduced
from an average of 450 sq. meters to 300 sq. meters to permit densification,
without disrupting traditional Voltaic settlement patterns which include
small multiple dwellings within the family courtyard and which accommodate
vegetable gardening. (See Figure 17304.) About 4,700 new plots will be
created through this process and allocated according to criteria described
in para. 3.12. Densities will increase from about 20 plots per hectare in
Cissin to an average of about 23.3 plots or 186 persons per hectare. (See
Table 2, Annex 5.)



- 11 -
3.08      Upgrading and densification will require the demolition of up to
10% of existing houses and relocation of families to sites near their pre-
vious plots. Displaced families will receive new plots, at the same costs
as residents of these neighborhoods. Relocation assistance will be through
a grant amounting to CFAF 35,000 (US$143), towards the cost of new construc-
tion. This grant will be in addition to the optional CFAF 30,000 construction
loan offered to all residents in upgraded areas. (See para. 3.15 below.)
Neighborhood improvements will be accompanied by a legalization of land tenure
for current residents. Existing residents who, according to Voltaique law
have customary rights to the land, will make a one-time payment of CFAF 15,000
at which time they will be granted an urban occupancy permit (permis urbain
d'habiter). This permit is a renewable long-term lease with right of resale.
Remaining residents and new residents who will be allocated plots by the
Municipal Housing Office will be granted a provisional urban occupancy permit
upon down payment, and after payment of the total plot obligation, an urban
occupancy permit. Plot charges will include a land acquisition charge,
according to previous tenure status as established by Gov rnment decree in
1970:  residents with customary ten re will pay CFAF 10/m  (US$.04) and all
other residents will pay CFAF 100/m (US$.40). These arrangements were agreed
upon during negotiations.
3.09      Off-site infrastructure for Zogona and Sonsuribugu will consist of
approach roads, water mains, and drainage works. No off-site works are needed
for Cissin. In Zogona, the major off-site work involves the channeling of the
4 kilometer Zogona gulley, a major health hazard for the entire city, and
concrete reinforcement of two kilometers of its banks. Densification and
development in the 1,400 hectare flood plain around the gulley requires these
drainage improvements and reinforcement of three existing bridges. Drainage
works are also required in Sonsuribugu, due to the slopes on the sites and
relatively higher rainfall in the region.
3.10      Sites and Services:  Fifty hectares of sites and services adjace2t
to Sonsuribugu will be developed providing 1,126 eew plots averaging 300 m
Plots will be of three sizes: 240, 300 and 360 m , to attract a mix
of income groups, respond to the general demand for housing at all income
levels and to experiment with smaller plot sizes. The site will be served by
a water distribution system of public standpipes with the possibility for 20%
private connections. Service levels will be similar to those in the upgraded
areas.
3.11      The project includes a pilot sites and services area for about 100
families in Gaoua, a town of 6,000 in the agriculturally rich southwest of
the country. This operation is intended to demonstrate the applicability of
Cissin methods, including construction with stabilized earth bricks, on a
smaller scale and introduce them to the southwest region.
3.12      Allocation criteria for new plots will be developed by the Project
Unit and Municipal Housing Offices. Although it is known that average house-
hold monthly incomes are about CFAF 10,000 in squatter areas, additional



- 12 -
household income surveys are now underway and will be used to develop more
precise income criteria for household selection. In the absence of current
data on the income distribution of the cities, a system will be developed,
based on the Cissin experience, which will allocate the majority of new
plots to families with monthly incomes between CFAF 15,000 (US$60) and
20,000 (US$82), with the average monthly income ceiling fixed at CFAF 40,000
(US$163). Once families have been classified according to income, those
meeting the officially announced criteria will be placed in a lottery, from
which the Prefect-Mayors will publicly draw names of families to be offered
new plots. These procedures were agreed upon at negotiations.
Water Supply
3.13      The project will extend the existing water distribution system of
Ouagadougou from the central city area to three neighborhoods, Tampouy,
Tanghin-Sambin and Hambdallaye, serving some 20,000 residents. These neigh-
borhoods will be more fully upgraded in future operations. These extensions
require the construction of a trunk main around the three reservoirs to the
north of the city (see Map 12842) and branching off to distribution systems in
each neighborhood. In this first stage, public standpipes will be constructed
along major arteries at 400 meter intervals.
3.14      These extensions, coupled with the servicing of project neighborhoods
will bring potable water from the central treatment plant on the northeast
of the city to the majority of population now consuming water from polluted
wells and untreated water from the public reservoirs. Water for Ouagadougou
presently comes from the Lumbila Dam, some 14 kilometers outside of the city.
Projected future consumption, about 20 l.c.d., with the proposed extensions
under this project, is guaranteed by sufficient production from this source
until 1981. (See Annex 4.) The Government and the National Water Company
(ONE) are now reviewing a study of alternatives for increasing production
after 1981, including pipelines to the Black Volta River, White Volta River,
and areas in the southeast of the country. This matter is of high priority
to Government, which has indicated that sufficient water supply will be
available to permit the efficient long-term use of the proposed extensions.
Home Construction Loans
3.15      Loans for home improvements and start-up construction will be
offered to all households in upgrading and sites and services areas. House-
holds occupying new plots will qualify for loans up to CFAF 65,000 (US$265),
while households remaining on their plots could receive up to CFAF 30,000
(US$122) for housing improvements. Displaced residents will receive grants
of CFAF 35,000 (US$143) and an additional CFAF 30,000 as an optional loan.
Assurances covering these arrangements were obtained during negotiations (see
Annex 13).
Social Services and Community Facilities
3.16      The large demand for social services throughout the country, par-
ticularly health care and primary education, requires a community-based, low-
cost approach to provision of these services in the relatively better-served
urban centers as well as in rural areas. Personnel and financial constraints



- 13 -
coupled with the ineffectiveness of current operations mitigate against a
major community facilities program under this project until Government policy
in the social services sector is more clearly defined. The project will
attempt to improve the delivery of social services through programs which do
not require additional personnel or major recurrent budgetary commitments for
national or municipal institutions. Improved water supply and environmental
sanitation represent the first stage in the upgrading of existing health
conditions.
3.17      The project provides for:
(a) the repair and rehabilitation of 40 schools and
10 dispensaries in Ouagadougou and 25 schools and
7 dispensaries in Bobo-Dioulasso, involving pro-
vision of latrines and water taps, repair of fall-
ing ceilings and roofs, and the construction of
fencing around schools. These improvements re-
spond to the urgent need to upgrade existing
facilities, a service which the municipalities
have been unable to perform and will provide
on-the-job training for programming municipal
maintenance operations which will be instituted
under the municipal assistance component.
(b) the construction of 19 neighborhood community centers,
one for each 25 hectares in upgraded and sites and
services areas, exc2pt where they presently exist.
These centers, 40 m , will be minimally equipped to
shelter community organization activities and a
municipal collection office. These small centers
represent the first phase in the construction of more
extensive facilities for these neighborhoods.
(c) the construction of six markets, four in Ouagadougou
and two in Bobo-DioVlasso, each covered and with a sur-
face of about 350 m and containing 100 box stalls. They
will be constructed by trainees from the neighborhoods
in CNPAR skills training programs, under the Artisan
and Small Scale Enterprise Project.
(d) a pilot community development project will finance
small-scale operations in community education, public
health, and women's activities. These activities will
be identified and designed by the Project Unit during
project execution, with interested Government agencies,
the caisses populaires, and other community groups.
The pilot approach is intended to encourage flexibil-
ity and experimentation, in order to give Government



- 14 -
experience in evaluating the potential role of com-
munity participation in the delivery of social services.
(e) insecticide, spraying pumps and a light truck for the
Municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. This
equipment will revive the public disinfection program for
the first time in four years, an additional element in
the broad package of environmental health and sanitation
measures being introduced under the project.
Assistance to the Municipalities
3.18      The project provides for assistance to the municipalities of
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso to improve their environmental sanitation
and maintenance services, revenue collection, and implementation of housing
operations. The programs are based on analysis of the needs of each munici-
pality and consequently have some different features. Both municipalities,
however, require major strengthening to perform their responsibilities as
executing agencies within the Government's urban development policy. This
assistance is intended to permit the municipalities to gradually take on
increasing responsibilities, while improving their maintenance capacity and
financial situation in the short term.
3.19      Municipal assistance includes the following:
(a) four and a half man-years of technical assistance
for each municipality for:
(i)  the reorganization of the Roads and Buildings
Departments involving assignment of responsi-
bilities to individual services within the
Departments and appointment of middle-level
managers for specific activities.
(ii)  training of maintenance workers within the Roads
and Buildings Departments. This will be a two
year on-the-job training program designed to up-
grade the skills of personnel. Training will
focus on vehicle repair and maintenance, use of
tools, and programmed maintenance procedures for
drainage canals, public buildings, and other
facilities.
(iii)  improving tax collection and financial management.
An expert will spend six months in each municipality,
reviewing revenue collection procedures, including
assessment and rates, and financial practices, in-
cluding budgetary planning, and recommend improved
methods and policy reform where necessary. This
review will begin no later than June, 1978 and
recommendations will be ready for review by June,
1979. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.



- 15 -
(iv) expanding the Municipal Housing Offices through estab-
lishment of new procedures for land registry, plot
allocation, and developing a system of collections
for project beneficiaries.
(b) purchase of equipment:
(i) 11 garbage trucks will be purchased for the Municipality
of Ouagadougou to enable it to carry out citywide garbage
collection more effectively and cheaply than the current
cost of operations by a private enterprise. The present
contract consumes 13% of the municipal budget, while
providing less than 30% coverage of the city.
(ii) tools for the Department of Roads and Buildings for both
municipalities. These tools include those for vehicle
repair, carpentry, metal works, and construction,
and will be used by personnel in on-the-job training
programs.
(iii) vehicles and equipment for Municipal Housing Offices,
including two cars for each office, furniture, filing
cabinets, typewriters, and calculating machines.
(c) rehabilitation and expansion of the municipal garage for
maintenance vehicles in Ouagadougou. These vehicles are
not protected from weather conditions and have no place
for extended repairs and maintenance.
(d) start-up expenditures for:
(i) garbage collection in Ouagadougou for two years.
This support is needed to assure the effective
start-up of operations, which will subsequently be
financed by general municipal revenues, including a
garbage collection tax.
(ii) Municipal Housing Offices in both cities for two
years. This support is required to provide the
start-up of operations which will be self-
financing after two years of project execution.
(iii) insecticide spraying for two years for both cities.
3.20      Taken together, these components of municipal assistance are in-
tended to reinforce performance of critical municipal functions. Short-term
improvements in these areas will be essential if urban development operations
are to be successful in subsequent projects.



- 16 -
Assistance to the Department of Town Planning
3.21      Assistance for project preparation, execution, training, purchase
of equipment and vehicles, and recurrent expenditures will be provided
to the Department of Town Planning. This assistance has the following
features:
(a) 12-1/3 man-years of technical assistance for project
execution and training will be provided, consisting
of: engineer-manager (3 years), accountant (3-1/3
years), urban planner (1 year), socio-economist (2
years), and one caisses populaires development expert
(3 years). Following recent experience in Upper Volta,
the cost per man-year of technical assistance, recruited
through a consulting firm, is estimated to be US$80,000.
(b) consultant services for a feasibility study, aerial
photographs, and topographical surveys were financed
by the Project Preparation Facility in 1976-77.
Consultants are presently being recruited for detailed
engineering for infrastructure components. An addi-
tional 2-1/2 years of consultant services are provided
for preparation of a second project and short term
consultancy assignments.
(c) purchase of equipment and vehicles needed for project
execution.
(d) start-up expenses for the Project Unit within the
Department of Town Planning for three years, 1978 -
1981, including additional Voltaic staff salaries.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.22      Funds are included for a small monitoring and evaluation component
to be undertaken by a local consulting firm. The component provides for two
years of a local applied researcher, 18 months of a survey team of eight full-
time interviewers, and an operating budget (including computer time) to cover
two years of the evaluation exercise. This work will be supplemented by tech-
nical assistance in economic analysis and research methods to be provided by
the United Nations Center for Housing, Building and Planning (UNCHBP) in New
York.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Responsibility for project implementation will be shared between the
Ministry of Public Works, the principal executing agency, the Municipalities
of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, the National Water Office (ONE), and the
National Fund for Land Reclamation and Maintenance (FONASEN), a service of the
Department of Water Affairs. The responsibility for execution of project
components is presented in Chart 1.



- 17 -
Chart 1: Project Components and Implementing Agencies
Component                                   Agencies
Squatter Upgrading            Dept. of Town Planning/Municipal Housing Offices
Sites and Services            Dept. of Town Planning/Municipal Housing Offices
Water Supply Distribution    ONE
Zogona Gulley                  Fonds National d'Assainissement et d'Entretien
Drainage Works                 (FONASEN)
Home Construction Loans        Dept. of Town Planning/Mfunicipal Housing
Offices/BND
Community Facilities           Dept. of Town Planning/Municipal Dept. of Roads
and Buildings
Municipal Assistance           Municipalities
Assistance to the Depart-
ment of Town Planning       Dept. of Town Planning
Monitoring and Evaluation    Voltaic Consulting Firm
A.   The Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Town Planning
4.02      A Project Unit with primary responsibility for all project compo-
nents (exclusive of water supply and Zogona Gulley drainage works) will be
established in the Department of Town Planning. The Project Unit will be
headed by the Director of Town Planning, supported by an Assistant Director.
These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations. Since the scale of this
project is ten times greater than the Cissin pilot effort, the staff currently
working in the Department will require considerable support, particularly in
engineering and accounting. As agreed with Government, preference will be
given to Voltaic nationals, and technical assistance will be phased to permit
Voltaics to assume project level positions as experience and progress warrant.
However, where nationals are not available, expatriates will be hired as
indicated in para. 3.21.
4.03      The Project Unit will oversee project implementation in all three
towns. Specifically, it will handle, inter alia:
(a) supervision of detailed design;
(b) preparation and evaluation of bidding documents and
contracts;
(c) supervision of execution of civil works, including
construction of community facilities and markets;



- 18 -
(d)  supervision of loans program and design and supervision
of the pilot community development project;
(e)  assisting and supervising operations of the Municipal
Housing Offices; and
(f)  management and control of the disbursement of project
funds.
B. The Municipalities
4.04      The municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso are responsible
for:
(a)  city-wide provision of services, such as environmental
sanitation, garbage collection, maintenance of schools
and dispensaries, and insecticide spraying;
(b)  housing-related activities presented below; and
(c)  reorganization and strengthening of Departments
of Roads and Buildings, tax collection and financial
management.
Specific support for these activities is described in paras. 3.16-3.19.
4.05      The city-wide provision of services will be carried out by the
Departments of Roads and Buildings, under the responsibility of the Depart-
ment Directors and the Prefect-Mayors. The staff of these departments will
receive on-the-job training from technical assistants to increase the coverage
frequency, and efficiency of operations throughout each city.
4.06      Housing-related activities will be carried out by the Municipal
Housing Offices which will be established within the existing Bureau Domanial.
Staff will be expanded and supported by technical assistance. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations. The office will be divided
into three sections:
Accounting: The section will be headed by a Voltaic accountant
under the supervision of the Project Accountant in the Department
of Town Planning. It will be responsible for establishing pro-
cedures for collection and recording of downpayments and plot
charges, and developing a system to provide the individual with
an immediate accounting of his payment status. Collection offices
will be set up in each community center with some fixed agents and
others mobile.



- 19 -
Technical: This section, staffed by Voltaics, will continue to be
responsible for identification and registration of land titles,
assembling dossiers and establishing applicant lists, processing
claims of conflict and compensation for action by the Mayor's
Commission, preparation of contracts for signature, and processing
all urban occupancy permits for title transfer.
Community Development: This newly created section will be super-
vised by a community development expert who will assist the Head
of the Office to define appropriate liaison and on-site procedures
for beneficiary activities.
The Community Development Section will be responsible for the
following activities:
(1) Project publicity: consultation within the neighborhoods
to be upgraded concerning, inter alia, project objectives,
residents' participation and responsibilities;
(2) Establishment of selection criteria;
(3) Establishment of allocation procedures;
(4) Review of applicant dossiers for Selection
Committee;
(5) Notification of beneficiaries; and
(6) Assistance for contract signature.
This section will work in coordination with the caisses populaires expert
in the Project Unit to coordinate and facilitate contact within the project
neighborhoods.
C. National Water Office (ONE)
4.07      The preparation execution and maintenance of the water supply in-
vestments will be the responsibility of ONE. This company, as described in
Annex 4, operates as a state-owned enterprise, under the supervision of the
Department of Water Affairs of the Ministry of Rural Development. Created
in 1970, it is fully staffed by Voltaics, well managed, and has been earning
adequate profits since its establishment. It is presently divided into three
technical divisions, one each for Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, and smaller
systems. These divisions will supervise the preparation of detailed engineer-
ing, construction, maintenance, and repair. The Director-General will super-
vise preparation and evaluation of all bidding documents. The provision of
water through the extended distribution systems will follow the present



- 20 -
procedure, with ONE-paid water vendors selling water from standpipes on a
quantity basis. This system has worked well in the past, with very little
loss in the system and a good degree of financial accountability.
D. The Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee
4.08      Coordination of project execution will be assured through an Inter-
Ministerial Coordination Committee headed by the Minister responsible for
Town-Planning. The creation of this Committee was proposed by Government.
It will meet at least six times per year and will consist of the following
members: the Minister of Finance or his representative, the Director-General
of the Interior, the Prefect-Mayor of Ouagadougou and the Sub-Prefect of
Bobo-Dioulasso, the Director of Town Planning, the Heads of the Municipal
Housing Offices, the Director-General of ONE, the Director of the Department
of Lands, the Director-General of the BND, and the Director-General of the
Fonds National d'Entretien and d'Assainissement (FONASEN ). As deemed appro-
priate, this committee will enlist the participation of representatives of
other concerned institutions which will include: representatives of the
Ministries of Education, and Health and Social Affairs, the Prefect of Gaoua,
a representative of the monitoring and evaluation team, the Director of CNPAR
and the Director of OPEV (both of whom will ensure liaison with the working
committee to be established under the artisan and small scale enterprise
project). The Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee will ensure that all
project entities fulfill their responsibilities in accordance with the project
implementation schedule and will also approve quarterly reports to be sub-
mitted by the Project Unit to IDA.
Accounts and Audits
4.09      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each executing
agency will maintain separate project records and accounts. Assurances were
also obtained that annual audits satisfactory to IDA will be made of the
accounts, and that the individual audited statements will be furnished to IDA
not later than four months after the close of the fiscal year. Government
also provided assurances that the Project Unit will prepare and submit to IDA
quarterly progress reports on the project, including monitoring and evaluation
results.
E. Implementation
4.10      Project implementation will take about 3.5 years.  The detailed
implementation schedule is presented in Annex 5, Table 6. The schedule has
been designed to maintain the momentum of site preparation activities underway
and almost completed in Cissin. An architect-planner completed preparation of
the site plan in December. Technical assistance for the Project Unit and
consultants for the detailed engineering are being recruited in the fourth



- 21 -
quarter of calendar 1977. The full Project Unit should be in place during the
first quarter of 1978. These preparatory activities and technical assistance
will be financed by the Project Preparation Facility, which has advanced
US$330,000 to the Government for these purposes.
4.11      In order to ensure efficient and low-cost execution of civil works,
construction of roads and secondary drainage canals will be carried out
by force account by the regional offices of the Department of Public Works
of the Ministry of Public Works in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, with their
own equipment. Major drainage works and water supply extensions will be
executed by small contracting enterprises, assisted by OPEV. Construction of
neighborhood community centers will be carried out by trainees from the
CNPAR which will be training neighborhood residents in construction skills.
Repairs and rehabilitation of municipal schools and dispensaries will be
carried out by the municipal Departments of Roads and Buildings. Off-site
drainage works in the Zogona area will be executed and maintained by FONASEN.
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND COST RECOVERY
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs are estimated at CFAF 2,656.2 million (US$10.8
million), of which CFAF 1,473.1 million (US$6.0 million) or 55% is foreign
exchange, and CFAF 437.9 million (US$1.8 million) or 16% of project costs are
taxes. The following table presents summary project cost estimates:



- 22 -
UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(June 1977 Prices)
CFAF Million                              US$ Million
Taxes   Local   Foreign    Total         Taxes   Local.    Foreign   Total
I. Squatter Settlement Upgrading
Ouagadougou                                  105.2   233.3       166.5    505.0         0.43    0.95        0.68       2.06
Bobo-Dioulasso                                26.8    61.0        51.0    138.8         0.11    0.25       0.21        0.57
SUBTOTAL                                   132.0   294.3       217.5    643.8         0.54    1.20       0.89       2.63
II. Sites and Services
Bobo-Dioulasso                                  9.8    23.7       19.2      52.7        0.04    0.10        0.08       0.22
Gaoua                                           1.1     2.5        2.5       6.1        0.00    0.01        0.01       0.02
SUBTOTAL                                    10.9    26.2        21.7      58.8        0.04    0.11       0.09       0.24
III.  Water Supply Distribution                        18.2    23.8        39.7     81.7         0.07    0.10       0.16       0.33
IV. Home Construction Loans                           91.2      -        203.0    294.2        0.37      -         0.83       1.20
V.  Community Facilities                             28.8    28.0        59,6    116.4         0.12    0.11       0.25        0.48
VI.  Assistance to Municipalities                     36.5    70.8       279.1    386.4         0.15    0.29        1.14       1.58
VII.  Technical Assistance                              4.5    75.6       241.1    321.2         0.02    0.31        0.98       1.31
VIII.  Project Preparation in 1976                       3,0      0.7       23.8      27.5        0.01    0.00        0.10       0.11
IX.  Final Design and Detailed Engineering             3.5    35.9        94.2    133.6        0.01    0.15        0.38       0.54
X. Monitoring/Evaluation                             12.0      9.3       24.5     45.8         0.05    0.04       0.10       0.19
Total Project Costs Net bf Contingencies  340.6   564.6   1,204.2  2,109.4              1.39    2.30        4.92       8.61
(June 1977 Prices)
Contingencies
Physical:  25% Physical WorksLi               36.3    70.8        69.0    176.1         0.15    0.29        0.28       0.72
107 on Engineering                 0.4      3.6        9.4      13.4         MO0   0.01         0.04       0.05
SUBTOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             36.7    74.4        78.4    189.5         0.15    0.30        0.32       0.77
Price Contiagencies                         60.6   106.2       190.5    357.3         0.25    0.43        0.78       1.46
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                         97.3   180.6       268.9    546.8         0.40    0.73        l.LO       2.23
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        437.9   745.2   1.473.1  .2.6562           L79    3,04         6A1    10,84
/1   10%7 for Zogona off-site drainage.



- 23 -
5.02      Cost estimates for the squatter upgrading, sites and services,
and water supply distribution components are based on the project feasi-
bility study prepared by consultants from August to December 1976. The
study provided preliminary costs for road construction, water supply, drainage,
surveying and off-site infrastructure for five neighborhoods in Ouagadougou
and two in Bobo-Dioulasso, from which one was chosen for each city for the
first phase. In addition, the Cissin neighborhood was added by Government to
the upgrading program after completion of the feasibility study. The costs
used for Cissin were based on an analysis of the average costs for infrastruc-
ture for the other five Ouagadougou neighborhoods, coupled with cost data from
the UNDP experience in Cissin. In reviewing this study, the appraisal mission
concluded that the quantity of physical works might be under-estimated and has
therefore recommended that physical contingencies of 25% be provided for all
infrastructure and construction, 1/ including community facilities, with an
additional 10% for detailed engineering. Cost estimates for technical assist-
ance and equipment are based on recent contracts and mission discussions with
the staff of the executing agencies.
5.03      Price contingencies were compounded annually on base costs in June
1977 prices and physical contingencies in accordance with the latest IDA
Guidelines which appear realistic for Upper Volta: 1977-79, 7.5% for equip-
ment and 9% for civil works; 1980, 7% for equipment and 8% for civil works.
Price contingencies amount to 13% of total project costs.
5.04      The acquisition of public land by project beneficiaries was not
included in the project cost table and was also omitted from the summary
financing plan because there is no outlay for land by any project entity.
Following Voltaic law, beneficiaries will pay an officially fixed price to
their respective municipalities for urban occupancy permits, i.e., trans-
ferable, long-term leases.
B. Financing
5.05      The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.2 million to the Government will
be used to finance 90% of total project costs net of taxes (CFAF 2,218.3 or
US$9.1 million). It will cover 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$6.0 mil-
lion) and 72% of local costs net of taxes (CFAF 745.2 or US$3.0 million).
The balance of CFAF 209.3 million (US$0.9 million), will be provided by Gov-
ernment. The project financing plan is summarized in the following table.
5.06      The Government of Upper Volta will make available the proceeds of
the Credit to implementing agencies. The Government contribution to the
project will be allocated in the national budget and advanced quarterly to
the respective agencies. Funds will be provided as grants or as loans to be
repaid at agreed terms on a case by case basis, following current practice
in Upper Volta. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations and are
described in the following paragraphs.
1/   With the exception of the Zogona off-site drainage works for which
10% was used, based on preliminary engineering.



- 24 -
UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY FINANCING PLAN
--------CFAF Million-------------             --     -----US$ Million----------   -
Government of                              Government of
Total        Upper Volta        Of Which      Total      Upper Volta       Of Which
PROJECT COMPONENT                       Cost        Loans       Grants  IDA Funds    Cost    Loans    Grants    IDA Funds
I.  Squatter Settlement Upgrading a          889.4       807.9        81.5    531.4        3.63    3.30        0.33        2.17
II.  Sites and Services                        88.4        88.4          -      54.4        0.36    0.36         -          0.22
III.  Water Supply Distribution                124.3       124.3          -       78.7       0.51    0.51         -          0.32
IV.  Home Construction Loans                  347.2       347.2          -      239.6        1.42    1.42        -          0.98
V.  Comunity Facilities                      162.1        22.6       139.5    108.1         0.65    0.08       0.57        0.44
VI.  Assistance to Municipalities             432.4       105.7       326.7    411.1         1.74    0.43       1.31        1.68
VII.  Technical Assistance                     367.4          -        367.4    362.4         1.52      -        1.52         1.48
VIII.  Project Preparation (1976)                27.5          -         27.5      24.5        0.11      -        0.11        0.10
IX.  Final Design and
Detailed Engineering                   161.6      161.6           -     157.5        0.66    0.66         -          0.64
X. Monitoring/Evaluation                      55.9          -         55.9      41.3        0.24     -         0.24        0.17
TOTAL                            2,656.2    1.657.7        998.5  2,009.0        10.84    6,76       4.08        8.20
/1 The grant element of this component comprises 25% of the off-site drainage investment in Zogona, which is considered
a public health measure. The balance of the funds for this investment will be provided as a loan to the Fonds
National d'Assainissement et d'Entretien (FNAE).



- 25 -
5.07      Funds for infrastructure, detailed engineering and supervision, home
construction loans, municipal assistance, markets and community centers will
be loans to executing agencies to be repaid to the Central Government by the
municipalities at 6% interest for 17 years with 5 years of grace. 1/ Completed
assets will be transferred to the municipalities which will be responsible for
debt servicing. The three exceptions to these arrangements are: (i) all
water supply investments, including detailed engineering and supervision, for
which funds will be lent to ONE at 6% for 20 years with 3 years of grace; 1/
(ii) funds for off-site drainage works, including detailed engineering and
supervision, for the Zogona Gulley for which funds will be lent to FONASEN
at 6% for 20 years with 3 years of grace; 1/ and (iii) funds for schools and
clinics rehabilitation, the Public Hygiene and Disinfection Program and
technical assistance which will be passed on as grants to the municipalities.
5.08      Funds for technical assistance to the Department of Town Planning,
project preparation, the Pilot Community Development Fund and monitoring and
evaluation will be grants from the Central Government to the implementing
agencies.
5.09      The financial resources required by the municipalities to main-
tain investments and to service these debts will be secured as described
in the following section and Annex 7 dealing with cost recovery.
5.10      On the basis of the project financing plan and the indicative cash
flows (see Annex 7), the Central Government will be required to allocate,
gross of taxes, some CFAF 647.2 million (US$2.6 million) to the budgets of
the respective agencies during project execution, as shown below.
Government Budgetary Allocations for Project Expenditures
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    TOTAL
CFAF millions   3.0      3.2    231.2   206.5   203.3               647.2
US$ millions    0.01    0.01       0.94    0.84    0.83               2.64
5.11      Since tax expenditures will ultimately be offset by tax revenues,
the Government's net contribution to project financing is CFAF 209.3 million
(US$0.9 million). In order to ensure prompt availability of funds to meet
project expenditures, immediately after credit effectiveness, IDA will deposit
in a special account that Government will open at the Central Bank, an initial
amount not exceeding US$400,000 equivalent which will serve as a revolving
fund. IDA will replenish the revolving fund after verifying that disbursement
claims presented are eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the credit.
These arrangements were agreed upon during negotiations.
1/   No interest during construction period will be charged by Government.



- 26 -
C. Cost Recovery
5.12      The project stresses cost recovery to ensure that programs are
replicable and can be expanded to reach the majority of the needy population.
The introduction of a system of charges for urban improvements is intended
to contribute to a more efficient and equitable allocation of investment
resources, both between urban and rural areas and within urban areas. The
recommended design standards and charges are based on consideration of the
trade-offs between various options in terms of affordability, replicability
and equity. Slightly higher design standards, as well as different levels
of cost allocation and recovery, were considered during project preparation
and appraisal, but the recommended standards and charges were chosen to
balance the above trade-offs. The rationale for these choices is explained
in Annex 6. The proposed mechanisms for cost recovery are presented in
the following table and are described in the remainder of this section and
Annexes 6 and 7. These mechanisms will recover costs from two sources:
direct project beneficiaries and the city-wide population. Direct bene-
ficiaries will pay the cost of land acquisition, on-site plot development,
construction loans, detailed engineering, management charges of the Municipal
Housing Offices, the contruction of markets and extensions to the water dis-
tribution system through user charges, and, for Zogona residents, a portion
of the costs of off-site drainage investments. The populations of Ouagadougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso will pay, through municipal taxes, the costs of off-site
infrastructure investments, community facilities, and municipal assistance.
The only project components which are not recovered from either the direct
project beneficiaries or the city populations are technical assistance to
the Department of Town-Planning and the municipalities, the Pilot Community
Development Fund, and monitoring and evaluation. All of the non-recovered
items are considered part of the institution-building activities of the
project.



- 27 -
Cost Recovery Mechanisms
Components                                   Recovery Sources
1.   Land                                    Plot charges
2.   On-site Infrastructure (except          Plot charges
for water supply)
On- and off-site Water Supply           Water tariffs
3.   Off-site Infrastructure                 Not recovered with the excep-
(other than water supply)               tion of special arrangements
for partial recovery of Zogona
drainage investment
4.   Detailed Engineering and                Plot charges
Supervision
5.   Construction Loans                      Payments by beneficiaries
6.   Community Facilities                    Not recovered
except for:
-  Markets                              Monthly market tax
7.   Assistance to Municipalities            Indirectly recovered through
except for:                             local taxes
-  Assistance to Municipal              Management fee included in
Housing Office                       plot charges
8.   Technical Assistance                    Not recovered
9.   Monitoring and Evaluation               Not recovered
Upgrading and Sites and Services
5.13      The costs of on-site infrastructure except for water supply, as well
as detailed engineering, construction supervision and the costs of relocating
displaced residents, and municipal land charges will be recovered directly
from project participants. On- and off-site water supply investments will be
recovered through water tariffs paid by consumers in all project areas (see
Annex 7). The costs of off-site infrastructure other than water, and the



- 28 -
costs of community facilities, were not charged to beneficiaries. 1/ With
the exception of residents having customary tenure who will make a one-time
payment of CFAF 15,000, an initial downpayment of CFAF 15,000 (US$61) consti-
tuting approximately 20% of total plot development costs, will be required of
all beneficiaries. The remainder will be recovered through plot charges at
8-1/2% interest over a 10-year repayment period with no penalty for early
repayment. The difference between total plot costs for customary land holders
and their payments of CFAF 15,000 will be added to the plot costs for other
residents on a proportionate basis by plot size. The interest rate is the
standard rate for housing-related credit used by countries belonging to the
West African Monetary Union (UMOA) and Central Bank (BCEAO). BCEAO estimates
indicate a probable inflation rate of 10% in 1977, but this rate is expected
to decline thereafter, to approximately 7% 2/ during the repayment period for
plot charges. Plot charges will also include a management fee to cover the
expenses of the Municipal Housing Offices and a default surcharge of 20%.
Construction loans will be made available and will be fully recovered at the
same terms noted above.
5.14      Table 3 on page 29 presents indicative plot charges for upgrading
and sites and services according to plot size, and household status. Dif-
ferential charges are proposed for Cissin and Zogona, to account for higher
drainage costs in the latter. A uniform set of charges is proposed for
Bobo-Dioulasso, in order to simplify cost recovery procedures.
5.15      The charges for plot development, construction loans, and other
shelter-related expenditures (water and municipal taxes) will together con-
stitute about 15 to 25% of estimated household incomes in the project areas.
These shares of monthly household income for shelter-related expenditures are
reasonable for low-income urban households in Upper Volta. Given the optional
character of construction loans and the range of plot sizes, these charges can
be reduced by about one-third. Plot charges for infrastructure improvements
alone are as low as 5% of income. Income distribution data are not presently
1/   The only exception is the off-site drainage investment required in the
Zogona Gulley. This large investment is expected to benefit the entire
city, by eliminating a major breeding area for disease-carrying vectors,
but will also have direct benefits on its immediate area of influence of
500 hectares.  For purposes of cost allocation and recovery, it hias bpfn
agreed with Government that a portion (one-fourth) of the investment be
considered a non-recoverable public sanitation measure, and that the
remainder (three-fourths) would be recovered according to the following
formula: half of the investment costs would be recovered through land
development taxes to be collected by FONASEN, and an additional one-
fourth of the costs will be recovered from beneficiaries in the immediate
area affected. Consequently, a proportionate share of the latter was
allocated to the 100 ha being upgraded in Zogona under this project.
2/   In view of Upper Volta's very open economy, its rate of inflation
may be assumed to follow closely the expected international rate
of inflation.



- 29 -
Affordability: Monthly Charges and Share of Household Income 1/ 2/
(CFAF 245 = US$ 1)
Plot Charges 3/                              Existing Residents
240m2               300m2                 360m2
Cissin                         860 (8%)          1,103 (10%)           1,345 (12%)
Zogona                       1,231 (11%)         1,566 (14%)           1,902 (17%)
Bobo-Dioulasso                 894 (8%)          1,045 (10%)           1,396 (13%)
Home Construction and
Improvement Loans                                457 (4%)
Monthly Water Consumption -                         336 (3%)
Monthly Municipal Taxes   -                         150 (1%)
New Residents
240m2               300m2                 360m2
Cissin                         860 (5%)          1,103 (7%)            1,345 (8%)
Zogona                       1,231 (7%)          1,566 (9%)            1,902 (11%)
Bobo-Dioulasso                 894 (5%)          1,045 (6%)            1,396 (8%)
Home Construction and
Improvement Loans                                991 (6%)
Monthly Water Consumption -                         336 (3%)
Monthly Municipal Taxes   -                         150 (1%)
1/   Average household monthly income of existing residents in 1979 is:
Cissin:    CFAF 11,000 (US$ 44)
Zogona:    CFAF 13,000 (US$ 53)
Sonsuribugu:    CFAF 11,000 (US$ 44)
Average household monthly income of new residents in 1979 in all
neighborhoods:
CFAF 16,500 (US$ 68)
2/   Percentages in parentheses represent percentages of household monthly
income.
3/   See Annex 6, paragraphs 2 and 3, for components and terms of these charges.



- 30 -
available, and it is consequently impossible to accurately demonstrate the
affordability of plot development costs in relation to percentile levels
in income distribution. However, the extremely low-cost nature of infra-
structure improvements permits plots in upgraded areas to be affordable by
all presently living in these neighborhoods. The range of costs and sizes
of new plots in both the upgraded and sites and services areas also permit
almost any household in Ouagadougou or Bobo-Dioulasso to afford at least one
if not two of the three types offered in the project. On the basis of past
demand for residential sites, and the low costs of the proposed program, a
large demand for these plots is expected.
5.16      Administrative arrangements for cost recovery of infrastructure
components are described in para. 5.12 and Annexes 4, 6 and 7. Revenues
consisting of downpayments, plot charges, and construction 'Loan repayments
will be used to amortize Central Government loans for on- and off-site in-
frastructure, construction loans, community facilities, and the municipal
assistance program. These payments by beneficiaries will provide sufficient
revenue to meet debt servicing obligations under the project. The more
general need to increase municipal revenue is discussed in para. 5.20.
5.17      The sites and services and slum upgrading operations will generate
early surpluses in the 1978-1983 period of about CFAF 629 million (US$2.57
million) in Ouagadougou, and about CFAF 375 million (US$1.53 million) in Bobo-
Dioulasso. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) each municipal-
ity will establish an interest-bearing savings account (Housing Development
Fund) and each year credit thereto the surpluses (or charge the deficits) on
the Housing Office Income Account; (b) the funds will be used to cover their
administrative costs, defaults of up to 20% of the amounts receivable, and
debt-servicing of loans contracted for on-site investments.
Water Supply
5.18      Water supply investments will be recovered through water tar-
iffs paid by consumers in project areas. Cost recovery for this component
does not imply that present tariffs are adequate for the needs of the sector
as a whole, but that incremental project-related cash flows (tariff revenues)
will meet about 96% of all debt service requirements for on and off-site water
supply investments and the recurrent maintenance costs associated with these
investments. Standpipes will be located within 200 meters of most residents,
substantially reducing the importance of water vendors and the price paid by
consumers. Increases in consumption due to the effective lowering of the
price (by up to 80%) have been conservatively estimated at 11 l.c.d. in
upgrading and sites and services areas and 9 l.c.d. in other neighborhoods.
These incremental sales of water will generate sufficient revenue to enable
ONE to amortize all project-related water supply investments (see Cash Flow
in Annex 7).
Community Facilities and Municipal Assistance
5.19      With the exception of markets, the cost of community facilities will
not be recovered. Outlays for market construction will be fully recovered
through monthly market taxes collected by municipalities. Assurances were



- 31 -
obtained at negotiations that market taxes will be increased as necessary
to generate additional revenue for maintenance and other expenditures (See
Annex 7, p. 7). For pilot community development operations, beneficiaries
will be required to pay for direct services, according to the type of activ-
ity involved. Finally, for the municipal assistance component, improved
services provided as a result of the project, such as garbage collection,
may encourage the payment of municipal taxes by urban residents.
Municipal Tax Revenues
5.20      While the above cost recovery mechanisms will generate sufficient
revenues to meet debt-servicing obligations under the project, the munic-
ipalities require major strengthening of their tax assessment and collection
procedures in order to develop an overall sound financial condition. The
present scarcity of local public revenue is due to a combination of a largely
low-income tax base, insufficiently buoyant sources of revenue, low rates,
and inadequate assessment and collection practices for existing taxes (see
Annex 4). The need to remedy this situation is recognized by Government at
all levels.  It is expected that the infrastructure improvements and private
investment resulting from the project will increase property values in project
areas and expand the largely low-income tax base. These changes may be re-
flected in higher property tax revenues over the long term, if assessment and
collection procedures are improved. The legalization of occupancy rights in
project areas is also likely to facilitate collection of taxes. In order to
assist Government to improve the municipal revenue situation, the project in-
cludes technical assistance for a review of current procedures and development
of recommendations for improvements, as described in para. 3.19 (iii). This
review and the actions taken on the recommendations will receive close atten-
tion during project execution.
D. Procurement
5.21      All contracts over US$50,000 for the procurement of equipment and
vehicles will be through international competitive bidding in accordance with
World Bank guidelines; (US$2.1 million, with taxes, but without contingen-
cies). These contracts will be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000
whenever possible. The channeling of the Zogona gulley, amounting to US$1.1
million, will also be offered for international competitive bidding. At
Government's request, domestic contractors will receive a preference on bid
evaluation in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Civil works contracts
for water supply, plot layouts, and off-site drainage (US$1.0 million) com-
munity facilities and office repairs (US$0.3 million) will be too small to
attract international contractors and will therefore be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding, advertised locally in accordance with local
procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. Earth road construction and on-site
drainage (US$1.0 million) within individual neighborhoods will be carried out
by force account by the Ministry of Public Works. Consultant services will
be procured according to procedures acceptable to IDA (US$1.9 million).



- 32 -
E. Disbursements
5.22      Disbursement of the IDA credit will be made for five categories
of project expenditures: civil works, vehicles and equipment, consultant
services, operating expenditures, and home construction and improvement
loans. Disbursement will be made on the following:
(a) 80% of all civil works expenditures, including
on-site and off-site infrastructure, construction
of community facilities, and repair and rehabilita-
tion of schools and dispensaries;
(b) 100% of CIF price or 90% of local costs of vehicles
and equipment including tools, vehicles, and other
supplies;
(c) 100% of total expenditures or 90% of local costs on
all consultants' services, including technical as-
sistance, detailed engineering, project preparation,
and monitoring and evaluation;
(d) 75% of operating expenditures of the Project Unit
and Municipal Housing Offices, including vehicle
maintenance and local salaries against certified
documentation; and
(e) 100% of the value of the construction loans against certi-
fied documentation.
5.23      A first Advance of up to US$100,000 from the Project Preparation
Facility was used to prepare the project during 1976-77. A second Advance
of US$230,000 has been approved to finance detailed engineering, preparation
of site plans, and start-up costs for technical assistance in the Project
Unit starting in July 1977, until effectiveness of the credit. Both Advances
will be refunded upon the effectiveness of the credit.
5.24      A schedule of estimated disbursements of the IDA credit is pre-
sented in Table 7, Annex 7.
F. Supervision
5.25      It is estimated that 150 person-weeks of IDA supervision will be
required over the project implementation period, with about 50 person-weeks
during the first year, including time at headquarters.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.26      The monitoring and evaluation of this project will be carried out
by a local Voltaic consulting firm. The firm, in coordination with the Project



- 33 -
Unit, will carry out surveys in the project areas to determine the rate of
housing improvements and construction and associated economic and social
changes resulting from project components. These studies will be carried
out throughout the implementation period. They started in February 1977,
with the design and administration of a baseline census in the Cissin neigh-
borhood. The principal researcher in the monitoring and evaluation team will
present the findings of the studies to the Project Unit in order to provide
feedback to improve the execution of the project.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The justification of the project rests on the wide-ranging benefits
which it will bring, at very low costs, to a large proportion of Upper Volta's
urban population. Upgrading of two squatter settlements in Ouagadougou
(300 ha.) and another in Bobo-Dioulasso (132 ha.), as well as 50 ha. of
serviced sites in Bobo-Dioulasso will directly improve living conditions for
about 11,000 households, approximately 88,000 people, through the provision
of essential infrastructure,legalization of occupancy rights and the supply
of credit for housing construction or improvement. In addition, the pro-
vision of a basic water supply network in three other squatter settlements of
Ouagadougou will benefit an estimated 20,000 people. Together, the upgrading,
sites and services and water supply distribution components of the project
will reach 76,000 people in Ouagadougou and more than 33,600 people in Bobo-
Dioulasso, almost a third of the cities' respective populations.
6.02      In addition to providing direct benefits to a significant proportion
of low-income urban dwellers in Upper Volta, the project will demonstrate
the merit and replicability of low-cost approaches to urban development, and
strengthen the institutions concerned through the experience gained during
its implementation. By introducing a system of cost recovery for urban
improvements, the project will also contribute to a more efficient and equit-
able allocation of investment resources, both between urban and rural areas
and within urban areas.
Economic Evaluation of Upgrading and Sites and Services
6.03      Economic rates of return were calculated for upgrading and sites
and service areas, using expected increases in property values as a result
of improvement as the measure of project benefits. Property values are
an imperfect measure of project benefits because they may not fully reflect
the value to individuals and to society of an improved and healthier physical
environment. However, lack of data precluded the quantification of the more
intangible, yet perhaps most important impacts of the project, such as re-
duced morbidity and mortality, and the associated increases in productivity.
Therefore, the rates of return based on property value increases provide only
an indicative and partial estimate of the economic merit of the project.
6.04      Land values for unimproved project areas and for improved areas
with similar locational characteristics are based on consultant estimates
for the UNDP Cissin area, adjusted downward because of the larger scale of



- 34 -
this project, and on discussions held with knowledgeable persons in the
Cadastral Office and the Department of Town Planning in Ouagadougou, and
municipal authorities in Bobo-Dioulasso. (See Annex 9).
6.05      Project costs used in the economic analysis included all on-site
infrastructure costs, an allocated share of off-site infrastructure, where
applicable, detailed engineering and construction supervision, physical con-
tingencies, and operation and maintenance costs. Also included were building
materials and labor for housing construction or improvement (including relo-
cation costs for displaced residents), project administration costs (Munici-
pal Housing Offices), technical assistance (minus Second Project Preparation)
and the without project market price of land (believed to reflect opportunity
costs). The costs of community facilities to be built in project areas were
not included, following normal practice. All costs for the economic analysis
are in June 1977 prices and are net of taxes and duties.
6.06      Based on the benefits and costs described above, economic rates
of return found for upgrading and sites and services areas in the two pro-
ject cities were the following:
Ouagadougou
Cissin Upgrading           -  40%
Zogona Upgrading           -  24%
Bobo-Dioulasso
Sonsuribugu Upgrading      -  31%
Sites and Services         -  37Z
6.07      Sensitivity analysis indicated that these rates of return were
relatively insensitive to a 20% increase in costs and somewhat more sensi-
tive to a 20% reduction in benefits, but it is unlikely that property values
would be lower than those assumed here.
6.08      The high rates of return reflect a great demand for an extremely
limited supply of low-cost serviced land, resulting in a very high private
willingness-to-pay, which may itself underestimate the total economic worth
of the project. However, this project will significantly increase the supply
of serviced land, thereby slowing the long-term rise of land values.
Economic Evaluation of Water Supply Component
6.09      A separate economic rate of return was also calculated for the
water supply distribution system to be provided in three other neighborhoods
of Ouagadougou which will not be fully upgraded. The quantified benefits in
this analysis were expressed as consumer cost savings due to the large dif-
ference in price between water sold by water vendors (their present source
of supply) and water bought directly at the standpipe (the "with project"



- 35 -
situation). The project will provide standpipes spaced sufficiently close
together to reduce reliance on more expensive water sold by vendors. Savings
on present consumption which is estimated at approximately 11 l.c.d. (a
weighted average between the dry season and the rest of the year) were added
to savings on an additional approximately 9 l.c.d. (induced by the reduction
in price) to obtain a total benefit stream.
6.10      Costs used in this analysis included infrastructure, physical
contingencies, detailed engineering, construction supervision, and oper-
ation and maintenance costs, all expressed in June 1977 prices and net of
taxes and duties.
6.11      The economic rate of return obtained using the above benefits
and costs was 37%. Sensitivity analysis was carried out and showed that
neither a 20% increase in costs nor a 20% decrease in benefits lowered the
rate of return below 31%.
Aggregate Rate of Return
6.12      An aggregate rate of return covering approximately 75% of total
project costs was calculated and found to be 34%. Sensitivity analysis was
carried out, with both a 20% increase in costs and a 20% decrease in bene-
fits, and the rate of return did not drop below 21%.
Risks
6.13      Formidable personnel and resource constraints, coupled with the
weakness of executing agencies emphasize the high risk nature of this proj-
ect. Despite the limited success of the Cissin project, its pilot nature
and lack of sound financial arrangements have to be transformed into a large
-scale, replicable urban development program. This challenge of replicability
from a pilot project involving under 1,000 families to one affecting the lives
of over 12,000 families and over 100,000 persons, will require sustained atten-
tion from Government and a high degree of coordination between the Ministry of
Public Works, and the Municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
Throughout project preparation, Government, including the presidential and
ministerial levels, has expressed considerable interest in the project. More
ambitious Government objectives, for inclusion of a larger number of neighbor-
hoods to be upgraded, have been reduced in order to give the project a reason-
able chance to achieve its already substantial goals.
6.14      Specific risks focus on cost recovery and tax collection.  As noted
earlier, the project will introduce a system of collection of plot charges for
urban improvements for the first time in Upper Volta. There is no precedent
for this system, particularly among low-income residents who rarely pay
municipal and national taxes. It will therefore be extremely important that
the Municipal Housing Offices in both cities operate effectively at the
neighborhood level. Failure to collect plot charges will compromise the finan-
cial viability of these operations for the future. This conclusion also
applies to tax collection, which urgently requires improvement if the munici-
palities are to have the financial resources needed to perform their legal
responsibilities in the provision and maintenance of services. The active
interest of the Prefect-Mayors of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso will thus be
essential to strengthen the long-term role of municipal institutions in the
implementation of the Government's national urban development policy.



- 36 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following:
(a)  Final engineering designs and implementation arrange-
ments would be satisfactory to IDA (paras. 3.07-3.10
and 4.01);
(b)  arrangements for granting legal title to residents of
upgraded neighborhoods and sites and services areas
(para. 3.08);
(c)  terms and conditions of plot sales and household selec-
tion and plot allocation criteria (paras. 3.12 and 5.13);
(d)  arrangements for the construction loan program (para. 3.15);
(e)  establishment of a project unit in the Department of Town-
Planning;
(f)  establishment and adequate staffing of Municipal Housing
Offices in the Bureaux Domaniaux in the Municipalities
of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso (para. 4.06);
(g)  arrangements for the review of the consultant's proposals
for improved procedures for revenue collection, property
assessment and tax rates (para. 3.19);
(h)  on-lending terms to the Municipalities of Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso, the ONE and FONASEN (paras. 5.06 - 5.07);
(i)  the establishment of a special account in the Central
Bank (para. 5.11);
(j)  arrangements for cost recovery (paras. 5.12 and 5.13); and
(k)  deposit of surpluses from municipal housing office accounts
in an interest-bearing savings account (Housing Development
Funds) (para. 5.17).
7.02      The following is stipulated as a condition of loan effectiveness
of the proposed credit:
(a)  Execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments between the Government and the Municipalities
of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, the Government and
ONE, and the Government and FONASEN.
7.03      With agreements reached above, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$8.2 million to the Government of Upper Volta.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE URBAN SECTOR
Past Demographic Patterns
1.        Upper Volta is one of the world's most rural countries, with
only 8.3% of its population living in urban areas in 1975. Even within the
Sahelian region of West Africa, where the average share of the population
living in urban areas is 14%, Upper Volta is the least urbanized country.
Some 90% of its population works in agriculture as self-employed farmers, far
from the small urban-based commercial economy.
2.        Despite its rural character, Upper Volta has experienced sustained,
rapid urban growth since independence in 1960. From 1970 to 1975, the urban
growth rate reached 5.1% per year, following closely the rapidly urbanizing
coastal African countries, such as Ghana and the Ivory Coast, which had urban
growth rates at 5.3 and 6.3% respectively during the same period. Much
of Upper Volta's urban growth has been concentrated in a few major towns:
Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, and Koudougou. The entire urban sector was only
500,000 persons in 1975, of which about 220,000 were in Ouagadougou, 120,000
in Bobo-Dioulasso, and some 50,000 in Koudougou. The capital of Ouagadougou
grew at a rate of 7% annually over the last decade and has been rapidly
transformed from a small town into an administrative and economic center.
Secondary centers have not matched this pace, expanding at about 3% annually.
3.        Much of this growth has been fueled by rural-urban migration.  Some
56% of annual urban growth can be attributed to migration, with the remaining
44% resulting from natural increase. These figures are close to the Sahelian-
wide pattern of rural-urban population movements. The migratory share of
Ouagadougou's growth is much higher, however, approaching 68%, reflecting the
attraction of employment possiblities. This pattern is also reflected in the
change in ethnic composition of the city, from a largely Mossi-populated
center, to a much more diverse population, suggesting that migrants come from
throughout the territory to the national capital.
Demographic Projections I/
4.        Based on the above patterns and changing fertility rates, declining
infant mortality, and a slow-down of migration to the Ivory Coast, it is likely
1/   Projections are based on United Nations, FAO, and IBRD estimates.



ANNEX I
Page 2
that Upper Volta's national population growth rates will increase up to 1990.
This will result in national population growth from 6 million in 1975 to 11
million by 2000. Within this overall trend, it is expected that the urban
share will almost double, from 8.3 to 15.7% in the next twenty-five years,
again close to the projected Sahelian increase from 14 to 24.1% over the same
period. In absolute terms, Upper Volta's urban population would grow from
500,000 to 1,791,000, more than tripling its present size. This population
will have to be provided with employment and urban services. For the Sahel
as a whole, some 8.2 million people will have to be absorbed into the urban
sector.
5.        Absolute increases of these magnitudes imply high annual growth
rates. Upper Volta is projected to increase its urban population at roughly
5% up to 1990. Its average annual rate from 1975 to 2000 is projected to be
5.2%. While these projections are of uncertain quality, it is nonetheless
clear that substantial rural-urban migration will continue in the Sahel, and
particularly in Upper Volta, during this period. Improvements in agricultural
incomes may be significant, resulting from the large rural development pro-
grams in many regions of the country, but the behavioral reactions to these
improvements are unclear, i.e., people leave rural areas when they need money,
but they also leave when they have it. It is therefore reasonable to expect
that large migratory flows will continue, swelling the present urban centers
to sizes which were scarcely imaginable a decade ago.
Opportunities for Employment
6.        The primary motivation for out-migration from rural areas has been
the possibility of employment elsewhere. Voltaics have migrated throughout
West Africa in search of employment opportunities. Many migrants, however,
stop in either or both Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, before leaving the
country, and make their first efforts at seeking urban employment in more
familiar surroundings. While the majority of these migrants leave for Ghana
and the Ivory Coast, largely because of prospects of higher incomes to be
earned in those more dynamic economies, some remain in Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso, working in the informal sector, which is now the largest source
of urban employment.
7.        Although employment data for Upper Volta is not very reliable,
estimates from a variety of sources suggest that in 1975, the total Voltaic
labor force was about 2.6 million persons. Of that total, at least 90%
was employed in agriculture, i.e., 2.34 million persons. About one quarter
of the urban population of 500,000 can be categorized as economically active.
Therefore, it is estimated that the urban labor force was about 120,000 per-
sons, of which about 19,000 were employed by the public sector. The remaining
private sector employees, about 99,000, must then be divided into the formal
and informal sectors. This is extremely difficult to do with any degree of
accuracy, however, and given the seasonal character of urban residence, the
young average age of labor force participation, and the lack of major in-
dustrial sources of formal sector employment, it is probably reasonable to



ANNEX 1
Page 3
to estimate that only 18,000 persons, within the entire labor force work
in the formal private sector, with the remaining 81,000 working in informal
sector activities. This latter figure is seasonal and includes substantial
underemployment, with many people pushing carts, collecting firewood, and
trying to sell very small quantities of produce at urban markets. Data on
other, bona fide informal sector activities, such as carpenters or weavers,
indicate an average monthly income of about CFAF 10,000 (US$40). This may
appear extremely low, but when compared to Upper Volta's annual per capita
GDP of US$110, it demonstrates the attraction for potential rural migrants,
and explains the rapid growth of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso over the past
decade.
Ouagadougou
8.        The city of Ouagadougou has grown from the traditional center of
the Mossi kingdom, first settled in the 17th century, to the capital of
the independent republic of Upper Volta.   The city was first inhabited by
Europeans at the start of the 20th century, with the creation of a French
military post in the traditional town. From a population of some 19,000 in
1914, the city grew slowly, reaching 50,000 only in 1956. By that time, the
city had been designated as the capital of the former French colony and was
linked to the Ivory Coast by the railroad, the Regie Abidjan-Niger. At the
time of independence in 1960, the city had a population of about 60,000, with
only a small diplomatic representation and expatriate community. The commer-
cial center of the country remained in Bobo-Dioulasso, in the south-west
region of the country near the borders with Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Mali.
9.        The post-independence period has seen a marked shift in the growth
of Ouagadougou. Previously temporary male migration to the city has evolved
into household migration, with a more even balance between men and women. The
population has become younger, as many children have been born and raised in
the rapidly expanding neighborhoods. Within the city, there are still con-
trasts between the older, lotted areas where there is a greater proportion
of complete households, in contrast to the non-lotted, squatter areas where
many unmarried males reside. Despite these contrasts, however, there has
been a steady trend towards a more stabilized population, with fewer tem-
porary migrants and many more children whose educational and health needs
require public attention.
10.       This growth has been most dramatically demonstrated by the expan-
sion of the city in all directions. The traditional Mossi neighborhoods of
the city center, see Map 12842, no longer represent the majority of the
population, but have been surrounded by extensive squatter areas. These
squatter neighborhoods, which extend even to land beyond the reservoirs on
the northern edge of the city, house more than half the city population and
cover more than half the residential area of the city. While these peripheral
settlements have a semi-rural character, with their mud huts, gardens, and
animals grazing nearby, they nonetheless house families which have been in



ANNEX 1
Page 4
the city since independence, including the families of low-level civil ser-
vants. The fact that they are illegal settlements, with only few urban ser-
vices, has not inhibited a substantial share of the labor force of the mod>-
ern sector from living in them. If this trend continues, the socalled legal
city center, with surveyed residential plots, will represent only a small
share of the total urban area.
Bobo-Dioulasso
11.       In contrast to the tribal and political origins of Ouagadougou,
Bobo-Dioulasso has always been a meeting-place of different cultures and
economic activities. The name of the city itself, the crossroads of the
Bobo and Dioula tribes, has continued to characterize a city which is rich
in its heterogeneity, drawing people from all parts of West Africa. The
city was the capital of the colony of Upper Volta until 1947, when the
capital was moved to Ouagadougou. During the first half of the 20th cen-
tury, heavy investments in infrastructure were made, particularly in an
extensive system of stormwater drainage canals, paved roads, and public
buildings. These investments, completed through the use of forced labor
during the colonial period, continue to give Bobo-Dioulasso the appearance
of a well-developed small city, even though the total area now inhabited is
far beyond the original colonial town. A tradition of urban planning in
the city has persisted and is reflected in the orderly development of new
neighborhoods, with surveyed plots and a relatively well-functioning public
sanitation system. This tradition has been carried forward by the Munici-
pality of Bobo-Dioulasso, supported by national government institutions,
but has gradually slowed down as financial constraints have hampered the
Municipality's ability to keep up with the pace of urban population growth.
12.       In addition to its relatively strong municipal institutions, the
city is also fortunate to have a reliable, ample water supply, located some
20 miles from the city center. This supply is piped to the city and dis-
tributed through a system financed by German assistance several years ago.
Seasonal, but heavy rainfall also keeps groundwater sources relatively high,
for a Sahelian city, and thus permits adequate supply of water from wells
within household courtyards.
13.       As noted above, the economic vitality of the cilty is its major
attraction for rural-urban migrants. A small, but developing modern indus-
trial zone complements a large market and burgeoning informal sector in the
residential neighborhoods. Many Voltaics residing and working in the Ivory
Coast have invested their foreign earnings in businesses in Bobo-Dioulasso,
and the relatively high level of household incomes in the city have attracted
merchants from as far away as Nigeria and Senegal.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION: EXPANDING THE CISSIN EXPERIENCE
Introduction
1.        Because of especially severe manpower and financial constraints,
the self-help efforts of the Voltaic population have received increasing
emphasis in the Government's national development strategy. The theme of
self-reliance is stressed by various ministries and agencies with a man-
date to promote community development, a term which covers activities rang-
ing from well-digging to functional literacy. However, while Government
has promoted the community-based approach to improving living conditions,
there is only scattered experience in community mobilization. The Cissin
Project represents a significant step in this direction. This Annex briefly
reviews the project's history and community participation, and outlines an
expanded role for neighborhood residents under the Urban Development Project.
2.        In 1973, the Government, with UNDP assistance, launched a three
year experiment in site and service and upgrading to improve living condi-
tions of the country's urban poor. This joint effort, undertaken in the
Cissin quartier of Ouagadougou, sought to explore different approaches to
the increasingly rapid and uncontrolled growth of the capital city. Com-
munity participation throughout the project phases was a key project ele-
ment. The assurance of a form of security of tenure was the main stimulus
to encourage individual and collective responsibility. The organization of
neighborhood cooperatives to mobilize private savings later became the prime
channel for this participation.
3.        The 5irst phase of the Cissin Project provided for 600 serviced
plots of 375 m and the upgrading of an adjacent 8 ha. area of 266 families.
Initial infrastructure works were limited to the minimum deemed essential
to satisfy basic needs and to constitute a basis for the legalization of
tenure. These were: unpaved roads and footpaths, drainage ditches, the
marking of plot boundaries, land reserves for community facilities and col-
lective wells. Improvements to this basic system were to be undertaken pro-
gressively, by neighborhood community organizations. Households were to pay
about 70% of infrastructure costs (CFAF 25,000 (US$102) for the site and ser-
vice area and CFAF 15,000 (US$61) for the upgraded neighborhood), although
there was no schedule of monthly payments nor mechanism for collection.
4.        Five basic interventions constituted the first operation:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(a) Earth roads. To the extent possible, roads were
designed to minimize demolition of existing homes.
Those households required to relocate were pro-
vided plots as near as possible to their former
sites;
(b) Marking of plot boundaries. Data from several
socio-economic surveys undertaken for this project
suggested that settlement patterns in spontaneous
zones reflect strong rural and ethnic traditions.
Thus, plot boundaries followed existing social group-
ings to the greatest extent possible;
(c) Sanitation. A system of earth drainage ditches
was dug by the local residents under the direction
of community development agents. The earth became
the property of the participating residents for
brick making operations;
(d) Collective wells. Because of the limited capacity
of the city's water supply system, communal wells
remained the principal source for water supply; and
(e) Plot improvements. Except for a municipal regula-
tion for latrine construction, construction stan-
dards and requirements were kept to a minimum and
stressed safety, improved hygiene and basic comfort.
The other regulations were: (i) north/south orienta-
tion of the house; (ii) use of Cissin brick for house
construction; and (iii) construction of a wall around
each plot.
5.        Formalities for obtaining a construction permit and a loan were
consolidated into one step at a Municipal Housing Office established for
the Project. Loans were granted by the Banque Nationale de Developpement
(BND) to salaried workers only. It was for this reason that the system of
caisses populaires was launched in April 1976.
6.        The continued presence of a community development agent, collabora-
tion with the traditional chiefs and consultation with the local population
were the critical factors in minimizing problems of displacement and reloca-
tion of affected families in the early stages of the project. A committee
consisting of traditional chiefs, designated neighborhood representatives
and expatriates, examined the dossiers in question and took decisions which
were, in large measure, accepted by community residents.
7.        Although modest in size, Cissin proved extremely popular and, in-
deed, highlighted the critical housing shortage throughout the city. During
the two weeks of open candidacy nearly 1,800 applications were filed for the



ANNEX 2
Page 3
600 plots. Selection criteria limited applicants to those with incomes less
than CFAF 36,000 (US$147) and a weighted public lottery aimed to reach house-
holds with incomes between CFAF 6-18,000 (US$24-73). Forty-nine plots were
allocated to applicants with traditional tenure rights. The following table
shows the income distribution among the allottees:
CFAF/Month                  US$                   %
0- 6,000                 0- 24                 9
6,000-12,000                24- 48                40
12,000-18,000                 48- 73               22
18,000-24,000                73- 98                11
24,000-30,000                 98-122               12
30,000-36,000                122-146                6
8.        An August 1975 survey of investment in plot improvements showed
that the plotholders in the upgraded areas invested an average of CFAF 37,000
(US$151) in plot improvements.  The following table indicates the range of
investment as well as the labor content. The study data do not indicate,
however, whether the plotholder participated in construction or hired a
laborer.
Upgraded Neighborhood:
Private Investment in Plot Consolidation
Number          Labor as percentage
CFAF                   US$            of Plots         of total investment
0 -  10,000        0 -  41            69 (28%)                  65%
10,000 -  20,000       41 -  81            43 (17%)                  64%
20,000 -  30,000       81 - 122            24 (10%)                  41%
30,000 -  40,000      122 - 163             18 (7%)                  31%
40,000 -  50,000      163 - 204             12 (5%)                  34%
50,000 -  70,000      204 - 285            21 (9%)                   29%
70,000 - 100,000      285 - 408             12 (5%)                  23%
100,000 - 150,000      408 - 612              6 (2%)                  25%
Above 150,000   above   612               9 (4%)                  24%
SUBTOTAL 1/ 214 (87%)
TOTAL OF PLOTS IN UPGRADED AREA: 247
1/   13% of those surveyed did not respond.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
9.        By late 1975, the Cissin project had provoked considerable atten-
tion at the Government level as well as interest outside the country. The
Government subsequently convened an international conference to review the
project's achievements and to offer recommendations for the second phase.
While recognizing the pilot nature of the operation, the need for improve-
ments in the approach and further experimentation, the Government endorsed
the Cissin concept as the cornerstone of its policy towards the delivery of
urban services. The importance of the Cissin experiment has not been lost
on other sectors; the Ministry of Education is currently building schools
in the rural areas using Cissin methods of construction.
The Caisses Populaires
10.       While the first phase of this project represents a major step for
the Government in the development of its housing policy, the pilot nature of
the Cissin experience necessarily limited its effectiveness and highlighted
its weaknesses. A major bottleneck in house construction and improvements
in the project has been the difficulty of access to credit. With the formal
channels closed to the non-salaried in the Cissin Project, the UNDP turned
to the establishment of small savings cooperatives. As part of the overall
effort to stimulate community participation, a network of caisses populaires
was set up to: (a) tap private savings in the first phase, (b) invest in
community projects in the second phase, and (c) ultimately to provide in-
dividual housing loans to the unsalaried worker.
11.       Building upon a similar experience launched by the Centre d'Etudes
Economiques et Societe de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CESAO) and Canadian Assis-
tance (CIDA) in Bobo-Dioulasso, a public information campaign aimed ini-
tially at the traditional chiefs began in May 1976. Many sessions were
held in Cissin describing the concept, benefits and collective responsibil-
ity of its members. Response was both swift and enthusiastic. Three weeks
after the opening of subscriptions 6 cooperatives had been established with
470 members and a total of about CFAF 500,000. Membership today is over
1,600 members and savings now amount to about CFAF 3 million.
12.       In October 1976, the seven caisses populaires elected a Governing
Committee to establish lending policy for community improvement projects for
the second phase of their operations. Parallel to these developments, a
series of socio-economic surveys were carried out in the neighborhoods aimed
at establishing a ranking of community investment priorities. Several prior-
ity projects identified by the socio-economic survey have been launched by
the caisses populaires. The high cost of water from itinerant vendors was
the most frequent complaint and resulted in the purchase of seven water carts
for hire/purchase by a member from each of the seven neighborhoods. A market
which will eventually provide 100 stalls is now under construction by the
caisses populaires and will be operated by the Governing Committee for a
10-year period after which it will be turned over to the Municipality.
Other projects are now being investigated.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
13.       Investment in community projects marks a new phase in the evolu-
tion of the caisses populaires and provided an opportunity to evaluate their
development to date. This evaluation is being undertaken as part of project
preparation and will aim to strengthen the Cissin network before extending
it to other urban areas.
Community Development Activities
14.       While the mobilization of private savings generated by the low-
income residents of Cissin remains the primary objective of the caisses
populaires, it has also become an important vehicle for stimulating com-
munity interest and concern for continued public awareness and improvement.
Building the structure of the caisses populaires upon the existing social
hierarchy has been vital to the growth of membership and the pattern of
regular savings. For the residents, the weekly meetings have provided an
important forum for public discussion and a vital link in the expression
of community needs and goals for development to Government. It is there-
fore an integral part of the upgrading process and one whose development
will be supported and extended under the proposed urban project.
15.       The pilot community development project will experiment with the
community interest generated by the caisse populaire experience. This com-
ponent (US$130,000) will finance small-scale operations in community edu-
cation, public health, and women's activities, offering the Government addi-
tional opportunities to explore the concept of community responsibility for
improved living conditions. These activities will be identified and designed
during project execution under the direction of the Project Unit, through the
discussion with interested Government agencies as well as with the caisses
populaires and other community organizations. While this component has
been kept small to permit flexibility in design and experimentation in con-
cept, there are nevertheless several criteria which must be met in project
design:
(1) activities must be in the above-mentioned sectors,
(2) they must be community-based and low-cost,
(3) they should demonstrate practical alternatives
to fixed traditional education and health care
delivery techniques, and
(4) they should be partially financed by the neigh-
borhoods involved.
These criteria will be refined during the course of project execution and
the course of the experiment monitored over the life of the project.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDF PROJECT
Artisans and Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Introduction
1.        The Urban Projects Department and the Africa IDF Division began
work in December, 1975 on the preparation of an integrated urban/small-scale
enterprise project in Upper Volta. Subsequently, it was decided to prepare
two separate but mutually reinforcing projects for simultaneous financing.
The objectives of the artisanal/small-scale enterprise project are:
(a) to stimulate investment in small enterprises,
particularly those located in and with an impact
on neighborhoods to be upgraded;
(b) to strengthen the Banque Nationale de Developpe-
ment - Haute Volta (BND) as a financial inter-
mediary particularly for small and medium enter-
prises;
(c) to develop and deliver a program of technical assis-
tance to small entrepreneurs and artisans.
2.        To accomplish these objectives, the project will rely on three
primary institutions: (i) the Office de la Promotion de l'Entreprise
Voltaique (OPEV); (ii) the BND; and (iii) the Centre National de Perfec-
tionnement des Artisans Ruraux (CNPAR) and its mobile assistance arm, Ser-
vice d'Assistance, Conseil et Soutien (SACS) (Chart 1). Total costs of
the project are US$4.0 million.
3.        Costs for each component as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
US$ Millions           Total
BND
Credit:   Small and Medium Enterprises              2.50
Training and Management Advice           0.20
2.70                2.70
OPEV
Follow-up:
Local Personnel                          0.06
Vehicles and miscellaneous               0.02
0.08
Management Center:
Expatriate Personnel                     0.15
Local Counterpart and Students           0.07
Miscellaneous                            0.02
0.24
Seminars:                                          0.16
0.48                0.48
CNPAR
Credit-in-kind:  Artisans                           0.40
Skill Training and Follow-up:
Expatriate Personnel                     0.26
Local Personnel                          0.04
Training                                 0.03
Material                                 0.07
Miscellaneous                            0.02
0.82                0.82
4.00
Institutional Arrangements
4.        BND is a multipurpose development bank which was established in
1962 and which follows the typical Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) model; i.e., in addition to standard DFC operations it lends for con-
sumer durable purchases, housing and agriculture.  Resources for BND's opera-
tions have historically come largely from CCCE, the Central Bank and short



ANNEX 3
Page 3
term government deposits. Recently, and partially as a result of changes
in Central Bank regulations, BND has sought other donors (USAID, African
Development Bank, KfW, DEG) who have made available equity and loan funds.
5.        BND will be the recipient of a line of credit for loans to modern
sector small and medium enterprises. This will reinforce the trend toward
broadened sources of funds for BND and expand its capacity to lend to Voltaic
entrepreneurs. For this project, all loans to Voltaic-owned firms with assets
below CFAF 25 million (US$100,000) will be considered small scale industry,
and all above will be medium scale. A ceiling on sub-loans will be set
under the credit of firms with assets below CFAF 100 million (US$400,000).
This will allow OPEV to promote, and BND to finance, a certain number of
medium scale enterprises and avoid a rapid rundown of the IDA credit on one
or two large investments. Funds (US$200,000) will also be provided to BND
for internal technical advice on banking procedures and staff training.
6.        OPEV, an independent government agency under the Ministry of In-
dustry, was founded in 1971, and is the focus of local efforts to stimulate
Voltaic enterprises. It has been favored by extensive external support, in-
cluding French, German, American and UNIDO assistance. OPEV's original man-
date to train Voltaics in building trades has now been broadened to include
business training courses, project preparation, individual firm follow-up and
other technical assistance. Recent activities include an equity participation
fund (Fonds de Participation) for small entrepreneurs and a newly installed
industrial estate.
7.        The IDF project will integrate its activities with on-going OPEV
operations, extend them to reach a new clientele and reinforce OPEV's support
of BND in project promotion, preparation and follow-up. To support OPEV's
ongoing follow-up efforts, the project will reinforce its mobile capability
by providing vehicles and Voltaic technicians. In addition, the project will
establish the basis of a management training center at OPEV, designed to
train a small number of Voltaic high school graduates. These graduates, as
part of their work-study program, will form a link between OPEV's expatriate
experts already in place and entrepreneurs requiring assistance. The object
of this arrangement is simultaneously to expand OPEV's capacity to follow up
with entrepreneurs and to focus new entrepreneurs on "real life" management:
problems. OPEV's program of training courses will be broadened to include
approximately eight "short courses" (seminars) in business skills over a
three-year period. The seminars will be offered to entrepreneurs, accoun-
tants of the caisses populaires and the staff of BND and OPEV.
8.        BND and OPEV's industrial sector projects have typically involved
firms with investment costs per job of US$8,000-10,000. A purpose of this
project is to help the two institutions work together to reduce over time
the cost of creating employment in Upper Volta. The managements of the two
institutions are willing to pursue this objective, which will be formalized
through a letter of intent from each to seek to create jobs (not including



ANNEX 3
Page 4
the US$400,000 to artisans through SACS, which will be far lower in any
event) at an average cost of US$5,000.
9.        CNPAR, established in 1969 with ILO and UNDP assistance, is a Gov-
ernment agency which trains rural artisans in blacksmithing, well-digging,
mobylette repair, brickmaking and masonry. As a result of CNPAR's success,
ILO reduced over time the number of expatriate experts assigned to CNPAR
and terminated its budget support in 1976. The SACS operation, founded with
a grant from Switzerland, supervises these artisans after graduation, plus
others who have not received CNPAR training. SACS is equipped to provide
raw materials, tools and on-the-spot advice. It will also assist in market-
ing artisanal output.. ARCOMA, another CNPAR sponsored operation which does
not form part of this project, manufactures and markets local agricultural
implements.
10.       CNPAR and SACS continue to do excellent work in training and fol-
low-up with assistance to illiterate artisans. The IDF project will support
CNPAR's on-going work and expand it to train and follow up a larger number
of informal sector artisans. In addition to existing CNPAR training pro-
grams, decentralized training facilities managed by Voltaics will be estab-
lished in neighborhoods to be upgraded under the Urban Development Project.
Training will begin in construction skills and later be expanded to meet
other skill training requirements as demanded by local needs.
11.       Credit, largely in kind, for artisans will be made available by
SACS, which will continue its regular contact with artisans, delivering raw
materials and tools and assisting in marketing output. Credit to artisans
will cover working capital and investment needs, including tools and equip-
ment (30%), raw materials (50%) and in some cases the cost of building con-
struction (20%). (Loans for construction will be for small, unsophisticated
structures for individual artisans, and more frequently for jointly owned
workshops for groups of artisans.) Raw materials and tools will be bulk
purchased by SACS, which will use repayments from artisans to establish
a permanent revolving fund. Establishment of the decentralized training
facilities and follow-up capability will cost US$420,000; an additional
US$400,000 will be allocated to the SACS credit program.
12.       Based on previous experience by SACS, US$400,000 for credit should
be sufficient to reach 1,000 individual artisans and artisanal enterprises
over the three-year implementation period (average loans will be US$400).
Up to the present, the SACS record on recovery has been satisfactory. Loans
have been made at 7% with flexible terms up to 5 years with 18 months grace.
Loans above CFAF 150,000 to individuals or above CFAF 500,000 to groups are
not anticipated. Loans for raw materials and tools (working capital loans)
will have relatively short maturities (3-36 months) while those for con-
struction will carry longer terms (up to 10 years). In order to maintain
current flexibility, SACS will continue to design loan terms appropriate
to the individual borrower subject to IDA review. BND will be the channel
for IDA funds to SACS, which will carry the credit risk. As repayments to



ANNEX 3
Page 5
SACS by artisans are made, these resources will be retained by SACS to estab-
lish a permanent revolving fund for credit-in-kind to artisans.
Coordination of OPEV/BND/CNPAR and the Urban Development Project
13.       Coordination of the activities of BND, OPEV and CNPAR will be crit-
ical to project execution. The three institutions must be able to deliver
financial and technical assistance to local enterprises and artisans in an
integrated fashion. The IDF project represents the first major effort in
this direction. In order to reinforce this objective, a working committee
consisting of representatives of the three institutions will be established
to meet regularly to review project progress.
14.       To facilitate coordination with the Urban Development Project, a
representative of the working committee will attend meetings of the Inter-
Ministerial Committee, which will be established under the Urban Develop-
ment Project. This representative will be responsible to report back to
the working committee on progress of the Urban Development Project and iden-
tify problems and/or issues which must be addressed directly by any one of
the concerned institutions.



ANNME 3
Page 6
Chart 1
PPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
..
_                   I
|.Idmee *- flmtaLel ,  1.*uctiata    eCdit-                                                7.X
titam.              hvsat    -Y..&ad           Tza1sLas
I ~    ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    S
________  SeaL. bamlae e.g AitluammMatift
bly I",7



ANNEX 4
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF PROJECT ENTITIES
1.        The project involves several different institutions operating simul-
taneously to prepare and implement individual project components. These in-
stitutions include: an Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee, the Minis-
try of Public Works, Transport, and Urban Development, the Municipalities
of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, the Prefecture of Gaoua, the Office National
des Eaux (ONE), the Fonds National de l'Assainissement et de l'Entretien
(FONASEN), a service of the Department of Water Affairs, and collaboration
with institutions involved in the IDF project, the Banque Nationale de
Developpement (BND), the Office de la Promotion de 1'Entreprises Voltaique
(OPEV), and the Centre National pour le Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux
(CNPAR). The organization and management of each of these institutions is
presented in this Annex. Information on the caisses populaires is presented
in Annex 2. The organizational framework for the project is presented in
Chart I below.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Chart 1
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
Chairman:
Minister of Public Works, Transport and Town Planning
Vice-Chairman:
Minister of Finance or his representative
Ministry of Public Works       Ministry of Interior          Ministry of Rural Development
1/
Municipalities
Department of Town Planning                                   Department of Water Affairs
Municipal Housing Office           National Water Office
- Supervision of Detailed      - Public Notification          - Preparation Detailed Design
Design                     - Household Selection          - Preparation and Evaluation
- Preparation of Bidding       - Plot Allocation                  Bidding
Documents & Contracts      - Plot Registry                - Documents and Contracts
- Supervision of Execution    - Collection Monthly Charges - Supervision of Physical Works
of Physical Works          - Building Permits             - Collection of Water Charges
- Supervision of Con-          - Occupancy Permits
struction Loans            - Community Relations
- Technical Assistance to        Service of Roads
Municipal Housing Office      and Buildings
- Identification and Prep-
aration of Second Project - Municipal Assistance
- Administration of Community - Garbage Collection
Projects and Caisses       - Training Municipal
Populaires                     Personnel
- Repair Schools and
Department of Public Works          Clinics
- Maintenance Drainage
- Renting Equipment for            Canals
Physical Works             - Reorganization Work-
shops
Hygiene Service
- Insecticide Spraying
Municipal Tax Office.
- Improvements in Tax
Collection Procedures
1/   This structure is identical for the municipalities of Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
A. The Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee
2.        In order to assure coordination in the execution of the different
components of the project, the Government has proposed the creation of an
Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee, under the chairmanship of the
Minister responsible for Town-Planning. This committee will be responsible
for following the preparation and execution of individual components, and
identifying and resolving problems which may develop during execution. The
committee would also approve the quarterly reports to be submitted by the
Project Unit to the Bank and meet with supervision missions if necessary.
Membership in the committee will be of two types: permanent and temporary,
depending on the degree of involvement of specific institutions. Permanent
members would include:
President:       Minister responsible for Town-Planning
Vice-President:  Minister of Finance or his representative
Director-General of the Interior
Prefect of Ouagadougou
Sub-Prefect of Bobo-Dioulasso
Director of Town Planning
Director-General of The National Water Office
Head, Ouagadougou Housing Office
Head, Bobo-Dioulasso Housing Office
Director of Department of Lands
Director-General of FONASEN
Director-General of BND
Temporary members will include:
Director of OPEV
Director of CNPAR
Prefect of Gaoua
Representative of monitoring team



ANNEX 4
Page 4
These members would be invited to meetings of the committee when the agenda
included items directly affecting their participation in the project.
B. The Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Urban Development
3.        The Ministry of Public Works will have primary responsibility
for execution of the project. The Project Unit, described below, will be
located within the Department of Town Planning and Architecture, following
the precedent of the UNDP-financed Cissin project. It will be supported by
the Department of Public Works, which will provide the equipment needed for
construction of roads and drainage which will be carried out by force
account. This coordination will be assured by the Director of Cabinet of
the Ministry.
4.        The Department of Town Planning and Architecture is a small depart-
ment, with only a few professional staff. The Department is highly central-
ized (see Chart II) located within the Ministry in Ouagadougou, with a small
branch in Bobo-Dioulasso. This branch office is primarily responsible for
the maintenance and rehabilitation of public buildings. In Ouagadougou, the
Department's professional staff is involved in three principal activities:
(a) continuation of the UNDP Cissin project, (b) site development for house-
holds to be relocated from the Moro Naba gulley, and (c) review and approval
of applications for site development and construction of large buildings by
both the public and private sectors. In its latter activity, the Department
works closely with the National Water Company, the Department of Hydraulics
and Water Affairs, the municipalities, the Electric Company of Upper Volta,
and Department of Lands. The first two operations involve the further devel-
opment of the Cissin experience and its application to another situation.
Despite substantial turnover in Voltaic staff since the beginning of the
Cissin project in 1973, there has nevertheless been a considerable trans-
fer of skills and knowledge of Cissin methods. These will be applied on a
larger scale in the proposed project by a professional staff which now in-
cludes several planners, architects, geographers, and draftsmen, of whom
two are expatriates, one the Swiss director of the UNDP Cissin II, and a
French planner provided by the French Ministry of Cooperation. Additional
technical assistance, as described in Annex 8, will be provided to strengthen
the Department.
5.        The project unit within the Department will be responsible for,
inter alia:
(a) supervision of detailed design and engineering;
(b) preparation of bidding documents and contracts;



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(c) supervision of execution of civil works, including
construction of community facilities;
(d) supervision of construction loan program;
(e) supervision of establishment and functioning of
municipal housing offices; and
(f) identification and preparation of a second project.
Its links to other participating institutions are shown in Chart 1.
C. Municipal Government
6.        Municipal government in Upper Volta is under the authority of the
Ministry of Interior.  The law governing municipal administration was based
on the French law of 1884 and provides for a system of communes, with an
elected mayor and municipal council. Municipalities are empowered to levy
and collect taxes and spend funds from a municipal budget. All financial
decisions, however, must receive the prior approval of the Ministry of
Interior. This municipal system, similar to those found in all former
French colonies, has not evolved substantially since independe7ce in 1960.
The paucity of local revenue, inability to collect existing taxes, and a
scarcity of trained personnel have all led to the decline of municipal gov-
ernment. This trend, coupled with the change in government in 1966 from
civilian to a military regime, led to the national government takeover of
municipal administration. In the place of electing a mayor, the executive
position was filled by a Prefect, appointed by the President, who was re-
sponsible for all activities previously carried out by the municipalities.
The Prefect was also designated as President of a Special Delegation, con-
sisting of local notables and officials, which replaced the elected munici-
pal council. The delegation was divided into Commissions, as in the old
municipal councils, to supervise the execution of projects by the technical
services of the municipalities. In the last two years, new appointments
have been made to the positions of Prefect of Ouagadougou and Sub-Prefect
of Bobo-Dioulasso in order to revive municipal administration through more
dynamic and efficient management. This project is intended to support this
reinforcement process.
7.        Detailed analysis of municipal budgets was not carried out, but
some information was obtained, and it will be described briefly in this
section. The overall picture is one of acute scarcity of public revenue
at the local level in Upper Volta, due to a combination of a largely low-
income tax base, insufficiently buoyant sources of revenues, low rates and
inadequate assessment and collection practices for existing taxes. The



ANNEX 4
Page 6
following tables, showing total revenue receipts for recent years by the
municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, and the structure of
Ouagadougou's latest budget indicate the paucity of resources which char-
acterizes local government in Upper Volta.
TABLE 1: TOTAL REVENUE RECEIPTS BY YEAR
(CFAF Million)
Bobo-Dioulasso            Ouagadougou
1971                     161.6                     n.a.
1972                     156.3                     n.a.
1973                     155.9                     n.a.
1974                     198.4                     323.4
1975                     199.4                     493.6
1976                     219.4                     379.8
1977                     n.a.                      347.5



ANNEX 4
Page 7
TABLE 2: MUNICIPALITY OF OUAGADOUGOU
1977 PROJECTED REVENUE RECEIPTS
(By Major Sources of Revenue)
CFAF Million
Licenses and Business Taxes              77.0
Property Taxes /1                        21.0
Income Tax                               12.0
Garbage Tax /2                            4.0
Road Tax /3                                1.0
Market Tax /4                            27.0
Entertainment Tax                        13.0
Automobile Tax                           26.0
Cycles Tax                               11.0
Parking Tax                               6.0
Land Transfer Tax /5                     15.0
Hospital Charges                          4.0
Other Taxes                              70.5
Payment of Accumulated Past
Receivables                            60.0
Total Revenue Receipts             347.5
Illustrative Tax Rates
/1   3% of the assessed value of property.
/2   Varies from CFAF 500 to CFAF 3,000 depending
on the neighborhood.
/3   CFAF 100 per taxpayer.
/4   CFAF 250 per stall.
/5   CFAF 300 if the neighborhood is lotted less
than 5 years; CFAF 100 if more than 5 years.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
TABLE 3: 1977 PROJECTED EXPENDITURES
Amount           % of Total
1.   Personnel and Administration          166.1                 48
2.   Reimbursement of loans
(debt servicing)                     66.2                19
3.   Garbage Removal                        45.0                 13
4.   Services - Operation Costs             57.8                 17
5.   Investments                            12.4                  3
Total                            347.5               100
8.        As the Tables show, the city of Ouagadougou, with a population of
220,000, expects revenue receipts in 1977 of only CFAF 347.5 (US$1.4) mil-
lion, equivalent to US$6.50 per capita. Bobo-Dioulasso, with a population
of 150,000, had revenue receipts of CFAF 219.4 (US$0.90) million in 1976,
or US$6 per capita. Major sources of revenue are similar in the two cities;
there are a large number of taxes with very low yields. Property taxes,
which typically account for a significant proportion of municipal tax reve-
nue throughout the world, account for only 6% of revenue receipts in both
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
9.        Collection of existing taxes is a major problem, illustrated by
the fact that Ouagadougou's accumulated past receivables at the end of 1976
were almost as large as the projected revenue receipts for 1977. Municipal
authorities are very concerned about the problem, but there appears to be
no easy solution to it, short of a major revision of existing assessment and
collection practices.
10.       There is clearly a need for substantial change in the present sys-
tem of municipal taxation. In connection with the property tax, for example,
there is a need for reclassifying areas into different value zones as condi-
tions change, making periodic adjustments in rates, which are presently quite
low, and establishing and updating land value maps to provide reference infor-
mation on property values. Several sources noted that property value assess-
ments were systematically under-estimated for tax purposes.
11.       In view of the need for finding adequate resources for municipal
operations, through better collection of existing taxes and/or new sources
of revenue, the project includes technical assistance to the two project
cities by an expert in municipal administration/finance to suggest and help
implement improvements.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Municipal Housing Offices
12.       Municipal Housing Offices will be established within the existing
Bureau Domanial in each Municipality. Since a very minimal number of plots
have been made available over the years, the Bureau's activities have been
limited to the keeping of applicant dossiers, maintaining records on the
disposition of title to municipal lands, and processing applications for
construction permits. Both these offices have functioned little more than
as routing offices for these activities. Under the UNDP/Cissin Project, a
Municipal Housing Office was established to handle all beneficiary activi-
ties from application to allocation, but ceased most of its activities once
all dossiers had been processed. Another reason for its closing was undoubt-
edly due to its extra-municipal status; it was created by and for the UNDP
Cissin Project and was therefore not recognized by Government officials as
a municipal entity.
13.       The Municipal Housing Office to be created under the Urban Proj-
ect has been designed, with a technical assistance component, to gradually
assume increased responsibility for the management of land transactions in-
volved under the project. The Offices, both of which will be headed by a
Voltaic, will be divided into three sections: Accounting, Technical, and
Community Relations.
(a) Accounting: The section will be headed by a
Voltaic accountant under the supervision of
the Project Accountant in the Department of
Town Planning. It will be responsible for
establishing procedures for collection and
recording of downpayments, and plot charges
for the Municipal Housing Office and the
overall urban project budget. The section
will also be responsible for establishing a
system which will provide the individual with
an immediate accounting of his payment status.
Collection offices will be set up in each
community center with some fixed agents and
others mobile.
(b) Technical: This section, staffed by Voltaics,
will continue to be responsible for identifi-
cation and registration of land titles, as-
sembling dossiers and establishing applicant
lists, processing claims of conflict and
compensation for action by the Mayor's Com-
mission, preparation of contracts for sig-
nature, and processing all urban occupancy
permits for title transfer.



ANNEX 4
Page I 
(c)  Community Development:  This newly created
service will be supervised by an expatriate
community development expert who will assist
the Head of the Office to define appropriate
liaison and on-site procedures for beneficiary
activities. The Community Assistance Section
will be responsible for the definition and
implementation of the following activities:
(1) project publicity: consultation within the
neighborhoods to be upgraded concerning, inter-
alia, project objectives, residents' partici-
pation and responsibilities;
(2) establishment of selection criteria;
(3) establishment of allocation procedures;
(4) review of applicant dossiers for Selection
Committee;
(5) notification of beneficiaries; and
(6) assistance for contract signature.
This section will liaise with the caisse populaire
expert in the Project Unit to coordinate and facil-
itate contact within the designated communities.
14.       The following table indicates the gradual build-up of the Municipal
Housing Office in Ouagadougou:



ANNEX 4
Page I1
Table 4: PERSONNEL REQUIRED TO PROCESS APPLICATIONS AND
COLLECT MONTHLY CHARGES
1978     1979      1980      1981 (6 mos.)
Applications in Office                 1440     2500      2500          1000
Collections (Cumulative)              1000      3500      6000          7000
Personnel:
Director                                  1         1        1             1
Category I                                6        8         8             8
(Clerks and
Interviewers)
Category II                               2        4         4             4
(Control-Jr.
accountants)
Category III                              2        4         4             4
(Collection
agents)
Category IV                               1        1         1             1
(Accountant)
Technical Assistant                       I         I        I
Secretaries                               2        4         4             4
Drivers                                   2        2         2             2
Messengers                                2        2         2             2
TOTAL                              19        27        27            26
15.       The above table assumes that 160 dossiers will be prepared per
month in the Municipal Housing Office by four clerks, with two additional
clerks providing general information for inquiries, assisting on non-routine
matters, and general backup.
16.       For collections, it is assumed that each agent will be responsible
for at least 240 plots per month, or 12 for each working day, in the first
year and a half, with an increase to 360 plots per month by mid-1979. Per-
sonnel will be hired according to the pace of plot allocation and collec-
tion.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
17.       The following sets out staffing for the Bobo-Dioulasso Municipal
Housing Office:
1979             1980             1981
Applications and Collections          1750              1750             700
Director                                  1                1               1
Category I                               8                 8               8
Category II                              2                 2               2
Category III                             2                 3               3
Category IV                               1                1               1
Technical Assistant                       1                1               1
Secretaries                              3                 3               3
Drivers                                   1                1               1
Messengers                                1                1               1
TOTAL                              20               21              21
18.       While the above analysis represents the mission's best quantita-
tive estimates, they do not reflect either the difficulty of managing an
operation of this size, or the quality of work actually performed; this
is a critical factor since this type of operation has no real precedent
in the Municipality. The estimates are therefore conservative in order
to indicate the size of the Municipal Housing Office in Ouagadougou implied
by a project of 7,000 plots in that city. With qualified personnel, lead-
ership and commitment on the part of the Voltaic Director, and adequate
technical assistance (one full-time person in the office, supported by the
accountant and socio-economist from the Department of Town Planning), it
is feasible to carry out the project of this size, with an additional 6
months for plot allocation.
D. Office National des Eaux - Water Supply
19.       Responsibility for the water supply and sewerage sector is shared
by the Directorate of Hydraulic and Rural Equipment (HER) which plans and
constructs all new water supply and sewerage works and operates small rural



ANNEX 4
Page 13
systems, and the Office National des Eaux (ONE) 1/ which operates the water
supply systems in the seven largest towns. ONE, now fully owned by the Gov-
ernment, was created in 1970 with the purpose of taking over the water supply
systems then operated by the National Power Company (VOLTELEC). It is a
well-run enterprise, adequately organized and staffed, and earning adequate
profits since its establishment. All full-time staff is Voltaic, including
an effective President and General Manager. There are three technical divi-
sions, one each for Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso and one for the 5 smaller
systems. In addition, there is a small study and documentation section and
a small water laboratory. ONE relies heavily for repair and maintenance work
on contractors, which allows it to limit its staff.
20.       In contrast to its predecessor, VOLTELEC, which accumulated deficits
on its water supply operations, ONE has been earning profits (6-11% of annual
sales) beginning with its first year of operations in 1970. This may be
attributed to higher water tariffs introduced shortly before take-over,
lower management fees (reduced by 20-33%), and finally to a more dynamic
management which has focused solely on water supply, rather than seeing it
as an adjunct to power operations.
21.       Present tariffs, effective June 1977, are described in Annex 7,
as is the financial impact of the project on ONE. As pointed out in para.
5.19 in the text and in Annex 7, detailed analysis of the ONE's overall
financial position and of the adequacy of present tariffs was not carried
out in the context of this project. It appears that ONE's financial posi-
tion is satisfactory, which follows from its good operating performance,
but this should be confirmed by a future audit.
22.       Investments in urban water supply in Upper Volta have been financed
mainly by foreign donors, with the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) play-
ing the most important role. Recently, however, Danish and German aid has
become as important as FED. KfW, Denmark and FED have been devoting most
of their resources to the improvement of production capacity and distribu-
tion systems in the cities served by ONE, while well construction programs
continue to be financed by FAC and humanitarian agencies.
23.       The Government is presently seeking assistance for a large scheme
that would utilize water from the Black Volta River to meet the post-1981
demand of principally Ouagadougou, but also of nearby small communities,
including a large textile mill at Koudougou. Apparently, the Black Volta
River is the next dependable water source, but preliminary engineering studies
have estimated very high investment costs for this scheme, which is presently
the object of further study. In the meantime, the Government has agreed to
enact a new set of tariffs which will differentiate between seasons, thereby
attempting to control aggregate demand in Ouagadougou during the last months
of the dry season, and perhaps postponing investment in new productive capacity.
1/   Societe Nationale des Eaux (SNE) until 1976.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DESIGN STANDARDS AND DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
A. Standards
Options for Plot Sizes
1.        Plots in urban2Upper Volta traditionally are organized around a
courtyard of about 150 m , surrounded by dwellings, The courtyard is used
for family activities such as cooking and laundry, and for food-related
activities such as minor livestock and vegetable growing. Plts often
have private wells. Plot sizes presently average about 500 m in neigh-
borhoods to be upgraded. Plot sizes provided under the project are the
following:
240 M           12 m x 20 m
300 M           15 m x 20 m
360 M           15 m x 24 m
While these plots are still large, the project will reduce average plot size
considerably and provide price incentives 2for smaller plots. In upgrading
areas, existing residents will have 360 m plots, while new residents will be
divided pqually among the three size categories shown above, with an average
of 300 m . Similarly, in sites and services areas, the average size of plots
will be 300 m , with one-third in each size category.
2.        The only restrictions on construction on plots will concern pit
latrines, which must be constructed according to appropriate techniques and
distances from wells and plot boundaries.
Infrastructure Standards
3.        The standards adopted constitute the first stage of a phased im-
provement program in project areas, consistent with the capacity to pay of
project beneficiaries. These initial standards can be progressively upgraded
as incomes permit. The consultant feasibility study outlined two complete
options with regard to infrastructure standards. The more modest of the
two alternatives, entailing much lower drainage investments in particular,
was chosen, with the possibility of subsequent upgrading.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Internal Roads and Bicycle/Pedestrian Facilities
4.        Both the upgraded and sites and services areas will be provided
with a circulation network comprising pedestrian/bicycle pathways and
vehicular roads adequate for garbage collection trucks. The restructured
street network will be designed not only for transportation needs but will
also be integrated with the water supply and drainage networks. No plot
will be further than 100/120 m from vehicular access.
Design standards are the following:
Right of way
Secondary roads                         15 m
Tertiary roads                          10 m
Roads (right of way) will cover about 15% of the area within each site.
5.        Infilling and regravelling are generally unnecessary except for
primary roads. Road works will mostly consist of levelling and compacting
of existing soil. If required, materials for regravelling can be found by
digging lateral ditches. Highway equipment required for road construction
will be limited to motorgraders, water tankers, and compactors.
Surface Water Drainage
6.        Urbanization and densification of the selected areas reduce ground
absorption and increase the need for drainage. The phased approach to up-
grading the various neighborhoods was followed in the choice of drainage
standards. The drainage network will be installed in three phases. The
project includes provision for only the first phase, which consists of.
(a) Main streets. Construction of trapezoidal ditches
masoned where necessary (about 20% of the total length).
Subsurface pipes are required for road crossings. The
design is based on a 5-year storm frequency. The
run off co-efficients vary according to slope, sur-
face, and sub-surface conditions from 0.60 to 0.30.
(b) Local streets. Construction of triangular ditches
using a motor grader. Pipes for road crossings are
unnecessary.
(c) Pedestrian/bicycle ways. Construction will normally
be carried out by allottees. However, where neces-
sary, bicycle/pedestrian paths will have V-shaped
cross sections and will serve as storm drainage
collectors, reshaping being carried out by motor
graders.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Off-Site Drainage: The Zogona Gulley
7.        As part of off-site drainage works, four kilometers of the Zogona
Gulley will be channeled, with two kilometers of its banks protected by con-
crete. Three existing bridges over the gulley will be reinforced and one
additional bridge will be constructed. These works will serve the 500 ur-
banized hectares of the Zogona flood plain which covers 1400 hectares.
Preliminary engineering of these works have been completed and, using data
available from other major drainage works in Ouagadougou, it was possible
to reduce the design standards for channeling the gulley well below what
has been previously used. The run-off coefficient used was 0.35 for urban-
ized surfaces. The size of the channel assumes one flooding per year.
Water Supply
8.        The project will provide a distribution system through standpipes
in the project areas. Only Sonsuribugu and Tanghin-Sambin will require off-
site investment to reinforce the primary feeder, which will be financed under
the Project. The secondary distribution system will follow the restructured
road network. Standpipes will be installed at intervals of 400 m and will
serve about 1,500 people each. Though these norms are low, they represent
a significant improvement over the present situation. Approximately 15 to
20% of plots along the pipes will be technically able to have private con-
nections installed. Consumption standards are 60 liters per capita per
day for private connections and 20-25 1. for people served through stand-
pipes. Pipes are manufactured plastic pipes (PVC) ranging in diameter from
r 42 x 50 to 0 144 x 160.
Community Facilities
9.        Community facilities required for each neighborhood will be con-
structed progressively according to the timetable of densification of each
area. The Project will finance the construction of markets and community
centers as well as the rehabilitation of existing schools and clinics
throughout the project cities.                                            I
Ouagadougou      Bobo-Dioulasso
Market (100 stalls)                   4                  2
2
Community Centers (40 m )            16                  5
Rehabilitation of schools            40                 25
Rehabilitation of clinics            10                  7



ANNEX 5
Page 4
10.       Local market facilities will consist of simple partly covered
structures on the natural ground which will eventually be bituminized. They
will include a standpipe, public latrines, and garbage facilities. Community
centers will be low cost buildings which will require very little maintenance:
stabilized earth block walls plastered externally, transversal ventilation,
wooden doors and windows, concrete/earth floors, aluminum roofs on lumber
framing. Electricity will be installed if possible. Standard plans have to
be prepared. Rehabilitation of schools and clinics will consist of minor
remodelling by cleaning, painting, repairs of door/windows, installing of
water taps and latrines and possibly electricity. Although new facilities
such as schools or clinics will not be provided in the project area, space
for public facilities has been reserved for Ehe future. The equipment grid
proposed by Consultants (SCET) averaging 5 m per inhabitant is the following
for principal and secondary centers:
Principal       Secondary
Population                         24,000           3,200
Primary school                       -              6,000 m
Playground                                          4,000 m
Multipurpose center                  -                800 m
Mother/child care                   6,000 m           -
Welfare                             4,000 m2          _
Administration                      2,000 m           -
Business                            6,000 m           -
Cultural                            2,000 m           -
Market/Shops                        4,000 m          1,200 m2
Garden                              6,000 m           -
Average space/inhabitant            1.25 m2          3.75 m
The above standards will be adjusted when the master plans for each of the
project areas have been developed.
11.       On the basis of estimated area to be covered by roads and public
spaces, the following tables show the land uses, number of plots, and popu-
lation by site.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Table 1: Land Use
Community
Residential         facilities       Circulation      Thcal
ha      X           ha      %        ha       %        ha
Upgrading
Zogona                 70.0    70.0         15.0   15.0      15.0    15.0      100
Cissin                140.0    70.0        28.0   14.0       32.0    16.0      200
Sonsuribugu            92.4    70.0        18.5   14.0       21.1    16.0      132
Sites and services
Bobo-Dioulasso         33.8    67.6          8.7   17.4       7.5    15.0       50
336.2                70.2             75.6              482



UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCULATION OF NUMBER OF PLOTS BY SITE AND DENSITIES
Area Covered   Net                      Area Covered                              Total
by Roads,    Residential  Existing          by          Remaining  Number of  Number    Gross    Net
Area  Public Spaces  Area           Plots-   ExistingPlots  Land            New Plots  of Plots  Density  Density
-------------ha- ----          --- 7W                 m             m2       300mZ
Zogona                  100        30.0           70.0       2,333        700,000           -           -         2,333      23.3      33.3
Cissin                  200        60.0          140.0       4,000      1,200,000        200,000       667        4,667      23.3      33.3
Sonsuribugu             132        39.6           92.4       1,200        360,000        564,000    1,880         3,080      23.3      33.3
Bobo-Dioulasso
Sites and Services    50         16.2           33.8         -             -              -        1,126        1,126      22.5      33.3
z  
M   x



ANNEX 5
Page 7
B. Description of Project Sites
Tanghin-Sambin
12.       Located 2 km north of the center of Ouagadougou, Tanghin-Sambin
consists of over 163 ha along the north bank of the three water basins
which provide part of Ouagadougou's water supply. This new neighborhood
has a population of 16,000 and a density of about 100 people per hectare. The
site is linked to the city by two dikes crossing the basins and is situated
along the north bank road. It will eventually be served by a ring road around
the city. The site already has one primary school and one health center which
will be rehabilitated under the project.
13.       The project provides for the construction of a 200 cm pipe over
1,250 m to connect the neighborhood with the existing water supply network,
with the installation of 11 standpipes.
Hamdallaye
14.       Located 1.5 km west of the center and the western industrial
area, Hamdallaye is the oldest squatter neighborhood of Ouagadougou. It
has a population of 13,500 over 150 ha and has a density per hectare of
about 90 persons. Hamdallaye has a well developed street network. There
are no community facilities but the two neighborhoods close to Hamdallaye
share their schools, health and market facilities. The project extends the
water supply distribution network being installed with a Danish loan from
neighboring areas into the quarter. Connections will be made from the 0 200
and 0 300 existing pipes. Nine standpipes will be installed under the proj-
ect.
Cissin
15.       Located 2 km south of the center of Ouagadougou, Cissin North
(210 ha) is linked to the center by the Po/Leo road, has a population of
about 11,000 and a density of about 52 inhabitants per hectare. Cissin is
a new squatter neighborhood with a high percentage of resident farmers and
fields are under cultivation between plots.
16.       The project provides for connecting the existing water supply
network to the site - a water station has already been installed - con-
struction of about 14 standpipes, improvement and realignment of existing
streets and minor drainage works. The project will also include construc-
tion of a market and 8 community centers.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Zogona
17.       Located on the northeastern corner of Ouagadougou, the Zogona
neighborhood is linked to the central city by Boulevard Charles de Gaulle
with a population of some 20,000 persons. It is one of the oldest squatter
areas in the city and now covers some 250 hectares.
18.       The project provides for connecting the existing water supply
system to a larger distribution system, construction of standpipes, improve-
ment and realignment of existing streets, and on-site drainage works taking
surfacing water towards the Zogona gulley. The project will include construc-
tion of two markets and-four community centers.
Tampouy
19.       Located northwest of the city center, along the road to Yatenga,
Tampouy is one of the newer neighborhoods of Ouagadougou and has a population
of about 7,000 persons living on a large area at low density. The northern
fringe of the area is used for farming and grazing of cattle. The southern
edge of Tampouy lies along the banks of the water basins and is very fertile.
It is cultivated by small-scale vegetable farmers who use nearby water for
irrigation.
20.       The project brings piped water to Tampouy through the continuation
of the large connector pipe mentioned above and public standpipes along major
arteries in the neighborhood.
Sonsuribugu
21.       Located 2 km west of the center of Bobo-Dioulasso, Sonsuribugu
(132 ha) is surrounded by the airport, a lotted area (Accartville) and,
to the north, by an open field. Its population is about 5,000, with a density
of 45 inhabitants per hectare; and parts have a semi-rural character and
farming activities. However, this neighborhood is linked to the central
market, the industrial area and the railway workshops, which offer many
employment opportunities. Community facilities are limited to one primary
school in the vicinity of Accartville which also provides Sonsuribugu with a
school, health and market facilities.
22.       The project consists of the construction of a main rain storm
collector over about 3 km, which will collect rain water from the RAN
workshops and the brewery. In addition to the three existing standpipes,
8 new ones will be installed. These will be connected to existing 6 250
pipes near the airport and Accartville. The sites and services area will
be connected to existing 0 200 pipes by means of i 99 x 110 pipes. Four
standpipes will be installed. Two markets and five community centers will
be constructed.
23.       The following table gives estimated quantities by site.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Table 3: Estimated Quantities
Zogona          Sonsuribugu          Cissin
Hectares                        100                 182                200
Access Road:
Primary   - km              -                  500
Secondary - km                              3,500
On-Site Roads:
Secondary - km           3,450              6,560              6,900
Tertiary  - km           5,550              10,035            11,100
Water Supply:
Main network - m         2,525               6,565             5,050
Standpipes                 617                  12             13/14
Drainage:
Off-site - m             4,000               3,000
On-site  - m                -
Community Facilities:
Markets                      2                   2                  2
Community centers            4                   5                 5
C. Detailed Cost Estimates
24.       The following tables provide additional detailed cost estimates for
upgrading and sites and services components and for the project as a whole.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Table 4: Detailed Costs by Site
(CFAF Million)
Cissin        Zogona       Bobo-Dioulasso      Bobo-Dioulasso
Upgrading     Upgrading        Upgrading            Sites &
200 ha        100 ha           132 ha            Services
I. ON-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
Surveying                   23.9           11.3             16.3                6.2
Roads                       30.7           16.7             22.5                8.3
Drainage                    53.2           50.2             46.8               17.7
Water Supply                28.9           10.8             14.0                6.0
SUBTOTAL              136.7           89.0             99.6               38.2
Physical Contingencies      27.0           19.6             21.4                8.1
Price Contingencies 1/      28.8           20.8             22.3                8.0
Engineering                 26.0           18.9             20.2                7.2
Engineering-Physical
Contingencies             2.6            1.9              2.0                0.7
Engineering-Price
Contingencies             2.8            2.1              2.2                0.8
TOTAL                 223.9          152.3            167.7               63.0
1/   For all cost items, price contingencies were pro-rated to each site.



T.b1. 5
09PZR 804L6 1_l4    DMEOE2.PIE8  PI09T
PRJCT 078T0 IN sp 1977 P802C0
1...  977                             1978                            1979                            1980                       TO06L
7-a. Tes  j3f  785    c,  Stel                                                            -_t ,2  io  ef   ui  e.I   -.T.el  oa   Tt ,,.____   P-cts    -Yu
I.  tSOT368f  8t..  M91S
C                                                               9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4  22.4   88.1   49.9  13.5  28.0   26.8   60.3  0.7   8.0   9.8    I6.7     26.9  38.4   51.7  136.7
Z.".a 1106.                                                                         -   -    -    -                  9.&19.tI .4  " ,,j   0.019 116.4   014   JjQ 0362  72.8 19.2
OcsdauSebtoSol                                                              9.6  27.4   18.1   49.9    22.5  47.1   43. 2  112.8    11.7  27.1  23.2    63.0               44.6  06.6   84.3  220.7
Sooaib6so  (132 h..                                                                                                  9_6324    11.1   49.8            9_.8  2  3   14    049    19 2448 2            62   99 6
9,8c-8O . Subtct.t  -                                  -   -         -                 Li  23.1   (LI   80.1           34   808   55 4      01.1      682   44 5    324    006a Mj    U& 2_6  .2I    49S    192 IIA %2,
1IWLO2A                                                                          9.4  22.4   18.1   49.9        32.1  69.2   91.3  162.8        27.7  49.2  41.7   102.8        63.8 040.8  020.7  325.0
I,6,-2t8,Sa.s8  (58 36.1                                                                1.4   3.3      2.2    7.8       5.8  14.0  11.0       30.6       7.0  17.4   13.8    05.0 .3  .%  .6  56  1.0   1.0 30.6 7.017.    138   3
cao..c                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1   2.5  2.5    8.1                                              1.1   1.0      2.5    6.12
008300T1                                                                         1.1   2.5      2.3     6.1      1.4   3.3      2.9     7.6      5.6  14.0  00.0    30.8         6.1  29.9   16.3   24.3
-OraOSg                                                                           59.9 112.8   28.5  211.                                                                          39.5 133.0   79.1  271.0
-94.3. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.Li -.L.L-   _u-2                                                                                                          2-12  72 573
8,88  .0,.                                                                        60.6 116.7  .82.8  219.                                                                          60.6 136.7   82.0  279.3
-Otter Sepply                                                                         LI~~~~~       ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1.8  2.7    5.6  1.2   1.f    2,7    5.6
-leds cod  -ecoag                                                                                                                                  9.2  21.4  17.5    48.1          9_2  21 4     17 3   65 1
5,ts,alb,ae 5,68,881                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10.4  23.1   20.2    5 3. 7
011fi70026                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60.6 136.7   82.0  279.3  1.2   1',    2.7  5.4  8.1  00.4  17.5  48.1    71.0 10.8  092.1   333.0
3048a11575                                                                              6~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~ ~~~.6   3.6  3.8   11.8  1.5   2.0   3.2  6.2  4.1   5.4  6.0   18.7
Tcap.eo'                                                                               ~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~3.5   4.7  7.6   15.8  2.0   2.7   4.5  0.2  5.5   7.4   12.1   75.0
7c.g01O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4aa60o                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~11 4.1    68.    14.8  la     ja     jJ      4(6      2_2    2.6  534       1j         86 11_0    j4 8 30.4
14903046                                                    3~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1  9.3    4..    84.0  9.6  1I2.   284  2.0  I.,   7.5  21.5  26?   82  23.8   30.        31.7
TOM1 1  S_,jjflyj                                                               76.2  145.7  299.4  349.3    44.1  86.6   87.3  218.8    41.9  92.1  63.3   217.2   160.7l 344.3  770.9  704.3
CIselo                           .                        11.1            24~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~~~~~.8   31.9    18.6  41.2   59.8  70.4  10.5  73.0  37.1  92.5  119.,
-        -       -      ~~~~           ~~~~~~~.94  17 4    25 3  708   17.4     20.2     15.7           34.0   5005
o,Onsd,.aea SebteesI                                        11.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'  26.8   35.9    26.3    58.6   70.1    25.2            33.9    49.1       52.8          117,3  170.1
Oot,0r1068,                                                                           ~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            ~     ~~~~~13.6  30.2   43.8    15.5  30.2    23.1  27.2  60.4   07.5
SOtsasId S-ole-                                                                                                       5.7,          12.6   18.3       54           1227     1903    103             2573   760
te5-- l....1cc Oobto-                                                                                             19.3           42.8   62.1       19.1         42.9    62.0       18.4           91.7  124.2
MD-Al40                                                                         1.1             05.8   35.9    45.8            101.4  147.2      54.3          74.9     1.        91.82          000 -0.2
48188585                                                                             0.8   8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5  1.3  2.6  2.6   0.3    2.3  2.6  1.6   1.2    2,6  7.6
-CeeOoy Ist--                                                                                                      8.5   1.6      3.9     2.4      0.5   1.2   0.9         2.4      1.0   7.0      1,9     4.8
-0,.el    -l.lr,,P d                                                                                               1.9   3.0      4.9     9.8      2.9   3.0    4.0        0        3880 64.0      0.8   19.6
:Soheols .ClnIcs Rhabil-t-Ie                                                      3.2     1.1     7.8   12.1       3.2   1.1      7.8   12.1                                        6.4   2.2   10.5   24.7
.P81  TMaSo  s-d                                                                 LI1S'oe  .  1.7  2.8     6.8      0.8   1.7      1.2     3.7      2.8  1L7    1.2        3.2       3.9   5.1     5.3   14.3
.884.ts                                                                               7~~~~~~~      ~~~~ ~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4   7.3  .7.  1.4  0.4   3.3   0.7  1.4  0.8   0.6  1.4  2.8
-csloCas.-                                                                                                   8.2   80:7    0.7       1.4      0.1   2.5    0.2      I11       0.4    0.0      1 4     26
.6th,,'., 635..tos estcblIIosoie,                            2.1~~~~~~~~~~~~L  0.8  0.2  8.1   2.1   0.8      5.2    8.1                                        427    1.0    104    16'2
.ebIi8 HygIcosatd M-f-I,r1,                                                     .11    .1.Z      2        6.9       .8  J4j    _12        3.7      0.8    1.0    1.2       3.1      309   5.        .3    2.
07950941.                                                   ~~~~    ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~9.9    5.3   W8.    34.0    12.1  12.3   26.9   51.3  05 10.4  13.0  31 2    00   ~26.2   50.0   116,6
-Depe  a     - ...Ig   8s6h001t-1e                                                1.5    3.0      3.1     7.5                                                                       I 53 3.1       2.1      7,9
-Tool  aod Oqeip-.t                                                              10.8            87.1   37.7                                                                       10.6           2 7 1 372.0
-CabaSs To-r4  cod Spat.-                                                         1.6            36.1   37.2                                                                        15            36.13l
.tartags OsryIcs SOsOL-ep CesO,                              ~~~~    ~~~~~ ~~~        ~~~2.7  1.7    3.0  8.8:  2.8   1.3  5.0   9.1                            0.5    2.1   10.0   18.0
-88osS8  022188   chIcs  sdEele,                                                  2.6             6.      9.                                                                        7.8            0.9      9 4
.-Ieds   0816.   tes-e..    Ce.ts                                                 1.1    5.5    0.4       7.8      1.6   7.86        .    9.8                                       2 7I11.        0.0   86 8
-?al.,t,.5  lssSsssoa                     1~~~~~~~ ~~~             ~~.2    s.3  6.5  5.2   I98 8.            .4    35.8  37.2               2.3  10.6      13.1             10.6   87.5  100 8
-9,,'. cod Toetpsot                                           0~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                            ~     ~~~~.6  Is.8   86  .80.   21.0  26.8
-        =elgCIIsOhil.is  cod Olpot2.1                                                    3.7     7.8                                                                      2.1            5.7       7. 8
-eealo   OffIce lto-2-p 20.0-                                                                                      1.1   0.8       0.6   7.5       1.7   7.8   0.6        0.9      2.9  13.4      1.2     17.4
--OshtlciASs1st.-r-                                                                       I      Z3.9   29.4         _    L 4    31.839,1           ...j      239I    094            _ 18. 1   7.         _98.0
3U870221                                                -1.2    5.3     6.5     19.3   24.5  164.9  222.7          3.5  29.5   69.6  16. 8         1.0  15.6  35.1   52.4         36.7  72.8  279.1    388.4
50.M8      -ed8-                                      1.2     5.3      6.3              3.7    13.9   19.6              3.7     15.9  19.6               3   'I 5.o    19.6             12.3   53.0   65.3
P- 1omt,                                                 .2     3.3    6.3                0.3     sp      36 .7    15.9 19.6 .                            3.7  19.9    19.6               12.6    53.0    65.1
-8i8-bcols                                               1.2     3.3     8.3              3.7   Is.$   19.6                2.5     106     3.                                               7.4   31.8    3922
-Osit   b S- .pso                                        1.2     I.3     6.5              3.7   15.8   18.6               3.7    13.8  19.6                2.5  88.6      17.2            11.1   47.7    58.8
-6,6.   o  OS,odP8.8   opoS                                                           1.8     8.8     9.;8            3.7     13.9  19.               3 .7  100      1.I80                    3.      49.0
-9s6lnS*s                         8.8           ~~~~    ~~~~~~~                                                                                                            ~     ~ ~~~~2.4    .1.  2.9  2.4  3.3
-EqpSpo  so   47180.1                                           0.9     1.0      2.8              2.0     2.8      2.6             7.0   2.8       0.4           1.0       1.4    .21    -          .9       S6.
-Io8  St-lf                                                                               6.7             6.7             6.7             6.7             6.7             6.0,      ?    20.1             29. 2
--0t.  Op0-127  leC                               -      L2        _     024      1.      LA&    'A       8*       21   La2        _a    40         Li   L2   _4           4.0       1. 5 3.2   245   12.2
399T0T01                                         1.8   5.0   24.5   30.5         1.3   24.3   79.1  101.7          2.3  25.0      78.7 185.0       0.9  21.3  61.8       84.0       4,5  75.8  241.1  321.2
7.P.P. P4cM.DIsborad  i. 1976                 3,0   0.7   23.8   27.53.                                                                                                                37      2.8      75
Sits Pesparatloo. PSoaI teslg                 1,9   7.0   11.4   22.3         1.6     5.2    8.0   141.8                                                                         3.   1.    1.03.
D-ttOIs  Eosoa-r 3                                         5.0   11.0   13.0                14.7    20.0   42.0                                                                              10.0D    2.     5.
...ossc1o   tup-tooe                             -      -      -         _ -           7 4    ai.1         .1             1.9     14.7  16.6              1.9  14.7      16.6       __      .7   36.8    41.5
1.9  12.5   21.4   35.3         1.6   20.1   43,2e   63.1               2.9    14.7  16.6                1.6  14.7      16.6      3.5  35.9    94.2  133.6
Is.ad.rIza)                                                                                                     8.3   8.7               1.5.     0.7   8.6              3.8       7.0   3.6              4.6
Sat-y.p  (lcl0.5   S.9.                                                                                                                      2.0       1.1   3.8              4.3      1.6    5.7              7,3
op,patlq  Cos7s                                                                         ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~                 ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~1.9    -  4.9.   68  735   -_  19     27.1  94 - 24.5   2.
ilnmui                                                                                                             2.7   3.1       4.9  10.7       9.3   6.2  19.8       35.1      12.0   9.8    24.5   45,9
250  Eo PyIca-- r6L                                                                                                                                                       36.3  70.8   69.0  176.1
87S071.T 199216  051871 C688                                                                                                                                                      b. 67  74.4   79.4  189.5
UML241M       AK3i1E                                                                                                                                                               60.9 106.7  190.5  357.
Eflk13=12421a=                                                                                                                                               =             -       W- 2.7451214731 2856.2
LI      81D  8 o  Zag.. off-cit. d-ls.



IJPi'?N VULTA
uRBAN DEVEL.OPHELt PBQIWCT
PROTECT il4PIPT4ENTAT,I1N WCHEBLUIE
3 -           tu,           Iat     _       d           ,I d          lth lat                     2nd           lrd      4     th           11t    2D       d     -                   Bb_
SITE PBEPARA'II'BN
Iflf-mstilo    Chie?.                                                                          I* ***.le
ilyCteal S urvef                                                _          _."*-
Soch,-Ec*,n,uio tc Surnrey                                           *. X                                     ... I ...... it*S
lite  PI an                                                                                              .. . _.... .**9*****
PI-o Appr- lasi
1. ciEIB  1/                                    ~                                                                            .
2. cvu 27
3. ItlIc  Ntirlc-tion
4.. Cuxnrrel dets Mlni-trerr  1**s
Det.iled Engine.r  _ing                                                                -        _. .... .....
Prep. Bidding Dvcu-ents
Appr--a I                                                                    .
Adj..t.ninn                                                                                                                                                     ...
ri-rot Ing
C1ll f,Pr Bid,                                                                                                           _0                                          of _  ... a
Bid Evraluntl(s _i_on|
(tomtract Approval
Curitract Signuature                                                                                                                                                 vessels
CiiiiSl RUTTliN PltASE:
Plot Lryo-t                                                                                                                                               ._e                      n            ...   _ *5*S             ***.**S*55*
W.ter                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I .  .,a,,   ...l..,Messe
C. ctcu,itty Centerrrs_- n'ay    _                                                                                                                                  . ~                  _               1@@||*.,ss5*.   n....
Wareh)/)uts                                                                                                                                       _S           tv_v       a s                            I Ug*..f55,  |**S******
Ma ret s                                                                                                                                                         w_  v    _         _*&e&z                                 . ^-^-"@
Hurl' uX)NSWII.l hAl 'B z1
PlIt AIlI,c,t i-r                                                                                                                                                                                         ....s.   vess els f1. ...**
PlO,t Lk-ptpaymetits                                                                                                                   owl vent .... -                                                         -....,.s.... .... .-4 .....as ..
-11-ectli-  N .iihly  Uharge..                                                                                                                                                                                                .. I...- ... ......  ..............
B,lII IdIg    .s  ..                                                                                                                                                                                                              . .. .. ............ . .......
1! L     slaai.,  Nat-onnel  de I Ilrb-al  -e  Heatreent
2/ Cnsell   atilanl   de l Urbanlsneu                                                                                       C 5de
t_     .ssvovm"_.v`   - Clssis  (O-egdaauSe)
- Bogot  ...ne.doa.a)  
,.fl.5.s.  |"*,,,.,9U*,*sI5 - Sa;uu   I llbaalu  lkoLo-I,iaa leas)



ANNEX 6
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONTHLY CHARGES AND TARGET POPULATION
1.        The proposed beneficiary charges balance considerations of effi-
ciency and replicability with affordability and equity. It should be noted
first that a different set of design standards entailing higher drainage
costs was rejected during preparation, in favor of a phased upgrading
program with low initial costs, in order to make the proposed improvements
affordable by the largest number of people. Similarly, higher prices per
plot, reflecting off-site costs, would exceed the ability-to-pay of lower-
income beneficiaries, though they would perhaps allow for fuller replicability
and greater allocative efficiency. Allocation of off-site costs to project
beneficiaries would also raise equity issues, since more well-to-do residents
are not presently charged for off-site infrastructure. Lower plot charges,
on the other hand, would seriously compromise the project objective of repli-
cability, and might also have undesirable allocative effects, such as too
much urban infrastructure investment at the expense of the rural sector.
The proposed beneficiary charges described in this Annex were chosen in
light of the above considerations.
2.        Individual beneficiaries of the upgrading and serviced site com-
ponents of the project will pay plot charges covering the following:
(a) plot development costs, including contingencies, engi-
neering, construction supervision, and relocation costs
for displaced residents;
(b) land acquisition charge, according to previous tenure
status vith residents hiving customary tenure (origin-
aires) paying CFAF 10 m , and all other residents paying
CFAF 100 m ;
(c) management charge of CFAF 100 per month;
(d) default provision, at 20% of the total monthly charge;
and
(e) house construction and improvement loans, depending
upon participation in the optional program.
Plot Development Costs and Charges
3.        Unit development costs in squatter upgrading and sites and ser-
vices areas have been estimated by dividing total on-site development costs 1/
1/   A portion of off-site drainage costs was added to the total for Zogona,
as shown in Table 5.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
by net residential area, to obtain the cost per square meter. (See follow-
ing table.) This method was used in order to allocate costs according to
plot size. The costs for Cissin, for example, are based on the following:
Total Area:   200 hectares
Total Cost:   CFAF 216.0 million (including engineering)
Net Residential Area:   140 ha., or 1,400,000 m
Unit Cost per m :    154.29
CFAF
Cost per plot: 11  240 m2                 34,174
300 m2               42,717
360 m2              51,260
With the exception of residents having customary tenure, who will make a one-
time payment of CFAF 15,000, an initial downpayment of CFAF 15,000 (US$61)
constituting approximately 20% of total development costs, will be required
of all beneficiaries. The remainder will be recovered through plot charges
at 8-1/2% interest over a 10-year repayment period, with no penalty for
early repayment. The difference between total plot costs for customary
land holders and their payments of CFAF 15,000 will be added to the plot
costs for other residents on a proportionate basis by plot size. The in-
terest rate is the standard rate for housing-related credit used by coun-
tries belonging to the West African Monetary Union (UMOA) and the Central Bank
(BCEAO). BCEAO estimates indicate a probable inflation rate of 10% in 1977,
but this rate is expected to decline thereafter, to approximately 7% during
the repayment period. In view of Upper Volta's open economy, its rate of
inflation may be assumed to follow closely the expected international rate
of inflation.
Land Acquisition Charges
4.         The official charges for land acquisition in areas under municipal
jurisdiction in Upper Volta are differentiated according to the previous
land tenure status of the site. Acquisition of land by individuals who pre-
viously had customary tenure and ownership of the land through payments to
traditional chiefs, are required to pay CFAF 10 per square meter, while in-
dividuals who did not have such customary ownership are required to pay CFAF
100 per square meter. Within the project, there will therefore be two differ-
ent charges for land acquisition: existing residents having customary tenure
of ar2as to be upgraded will pay CFAF 10 per square meter, for their plots of
360 m , i.e. CFAF 3,600, while all other residents of these neighborhoods, as
well as of serviced sites, will pay CFAF 100 per square meter, the total sum
depending on the size of their plot.
1/   Without land but including all on-site development costs.



UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCULATION OF TOTAL ON-SITE DEVELOPMENT COSTS AND UNIT COSTS
(CFAF Million)
NSmber                                             Final  Physical Conting.                                                   Off-Site              Aeitg    Base Costs by Size of Plot
of         On-Site I=frastructure Costs           Design   Iefrne.   E.g.   Price Conting.   Sob-                            Inires.                 Costa
Plots    Sor-eying   Roads   Drainage   Total    EnR.          25%     10%    infres.   Eng.   Total   Relocation Costs   Allocation   Total   (pen M2)   240n2   30HM2   36Gm2
ON-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
Squatter Settlement Uper.di.g
Onagadoogos
-Cissin      200 ha.            4,667       23.9      30.7       53.2     107.8    26.0        27.0    2.6       28.8      2.8   195.0          21.0                -       216.0    154.29   37,030  46,287   55,544
-Zogo.s       100 ha,           2,333       11.3      16.7       50.2       78.2    18.9       19.6    1.9       20.8      2.1   141.5          12.2             16.9       170.6    243.71   87,736  73,113   58,490
Bobo-Dioulasso         /4
-S-onribogu 132 hn,-            3,080       16.3      22.5       46.8      85.6    20.2        21.4    2,0       22.3     2.2   153.7            4.2               _        157.9    170.89   61.520  51.267   41,014
SUBTOTAL                                                                  271.6    65.1        68.0    6.5       71.9      7.1   490.2          37.4             16.9       544.5    180.05   64,818  54,015   43,212
Sites and Services  
Bobs-Sisolarse   50  e,-/         1,126        6.2       8.3       17.7       32.2      7.2       8,1    0.7        8.0      0.8    57.0                                        57.0    168.64   60,710  50,592   40,474
Gnoua                                                                        6,1      1.4       1.5    0.2        1.5      O,1   10,8
SLBTOTAL                                                                    38.3     8.6        9.6    0.9        9.5      0.9    67.8
Water Sopply (On-Site)
Cisein                                                                        28.9     6.9        7.2    0.7        7.6      0.7    52.0
Zogons                                                                        10.8      2.7       2.7    0.3        3.0      0.3    19.8
S.onsribogu                                                                   14.0     3.4        3 5    0, 3       3.8      0.4    25 .4
Sites end Services                                                             6.0      1.4       1.5    0.1        1.5      0.1    10.6
-Hamdalleye                                                                 18.3     4.5        4.6    0,5        4.9      0.5    33.3
-Tampouy                                                                    25.0     6.2        6.3    0.6        6.9      0.7    45.7
-Tangbin-Sae.bin/2                                                          38.4     9.3        9.6    0.9       10.3      1.0    69.5
SUBTOTAL                                                                   141.4    34.4       35.4    3.4       38.0      3.7   256.3
0ff-Site Infrastructore
Zogona
-Drinage                                                                   272.0    10.7       27.2-13  1.1      26.6      1.3   338.9
-goads                                                                       7.3     1.8        1.9    0,2        1.9      0.2    13.3
Sonsuribugo
-Water Supply                                                                5.6     1.3        1,4    0,1        1.5      0.1    10.0
-Roads end Drainage                                                         48.1    11.7       12.0    1.2       12.9      1.3    87.2
SUBTOTAL                                                                   333.0    25.5       42.5    2.6       42.9      2.9   449.4
TOTAL.                                                                     784.3   133.6      155.5   13.4      162.3    14.6 1.263,7
TI Total Os-Site development costs divided by set residential area.
2  Iecludes Off-Site  orkb.
13  Only 107. Physicsl Contingencies for this item, since costs based on prelinisary engineering.
The totals for upgrnding and sites and services is BEbo-Dioslasac were aggregated, and o oniform average onit cost per n2
vee derived (170.29), leading to the following baoe costs: 40,870 for n 240m  plot, 51,087 fin  n 400m2 plot and 61,304 for
a 360a2 plot.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Management Charges
5.        The management fee will be levied on each household in the project
areas, and will be included in plot charges, covering one-third of the total
costs of the Municipal Housing Office in their city. This charge will be CFAF
100 per month per plot.
Default Provision
6.        Given the lack of precedent for monthly repayments and the present
difficulties for municipal tax collection, the monthly charges include a de-
fault surcharge amounting to 20% of the total plot charge. The revenue from
this charge will be placed in a special fund to cover default and arrears.
House Construction and Improvement Loans
7.        In order to assist households in the construction of new homes
and improvement of existing structures, loans will be offered to project
beneficiaries to be repaid at 8.5% interest for 10 years. Existing resi-
dents of squatter areas will be able to borrow up to CFAF 30,000 while
new residents, who will be building new dwellings, will be eligible to
borrow up to CFAF 65,000, which represents the purchase price of two tons
of cement and 18 corrugated metal sheets for roofing a one room dwelling.
Households which have been displaced as a result of the upgrading process
will be eligible to receive CFAF 65,000, CFAF 30,000, as a loan and
CFAF 35,000 considered as compensation for relocation. Repayments will be
made to the Municipal Housing Offices at the same time as plot development
charges. Repayments are presented below in Table 2.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Table 2
Calculation of Repayment Charges
for Home Construction and Improvement Loans
(For All Sites)
New Residents   Existing Residents 1/
Size of Loan                         65,000              30,000
Monthly Repayment                       826                  381
Default Provision (20%)                 165                   76
Total Monthly Repayment 2/          991                 457
1/   Displaced households will be eligible to receive CFAF 65,000, but
will repay only CFAF 30,000, the remainder considered as compensation
for relocation. Relocation costs are considered part of site
development costs and therefore assigned to all plots.
2/   On the basis of 8-1/2% interest over a 10-year repayment period.
Total Plot Charges
8.        Taking all of the above charges together, the following pattern
of monthly charges emerges for Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, as indicated
in Table 3. Due to higher drainage costs in Zogona, differential charges
by site are proposed in Ouagadougou. Since costs are very similar for up-
grading and sites and services in Bobo-Dioulasso, a uniform, city-wide set
of charges is proposed there, to simplify cost recovery procedures. Table
3 presents the charges to be applied in both cities. Tables 4 through 6
present the calculations for individual sites.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Table 3
Affordability: Monthly Charges and Share of Household Income 1/ 2/
(CFAF 245 = US$ 1)
Plot Charges 3/                             Existing Residents
240m2              300m2                360m2
Cissin                        860 (8%)          1,103 (10%)          1,345 (12%)
Zogona                      1,231 (11%)         1,566 (14%)          1,902 (17%)
Bobo-Dioulasso                894 (8%)          1,045 (10%)          1,396 (13%)
Home Construction and
Improvement Loans                               457 (4%)
Monthly Water Consumption -                       336 (3%)
Monthly Municipal Taxes   -                       150 (1%)
New Residents
240m2              300m2                360m2
Cissin                        860 (5%)          1,103 (7%)           1,345 (8%)
Zogona                      1,231 (7%)          1,566 (9%)           1,902 (11%)
Bobo-Dioulasso                894 (5%)          1,045 (6%)           1,396 (8%)
Home Construction and
Improvement Loans                               991 (6%)
Monthly Water Consumption -                       336 (3%)
Monthly Municipal Taxes   -                       150 (1%)
1/   Average household monthly income of existing residents in 1979 is:
Cissin:    CFAF 11,000 (US$ 44)
Zogona:    CFAF 13,000 (US$ 53)
Sonsuribugu:    CFAF 11,000 (US$ 44)
Average household monthly income of new residents in 1979 in all
neighborhoods:
CFAF 16,500 (US$ 68)
2/   Percentages in parentheses represent percentages of household monthly
income.
3/   See Annex 6, paragraphs 2 and 3, for components and terms of these
charges.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Table 4
Cissin Upgrading
Calculation of Plot Charges
240m2             300m2            360m2
Unit Infrastructure Cost 1/            37,030            46,287           55,544
Land Cost 2/                           24,000            30,000           36,000
Sub-Total                             61,030             76,287           91,544
Compensation to traditional
rights holders 3/                    2,570              3,213            3,856
Total Plot Cost                        63,600            79,500           95,400
Downpayment                            15,000            15,000           15,000
Remainder                              48,600            64,500           80,400
Monthly Charge 4/                         617               819            1,021
Management Fee                            100               100               100
Sub-Total                                 717               919            1,121
Default Provision (20%)                   143               184              224
Total 14onthly Plot Charge                860             1,103            1,345
1/   Unit infrastructure cost comprises on-site development costs, including
engineering and the costs of relocating displaced plots, as well as
physical and price contingencies.
2/   Existing residents having customary tenure rights will pay CFAF 19m2
remaining existing residents and new residents will pay CFAF 100m .
3/   Existing residents having customary tenure rights will make a one-time
payment of CFAF 15,000. The difference between total plot costs for
such residents and their payments of CFAF 15,000 have been added to the
plot costs for other residents on a proportionate basis by size of plot.
4/   On the basis of 8-1/2% interest over a 10-year repayment period.



ANNEX 6
Page  8
Table 5
Zogona Upgrading
Calculation of Plot Charges
240m2             300m2            360m2
Unit Infrastructure Cost 1/            58,490            73,113            87,736
Land Cost 2/                           24,000            30,000           36,000
Sub-Total                              82,490           103,113          123,736
Compensation to traditional
rights holders 3/                    5,424              6,720            8,136
Total Plot Cost                        87,914           109,833           131,872
Downpayment                            15,000            15,000            15,000
Remainder                              72,914            94,833          116,872
Monthly Charge 4/                         926             1,205             1,485
Management Fee                            100                100              100
Sub-Total                               1,026             1,305             1,585
Default Provision (20%)                   205               261               317
Total Monthly Plot Charge               1,231             1,566             1,902
1/   Unit Infrastructure Cost comprises on-site development costs, including
engineering and the costs of relocating displaced plots, as well as
physical and price contingencies. In this case, it also includes a
portion of off-site drainage costs.
2/   Existing residents having customary tenure rights will pay CFAF 1 9m2
remaining existing residents and new residents will pay CFAF lOOm .
3/   Existing residents having customary tenure rights will make a one-time
payment of CFAF 15,000. The difference between total plot costs for
such residents and their payments of CFAF 15,000 have been added to the
plot costs for other residents on a proportionate basis by size of plot.
4/   On the basis of 8-1/2% interest over a 10-year repayment period.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Table 6
Bobo-Dioulasso Sites
Calculation of Plot Charges
240m2             300m2             360m2
Unit Infrastructure Cost 1/            40,870             51,087            61,304
Land Cost 2/                           24,000             30,000            36,000
Sub-Total                              64,870             81,087            97,304
Compensation to traditional
rights holders 3/                       919              1,149             1,379
Total Plot Cost                        65,789             82,236            98,683
Downpayment                             15,000            15,000            15,000
Remainder                              50,789             67,236            83,683
Monthly Charge 4/                          645                854            1,063
Management Fee                             100                100              100
Sub-Total                                  745               954             1,163
Default Provision (20%)                    149                191              233
Total Monthly Plot Charge                  894             1,045             1,396
1/   Unit Infrastructure Cost comprises on-site development costs, including
engineering and the costs of relocating displaced plots, as well as
physical and price contingencies. .
2/   Existing residents having customary tenure rights will pay CFAF 19m2 
remaining existing residents and new residents will pay CFAF 100m .
3/   Existing residents having customary tenure rights will make a one-time
payment of CFAF 15,000. The difference between total plot costs for
such residents and their payments of CFAF 15,000 have been added to the
plot costs for other residents on a proportionate basis by size of plot.
4/   On the basis of 8-1/2% interest over a 10-year repayment period.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
Affordability by the Target Population
9.        The affordability of infrastructure and housing improvements is a
function of the proportion of disposable monthly household income which can
be spent on shelter. Based on experience in other African cities and dif-
ferences between income levels within cities, the above set of charges has
been calculated so that total shelter-related expenditures fall within a
range of 15 to 25%, depending on income levels and household interest in
borrowing building materials for housing construction or improvements.
10.       In order to ensure that new expenditures resulting from this pro-
ject do not conflict with other required expenditures, such as the cost of
water supply and municipal taxes, all of these have been included in the
analysis of affordability. The cost of water supply is based on a house-
hold size of eight persons, consuming an average of 20 liters per day per
person. Municipal taxes include (a) yearly head tax for roads, (b) gar-
bage collection tax, and (c) property taxes. Table 3 presents these
expenditures and the share of projected average household monthly income
which they represent.
11.       The estimates of average household income levels are derived from
several sources: (a) sample surveys carried out during the UNDP Cissin proj-
ect in 1974-76, (b) a small, in-depth household expenditures study of squatter
households in Cissin in 1975, and (c) local estimates derived from employment
and salary data. Using these various sources, it is estimated that the aver-
age monthly household income in squatter areas in Ouagadougou was CFAF 10,000
in 1976, 1/ and, as a result of inflation and real income growth, will be
approximately CFAF 11,000 in 1979, 1/ the average date for the start of plot
repayments. As indicated in Table 3, charges for existing residents would
range from CFAF 860 to CFAF 1,902, or about 8 to 17% of monthly income.
Added to this charge would be optional charges for house construction loans,
estimated at CFAF 457 per month. The cost of water consumption and municipal
taxes is estimated at CFAF 486 per month. All households in these cities can
afford the charges for infrastructure, water and taxes, and probably 90% can
afford the additional costs of building materials.
12.       The target population projected for new plots in the upgrading
areas and in the site and services areas is expected to have a slightly
higher income than households now living in squatter areas. This income
would average CFAF 16,500 for a family of 8 persons in 1979. Within the
population to be housed on the new plots, however, it is expected that
there would be substantial variation in incomes, resulting from the differ-
ences in plot sizes, costs, and locations. Even with this variation, how-
ever, the projected charges for infrastructure, house construction loans,
water and taxes would not exceed 22% of the projected average monthly in-
comes. Thus, the great majority of households in the two cities could
afford plots in upgraded and sites and services areas. Even the poorest
families, with incomes below CFAF 10,000 per month, could afford new plots,
as well as home improvement loans in most cases.
1/   Slightly higher in Zogona.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST RECOVERY AND CASH FLOWS
1.        As summarized in Table form (para. 5.12 of the text), monthly plot
charges are the main vehicle for cost recovery in the project. The deriva-
tion and composition of monthly plot charges, as well as monthly repayments
on home construction loans, is described in Annex 6. This section will
describe the cash flows associated with the project.
2.        Downpayments, plot charges and house construction loan repayments
will be collected by the Municipal Housing Offices of Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso. For purposes of cash flow analysis, it was assumed that plot
allocation and initial payments of the various neighborhoods would be phased
as follows:
Downpayments
1978             1979           1980             1981
Starting  Tradi-           Tradi-           Tradi-           Tradi-
Date for  tional           tional           tional           tional
Payments  Tenure  Others  Tenure  Others  Tenure  Others  Tenure  Others
Cissin        April        150      850     150   1,850    100    1,567
1978
Zogona        January                        70     330      70      930      93    1,840
1979
Sonsuribugu   January                        60   1,480      60    1,480
1979
Sites and     July                                  250              250              626
Serivces     1979
Home Construction and Improvement Loans
1978                1978                1978                1978
New  Existing       New  Existing       New  Existing       New  Existing
Cissin                1,000         334    1,666        333    1,334              1,933
Zogona                                       400               1,000
Sonsuribugu                         940      600        940      600
Sites & Services                 250                  250                 626
3.        The resulting flow of funds to the Municipal Housing Offices is
shown under Revenues in the following Income Statements:



UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OUJAGADOUGOU MUNICIPALITY - MUNICIPAL HOUSING OFFICE INCOME STATEMENT
(CFAF Million)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1935    1936    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Revenues
Downpayments                                  15.0    36.o    40.0    29.0         -       -                 -       -        _       _        _        _       _        _       _        _
Monthly Payments 1/                            12.5    62.7   117.7   162.9   162.9   162.9   162.9   162.9   162.9   162.9   150.4   100.2    45.2             -        -        -       -
Total Revenues                                  27.5    98.7   157.7   181.9   162.9   162.9   162.9   162.9   162.9   162.9   150.4   100.2    [15.2; -                   - 5  1
Expenditures
Office Administration 2/                         -       -      12.8    13.8    14.9    16.0    17.3    18.6   20.1         21.7    23.4    25.2    27.2        -        -        -       -
Provision for Bad Debts                        2.5    12.5    23.5    32.6    32.6    32.6    32.6    32.6    32.6    32.6    30.1    20.0             9.0      -        -       -        -
Debt Service: 3/
On-site infrastructure
Interest                                    -        -       -        -        -     20.2    19.0    17.7    16.4    14.9    13.4    11.8    10.1          8.3     6.4      4.4      2.3
Repayment of Principal                      -        -       -        -        -     19.9    21.1    22.4    23.7    25.2    26.7    28.3    30.0    31.8    33.7    35.7    37.8
Sub-total                                 -        -       -        -       -  4 0.1   1F40.1    10f    75J           T       7CI      40.1  40.1        0.1    '        40.1   1I.1
Construction Loans
Interest                                    -        -       -        -        -     10.4      9.8     9.1      8.4     7.7      6.9      6.1     5.2      4.3      3.3     2.3      1.2
Repayment of Principal                      -        -        -       -        -     10.3    10.8    11.6    12.3    13.0    13.8    14.6    15.5    16.4    17.4    18.4    19.5
Sub-total                                 _        _       _        _              20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7
Total Debt Servicing Obligations               -       -        -       -        -     60.8    60.8    60.8    60.8    60.8    60.8    6o.8    60.8    60.8    60.8    60.8    60.8
Total Expenditures                                2.5     2.5    36.3    46.4    47.5   109.4   110.7   112.0   113.5   115.1   116.8   118.6   120.6    60.8    60.8    60.8    60.8
Surplus (Deficit) for Year                       25.0    86.2   121.4   135.5   115.4    53.5    52.2    50.9    49. 4    47.8    33.6   (18.4)  (75.4)  (60.8)  (60.8)  (60.8)  (60.8)
1/ Includes monthly plot charges and construction loan repayments.
Net of temporary Government support nf CFAF 17.2 and 9.8  million in 1978 and 1979 respectively.
Terms for Debt Servicing are 6% interest over 17 years with 5 years of grace, during which no interest will be charged.                                                                          H '2



UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
BOBO-DIOULASSO MUNICIPALTTY - MUNICIPAL HOUSING OFFICE INCOME STATEMENT
(CFAF million)
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987      1988      1989     1990      1991      1992      1993     1994
Revenues
Downpayments                               26.8      26.9      9.4
Monthly Payments 1/                        37.4      81.0     9, .7     96.7      96.7     96.7      96.7      96.7     96.7      96.7      59.3     15.7
Total Revenues                             64.2    107.9    106.1       96.7      96.7     96.7      96.7     96.7      96.7      96.7      59.3     15.7
Expenditures
Office Administration 2/                                      10.7      11.5      12.4     13.4      14.4      15.6     16.8      18.1      19.5     21.0
Provision for Bad Debts                     7.5      16.2     19.3      19.3      19.3     19.3      19.3     19.3      19.3      19.3      11.9      3.1
Debt Service: 3/
On-site Infrastructure
Interest                                                                     12.6      11.9      11.1     10.3       9.4       8.4      7.4       6.4       5.2       4.o      2.7       1.4
Repayment of Principal                                                        12.5     13.2      14.0     14.9      15.8      16.7      17.2     18.8      19.9      21.1     22.4      23.7
Sub-Total                                                                    25. 1     25.1      25.1     25.2      25.2      25.1     2.        25.2      25.1      25.1     25.1      25.1
Construction Loans
Interest                                                                     10.4       9.8       9.1      8.5       7.7       6.9      6.1       5.2       4.3       3.3      2.3       1.2
Repayment of Principal                                                        10.3     10.9      11.6     12.3      13.0      13.8      14.6     15.5      16.4      17.4      18.4     19.5
-  Sub-Total                                                                     20.7     20.7      20.7      2o       20.7      20.7      20.7      20.7     20.7      20.7      20.7     207
Total Debt Servicing Obligations                                                  45.8      45.8     45.8      46.0     45.9      45.8      45.3      45.9     45.8      45.8      45.8     45.8
Total Expenditures                          7.5      16.2     30-0      30.8      31.7     78.5      79.5      80.7     82.1      83.3      77.2      69.4     45.9      45.8      45.8     45.8
Surplus (Defigit) for Year                 56.7      91.7     76.1      65.9      65.0     18.2      17.2      16.0     14.6      13.4    (17.9)   (53-7)   (45-9)   (45.8)   (45.8)   (45.8)
/ Includes monthly p1lo charges and construction loan repayments.
Net of temporary Government support of CFAF 834, 7.5 and 9.9 miUion in 1978, 1979 and 1980 respectively.
Terms for Debc Servicing are 6% interest over 17 years with 5 years of grace during which no interest will be charged.
tD!m



ANNEX 7
Page 4
As the Tables indicate, substantial surpluses will accumulate in the early
years when downpayments as well as plot repayments are being made and debt
service has not yet begun. By the same token, when repayments start terminat-
ing about 1988, there are still another five years of debt service remaining,
resulting in deficits from 1989 to 1994.
4.        Taking into account the Housing Office surpluses (deficits), and
all other project sources and applications of funds, the following municipal
cash flows were constructed for Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso to indicate
the financial impact of the project on the respective municipalities.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Table 3
UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOhsUENT PROJECT
rUAGIDOUGOU MUICIPALITY - FEO3RECT SOG3CES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(CFA? Million)
1978    1979    1980   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1991    199-1   1992    1993    1994
SOUBCES OF FUNDS
I.  Muni Iiffl [ED ftinitb   -    -Operations 8/  25.0   36.2  121.4  135.5  115.4   53.5    52.2    50.9    49.4   47.8   33.6  (18.4)  (75.4)  (60.8)  (60.8)  861.8)  (60.8)
Leas:  Icorease (Neoresse) in peocivables    (2.9)  (10.0)  (11.0)   (9.1)      -       -       -       -       _       -      2.5   10.0   11.0        9.1
Net Mousing Office SarPlur (Defioit)g          22.5    76.2   110.4  126A    115.4    53.5   52.2    53.9   49.4    47.8   36.1   (8.4)  (64.4)  (51.7)  (60.8)  (60.9)  (60.8)
It. Govermenea Losos/Orarta
A. Off-Site Infrmutructure                     30.2       -       -
B.  Cunity F-colitita
-Markets                                     -      3.8     3.7       -       _       _       _       -        -      _        _       _               _       _ -             _
-Commusity Centers                           -      3.5     3.4
-Schools, Clinics RehabilitaticD           17.5   17.5
-Public Hygiene, Disinfectlca              10.3     S.1     5.2       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -
C. Monitpai .Anetotance Frogrua
-Dvepot and Gamege Nelsabtlioatton         10.                                        -       -       -       -       --6                                                 
-Tonlc snd Egaipent                        36.6      -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       - 
-Garbage Tr-cks sad Spares                 40.2
-GOrbagc Service Start-up Costs            10.1    10.1
-SoutIng Offioc Vheiea sad EqgipTnet       10.2
-Sousing Offic Start-up Costa               7.0     9.8
-Technical A.uIstance                      61.0    43.6   16.5        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -
III. Market Receipts                                  -       -       -       4.2     1.2     1.2     1.4      1.4    1.4      1.7     1.7     1.7     2.1     2.1     2.1      2.5     2.5
fV. Lo-  T. Rbage  o          lll e Att ltn        45-   48.2    51.5    55.1    59.0    63.1   67.5    72.3    77.3    82.7    88.5    97.1  :01.4   103.5   116.1   124.2  132.9
V. Istere-t on Hootttg Office Surpluc
~(Eoasing Deocloprseat  oandi '                -      2.9     4.o     8.4    13.4   18.0    19.6   21.1    22.5    23.9    25.2   26.0   25.1    21.9   18.9    15.5    12.8
TOTAL SOURCES             3T"    M"    194.7   19 11   19.0    35.8   W47   157   151.0    561   1515   11                                           3        3       7
4PPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Off-lIne iotrcatrusture                    30.2      -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Coctcruity Facilities
-Maihets                                     -      3.8     3.7
-C'orsosity Centers                          -      3.5     3.4
-Sohools, Clinics ROcabilitation           17.5    17.5      -        _       _       _               _       _        _       _       _       _       _       _        _
-FPblit  Nygiete  and Diisnfection         10.3     5.1     5.2
uohioipal Ascittan-e Progrsa
-Depot and Garage Rebhbilltution           I2        -        -                                                -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -
-Tools sod Equiprent                       36.
-G.rbage Tr,c-"  acd Sparcs                40.2
-H,ocIog OffXIe V-hicles cod Equiposcet    10.2
-Moocing Offi,e Start-op Costs              7.0     9.8
-Te-hbical Aaclstan-c                      61.0   43.6        -
-arbasg  Collection Service                31.8   34.0    36.4    38.9    41.7    44.6    47.7    51.1    54.6    58,4   62.5    66.9    71.6   76.6   82.0    87.7    93.9
-Garbage Service Stjrt-up Coato            10.1    10.1          -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -           -       -        -       -
Operation ond MAiotentn-e (Infractructure)         -       -        -     17.5    17.5    17.5   17.5    17.5    17.5    17.5    17.5    17.0   17.5    17.5    17.5    17.5    17.5
Dubt Servicine
1ff-Sito Infrastrocture
Trtoe -t                                               _-                       -      1.8     1.7     1.6      1.5     1.3     1.2     1.1      .9      .8      .6       .4      .2
Rupaysnet of Pri-ipeol                         _       -        _       _       -      1.8     1.9     2.0      2.1     2.3     2.4     2.5    2.7      2.8      3.0     3.2     3.4
Subtotal                                   -       -                -       -      3.6     3.        .6     3.6     3         6     3.6     36      3.6     3.6      3.6     3.6
Coaity FPailiti.a
Interest                                       -       -       -        -       -       .8      .5      .8      .7      .6       .6      .5      .4      .3      .3      .2       .1
Raprunt of Fni-oipcl                           -        -       -       -       -       .4      .9      .9      1.0     1.1     1.0     1.2     1.3     1.4      1.4     1.5     i.6
Subtotal                                   _       -       _        _       -      1.7    1.7      1.7     1.7      1.7     1.7     1.7    1.7      1.7     1.7      1.7     l.7
M-nkisipl Assistanoe Progren
I.tereat                                       -                                -      4.9     4.1      4.3     4.o     3.6     3.3     2.9    2.5      2.0     1.5      1.1      .5
Repaysent of Priacipai                         -       _        -       _       -      4.9     5.2      5.5     5.8     6.2     6.5     6.9     7.3     7.8      8.3     8.7     9.3
Subtotal                                   -       _        -       _              9 '     9.8     9.8        a 3 S 9'73     79 .8    3 9.8         39.      a 3    39.8      9
Total Debt Servicing oblisgtionem                                   -       -     15.1   15.1   15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1   15.1   15.1    1_.1    15.1    15.1
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                      265.1   127.4   48.7    56.4    39.0    77.2    80.3    83.7    87.2   91.0    95.1    99.5  104.2   I9; 2   14.6 - 120.3  126 5
SUNPUSO (D5FICIT)                                35.7   91.3   146.0  134.7  129.8    58.6   60.4    62.0    63.4    65.1    56.4   16.9  (40.0)  (28.4)  (38.3)  (38.6)  (39.1)
CSM31ATIN S4URPLUD  (DEFICIT)                    35.7  127.0  273.0  407.7   537.5   596.1  656.5  718.5   781.9   547.R   903.4  920.3  880.3   853.9   813.6   775.0   735.9
ft  Aes.-es finiacicl activitie- for proposed project only; no  -suaptions nAde with respect to futore projects.
8/ The surplus funda generated by the Mqricipal housing Office in its first five years of opertitone Vill be deposited in n interest-bearing  aviOngs  -cooont,
to be withdrawn far financing debt servicing requiresents nd M-Icipal Housirg Office deficitt  frpn 1989 to 1994.



ANNEY 7
Page 6
Table 4
UPPER VOLTA URBAF DEVEL0PKENT PROJECT
BOBO-DIOULASSO MlFICIPALITT - PROJECT SOURCES AbD APPLICATIONS OF FPNDS
(CPAF Mil1ion)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
SOURCES OP FUNTS
I.   Municipal Sousing Office             I
Surplus (Deficit) no Spratioss -                56.7    91.7    76.1    65.9    65.0    18.2    17.2    16.0    14.6    13.4   (17.9)  (33.7)  (45.9)  (45.8)  (45.8)  (45.8)
Less  Increase (Doore nse) iS
Receivables                      -       (7.5)   (8.7)    (3.1)    -          -        -        -        -        -        -        7.5      8.7      3.1
NSt  .ousing Office S-rplus  (DIfioit)V'-         49.2    93.0    73.0    65.9    65.0    18.2    17.2    16.0    14.6    13.4   (10.4)  (45.0)  (42.8)  (45.8)  (45.8)  (45.8)
II. iovo-nstent Losss/iraC.t
A.  Off-Sits Infrstrtur                            -        7.2      -        -        -        ---
B.  Co=usity Faciliti-s
-  Markets                           -       2.1      2.0      -        -
-  Cfssitcy Con-trs                  -       2.1      2.0
-  Sohools, Criois
Rehabilitation               11.8    11.7       -
-  Pubic Hygieco, Disinfection 10.3          5.1    532        -        -        -        -        -        -         -       -         -       _        -        _        -
C.  Nosicinal Assistooce Proorso
-      Tools asd Eqoip-ent         29.8      -        -
-  Housiog Office Vehioles sod
Equipment                     8.4      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        _        _        -        -        -        -        -        -
-  Housing Office Start-up
Costs                         -        7.5      9.9      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
-  Tochninal Assist.nco            33.0    44.1    33.0
III. M-rket Receipts               '            -        -        -        0.6      0.6      0.6      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.9      0.9      0.9      1.0      1,0
SV.  Isteret on cosins 0Sffiis  Sorplus
(Ho.u.ig De-elopoent  ,aud)          -        -        2.0       5.3     8.2    10.3    12.3    12.5        12.6    12.7    12.7    12.6    11.7          9,3       7.0      4.6     2.2
TOTAL SOURCES             83.0   121.8   224,3    78.9    74.7    75.9    31.2    30.4    293.   28,1    26,9                  3.0   (32.4)  (32.6)  (37.9)  (40.2)  (42.6)
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
bff-Site infrastr-c-trn                   -        -       87.2      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Coaiuity Facilities
-Maskents                            -        2.1      2.0
- Casecsity Cfoters                  -        2.1      2.0      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
- Schools, Clinics
R.habilitation                11.8    11.7       -
- Public Hygine., Disiifection  10.3          5.1     5.2
Mloicfsal Assista-ee program
- To-ol and Equiprent              29.8               -
- HSasiog Office Vehicles god
fquip"nt                       8.4
H- oting Office Start-np
Costs                          -        7.3      9.9 3             -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Technical Asaistasos             33.0    44.1    33.0
Op-etrion aod hainreot-n-  (nf.rastructure) -            -        -       10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9    10.9
0ff-Site Infeat-ot-r
Interet t                                 _           _        _              -        5.2      4.9      4.6      4.2      3.9      3.5      3.1      2.6      2.2      1.7      1.1      0.6
Ropaynest of Priseipal                                                                 5.2      5.5      5.8      6.2      6.5  6. 9         7.3      7.8      8.2      8.7      9.3      9.5
Sob-total                   -        -        -        -        -      10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4
Comunoity FPcilities
Interest                                  -        -        -        -        -        0.5      0.5      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.2      0.2      0.1      0.1
Repayment of Principal                    -        -                          -        0.5      05 0.3   0.        .6      0.6      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.8      0.8      0.9      0.9
Sob-total                   -        -        -        -        -        1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0       1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Mounicinl AsAi.tgPO- ProPra-
Interest                                  -        -        -        -        -        1.4      1.3      1.2      1.1      1.0      0.9      0.0      0.7      0.6      0.5      0.3      0.2
Repsyment of Principal                                  -                     -        1.4      1.5      1.6      1.7      1.8      1.9      2.0    2.1        2.2      2.3      2.5      2.6
Sob-total                   -        -       -        -        -        2.8      2.8       2.8     2.8      2.8      2.8       2.0     2.8      2.8      2.8      2.8      2.8
Total Debt-Senisi.g Obliostions           -        -        -        _        _       14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2
TOTAL APPLICATIONS          3.0    72.6   1393           9    10.9    251       25 1    25 1    25 1    25 1    25 1    25.1    25.1    25.1    25.1    25.1              25.1
SURIJLUS (DEFIC2T)                              -       49.2    85.0    68.0    63.8    50.8         6.1       5.3     4.2      3.0      1.8   (22.1)  (57.5)  (57.7)  (63.0)  (65.3)  (67.7)
C100UIATIVE SDRPLUS (DEFICIT)                   -       49.2   134.2   202.2   266.0   316.8   322.9   328.2   332.4   335.4   337.2   315.1   257.6   199.9   136.9    71.6                   3.9
1/   Asasues fitnncisl activities for proposed pr-ject only; ne ass..        pti. ns made with renpect to furern pro-erte.
2/   The surplns feeds generated by the Municipal hSesing Offine is ita fir-t 4 years of operatioes will be deposited is as isterest-be-riog savcigs agooseE
Co be withdrawn for fin-ociog dobt set icing c-quiceuta sad Mhuicipsl Housing Office deficits foss 1989 to 1994.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
The following items in the Tables require additional explanation:
Under Sources of Funds
(a)  The present Market Tax of CFAF 250 per concession per month
was used to calculate initial market tax receipts for both
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. However, it was assumed that
the tax increased by CFAF 50 every 3 years to cover increasing
maintenance costs;
(b)  The item "Local Tax Revenue for Garbage Collection" refers to
the amount that the Municipality of Ouagadougou is presently
paying to a private firm for garbage collection services.
This amount was increased by year so as to cover both debt
service of garbage trucks and recurrent expenditures, with
an allowance of 7% for inflation in the latter;
(c)  The interest rate applied to deposits of each year's surplus
and the surpluses of preceding years was 4%.
Under Applications of Funds
(a)  Operation and maintenance expenditures were assumed to be 5%
of capital costs;
(b)  Terms for debt servicing were 6% interest over 17 years, with
5 years of grace during which no interest would be charged during
construction.
Surplus (Deficit)
Deficits from the Municipal Housing Office Accounts will be
financed entirely by the surpluses of earlier years (see para. 5
below).
Housing Development Funds
5.        The surplus funds generated by the Municipal Housing Offices in
the period 1978-82 will be deposited in interest-bearing savings accounts,
to be known as Housing Development Funds. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that (a) each municipality will establish a Housing Development
Fund, and each year credit thereto the surpluses (or charge the deficits)
on the Housing Office Income Account; and (b) the funds will be used to cover
their administrative costs, defaults of up to 20% of the amounts receivable,
and debt-servicing of loans contracted for on-site investments.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Water Supply
6.        As explained in para. 5.18 in the text, water supply investments
will be recovered through the water tariffs paid by consumers to ONE, the
National Water Office. Effective June 1977, tariffs were differentiated
according to season and volume consumed:
Consumption/Category                     Season           Price
1.  50M /mo. or less                    All Year       70 CFAF/M
2.  More than 50M /mo.
- "Normal Season"                  Jan. - Feb.      70 CFAF/M
June - Dec.
- "Dry Season"                     Mar. - May
0.50 M /mo.                                      70 CFAF/M
51-100 M 3/mo.                                  110 CFAF/M
More than 100 M /mo.                            153 CFAF/M
For purposes of analysis, the tariff is CFAF 70/M  year round becauss the
households benefiting from the project do not 3consume more than 50 M  per
month.  The price at standpipes is CFAF 100/M , with the difference going to
the operator licensed by ONE.
7.        A substantial increase in consumption of water is anticipated in
project areas as a result of the large difference in price between what is
now charged by water vendors and what consumers will have to pay at standpipes
no further than 250 meters from any plot. It is conservatively estimated that
the population in upgrading and sites and services (88,000) will increase its
consumption by 10.75 I.c.d. (a weighted average of the dry and rainy seasons);
while the population of the three neighborhoods of Ouagadougou to be served
only by a summary distribution system (approx. 20,000) is expected to increase
their consumption by a weighted average of 8.75 l.c.d.
8.       3Total yearly incremental sales implied by the foregoing are
410,663 M , equivalent to CFAF 28.8 million. As shown in the following
Cash Flow Table, this amount is sufficient to cover about 96% of all debt
service requirements for on and off-site water supply investments (assuming
terms of 6% interest over 20 years with 3 years of grace) and the recurrent
maintenance costs associated with these investments.



UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ONE.L. - PROJECT SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(CFAF Million)
1978-1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Sources of Funds
Loan from Government of Upper Volta           266.3        -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -        -      -       -
Revenue from Incremental Sales/2                 -       28.8       28.8    28.8    28.8    28.8    28.  88   28.8   28.8   28.8   28 8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28,8   28.8
TOTAL SOURCES                           266.3      28.8   28.8   28.8   28,8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8
Applications of Funds
On-Site Infrastructure/3                      256.3        -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Off-Site Infrastructure/3                      10.0        -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Recurrent Maintenance Costs/4                      -        4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5                 4.5    4.5    4.5
Debt Service: /5
Interest                                         -       16.0   15.4   14.8   14.2   13.5   12.8   12.0   11.2   10.4    9.5    8.5              7.5    6.4    5.3    4.1    2.8        1.4
Repayment of Principal                           -        9.4   10.0   10.6   11.2   11.9   12.6   13.4   14.2   15.0   15.9   16.9   17.9   19.0   20.1   21.3   22.6   24.0
Sub-total                                  -       25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25,4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4   25.4
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                      266.3      29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9
Surplus (Deficit)/4                                _       (1.1)           (1.1)  (1.1)  (1.1)  (1.1)  (1.1)   (1.1)  (1.1)   (1.1)   (1.1)  (1.1)  (1.1)  (1.1)   (1.1)   (1.1)  (1.1)
/I   Office National des Eaux, formerly known as Societe Nationale des Eaux.
2j  Assumes Incremental Sales of 8.75 l.c.d. in the three project areas provided only with summary water supply networks and of 10.75 l.c.d. in upgrading and sites
and services areas.
/3   Includes engineering as well as physical and price contingencies.
/4   To be met from operation and maintenance component of normal sales price.
/5   Terms for debt service are 67 interest over 20 years with 3 years of grace during which no interest will be charged.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
As pointed out in para. 5.18 in the text, no assessment was made of the over-
all adequacy of present water tariffs to meet operating costs, service all
debt, earn a reasonable return on invested capital and make a contribution
to expansion.
Overall Government Cash Flow
9.        On the basis of the preceding cash flows, and the project financing
plan (para. 5.05), the following Central Government Cash Flow indicates the
overall flow of funds associated with the project. The required Central Gov-
ernment Budget Allocation, gross of taxes, would amount to CFAF 647.2 million
(US$2.64 million). Since tax expenditures will ultimately be offset by tax
revenues, the Government's net contribution to project financing is CFAF 209.3
(US$0.85) million. In order to ensure that sufficient working capital will be
available to project agencies, it was agreed during negotiations that Govern-
ment open a special account into which US$400,000 equivalent would be disbursed
by IDA and replenished on receipt of eligible disbursement claims.



AN1NEX 7
Page 11
Table 6
UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT CASH FLOWS (CENTRAL GOVERNMENT)
(CFAF Million)
1976    1977    1978       1979     1980       1981      1982
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Government Budget Allocation/         3.0      3.2    231.2    206.5    203.3          -         -
IDA Disbursement                     24.5    75.7    702.0    643.2    551.6         12.2       -
Loan Repayments -
Ouagadougou Municipality             -        -        -         -         -       75.9     75.9
Bobo-Dioulasso Municipality          -        -        -         -         -       60.0     60.0
ONE                                  -        -        -         -         -       25.4     25.4
TOTAL SOURCES                    27.5    78.7    933.2    849.7    754.9    173.5    161.3
APPLICATION OF FUNDS/2
Squatter Settlement Upgrading          -        -     403.9    246.2    239.3          -         -
Sites and Services                              -        9.9     13.4      65.1        -         -
Water Supply Distribution              -        -       19.0     62.8      42.5        -         -
Home Construction Loans                -        -       38.8    170.7    137.7         -         -
Community Facilities                   -        -      43.6      72.0      46.5        -         -
Assistance to Municipalities           -       6.8    230.8    129.2       53.4      12.2        -
Technical Assistance                   -      31.5    109.9    121.8    104.2          -         -
Project Preparation (1976)           27.5       -         -        -         -         -         -
Final Design and
Detailed Engineering                 -      40.4     77.3      21.2      22.7        -        -
Monitoring/Evaluation                  -        -         -      12.4      43.5        -         -
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               27.5    78.7    933.2    849.7    754.9    12.2            -
Surplus (Deficit)                        -        -         -        -         -    161.3      161.3
Cumulative Surplus (Deficit)             -        -         -        -         -    161.3      322.6
/1  Gross of taxes which would amount to CFAF 437.9 million.
/2 IDA Debt Service would commence in 1987.



ANNEX 7
Page 12
Table 7
UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS 1/
Fiscal Year                  Disbursements During             Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                       Quarter                         at End of Quarter
(US$'000)                           (US$'000)
FY1978
March 31, 1978                      640 (PPF)                              640
June 30, 1978                       810                                  1,450
FY1979
September 30, 1978                  950                                  2,400
December 31, 1978                    900                                 3,300
March 31, 1979                       730                                 4,030
June 30, 1979                        720                                 4,750
FY1980
September 30, 1979                  560                                  5,310
December 31, 1979                   630                                  5,940
March 31, 1980                       600                                 6,540
June 30, 1980                       600                                  7,140
FY1981
September 30, 1980                  560                                  7,740
December 31, 1980                   410                                  8,150
March 31, 1981                        50                                 8,200
1/   Based on the assumption of credit effectiveness first quarter of 1978.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        The technical assistance component has two major elements:  assis-
tance at the national level for the design and execution of this project and
the preparation of a second project, and assistance at the municipal level for
improved management and maintenance of urban services, and the establishment
of a Municipal Housing Office. Both components have been designed taking
into account existing personnel and their skills and have been phased over
the project period to shift increased responsibility where possible to Voltaic
nationals. In the particular case of the municipalities, the training compo-
nent for maintenance of urban services will be completed by the third year
of project execution. The breakdown of technical assistance is as follows:
Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Town Planning:                           168 man-months
Municipalities of Ouagadougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso:                      108 man-months
Average costs without taxes have been estimated at US$8,000 per month includ-
ing consultants fees and overhead costs (US$6,500) and local allowances
(US$1,500).
A. National Level
2.        Technical assistance at the national level, while directly related
to design and implementation of this project, will provide experience for
preparation of similar programs in other urban areas. A Project Unit will
be established for this purpose within the Department of Town Planning which
will have primary responsibility for design, execution and monitoring of this
project. The Project Unit, with Voltaic counterparts, will be staffed as
follows:
Municipal Engineer/Deputy Project Manager
3.        This engineer will be assigned full-time to the Project Unit and
would assist in: supervision of design and detailed engineering of infra-
structure, construction scheduling and bid evaluation; contract supervi-
sion and certification of completed works as required under the credit.
He should have a degree in civil engineering and a minimum of five years
experience in municipal, sanitary and land development works. Part of his
professional career shall have been spent in cities of developing countries.
He shall be fluent in French. The assignment will be for 3 years.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Urban Planner
4.        Working with the Voltaics in the Department of Town Planning, the
urban planner will assist in preparation of master plans for the project
sites. Using the Cissin Project as a reference, he will ensure that norms,
standards and specifications reflect economy and functional design and mini-
mum relocation of families, making appropriate modifications where required.
He will prepare drawings taking into account space provisions and specifi-
cations to minimize changes after acceptance and approval of bids and during
construction. He should have a degree in urban planning, be fluent in French
and have a minimum of two years appropriate experience in developing coun-
tries. His assignment will be for one year.
Accountant
5.        A full time accountant will be retained to assist the Project Unit
in establishing an accounting system to record and monitor expenditures on
the various project components and from different project sources. He will
establish procedures for payment of contractor's bills and auditing proce-
dures for project accounts satisfactory to IDA. He will also assist the
accountants of the Municipal Housing Offices in Ouagadougou and in Bobo-
Dioulasso in establishing procedures for collection of downpayments and plot
charges from project beneficiaries as well as establishing an accounting
system to record and monitor status of individual payments and a system of
receipts and expenditures for all activities of the Municipal Housing Office.
The accountant should be fluent in French, with experience in accounting of
government or public sector organizations. He will be assigned for 3-1/3
years to the Department of Town Planning.
Socio-Economist
6.        He will assist in the design and carrying out of all physical and
socio-economic surveys in the upgraded neighborhoods. He will also supervise
the monitoring effort, assisting in the design of surveys to monitor project
parameters as well as their execution, analysis and preparation of reports to
be submitted to IDA. While officially attached to the Project Unit at the
national level, the socio-economist will liaise closely with the community
development officer in the Municipal Housing Office, for both Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso. He will advise and assist the Municipal Housing Office in
the definition of selection criteria and allocation criteria, as well as
the programming of all activities concerned with project beneficiaries, e.g.
publicity, registration, application review, notification, contract signature,
downpayments and plot charges. He shall have a degree in sociology and
experience in urban economics. He shall be fluent in French. He will be
assigned for two years to the Department of Town Planning. A counterpart
will be assigned to the expert for training.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Caisse Populaire Expert
7.         He shall have experience in the development of a savings and loai
cooperative system similar to the UNDP Project experience and other caisse
populaire operations in Upper Volta. He will design and implement a program
to strengthen the existing Cissin caisse populaire as well as the extension
of the system to Zogona and eventually to Bobo-Dioulasso. This expert will
liaise closely with OPEV in conjunction with the IDF project. His assign-
ment will be for three years.
B. The Municipalities
8.        The Municipal Assistance component consists of two elements:
(a) strengthening the management capacity and maintenance of urban ser-
vices, and (b) establishment of a Municipal Housing Office.
Technical Departments
9.        Technical assistance to the Municipalities of Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso is designed to: improve general municipal organization of
technical services, install tools and equipment, reorganize workshops, and
train mechanics, foremen and clerks. Because of the weak financial situa-
tion and limited absorptive capacity of each Municipality, the program has
been phased and will deal initially with maintenance operations most directly
related to the upgraded neighborhoods. Thus, the sanitation and hygiene sec-
tions of the Department of Roads and Buildings will directly benefit, charged
with operation of garbage collection and maintenance of trucks (newly intro-
duced in the case of Ouagadougou), operating and maintaining drainage ditches,
public disinfection and rehabilitation of schools and health clinics. Improve-
ments will be brought about through purchase of materials and assistance for
use and maintenance of the equipment, streamlining of current operations and
the upgrading of skills of municipal personnel.
10.       The Technical Assistance to be provided is as follows:
Expert in Management/Organization
11.       He should have a degree in management/organization and have at
least two years experience in public administration: general organization,
management and accounting. He will be assigned for 12 months - working for
half the time in Ouagadougou and half the time in Bobo-Dioulasso.
12.       He shall, inter alia:
(a) set up an operational organization chart for the
Municipalities and prepare a job description for
each position;



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(b) propose changes in existing assessment and collec-
tion practices for municipal taxes and identify
new sources of municipal revenue adapted to munici-
pal needs;
(c) assist in the implementation of proposed changes;
(d) reorganize and assist the technical departments, in
particular for garbage collection; and
(e) train municipal staff in management.
Two Master Mechanics
13.       They shall have at least five years experience as mechanics:  diesel
and gas engines, electrical and hydraulic car and plant networks. They should
have experience both in field repairs and in workshop organization and man-
agement. They will each be assigned for two years to Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso. They shall be fluent in French and have experience in training
counterparts.
14.       They shall, inter alia:
(a) set up the organization and management of the work-
shops and install equipment and tools;
(b) train foremen and workers and work out permanent
training principles;
(c) repair and maintain the vehicle fleet of the munici-
pality with the assistance of the municipal garage;
(d) rehabilitate municipal buildings and road signs
with the assistance of the hammer/locksmith
sections;
(e) rehabilitate school equipment with the carpentry
section;
(f) advise the Chief of the Technical Department on
budget preparation and the selection of new
equipment; and
(g) train mechanics.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
The Municipal Housing Office
15.       A Municipal Housing Office will be established in each municipality
for the purpose of processing potential project beneficiaries. A Voltaic
Director will be responsible for each office. Two community development ex-
perts (one each for Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso) will be assigned to the
Municipal Housing Office for two years. They will serve as liaison between
the neighborhoods to be upgraded and the municipalities. Within the office
itself, they will assist the Voltaic Director of each office in the following
activities: publicity, registration, preparation of dossiers, notification,
and relocation assistance to the displaced. They will also liaise with the
caisses populaires expert in the Project Unit for all caisse populaire
activities.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Upgrading and Sites and Services
1.        The upgrading of several squatter settlements in Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso will significantly improve living conditions for an estimated
88,000 low-income urban residents. The legalization of occupancy rights
and the provision of basic infrastructure and credit for housing improvement
or construction can be expected to directly improve the health status, and
hence the productivity, of the population 1/, and to stimulate investment in
better shelter which will further enhance their physical and social environment.
In evaluating the project, lack of data precluded the quantification of health
and productivity differences between unimproved and improved areas. As des-
cribed below, the most readily available measure of benefits - increases in
property values due to improvement - was used to calculate economic rates of
return for the upgrading and sites and services components.
Project Benefits
2.        Benefit valuation was based on the assumption that observed differ-
ences in property values between improved and unimproved areas can be inter-
preted as an indication of the economic value of infrastructural improvements
and housing investment. This measure of benefits may underestimate the
true value of the project because private willingness to pay often may not
fully reflect the value of the project to individuals and to society. 2/
This divergence arises because individuals may not perceive all the benefits
to themselves (e.g., improved health and labor productivity) and/or benefits
to others (i.e., external benefits such as improved conditions in adjacent
areas). Therefore, the rates of return based on property value increases may
provide only a partial estimate of the economic merit of the project.
1/   The relationship between a safe and convenient water supply and other
environmental improvements, on the one hand, and improved health and
productivity, on the other hand, is complex and difficult to establish
quantitatively. However, there is a considerable literature suggesting
that the links are strong between such improvements and reductions in
the incidence and persistence of water-related diseases. Reviews of the
issues and literature are provided in Robert J. Saunders and Jeremy J.
Warford, Village Water Supply - Economics and Policy in the Developing
World, Johns Hopkins University Press, 1976, and in Gilbert F. White,
et.al., Drawers of Water Domestic Water Use in East Africa, University
of Chicago Press, 1972.
2/   This is particularly applicable to a situation where the project
itself exerts a downward influence on property values, because of a
large increase in the supply of serviced land (See para. 4).



ANNEX 9
Page 2
3.        Information on land values for unimproved project areas and for
improved areas with similar locational characteristics was obtained from
several sources. These include consultant estimates of land value changes
in the UNDP project area of Cissin in Ouagadougou, and discussions held with
knowledgeable staff in the Cadastral Office and the Department of Town Plan-
ning in Ouagadougou, and municipal authorities in Bobo-Dioulasso. A land
value contour map or detailed data on variations in sales prices by geographic
location were not available. Precise information on rates of increase in
property values was also unavailable. However, the estimates provided by
the sources described above were found to be sufficiently consistent to be
used in benefit calculations for economic analysis.
4.        In the UNDP sites and services area of Cissin in Ouagadougou, from
1973 to 1977, property values increased from approximately CFAF 30/m2 to
approximately CFAF 1000/m2. This increase of more than 33 times in the span
of four years resulted from improvements which were considerably more modest
than those proposed under the present project.  In particular, the UNDP
project did not include the provision of water supply, and standards for
roads and drainage were even lower than those proposed in this project.
Hence, if project scale were comparable, the expected rate of increase in
land values as a result of this project, in Cissin and areas with similar
locational characteristics, would almost certainly surpass the above-mentioned
1973-1977 experience. However, the large-scale replication of the Cissin
pilot project which will be undertaken under this project will no longer be a
marginal addition to the stock of serviced land in project cities. In fact,
the plots provided under this project will cater for up to a third of total
demand in Ouagadougou, and a similar proportion in Bobo-Dioulasso. This will
probably exert downward pressure on the price of serviced land, lowering the
rate of increase of property values over time. It was therefore taken into
account in benefit valuation.
5.        In addition to the information available on Cissin, the staff of the
Cadastral Service, the Department of Town Planning and municipal authorities
in Bobo-Dioulasso also provided information on land values in other improved
areas of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, in some cases adjacent to the squatter
settlements included in the project. Based on all these sources, and the
considerations mentioned in para. 4 above, the following estimates of land
values (adjusted for inflation) were used for purposes of benefit calculation:



ANNEX 9
Page 3
LAND VALUES (CFAF/M ) IN JUNE 1977 PRICES
OUAGADOUGOU                            WITHOUT PROJECT            WITH PROJECT
Cissin Upgrading                             35                        900
Zogona Upgrading                             65                       1500
BOBO-DIOULASSO
Sonsuribugu Upgrading                        25                        750
Sites and Services                           25                        900
6.        The above figures were applied to the net residential area to be
improved in each site to obtain an estimate of net project benefits by site,
(i.e., the difference between the without and with project situations).
Benefits were assumed to accrue as a one-time increase in property values in
the year following completion of improvements for the site as a whole.
Project Costs
7.        Project cost streams for the economic analysis, net of taxes and
duties and in June 1977 prices, are the following:
(a) Land: The without project market value of land in project areas,
which is believed to reflect opportunity costs, was used. Total
original land costs were subtracted at the end of the project
period.
(b) Capital Costs: This category includes all on-site infrastructure,
an allocated share of off-site infrastructure, where applicable,
physical contingencies, detailed engineering and construction
supervision, as well as technical assistance to the Project Unit
in the Ministry of Public Works (excluding assistance for the
preparation of a Second Project). All off-site costs were included
in the case of Zogona, and two-thirds of off-site infrastructure was
allocated in the case of Sonsuribugu, one-third each for upgrading
and sites and services. The remaining third was assumed to serve
adjoining areas. Engineering, supervision and technical assistance
were allocated on a pro-rata basis to each site.
(c) Operation and Maintenance Costs: Recurrent operation and mainten-
ance costs were calculated as a fixed percentage of infrastructure
costs. A weighted average of 5% was used, based on 6% for roads



ANNEX 9
Page 4
and drainage and 2% for water supply. Also included in this
category are the annual administrative costs of the Municipal
Housing Offices of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, pro-rated
to each site.
(d) Private Housing Construction and Improvement: The cost of
building materials and the estimated cost of labor for housing
construction and improvement were used. This category includes
relocation costs for displaced residents, to be provided in the
form of a grant of CFAF 35,000. Only initial investments expected
to occur during and immediately after the project execution
period were taken into account. For simplicity, additional
private investment beyond one year after project execution was
ignored in the analysis.
8.        Based on the benefit and cost streams described above and shown in
the attached tables, the following internal rates of return were obtained
for upgrading and sites and services areas in the two-project cities:
OUAGADOUGOU                                      BOBO-DIOULASSO
Cissin Upgrading    40%                          Sonsuribugu Upgrading    31%
Zogona Upgrading    24%                          Sites and Services        37%
9.        Sensitivity analysis indicated that these rates of return were
relatively insensitive to a 20% increase in capital costs and somewhat more
sensitive to a 20% reduction in benefits, but it is unlikely that property
values would be lower than those shown in para. 5 above. The high rates of
return obtained are evidence of a great demand for an extremely limited supply
of low-cost serviced land, resulting in a very high private willingness-to-
pay, which as pointed out in para. 2 above, may itself underestimate the total
economic worth of the project.
B. Water Supply Component
10.       In addition to upgrading and sites and services, the project will
provide water distribution networks in three squatter settlements of Ouagadougou,
Hamdallaye, Tampouy and Tanghin-Sambin, which will not be fully upgraded under
this project. A separate economic analysis of this component was carried out,
based on consumer surplus benefits accruing to a population of approximately
20,000 in the three neighborhoods. This analysis is meant to be only indica-
tive, since water prices do not necessarily reflect long-run marginal costs or
health benefits.
11.       The quantified benefits in this analysis were expressed as consumer
cost savings due to the large difference in price between water sold by
vendors (their present source of supply) and water bought directly at the



ANNEX 9
Page 5
standpipe (the "with project" situation). Presently, during most of the
year, people in these areas purchase the equivalent of 7-10 liters per capita
per day and consume an additional amount from shallow and generally unsanitary
private wells.  During the dry season from March until May,when wells run dry,
they may purchase up to 15-20 1.s.d from vendors. Prices charged by water
vendors (an estimated SFAF 575/M ) are several times higher than the price at
standpipes (CFAF 100/M ) which are run by individuals under license from ONE,
the water supply company.
12.       The provision of more standpipes as a result of the project will
significantly reduce the population's reliance on vendors, yielding large
consumer savings. For purposes of this analysiR, it was assumed that 25% of
the population would continue to purchase water from vendors because of
convenience. For 75% of the population (approximately 20,000), savings on
present consumption, which is estimated at 10.75 l.c.d. (a weighted average
between the dry season and the rest o' the year), were added to savings on an
additional 8.75 lcd (induced by the reduction in price) to obtain a measure of
total benefits. It should be noted that this measure is on the conservative
side, since population increase was not taken into account, though this may
be offset by the nssurnp lon of a non-linear demand curve instead of the linear
demand curve which was assumed for calculation purposes.
13.       The costs used in this analysis included capital costs, physical
contingencies, detailed engineering and construction supervision, and opera-
tion and maintenance costs (2% per annum), all expressed in June 1977 prices
and net of taxes and duties.
14.       The internal rate of return obtained using the benefits and costs
described above and shown in the attached table was 37%. Sensitivity analysis
was carried out and showed that neither a 20% increase in capital costs nor a
20% decrease in benefits lowered the rate of return below 31%. Use of
a shadow price for water, reflecting long-run marginal costs and the long-
run demand curve, as well as health benefits not perceived in willingness-
to-pay estimates, would reduce the benefits by about 20%, resulting in a 38%
rate of return.
C. Aggregate Rate of Return
15.       An aggregate rate Or return covering approximately 75% of total
project costs was calculated and found to be 34%. Sensitivity analysis was
carried out, with both or 20% increase in costs and 20% decrease in benefits,
and the rate of return did not drop below 21%.



UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
CISSIN UPGRADING - COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
(CFAF Million)
Private
Operation and ZI Housing Improvement
Land LI Capital Costas2 Maintenance Costs   and Construction L4    Total Costs   Benefits
1977           -           22.2             _                    _                   22.2         -
1978          12.0        104.7           13.0                44.6                  174.3         -
1979         22.9         107.1           15.0                74.2                  219.2         -
1980          14.3         49.-4          17.7                29.7                  111.6         -
1981           -           -              18.4                   -                   18.4       1,228.3
1982 - 1990    -                          1 d.4                                      18.4         -
1991 - 1999   -                            5.4                                        5-4
2000        -4Y           5- .4                                  -                  -44.3
L  The value (opportunity cost) of land in the project area was estimated at CFAF 35/M2 without
the project.
/2  Capital costs comprise all infrastructure costs, including physical contingencies, as well as
pro-rated shares of detailed engineering and technical assistance (except TA related to Second
Project preparation).
L   Operation and maintenance costs are based on a weighted average of 4% of capital costg (5% for
roads and drainage and 2% for water supply investments). This stream also includes a pro-rated
share of recurrent management expenses of the Ouagadougou Municipal Housing Office.
4 Relocation aid provided to displaced residents in the form of building materials is included,
as is the labor required for housing construction or improvement.
C D



_ VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS,
ZOOWNA UPGRADING - COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
(CFAF Million)
Private
Operation and        Housing Improvement
Lan L-.   Capital CostsL2   Maintenance Costsl2    and Constructioni             Total Costs   Benefits
1977            -             5.9                                                                                -
1978            -           273.3                 6.o                                            279.3           -
1979           9.1           72.'9               15.6                       -                     97.6           -
1980          11.2           69.0                17.4                    31.3                    128.9           -
1981          2.1             -                  19.2                     31.3                    75.6       1,001.6
1982 - 1990     -                                19.2                       _                      19.2
1991 - t999     -                                 13.2                                             13.2
2000         -45.4             -                 13.2                                            -32.2           -
/1  The value (opportunity cost) of land in the project area was estimated at CFAF 65VM2 without the
project.
L2  Capital costs comprise all infrastructure costs, including physical contingencies, as well as pro-rated
shares of detailed engineering and technical assistance (except TA related to Second Project
preparation).
a3  Operation and maintenance costs are based on a weighted avetrage of 4% of capital costs (5% for roads
and drainage and 2% for water supply investments). This stream also includes a pro-rated share of
recurrent management expenses of the Ouagadougou Municipal Housing Office.
&  Relocation aid provided to displaced residents in the form of building materials is included, as is the
labor required for housing construction or improvement.
t'J '.



UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
SONSURIBUGU UPGRADING - COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
(CFAF Million)
Private
Operation and        Housing Improvemspt
LandLl   Capital costsk-   Maintenance Costs a    and Constructiozi(           Total Costs   Benefits
1977            _           15.8                  _                                             15.8           -
1978            -          40.8                  11.5                                           52.3           _
1979          11.7          79.3                 11.5                       -                  102.5           -
1980          11.7          38.3                 13.6                    54.3                  167.9           -
1981            _             _                  16.2                    54.3                   70.5         727.0
1982 - 1990     -                                16.2                       _                   16.2           _
1991 - 1999     -             -                   4.7                       -4.7
2000        -23.4             -                   4.7                                          -18.7
I  The value (opportunity cost) of land in the project area was estimated at CFAF 25/M2 without the project.
Capital costs comprise all infrastructure costs, including physical contingencies, as well as pro-rated
shares of detailed engineering and technical assistance (except TA related to Second Proiect preparation).
a   Operation and maintenance costs are based on a weighted average of 4% of capital costs (5% for roads
and drainage and 2% for water supply investments). This stream also includes a pro-rated share of
recurrent management expenses of the Bobo-Dioulasso Municipal Housing Office.
4   Relocation aid provided to displaced residents in the form of building materials is included, as is
the labor required for housing construction or improvement.                                                 -A



UPPER VOLTA URBAN DEVMLOPMENT PROJECT - ECONaKIC ANALYSIS
BOBO-IOULASSO (SONSURIBUGU) SITES AND SERVICES - COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
(CFAF Million)
Private
Operation and        Housing Improvement
Land-    Capital CostsL2    Maintenance Costsal    and ConstructioniL/         Total Costs   Benefits
1977            -            6.7                                                                 6.7           _
1978            -           1/.0o                 4.2                                            21.2
1979           1.9          20)W'                4.2                       _                    26.6
1980           1.)                               4.6                     22.6                    5.0           _
1981           h .'I          -.                                         22.7                   33-Y         295-l
1982 - 1990     -                                 .                        -                     65 
1991 - 1999     _                                2.3                                             2.3
2000          -8.',                              2.3                                            -6.2
/1  The value (opportunity cost) of land in the project area was estimated at CFAF 25/K  without the
project.
/2   Capital costs comprise aU infrastructure costs, including physical contingencies, as well as pro-rated
shares of detailed engineering and technical assistance (except TA related to Second Project
preparation).
13   Operation and maintenance costs are based on a weighted average of 4% of capital costs (5% for roads
and drainage and 2% for water supply investments). This stream also includes a pro-rated share of
recurrent marnagement expenses of the B3obo-Dloulasso Municipal Housing Uffice.
4   Relocation aid provided to displaced residents in the form of building materials is included, as is the
labor required for housing construction or improvement.
mm



ANNEX 9
Page 10
Table 5
UPPER VCLTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ECONCMIC ANALYSIS
WATER SUpLy COMPONT - COST AND BENIT STREM
(CFAF Million)
Operation and
Capital Costs! L   Maintenance Costs 2  Benefits L
1978               17.1                  _
1979               52.0                 0.3
1980               33.6                 1.1                 _
1981 - 2000         -                   1.6                53.2
&    Include engineering as well as physical contingencies.
Taken to be 2% of capital costs.
Benefits are based on estimated savings of CFAF 475/M3 by20,302 people
on their present consumption of 10.75 lcd., plus savirgson an anticipated
increase in consumption of 8.75 lcd.



ANNEX 10
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.        The monitoring and evaluation of this project will be carried out
by an independent Voltaic research firm. The work will be the responsibility
of the firm, which will appoint a local Voltaic social scientist as principal
researcher to carry out surveys and case studies during 1979 and 1980. This
researcher will be supported by a team of interviewers, an operating budget,
and funds for data processing. The studies will be part of a longitudinal
analysis based on a baseline survey of neighborhoods to be upgraded which
will be carried out by the Project Unit in the Department of Town Planning.
This survey was tested in February 1977 and administered from March to June
1977 in the Cissin neighborhood of Ouagadougou.
2.        Given the scarcity of trained Voltaic personnel, the monitoring
and evaluation exercise will be of a simple design, avoiding the collection
of large quantities of data for which processing facilities are either un-
available or prohibitively expensive. Sample surveys will be carried out
(a) before upgrading begins, (b) at the end of the first year after infra-
structure improvements have been made, and (c) at the end of the project
period, i.e. by 1981. This approach will ensure some comparability with
previous evaluations. Additional samples of sites and services plots will
be followed during the construction phase to identify the factors deter-
mining the rate and magnitude of (i) investment in housing and (ii) asso-
ciated socio-economic changes.
3.        In order to upgrade the economic content of this analysis, tech-
nical assistance will be provided by the United Nations' Center for Housing,
Building and Planning (UNCHBP) to the monitoring team.
4.        The principal researcher will be an occasional member of the in-
ter-ministerial coordination committee and will thereby have the opportunity
to present the findings of field studies in order to provide feedback to the
project managers.



ANNEX 11
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION
1.        In view of the scarcity of trained personnel in the institutions
involved in this project and the complexity of the project, it is expected
that the project will require extensive IDA supervision during its imple-
mentation period. It is estimated that some 150 manweeks of supervision
(in the field and at headquarters) will be required over three years. The
following table presents the staffing of project missions during this period
in manweeks. All missions are estimated to be of two weeks duration, except
where otherwise noted, given the number of towns (3) and the difficulty of
transport between them.
Bank Fiscal Year and Quarter
1978              1979            1980         TOTAL
I  II  III  IV      I  II  III      I  II  III
Project Officer        2   2   2    2       2   2   2       2   2   2        20
Urban Project
Specialist            2   2   2    2       2   2   2       2   2   2        20
Project Engineer       1   2   2    2       2   2   2       2   2   2        19
TOTAL (by mission)    5   6   6    6        6   6   6       6   6   6
(By fiscal year)           23                18              18            59



ANNEX 12
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
UBIBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
Introduction
1.        The Municipal assistance component consists of two elements:  (a) a
program of equipment purchase, training and technical assistance for municipal
management and maintenance operations, and (b) assistance to the Municipal
Housing Office. This Annex deals with the technical services only. The
Municipal Housing Offices are described in Annex 4.
Background
2.        Maintenance of investments in urban services is the responsibility
of municipal government in Upper Volta. To date, the municipalities have
been unable to adequately maintain existing investments and facilities.
Historically, the municipalities have offered a minimum of services, a
function of meager financial resources; when and if budgetary allocations
are increased, some investments are made, but are subsequently left to de-
teriorate for lack of continued funding and appropriate maintenance proce-
dures. Thus, in Ouagadougou, for example, schools and health clinics have
never been maintained or repaired. Malaria control has not been carried
out for four years and the network of drainage canals is blocked with solid
waste, causing periodic flooding and consequent health risks to the popula-
tion.
3.        The poor financial situation of both municipalities is a major
constraint to a large investment program. The project thus provides assis-
tance to permit the municipalities to gradually expand their delivery and
maintenance capacity over the long term, while strengthening priority main-
tenance activities and financial management in the short term. The programs
are based on an analysis of the needs of each municipality and consequently
have some differing features. Taken together, the project elements are in-
tended to upgrade environmental sanitation and hygiene to a level which will
encourage and support residents' initiatives to do the same. Total costs of
the municipal assistance component are US$1.039 million. The component in-
cludes funds for purchase of tools and equipment for maintenance activities
(US$472,500), particularly in environmental sanitation and hygiene, techni-
cal assistance for maintenance training, municipal reorganization, and
improved financial management (US$489,000), and start-up expenditures
(US$78,000) for certain municipal activities.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
The Project
4.        The project consists of the following:
(a) four and a half man-years of technical assistance
for each municipality for:
(i) the reorganization of the Roads and Buildings
Departments of each municipality. This reor-
ganization will involve the assignment of re-
sponsibilities to the hygiene and environmental
sanitation services within the Department and
the appointment of middle-level managers for
specific activities.
(ii) training of municipal maintenance workers
within the Roads and Buildings Departments.
This will be a two-year on-the-job training
program designed to upgrade the skills of
municipal personnel through introduction of
new methods and use of previously unavailable
equipment. Training will focus on vehicle
repair and maintenance, use of tools, and
scheduled maintenance procedures for existing
municipal drainage canals, public buildings,
and other facilities.
(iii) improving tax collection and financial manage-
ment. An expert will spend six months in each
municipality, reviewing revenue collection
procedures, including assessment and rates,
and financial practices, including budgetary
planning, and recommend improved methods and
policy reform where necessary.
(iv) expanding the municipal housing offices through
establishment of new procedures for land regis-
try, plot allocation, and developing a system
of repayment collections from participants in
municipal upgrading and sites and services
schemes.
(b) purchase of equipment:
(i) 11 garbage trucks will be purchased for the
Municipality of Ouagadougou to enable it to
carry out public garbage collection more effec-
tively and cheaply than the current cost of
operations by a private enterprise. The



ANNEX 12
Page 3
present contract for garbage collection con-
sumes 13% of the municipal budget, while pro-
viding less than 30% coverage of the city.
The purchase of 11 trucks and their annual
recurrent costs, including amortization, will
permit the Municipality to perform this service
at a lower cost than the present contract, while
allowing better coverage of all neighborhoods.
(ii) tools for the Departments of Roads and Build-
ings for both municipalities. These tools
include those for vehicle repair, carpentry,
metal works, and construction, and will be
used by personnel in on-the-job training
programs.
(iii) vehicles and equipment for municipal housing
offices, including a car for each office,
furniture, filing cabinets, typewriters,
and calculating machines.
(c) rehabilitation and expansion of the municipal garage
for maintenance vehicles in Ouagadougou. At the
present time, these vehicles are not protected
from weather conditions and have no place for
extended repairs and maintenance.
(d) start-up expenditures for:
(i) garbage collection in Ouagadougou for two
years. This support is needed to assure
the effective start-up of municipal
garbage collection operations, which
will subsequently be financed by general
municipal revenues, including a garbage
collection tax.
(ii) municipal housing offices in both cities
for two years. This support is required
to provide the start-up of municipal housing
operations which will be self-financing after
two years of project execution.
Project Execution
5.        The proposed reorganization of the municipal services will be a
pre-requisite to their proper functioning (Chart 1). The final organiza-
tion and a definition of the responsibilities and functions of the ser-
vices will be established by a management expert in consultation with the



ANNEX 12
Page 4
concerned services and must be approved by the mayor. Specifically, he
will assist in: reintegrating garbage collection within the Municipality;
setting up a programming section in the Roads Department; reorganizing the
administrative services; and, establishing short-term measures for improved
tax collection. Each reorganization proposal will be the object of a train-
ing seminar to provide information and guidelines for the employees, acquaint-
ing them with the new procedures to be introduced. In addition, a master
mechanic will be assigned to the maintenance and repair workshop in the
hygiene and environmental sanitation section in each municipality to reor-
ganize these services and train the personnel.
Training
6.        Since the majority of personnel required are currently employed
by the Municipality and have basic skills, training activities will empha-
size upgrading and strengthening of skills, rather than the acquisition of
new ones. On-the-job training will be the main vehicle for this purpose.
7.        The training effort will be developed in the vehicle repair, car-
pentry and metal works workshops in the Department of Roads and Buildings.
Charts 2 and 3 provide indicative training outlines. The definitive pro-
grams will be developed by the master mechanics once in the field and will
take into account actual skills of the employees within the Voltaic context.
Practical knowledge will form the basis of each training program; where more
sophisticated concepts are required, methods which do not require reading or
writing skills will be used.
Municipal Activities
8.        The project will be carried out in three phases:  preliminary,
operational, and phasing out (see Chart 4). The following preliminary
schedule outlines the proposed activities:
(a) Preliminary Phase
(i) First Quarter 1978. A brief mission will be required
by a master mechanic for ordering new material and
equipment, and spare parts for repair of existing
equipment. He will also at that time select the
personnel from the technical sections for par-
ticipation in the training programs and repair
of municipal buildings and workshops.
(ii) March-April 1978. Appointment of expatriate
technical assistants.
(b) Operational Phase
(i) May 1978. Arrival of technical assistants
and preparation of program for re-organization
and training:



ANNEX 12
Page 5
one-month. training for Voltaic municipal
supervisor;
planning for repair of material and equip-
ment and start-up of on-the-job training
in repair workshops;
study of organization and structure of
Ouagadougou Municipality;
repair of schools and clinics including
construction and/or repair of toilets
and water connections;
-    programming and start-up of cleaning and
repair of drainage system.
(ii)  June 1978.  Development and programming of
a procedure for municipal garbage collection.
(iii)  July 1978.  Beginning of municipal garbage
collection by the Roads Department of the
Ouagadougou Municipality:
-    opening and cleaning of drainage canals;
-    proposals for reorganization of municipal
services in Ouagadougou; organization
seminar for Voltaic personnel;
-    proposals for improved taxation and col-
lection for Ouagadougou.
(iv)  January 1979.  Arrival of management specialist
in Bobo-Dioulasso and development and implemen-
tation of similar municipal reorganization under-
taken in Ouagadougou.
(c) Phasing Out of Technical Assistance
(i) January 1980. Organization of seminars for
strengthening and upgrading newly acquired
skills:
-    naming of Voltaic supervisors to head
technical sections;
-    establishment of program for future
municipal activities.
(ii) April 1980. Departure of technical assistance.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
Evaluation of Municipal Assistance Component
8.        The following parameters should be examined during the operational
phase:
-    project execution according to the calendar of
activities;
-    evaluation of training session abroad for Voltaic
supervisors;
-    performance of Voltaic counterparts;
-    quantitative and qualitative evaluation of work
product in repair/maintenance workshops during the
training period;
-    city-wide effects of environmental and hygiene
interventions including effectiveness of malaria
control, and attitudes and response of the popula-
tion.
9.        Before the phasing out of the technical assistance, a final eval-
uation of the project should be made relative to its primary objectives,
and with a view to designing a second phase operation. To this end, the
following parameters should be measured:
-    the financial and technical capacity of the Munici-
palities to ensure maintenance of existing services,
and those provided under the project;
-    the work performance of the Voltaic staff;
-    the output of the programming section for future
municipal operations;
-    local capacity and aptitude for planning and organi-
zation and implementation.
An evaluation of the project two years after the departure of the technical
assistance should provide the Voltaic authorities with a measure of the effec-
tiveness of the municipal authorities as executing agencies for its urban
development policy and provide tools to plan similar operations in the
future.



CHiEF DU SErVICE
VOIRIE FT 3iTIMENTS
| SSIS.ADMINISTRlATIF  ||CHEF DES  SERVICES  |                                                   CHE F DES ATELIERS 
|   RVJSIO OI1t | | PEHSONNUEL  |                                                          MECAN. AU          SERRURERIE          MENUISERIE
ETUDES ET PROGnAMMES
VOIRIE                        sE5MENT IZVtEASANSEvE
_   ~~~~~~~~~            URE                         _      _~~~~~~~_
|A9ONN   IP                                EENTTRICITE           PLOMBERIE
EtNROE              LTRECAIVAUX                                                                   LEVEE            CTEN              NETOAG



ANNEX 12
Page 8
Chart 2
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDICATIVE TRAINING SEMINAR
FOR AUTOMOBILE MECHANICS (DIESEL AND GASOLINE)
Subjects                               Teaching Tool
1.  Technical and operational                           Demonstration
characteristics of
equipment
2. Use of tools                                         On-the-job training
3.  Engine parts and operations                                  I
4.  Preventive maintenance
5. Breakdown and accidents;
on-the-spot repair
6. Use of spare parts catalogues
and instruction manuals
7.  Organization of stores                              Visit to stores
(equipment, tools, spare
parts)
8.  Characteristics and use of                          Study of specific cases
different types of oil and
grease
9.  Workshop procedures                                 Practical problems
10.  Prevention of accidents and                         Study of specific cases
hygiene in workshop areas



ANNEX 12
Page 9
Chart 3
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDICATIVE ORGANIZATION SEMINAR
FOR MANAGERS AND SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL
SUBJECTS                               TEACHING TOOL
1.  Structure and organization                         Demonstration
-    organigrams
-    duties
-    skills and responsibilities
2.  Organization of workshops                          Case study
-    internal organization
-    tasks and responsibilities
-    organization of materials
stores supply
3.  Planning and coordination of                        Case study
activities
-    calendar
-    projections of maintenance
requirements and work load
4.  Basic Accounting                                    Practical Problems
-    keeping of records and
accounts
-    supplies
-    assets and liabilities
5.  Management Duties and
obligations
-    rights and duties of
employees
-    obligations and responsibilities
of section heads
-    human relations



IUPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOP4ENT PROJPET
CALEND?AR OF MUNICIPAL ACTIVITIES
Activities  ~                  1978                                                               1979                                          1980
Activities
Ist| 2nd  3rd  4th| 5thl 6th   h  10th  llth                        t  2nd 3rd  4th   5th   5th  7th          -h  10th  1th  12th  lst  2nd  3rd  4th
Placement of orders
for new material and      Ouaga
equipment, spare
parts for repair of                  _        -    -       I                                              _                     _ 
existing equipment,
identification of        Bobo      _
Voltaic  for troafinjing  _ __                                                          _       _        
One month training O
abroad for Voltaic    ~ ug
supervisor                Bobo
Arrival Of master         Ouaga,
mechanic and start                __
of operations             Bobo
Approval of manage-      -Ouaga.
ment specialist and                -    _    -                                                        _
start of operations       Bobo
Arrival of equipment;
reorganization and       _______
restructuring of          Obj
garages and buildings
Reintegtion of            Buaga
garbage collection
into municipal            Bb
services                  B__-o_                                                                                                            - - __o                                     
Phasing out nf           OQuaga
expatriates and---                                                                                                       --                  
appointment of            Bobo 
Voltaics_ _



ANNEX 13
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION LOAN PROGRAM
1.        In order to assist plot holders in this project in the construction
of new houses and improvements of existing dwellings, the project includes a
program of optional loans for construction and improvement purposes. These
loans will be in the form of cash in the amounts of CFAF 65,000 (US$265) for
households occupying new plots and CFAF 30,000 (US$122) for households making
improvements on their existing dwellings. Displaced residents will receive
grants of CFAF 35,000 (US$143) as compensation for relocation and will be
eligible to receive an additional CFAF 30,000 as loan. All loans will be at
an interest rate of 8.5% for a period of 10 years.
2.   The procedures for receiving these loans will be administered by the
Municipal Housing Offices and the Banque National de Developpement (BND),
under the supervision of the Project Unit in the Department of Town Planning.
The following procedures were agreed upon during negotiations:
a.   The Municipal Housing Offices will establish loan
application forms and dossiers.
b.   Individual applicants will complete the necessary
forms under the supervision of the staff of the
Municipal Housing Offices.
C.   Copies of the forms will be reviewed by the Project
Unit.
d.   After a to-be-determined number of dossiers have
been approved, the Project Unit will request that
the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance withdraw
the sum of the approved credits from the Project's
Special Account and deposit that sum in the BND.
e.   The Project Unit and the Municipal Housing Offices
will jointly send a "mandat" to the BND authorizing
the disbursement of specific sums to identified
individuals.
f.   Repayment of these loans will be made at the same
time as plot charges are collected by the respective
Municipal Housing Offices.



CONSTRUCTION STAGES
TRADITIONAL HOUSING
24 m
15 m
(~~         -' -             l   L               -        -
World Bank-17303






TYPICAL PLOT LAYOUT
TRADITIONAL HOUSING
1i  _   l  _ANIMAL PEN
_ s                      ~~~~~~~COOP lI
HUT
WELL
ENTRANCE
m~. 
FIREPLACE 
COVERED AREA                    COVERED AREA
FOR COOKING 
World Bank-17304






REPUBUC OF UPPER VOLTA~~~~~~~~SA HF 
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DP
IQA Projed LocotioYnsT EN G 
K A Y                                  AAIC
MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
*                  KOUOOUGOU ~~~~~~~~~~  OIJAGADOUGOU  1  /~~~~~~NKOOG
~~~OBO  I  )JASS  HOUNDE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K0  
K 0 U D U G~~~<~NI
0 B 0~     ~CAU4 
p~~~~~~~~   .11
IEBOUGOU~                                /~  
ORA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
BIDUGO~~~~~~~~~~~~S.                      -m






IBRD 12842
uPPER  VOLTA                  JN      97
7>,                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ouagadougou
Squatter areas:
fully upgraded
N                                                                                                                Ex~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ot enskon of water supply
...  efwork orly
.......    ~ ~   ~        ~       ~       ~ ~                        olo                             T~Industrial areas
Parks
-~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                          EYE  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cemeteries
ousot KOE$O                                                                                ,y.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~   ~Rivers or sfreams
RRalway
p       A~
Streets
OUT                                           Y                                             - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E Residential aireas
UNDP pilot project
0           ~~~1000             2000
ORAMERCI L                  Cp,                                                                                                      METER5
0               30~00            6000
KM'JiiO A               >4~u                ~FEET
NO~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~.
~~~Ater, ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ P
GVpN~~*-tln~             1~N~~lN                  P~ULJ. Le






___________________________                                                                                                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 12843
JUNE 19771
0                          ~~~~~UPPER  VOLTA
NI~~~NETA ~~URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A13/11                        ~ ~~~Bobo- Diou lasso
/                                                        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~quatter areas:
MIEE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INA ~~~~~~~~~Fully upgraded
~{J Sites and services area
industrial area
AC~~~~A~~~T-V1LLE  DIARAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGOU ~~~~Parks
-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~             ~~~~~~~Cemeteries
*  St,JD                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Streets
SOS32BGU              -               AOAAV                             ONOM                                                                                         Resi-dential areas
*  COMMERCIAL  ~~~~~~~~~~~~UMaUU,~~~~~~J  E TQYUNOUMA                                                                   iooo~~~~~~~~~0  00  2000
Railway           YOROKO1(O                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Meters
staton                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 3000  6000
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F~eet
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Airport                           :-\
'49                   ~~~~~L I TARY
CAMI                    '-s
0 ~~~~~~~0 6,OOMKTE-
Imply endor~e,nebytthr
~~~~~~~~~~O                          N- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WMrd E-+d iII aff]l ,t






_                              _ _ _        ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B H4 D)     12844
UP PPER VO0 L TA
Existing Settlement Pattern             URBAN DEVELOPMENT                         Restructured Neighborhood
iS-            LI    N113                      <ndicative UJpgrading Layout 
| ,  ' t:x,  'J   wt        .   tc    -- <;,                   EXISIN OUSEuStt>                                tAr-;"9        '   ;
;                                           _ffiW1REE15 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRET
: A



