Document of                                 'I   TI
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2204-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 17, 1978
This document bm a  restricted distbution and my be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World Dank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1     -   CFAF 245
The CFA (Communaute Financiere d'Afrique) Franc is fixed with respect to
the French Franc (I FF - CFAF 50) and floats with respect to the US dollar.
In this report the following conversion has been used:
US$ 1     =   CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million =   US$4,082
ABBREVIATIONS
BND      -  Banque Nationale de Developpement - Haute Volta
CCCE     -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CESAO    -  Centre d'Etudes Economiques et Sociales de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest
CIDA     -  Canadian International Development Agency
CNPAR    -  Centre National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux
FAC      -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED      -  Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FONASEN  -  Fonds National d'Assainissement et d'Entretien
HER      -  Service de l'Hydraulique et de l'Amenagement des Espaces Ruraux
KfW      -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
ONE      -  Office National des Eaux
OPEV     -  Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique
ORD      -  Office Regional de Developpement
SACS     -  Service d'Assistance, Conseil et Soutien
SME      -  Artisan, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 3 pages
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENI PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SU1M4ARY
Borrower:                The Republic of Upper Volta
Amount:                  US$8.2 million equivalent
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms:         Funds for the squatter upgrading and sites and
services component will be lent by Government to the
municipalities at 6 percent interest for 17 years
with 5 years grace during which no interest will
accrue. Funds for the water supply component in-
cluding detailed engineering and supervision will
be lent by Government to the National Water Office
at 6 percent for 20 years with 3 years grace during
which no interest will accrue. Funds for the re-
habilitation of the Zogona Gulley will be lent by
Government to the National Fund for Land Reclama-
tion and Maintenance at 6 percent for 20 years with
3 years grace. Funds for school and clinic rehabili-
tation, the Public hygiene and disinfection program
and technical assistance will be passed on to the
municipalities as grants. Funds for technical assis-
tance to the project unit and for the pilot community
development fund are also to be provided as grants.
Project Description:    The project seeks to assist Government with that part
of its urban development policy which aims at providing
low cost services to low-income households in urban
areas. It provides squatter upgrading for approxi-
mately 7,000 households in Ouagadougou and 3,000 in
Bobo-Dioulasso, sites and services for about 1,100
families in Bobo-Dioulasso, water supply to an addi-
tional 2,500 families of Ouagadougou not living in the
neighborhoods to be upgraded, housing construction
loans, community facilities and social services,
and technical assistance to the Municipalities of
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the Department of
Town Planning. The upgrading and sites and services
are estimated to reach 7,000 families in Ouagadougou
and 4,000 families in Bobo-Dioulasso, about 25 percent
of these cities respective populations. The National
Center for Rural Artisans (CNPAR) which is supported
under the IDA Artisan, SmaLl and lHedium Scale Enter-
prise Project will be working to stimulate emp)loyment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 3 pages
in upgraded areas. The lack of qualified local
personnel, coupled with the weakness of the execut-
ing agencies, particularly the Municipality of
Ouagadougou, and the absence of a precedent for the
system of collection for urban improvements, all
contribute to making this a high risk project.
Estimated Cost:          The total cost of the project net of taxes and duties
is US$9.1 million.  Taxes account for an additional
US$1.74 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$8.2
million will finance 90% of total costs net of taxes.
Details are as follows:
Local     Foreign    Total
--------US$ Million-------
I.   Squatter Settlement Upgrading
Ouagadougou                        0.95       0.68       1.63
Bobo-Dioulasso                     0.25       0.21       0.46
Subtotal                         1.20       0.89      2.09
II. Sites and Services
Bobo-Dioulasso                     0.10       0.08       0.18
Gaoua                              0.01       0.01       0.02
Subtotal                         0.11       0.09      0.20
III.  Water Supply Distribution          0.10       0.16       0.26
IV.   Construction Loans                  -         0.83       0.83
V.    Community Facilities               0.11       0.27       0.38
VI.   Assistance to Municipalities       0.29       1.16       1.45
VII.  Assistance to the Department
of Town Planning                   0.31       0.98       1.29
VIII. Project Preparation (1976)          -         0.10       0.10
IX.   Final Design and Detailed
Engineering                        0.15       0.38       0.53
X.    Monitoring/Evaluation               0.04      0.10       0.14
Total (I-X)                        2.30       4.97       7.27
Physical Contingencies
25% on physical works           0.29       0.28      0.57
10% on engineering              0.01      0.04       0.05
Expected Price Increases           0.43       0.78       1.21
Total Project Costs             3.04       6.06       9.10



Page 3 of 3 pages
Financing Plan:          IDA's contribution of US$8.2 million would cover
100 percent of the foreign exchange costs (US$6.0
million) and 71 percent of the local costs. Details
of the financing plan including taxes are summarized
in the following table.
Total    __        _          Of Which
Cost     Loans    Grants    IDA Fund
PROJECT COMPONENT                        -------------US$ Million------------
I.  Squatter Settlement Upgrading       3.63      3.30      0.33        2.17
II.  Sites and Services                  0.36      0.36        -         0.22
III.  Water Supply Distribution           0.51      0.51        -         0.32
IV.  Construction Loans                   1.42     1.42        -         0.98
V.  Community Facilities                0.65      0.08       0.57       0.44
VI.  Assistance to Municipalities         1.74     0.43       1.31       1.68
VII.  Assistance to the Department
of Town Planning                    1.52       -         1.52      1.48
VIII. Project Preparation (1976)           0.11      -         0.11       0.10
IX.  Final Design and Detailed
Engineering                         0.66      0.66       -         0.64
X.  Monitoring/Evaluation               0.24       -         0.24       0.17
TOTAL                            10.84      6.76      4.08       8.20
Estimated Disbursements:    Fiscal Year    Annual         Cumulative
------------US$ Million-------------
1978         1,210        1,210
1979         3,392        4,602
1980         2,453        7,073
1981         1,145        8,200
Economic Rate of Return:    34%
Appraisal Report: Appraisal of Upper Volta
Urban Development Project
No. 1660a-UV dated January 3, 1978
MAP:      IBRD  12845






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount equivalent to
US$8.2 million on standard IDA terms to help finance an urban development
project.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report entitled "Current Economic Position
and Development Prospects of Upper Volta" was distributed to the Executive
Directors on July 7, 1975 (RN 564a-UV). An updating economic mission visited
the country in April, 1977 and its main findings are incorporated into this
report. Annex I contains country data.
Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$110 in 1976, Upper Volta is one of
the poorest African countries and is classified among the 29 "least developed
countries" by the United Nations. The country's economy faces a number of
development constraints including extreme variability of rainfall, generally
poor soils, few exploitable minerals, long distances to the nearest seaports,
uneven population distribution with regard to available land resources, a
shortage of skilled manpower, and limited potential for industrialization.
These disadvantages also explain Upper Volta's relatively slow rate of eco-
nomic growth. For the period 1967-75, real GNP grew at an average annual
rate of 2.5 percent, or only slightly faster than population growth; per
capita real incomes as a consequence remained virtually stagnant.
4.        Upper Volta is a rural economy and the economic structure has
undergone little change over the last 15 years: agriculture and livestock
provide a living for over 90 percent of the population but account for less
than half of GNP. The modern manufacturing sector, consisting mostly of
import-substituting industries, accounts for less than 10 percent of GNP,
while the tertiary sector contributes about one-third. Private and public
consumption typically absorb 95 percent to 100 percent of GNP, which means
that the bulk of capital formation (in the monetary sector) - usually ranging
from 14-18 percent of GNP - has to be financed by foreign resources. Exports
consist almost entirely of agricultural and livestock products.
5.        Although Upper Volta is one of the world's most rural countries
with more than 90 percent of its labor force working in the primary sector,
1/   Substantially identical to President's Report No. P-2181-UV for Upper
Volta's Artisan and Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.



-2-
the urban population is estimated to have grown 5% annually over the past
decade, and is expected to increase from 500,000 in 1975 (i.e. 8.3 percent of
total population) to almost 1.8 million by 2000, doubling the urban share of
national population. The two largest towns, the capital Ouagadougou (220,000),
and Bobo-Dioulasso (150,000), are currently growing at 7% per year, but some
uncontrolled squatter areas on the periphery of the cities are expanding up to
20% annually. More than half of urban growth can be attributed to rural-urban
migration accelerated, in the recent past, by extreme deprivation resulting
from the severe drought in rural areas.   Urban growth, far from solving the
problem of poverty, thus reflects a relocation of poor households from rural
to urban areas. Given the sluggish growth of the rural economy, a large num-
ber of the rural population emigrates in search of employment to towns and
to coastal countries, mainly Ivory Coast and Ghana. If opportunities for
wage employment did not exist in these countries the rate of urban migration
within Upper Volta would be many times greater.
Recent Developments
6.        The Sahelian drought of 1973 caused a severe setback in agricultural
and livestock production. Output of food grains (sorghum and millet) dropped
by more than 20 percent, calling for emergency food imports of about 100,000
tons in 1973/74. Output of cotton, the principal export crop, fell by one-
third and drought-related herd losses were estimated at 10 percent. With
normal rainfall in 1974, crop production rebounded, but recovery in the live-
stock sector was inevitably much slower. Production of food crops in 1975
equalled the record level achieved in 1970, while output of cotton also in-
creased substantially. As a result, GNP as a whole rose by 7.5 percent in
real terms. By contrast, in 1976/77, food production recorded an estimated
deficit of about 70,000 tons, for which international aid was requested by
Government in early February of last year. Owing to the relatively good
performance in other sectors, however, GNP as a whole is estimated to have
risen, though at a somewhat slower rate than in 1975.
7.        The external trade balance has continued to deteriorate in recent
years following worldwide inflation for import goods and sluggish exports due
to the drought: the resource gap more than doubled from US$64 million in 1972
to US$159 million in 1975. The overall balance of payments, however, was in
surplus until 1974 as a result of increasing inflows of foreign capital and
workers' remittances from abroad (mainly the Ivory Coast). These remittances
have traditionally been a very important source of income for Upper Volta.  In
1975 the overall balance of payments showed a small deficit (US$8.9 million)
for the first time since 1968, due chiefly to a recent border conflict with
Mali.  A balance of payments deficit occurred again in 1976, reducing foreign
exchange reserves by US$15.5 million to US$52.9 million.
8.        Over the period 1968-74, Government's financial position has been
relatively strong as a result of an austere spending policy, French budgetary
subsidies, and surpluses generated by autonomous public institutions such as
the Price Stabilization Fund for Agricultural Products. At the end of 1974,
public sector deposits with the banking system stood at CFAF 9.3 billion
(US$38.7 million), equivalent to about three-fourths of the corresponding



-3-
year's current revenue. However, in the last two years, government finances
have been strained by exceptional circumstances, i.e. the border conflict
with Mali, rising wage-price levels and a relatively inelastic tax base.
In 1975, for the first time in many years, the budget recorded a deficit of
CFAF 1.4 billion owing to exceptional military expenditures; a deficit of
much the same order is likely to have occurred in 1976 as well.
9.        To accelerate development through public sector investments, in
January 1975, the Government established the Caisse Nationale des Depots
et Investissements (CNDI). CNDI mobilizes savings from public and private
bodies and channels them into public infrastructure projects and other
economically and financially profitable undertakings. It aims at annual
commitments of around CFAF 3.2 billion and by the end March, 1977, had
committed CFAF 9.79 billion. In line with the budgetary problem described
above, the CNDI is facing serious difficulties in replenishing its resources
so that it may maintain the current level of its lending activities which have
been averaging slightly less than CFAF 4.0 billion per year. As of April 29,
1977, total resources of the CNDI amount only to CFAF 675 million. The CNDI
reportedly is planning to borrow from abroad in order to continue its lending
operations.
Foreign Aid
10.       During the period 1967-1975, Upper Volta received from its major
donors annual average aid inflows of about US$42.0 million, with sharp in-
creases during the last three years. Principal foreign donors are France,
FED, Canada, Germany, USA, IDA and the UNDP. About 85 percent of all aid
has been in the form of grants, and, of the remaining 15 percent, 90 percent
consisted of loans on concessionary terms. Investment aid accounted for about
two-thirds of the total, followed by technical assistance and budget support
(10 percent). In recent years aid inflows increased considerably due to
drought-related relief operations (1974). While new donors, in particular
some of the Arab countries, are expected to increase their involvement in the
country, traditional aid sources are likely to remain dominant for many years
to come. IDA is gradually becoming one of the main sources of aid: its total
commitments stand at US$89.4 million as of November 30, 1977.
11.       External public debt at the end of 1976 stood at US$247.5 million,
(including an undisbursed amount of US$163.1 million), in which the IDA's
share was about 31 percent. The ratio of debt service payments to exports
of goods and non-factor services was about 6.4 percent in 1976. IDA's share
in total debt service payments is still insignificant. Although the debt
service ratio is expected to increase somewhat in the near future, no spe-
cial problems are foreseen.
Development Policies and Prospects
12.       Since most of the potential for economic development in the medium
and long term lies in the agricultural sector, emphasis should be put on
increasing agricultural productivity in the rural sector and the improve-
ment of supporting services. One of the basic problems facing the country's



-4-
rural sector is an uneven populat:Lon distribution with respect to available
resources. About 61 percent of the total population live in the central re-
gion (the Mossi Plateau), which comprises only 34 percent of the total area
and which is much less favorably endowed than the southern and southwestern
regions with respect to rainfall aind soil quality. The occurrence of river-
blindness in the river valley areas explains in part the concentration of
population on the Mossi plateau. An important component of the country's
long-term development strategy is therefore to redistribute population to
more fertile areas in the southwestern part of the country, which have so
far been relatively underpopulatecl.
13.       While the thrust of development efforts will remain in agriculture,
two other areas, industry and urban planning, are to receive increased atten-
tion. Government urban policy aims at providing a minimum package of infra-
structure and services to the urban population, especially those living in
the squatter neighborhoods of the larger towns. Government's industrial
policy aims at saving foreign exchange through import substitution where
feasible, at promoting export oriented, local resource based industries and
at stimulating employment in urban and rural areas.
14.       The last five-year Plan (1972-76) was well conceived and essentially
project-oriented. GNP in real terms was expected to grow only 3.5 percent
p.a. during the Plan period. However, external factors such as the drought
and worldwide inflation adversely affected the economy, and actual growth (2
percent) fell short of the moderate target. In December 1975, the Government
drew up guidelines for the next Development Plan (1977-81), which is currently
under preparation. The Plan will be conceived in a longer-term "perspective"
for tackling the country's structural problems. Rural development in the
broadest sense, including the resettlement of people in the riverblindness-
controlled zones, will continue to occupy center stage; education and employ-
ment will be given higher priority than in the past, and close linkage between
the two will be actively sought in the form of a production-oriented education
system. One of the crucial issues in planning investment allocation will be
to determine the extent to which it is preferable to concentrate development
efforts in the more fertile areas, and to facilitate out-migration from the
Mossi Plateau towards them. While the Government, in principle, is inclined
to favor concentration of investment in the more fertile areas, the extent to
which it will be reflected in the third five-year Plan investment program
is not yet known.
15.       Foreign capital and technical assistance will continue to play a
vital role in the development of Upper Volta for some time to come. In view
of the country's poverty and limited growth potential, it will be appropriate
for external lending agencies to provide assistance on highly concessionary
terms and to finance a high proportion of project costs, including a substantial
amount of local costs. Furthermore, since lack of operating funds, limited
absorptive capacity, and shortfalls in project preparation have more often
than not been identified as principal bottlenecks in effective implementation
of planned projects, intensive efforts should be made by foreign donors to
assist the Government in its efforts to gradually remove these constraints.



-5-
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       To date, the Bank Group's contribution to Upper Volta's development
has consisted of fifteen IDA projects totalling US$89.4 million of which
30.4 million has been disbursed as of November 30, 1977. Annex II contains a
summary statement of these credits as of November 30, 1977 as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Experience with ongoing projects has generally been satisfactory.
The Bank Group's strategy in Upper Volta is dictated by the extreme poverty of
the country and the need to raise productivity in agriculture and livestock,
on which the bulk of the population depends for a livelihood. Basic infras-
tructure, necessary to the economy, is being developed with the assistance of
IDA projects for road construction and upgrading, and in telecommunications.
IDA lending, in line with Government's policy, is primarily directed to
projects in agricultural, education and rural area improvements, with special
emphasis given to improvement which will favor the movement of peoples away
from the over-populated and ecologically disadvantaged central plateau to
the southwest, where conditions are much better. Ongoing projects in this
area include a livestock project, an integrated rural development project
and a cotton project. The Banfora - Bobo-Dioulasso - Hounde road presently
being constructed under the Third Highway project provides the most important
transport link in tlhis region of substantial agricultural potential.
18.       The main objectives of Bank Group lending in the future are:  (a)
to promote agricultural development so as to help the country attain some
degree of food self-sufficiency (b) to facilitate the movement of the rural
population from the Mossi Plateau to the Southwest and to areas controlled
from Riverblindness and help with their integration into their new environ-
ment (c) to strengthen infrastructure facilities (d) to promote employment
and (e) to mobilize resources from other donors through co-financing. In
keeping with the above objectives, future projects include an integrated
rural development settlement project aimed at the repopulation of areas
which have been underpopulated as a result of riverblindness and lack of
easy accessibility, a second feeder road project, a small pilot irrigation
project, a forestry project and a follow-up education project.
19.       Despite its rural character, Upper Volta has experienced rapid
urban growth and is facing severe problems in providing urban services to
its growing urban population. The proposed project builds on previous Gov-
ernment experience in providing low cost urban services on a large scale.
It is closely linked to one of the components of the recently approved IDA
Artisan, Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project. Together these projects
aim to improve the living and employment conditions of the most disadvantaged
members of the urban centers. They both emphasize institution building and
seek to increase the productivity of the urban sector.



-6-
PART III: THE URBAN SECTOR
Past Demographic Patterns
20.       Upper Volta is one of the most rural countries in the world, with
only 8.3 percent of its populatiorn living in urban areas in 1975. Even within
the Sahelian region of West Africa, where the average share of the population
living in urban areas is 14 percent, Upper Volta is the least urbanized coun-
try. Some 90 percent of its population works in agriculture as self-employed
farmers, far from the small urban--based commercial economy.
21.       Despite its rural charac:ter, Upper Volta has nevertheless experi-
enced sustained, rapid urban growth since independence in 1960. From 1970 to
1975, the urban growth rate reached 5.1 percent per year, following closely
the rapidly urbanizing coastal African countries, such as Ghana and Ivory
Coast, which had urban growth rates at 5.3 and 6.3 percent respectively during
the same period. Much of Upper Volta's urban growth has been concentrated in
a few major towns: Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, and Koudougou whose popula-
tion in 1975 were 200,000, 140,000 and 50,000 respectively. The entire urban
sector accounted for only 500,000 in 1975. The capital of Ouagadougou grew at
a rate of 7 percent annually over the last decade and has been rapidly trans-
formed from a small town into an administrative and economic center. The re-
maining urban population is found in small semi-urban centers such as Dedougou,
Fada N'Gourma, Gaoua, Banfora and Ouahigouya each with population of about
10,000. The growth of secondary centers, which have expanded at about 3
percent annually, has not followed the rapid growth of the large towns.
22.       Some 56 percent of annual urban growth can be attributed to migra-
tion from rural areas, with the remaining 44 percent resulting from natural
increase. These figures are close to the Sahelian-wide pattern of rural-urban
population movements. The migratory share of Ouagadougou's growth is much
higher, however, approaching 68 percent, reflecting the attraction of employ-
ment possibilities. Migrants come from throughout the country to the national
capital whose population is changing from a largely Mossi-populated center to
that of a center with a very diverse population.
Demographic Projections 1/
23.       Upper Volta's population, based on a yearly population increase
of about 2.3 percent and a slow-down of migration to the Ivory Coast, is
expected to grow from 6 million in 1975 to 11 million by 2000. Within this
overall trend, it is expected that the urban share will almost double, from
8.3 to 15.7 percent in the next twenty-five years, again close to the proj-
ected Sahelian increase from 14 to 24.1 percent over the same period. In
1/   Projections are based on United Nations, FAO, and IBRD estimates.



-7-
absolute terms, Upper Volta's urban population would grow from 500,000 to
almost 1.8 million, more than tripling its present size, and will require
employment and urban services.
24.       Absolute increases of these magnitudes imply high annual growth
rates. Upper Volta is projected to increase its urban population at roughly
5 percent up to 1990. While these are only projections, it is nonetheless
clear that substantial rural-urban migration will continue in Upper Volta
during this period. Despite improvements in agricultural incomes resulting
from the large rural development programs in many regions of the country, it
is reasonable to expect that migratory flows to urban areas will continue.
Opportunities for Employment
25.       Urban growth has not been accompanied by increased labor produc-
tivity or substantially higher incomes for migrants who have remained out-
side the formal sector. About 80% of the urban labor force of 120,000 work
within the many branches of the informal sector, earning an estimated aver-
age household monthly income of CFAF 10,000 (US$40). Only some 37,000 per-
sons work within the formal sector. Only 10% of the Ouagadougou population
is literate. The majority of squatters are underemployed within the informal
sector although, even if they had educational qualifications they would
face many obstacles to finding productive employment within the very small
formal sector. Outside of the public administration, which employs about
19,000 persons, there are very few jobs. The lack of training, limited access
to credit, the relatively high cost of transport and marketing, and the small
size of local markets, have inhibited growth of the private formal sector,
which now numbers about 18,000 persons. Many migrants have moved to Ouagadou-
gou, the center of public sector employment, but have been unable to obtain
desired positions. Others have moved to Bobo-Dioulasso, the commercial
capital in the relatively prosperous southwest region, and still others have
moved on to Ghana and the Ivory Coast.
26.       The Government is acutely aware of the need to generate employment
in urban areas. The Ministries of Commerce and of Public Service and Employ-
ment have been working together to promote employment through three principal
institutions: The National Development Bank, the Office for the Promotion of
Upper Volta Enterprises and the National Center for Rural Artisans. These
three institutions are receiving support under the recently approved Artisan
and Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.
Squatter Settlements - Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso
27.       Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso historically developed around admin-
istrative and commercial areas in the town centers, surrounded by residential
neighborhoods. On the periphery of these neighborhoods, squatter areas ex-
tend in all directions. The principal difference between the central neigh-
borhoods and the squatter areas are the land tenure system, the layouts and
in the former, the presence of some paved streets, lighting, public water
taps and drainage ditches.



-8-
28.       The squatter areas on the periphery of these towns now cover
about 1,500 hectares (1,300 in Ouagadougou and 200 in Bobo-Dioulasso) and
are populated by about 150,000 persons (120,000 in Ouagadougou and 30,000
in Bobo-Dioulasso).  These lower density areas cover more than half the
area of the capital, with between 40 and 90 persons per hectare living
in family compounds of mud huts. Most families are young, with an average
household size of 6.4 persons and are recent migrants to the city. The
squatter areas are almost completely unserviced: they have no piped water
supply, garbage collection, waste disposal, stormwater drainage, schools
or clinics. Clean water is purchased from private water vendors who buy
water at public standpipes in central neighborhoods and resell it to
squatters at five times the price. Presently, in these zones, households
buy the equivalent of 7-10 liters per capita per day from vendors during
most of the year, and consume an additional amount from shallow, polluted
wells.  During the 2-3 month hot season when wells are dry, households may
purchase up to 15-20 liters per capita per day. Of the 58 standpipes in
Ouagadougou, only 4 are found in the squatter areas, although the squatter
population represents more than half of the city.
29.       Within the squatter areas, individual households depend on tradi-
tional chiefs for permission to occupy a designated plot of land. Households
pay the chiefs a small fee, either in money or in kind, for traditional
rights of occupancy. They rarely pay taxes and are individually unknown
to the municipal administration. In squatter areas, the traditional chiefs
continue to wield substantial authority over household and neighborhood
activities. They decide on the physical layouts of the areas, type of con-
struction, and, most importantly, improvements which are proposed by Govern-
ment and private agencies.
Institutions
30.       Responsibility for urban development in Upper Volta is jointly
shared by several ministries, including the Ministry of Public Works, Trans-
port, and Town Planning which is responsible for the execution of urban proj-
ects, the Ministry of Rural Development, whose Rural Development Works Depart-
ment supervises rural and urban water supply and the Ministry of Interior,
which supervises all municipal activ:iLties. The Ministry of Public Works,
through its Department of Town Planning, proposes urban development policies
and projects for all urban areas which are reviewed by the National Town
Planning Council before submission for approval by the Council of Ministers.
The Department of Town Planning, under the Ministry of Public Works, presently
has 5 professional Upper Voltan staff and one UNDP technical assistant. At
the present time it lacks sufficient personnel and equipment to carry out its
task.
31.       The Rural Development Works Department (HER) of the Ministry of
Rural Development supervises the activities of the National Water Office
(ONE) and and the recently created National Fund for Land Reclamation and
Maintenance (FONASEN), but does not play a major role in the daily execution
of urban development programs. The Minister of Rural Development participates
in the deliberations of the National Town Planning Council but does not
initiate policies and programs in the urban sector. Created in 1970, the ONE



-9-
is fully staffed by Upper Voltans, is well managed and has been profitable
since its establishment. It is divided into three technical divisions, one
each for Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, and smaller systems which supervise the
preparation of detailed engineering, physical construction, maintenance, and
repair of water facilities. FONASEN, a service of HER, will be responsible
for rehabilitating and maintaining drainage works in Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso.
32.       The Minister of the Interior supervises the activities of the
municipalities but day-to-day management of municipal affairs is left to
the mayors and their staff. The responsibilities of the municipalities
include: (a) maintenance of social service facilities, including schools,
and clinics, streets and drainage canals; (b) environmental sanitation, such
as garbage collection, insecticide spraying, and waste disposal; (c) fire
prevention; and (d) regulation of land development and housing construction.
A combination of a low income tax base, low tax rates, infrequent and inac-
curate assessments, inadequate collections, and a poorly trained staff (only
15 percent of whom are literate) has made it impossible for the municipali-
ties, especially the municipality of Ouagadougou, to fulfill their responsibil-
ities. The Municipality of Ouagadougou has a budget of only CFAF 347.5 mil-
lion (US$1.4 million), or $6.50 per capita. About half of this is allocated
to personnel expenditures with only 17 percent devoted to services and only
3 percent for investments.
33.       The Municipality of Bobo-Dioulasso is in slightly better condition
as it has a longer tradition of municipal administration and maintenance
dating back to its previous role as a colonial capital up to 1947. As in
the case of Ouagadougou, the municipality requires training of its staff,
purchase of needed equipment and tools, and assistance in management in order
that it may better carry out its responsibilities.
The Cissin Experience
34.       In 1973, the Government, with UNDP assistance, launched a three-
year experiment to improve the housing conditions of the poor urban house-
holds in Cissin, one of Ouagadougou's squatter neighborhoods. This joint
effort, which provided 600 service plots and upgraded 8 ha. inhabited by
266 families, was successful in that it demonstrated the feasibility of pro-
viding low-cost infrastructure and housing through self-help methods and com-
munity participation. Initial infrastructure works included roads, minimal
drainage, pit latrines, and wells. Households were given urban occupancy
permits as guarantee of land tenure. This legalized tenure arrangement
stimulated neighborhood participation. Community investment in infrastruc-
ture and private investment in housing construction and improvements have
substantially improved the living conditions of people in the neighborhood.
In November 1975, the Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Town Planning
convened an international conference to evaluate the Cissin experience and to
determine its applicability on a larger scale. While this evaluation was not
entirely positive--the financial arrangements for the project, such as cost
recovery and recovery on loans for housing construction and improvements needed



- 10 -
improvement, the Government endorsed the Cissin concept as the cornerstone of
its policy for providing urban services to squatter areas.
The Future
35.       While the Cissin pilot project represents a major step in the formu-
lation of a realistic, low-cost approach to urban development, the task of
replicating and improving this experience on a larger scale will be formidable.
In order to do this the Government acknowledges the need to (a) strengthen
urban institutions, particularly the Department of Town Planning and the
municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso through training, purchase of
needed equipment, and technical assistance in specialized areas; (b) improve
the methods used by the municipalities for cost recovery and tax collection,
to recover public investments in infrastructure and extend services; and (c)
improve environmental sanitation not only for neighborhoods to be included in
individual projects, but for the entire urban area, which presently suffers
from inadequate garbage collection, waste disposal, and drainage.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
36.       The project is based on the findings of a February 1977 appraisal
mission. Negotiations were held from September 12 to September 16, 1977,
with an Upper Voltan delegation led by H.E. Mahamadou Ouedraogo (Minister
of Public Works). The Appraisal report (No. 1660a-UV) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Discription
37.       The proposed project, to be carried out over a 3 and one half year
period (1978-1982), consists of:
(a)  Squatter Upgrading:  Provision of basic urban infrastructure
including water supply, drainage and roads to about 7,000 house-
holds in the squatter neighborhoods of Cissin and Zogona in
Ouagadougou and to 3,000 households in the squatter neighbor-
hood of Sonsuribugu in Bobo-Dioulasso.
(b) Sites and Services: (i) Preparation and servicing of about 1,100
new plots with water standpipes, stormwater drainage, and earth
roads covering 50 ha. adjacent to Sonsuribugu in Bobo-Dioulasso;
(ii) Preparation of a pilot sites and services area for 100 fam-
ilies in Gaoua;
(c) Water Supply Distribution: Provision of water by standpipes
to some 20,000 persons living in three squatter neighborhoods
in Ouagadougou not included in the upgrading operation.
(d) Construction and Home Improvement Loans: Provision of loans for
housing improvements and start-up construction.



- 11 -
(e) Community Facilities and Social Services: (1) in Ouagadougou:
construction of 12 community centers, four markets, rehabilita-
tion of 40 schools and 10 dispensaries; (ii) in Bobo-Dioulasso:
construction of 7 community centers, two markets, rehabilitation
of 25 schools and 7 dispensaries. Provision of funds to finance
pilot programs in community education, public health and women's
activities in both Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
(f) Assistance to Municipalities: Technical assistance for train-
ing of maintenance personnel, improving financial management
and tax collection; reorganization of the Department of Roads
and Buildings and the municipal housing office; equipment
for maintenance activities, insecticide spraying and vehicles
for garbage collection.
(g) Assistance to the Department of Town Planning: Technical
assistance to the project unit for project preparation,
execution, training and preparation of a second project;
purchase of equipment, supplies and vehicles.
(h) Monitoring and Evaluation: a study to evaluate the per-
formance of project components during and after project
execution.
Project Execution
38.       A Project Unit with primary responsibility for all project compo-
nents (exclusive of water supply and the Zogona Gulley drainage works -
para. 45) will be established in the Department of Town Planning. The Unit
will be headed by the Director of Town Planning supported by a Project Chief
and will include a civil engineer, a socio-economist, an accountant, an urban
planner, and an expert in savings and loan cooperatives and qualified local
counterparts. (Section 3.03 of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Technical assistance for the Project Unit has been identified and will be
recruited during the first quarter of 1978. The project unit will oversee
project implementation and specifically will: (i) prepare detailed design and
engineering plans; (ii) prepare bidding documents and contracts; (iii) super-
vise the execution of civil works, including construction of community facil-
ities; (iv) supervise the construction loan program and the pilot community
development activities; (v) assist with the supervision of Municipal Housing
Offices; and (vi) be responsible for the disbursement of project funds.
Assurances were received at negotiations that final engineering and design
and implementation arrangements for the upgrading, sites and services and
water distribution components would be satisfactory to the Association (Sec-
tion 3.07(a) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
39.       The Municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso are responsi-
ble for: (i) reorganization and strengthening of the municipal Departments
of Roads and Buildings; (ii) city wide provision of services supported under
the project - environmental sanitation, garbage collection, rehabilitation



- 12 -
of schools and dispensaries, and insecticide spraying. Municipal Housing
Offices, headed by qualified personnel and adequately staffed are to be
established within the existing Land Offices of each municipality (Section
3.04 of the Draft Development Credit Agreement). These Housing Offices are
responsible for: (i) collection of application fees and initial plot down-
payments; (ii) recovery of plot charges and construction and home improve-
ment loans.
40.       The preparation and execution of the water supply investments under
the project will be the responsibility of the National Water Office (ONE).
The technical division of this office will supervise the preparation of
detailed engineering, and the physical construction, maintenance, and repair
of works.
41.       Coordination of project execution will be assured through an Inter-
Ministerial Coordination Committee headed by the Minister responsible for
town planning. Permanent members will be the Mlinister of Finance or his rep-
resentative, the Director General of the Interior, the Prefects-Mayors of
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, the Director of Town Planning, the Director
of the Project Unit, the Directors of the Municipal Housing Offices, the
Director of the ONE and the Director General of FONASEN. To ensure coordi-
nation with the Artisans and Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project, a
representative of the Working Committee to be established under the SME
project will be appointed to represent the National Development Bank (BND),
the Organization for the Promotion of Upper Voltan Enterprise (OPEV) and the
Center for the Training of Rural Artisans (CNPAR) on the Interministerial
Coordination Committee (Section 3.05 of the Draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
Strengthening of the Municipalities
42.       Each municipality will receive four and a half-years of technical
assistance which will be divided as follows: (i) two man-years for the
reorganization of the Roads and Buildings Departments and the training of
municipal maintenance workers; (ii) two man-years for the establishment of
new procedures for land registry, plot allocation and developing and over-
seeing the operation of a system for collection from participants in the
municipal upgrading and sites and services schemes; (iii) six months to
review tax revenue collection procedures. This review will include an
assessment of current rates and financial practices including budgetary
planning, and recommend improved methods and policy changes where neces-
sary. It shall begin no later than June, 1978 and be completed by June,
1979 (Section 3.09 of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Strengthening of the Department of Town Planning
43.       12-1/3 man-years of technical assistance for project preparation,
execution and training will be provided to the Department of Town Planning
consisting of the following: an engineer-manager (3 years), a socio-econ-
omist (2 years), an accountant (3-1/3 years), a community development expert



- 13 -
(3 years) and an urban planner, 1 year. An additional 2-1/2 years of con-
sultant services are provided for the preparation of a second project and
short term consultancy assignments. It was agreed that the qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment of consultants hired under
the project shall be satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 of the
Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Legal Arrangements
44.       Neigborhood improvements will be followed by a legalization of
land tenure for project area residents. Residents who according to Upper
Voltan law have customary rights to the land, will make a one-time payment
of CFAF 15,000 at which time they will be granted an urban occupancy permit.
This permit is a renewable long term lease with right of resale. Residents
without customary land rights and new residents who will be allocated plots
by the Municipal Housing Office will be granted a provisional urban occupancy
permit upon down payment of FCFA 15,000, and after repayment of the total plot
obligation, an urban occupancy permit. (Schedules 4 and 5 of the Draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).
Off-Site Infrastructure
45.       No off-site works are needed for the Cissin neighborhood.  Off-site
infrastructure for Zogona and Sonsuribugu will require approach roads, water
mains and drainage works. In Zogona, the major off-site work involves the
channeling of the four kilometer long Zogona gulley, a major health hazard for
the entire city of Ouagadougou, and concrete reinforcement of two kilometers
of its banks. Drainage works are required in Sonsuribugu, due to the slopes
on the sites and relatively higher rainfall in the Bobo-Dioulasso region.
Housing Construction and Improvements Loans
46.       Loans for the purchase of building materials will be granted to
the plotholders occupying plots under this Project. Existing residents will
be eligible to borrow up to CFAF 30,000 while new residents will be eligible
to borrow up to CFAF 65,000. Households which have been displaced (about
750 existing households) as a result of upgrading operations and relocated
on nearby plots will be eligible to receive CFAF 65,000 but will repay only
CFAF 30,000 with the remaining funds considered as compensation for reloca-
tion (Schedule 5, para. 8 of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Link to Artisan, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project
47.       A portion of CNPAR's skill training will be decentralized to two
neighborhoods in Ouagadougou and one in Bobo-Dioulasso selected for upgrading
under the proposed project. Initially, in response to the demands generated
by the project, training in the construction trades (masonry, brickmaking,
metal and woodworking) will be offered to 10-12 artisans per year in each
neighborhood. Later, training will be diversified into other productive
areas (tailoring, weaving) to be specifically identified with the help of
consultants. Training will take place in mobile facilities constructed by



- 14 -
CNPAR and as a part of the training process trainees will construct the
community centers to be financed under the project.
Cost Recovery Arrangements
48.       The project introduces a system of collection of charges for urban
improvements for the first time in Upper Volta. The system of recovery
which will be elaborated during project implementation and be subject to
the approval of the Association, will be applied by the Municipal Housing
Offices of Ouagadougu and Bobo-Dioulasso to all households living in the
neighborhoods to be upgraded and in the sites and services areas.  Charges
will include: (a) plot development costs including contingencies, engineer-
ing, construction supervision and relocation costs for displaced families;
(b) land acquisition charges with residents having customary tenure paying
a flat rate of 15,000 CFAF and all others paying CFAF 100/m ; (c) management
charges of 100 CFAF per plot per month; and (d) a default provision of 20 per-
cent of total charges on an annual basis. Total development costs for the
project area as per (a) above will be divided by the net residential area to
obtain a unit cost per square meter. Development costs per plot will then be
established by multiplying the2unit cost per square meter by the size of the
plot (either 240, 300 or 360 m ). Plot development costs together with land
acquisition charges, will constitute a total plot cost which will be repaid
through the downpayment of CFAF 15,000 with the remainder paid in installments
over 10 years with a rate of interest of 8.5 percent and no penalty for early
repayment. Those with customary land rights would not occupy more than 10
percent of the plots in a project neighborhood and would make a one time
payment of 15,000 CFAF. The frequency of installments will vary according to
the source of income of the plot holder. Charges for salaried plot holders
will be deducted from salaries at the source. Cost of the water supply
distribution system will be recovered by the National Water Office through
the collection of water charges. Housing construction and improvement loan
charges will be added to the plot development charges and be given on the same
terms and conditions i.e. 10 years at 8.5 percent (Schedule 5 of the Draft
Development Credit Agreement). The cost of rehabilitating the Zogona gulley
will be recovered on the following basis: (a) one-quarter of the total costs
will be considered non-recoverable as a public sanitation measure; (b) half
of the total investment costs will be recovered through tax revenues accruing
to the FONASEN; and (c) one-quarter of the total investment costs will be
recovered directly from residents living on the 500 hectares in the Zogona
flood plain.
The Housing Development Fund
49.       The Municipalities will deposit revenue from plot charges and re-
payments of housing construction and improvements loans into an interest bear-
ing account (the Housing Development Fund) at the National Development Bank
(BND). Funds collected will be used to cover the administrative charges
of the Municipal Housing Offices, defaults of up to 20 percent of the amounts
receivable and repayment of loans contracted for on-site investments (Section
3.06 (d) and Schedule 5, para. 4 of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
50.       The total cost of the project net of taxes but including import
duties and contingencies, is US$9.1 million. Taxes account for an additional
US$1.74 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$8.2 million would cover 90
percent of total costs net of taxes. It would cover 100 percent of the
foreign exchange cost estimated at US$6 million and 71 percent of the local
costs (US$2.2 million). The remaining local costs (US$.9 million) would be
met by Government. Details of cost estimates are in the Credit and Project
Summary.
51.       Approximately US$4.95 million will be on-lent by Government to the
Municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso at 6 percent interest for
17 years and 5 years grace during which no interest will accrue for squatter
upgrading and sites and services. Approximately US$0.51 million will be
on-lent by Government to the National Water Office at 6 percent for 20 years
with three years grace during which no interest will be paid for the water
supply component. Approximately US$1.3 million will be on-lent by Government
to the National Fund for Land Reclamation and Maintenance at 6 percent for
20 years with three years grace for the rehabilitation of the Zogona Gulley in
Ouagadougou. About US$2.21 million will be provided by Government to the
municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso as a grant for school and
clinic rehabilitation, a Public hygiene and disinfection program and tech-
nical assistance. About US$1.87 million will be provided by Government
as a grant for technical assistance to the project unit under the Department
of Town Planning and for the pilot community development fund.
Establishment of a Revolving Fund to help Finance Project Expenditures
52.       In order to ensure the prompt availability of funds to meet project
expenditures IDA, immediately after credit effectiveness, will deposit in a
special account that the Government will agree to open at the Central Bank,
an initial amount not exceeding US$400,00 equivalent, which would serve as a
revolving fund. IDA would replenish the revolving fund after verifying that
disbursement claims presented were eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit. (Section 2.01(c) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
D. Procurement
53.       All contracts over US$50,000 for the procurement of equipment,
vehicles, and building materials would be through international competitive
bidding in accordance with World Bank guidelines. At the Government's request
domestic contractors will receive a preference in bid evaluation in accordance
with the above guidelines. Contracts would be grouped in packages of at least
US$50,000 whenever possible. The channeling of the Zogona Gulley would also
be offered for international competitive bidding. Civil works contracts for



- 16 -
water supply, plot layouts, and off-site drainage (US$1.0 million) and con-
struction of community facilities, and office repairs (US$0.3 million) would
be too small to attract international contractors and would therefore be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, advertised locally in
accordance with local procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. Earth road
construction and on-site drainage (US$1.0 million) within individual neighbor-
hoods would be carried out by force account by the Ministry of Public Works,
Transport, and Town Planning. Consultant services would be procured according
to procedures acceptable to IDA (US$1.9 million). The estimated cost per
man-month of consultant services is US$6,600.
E. Disbursements
54.       Disbursement of the IDA credit would be made on the following basis:
(i) 80 percent of all civil works expenditures; (ii) 100 percent of foreign
or 90 percent of local expenditures for equipment and other goods, including
tools, vehicles, and other supplies; (iii) 75 percent of operating costs
including vehicle maintenance and staff salaries for the Project Unit and the
Municipal Housing Offices; (iv) 100 percent of foreign or 90 percent of local
expenditures on all consultants' services, including technical assistance,
detailed engineering, project preparation, and monitoring and evaluation; and
(v) 100 percent of the value of construction loans to plot holders. Disburse-
ment for Ci), (ii), (iii) and (v) above will be made against a certificate of
expenditure, the documentation for which is not submitted for review, but is
retained by the Borrower and available for inspection by the Association
during the course of project supervision missions.
55.       A first advance from the Project Preparation Facility of up to
US$100,000 was used to prepare the project during 1976-77. A second advance
of US$230,000 was approved which provides for the financing of detailed engi-
neering, preparation of site plans, and start-up costs for technical assis-
tance in the Project Unit from July 1977 until early 1978. Both advances
will be refunded upon the effectiveness of the credit (Section 2.02(g) of
the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits
56.       Upgrading of two squatter settlements in Ouagadougou (300 ha.) and
another in Bobo-Dioulasso (132 ha.), as well as 50 ha. of serviced sites in
Bobo-Dioulasso will directly improve living conditions for more than 10,500
households, approximately 86,000 people, through the provision of essential
infrastructure, regularization of occupancy rights and the supply of credit
for housing construction or improvement. In addition, the provision of a
basic water supply network in three other squatter settlements of Ouagadougou
will benefit an estimated 20,000 people. Together, the upgrading, sites and
services and water supply distribution components of the project will reach
76,000 people in Ouagadougou and more than 30,000 people in Bobo-Dioulasso.



- 17 -
57.       In addition to providing direct benefits to a significant proportion
of low-income urban dwellers in Upper Volta, the project will demonstrate the
merit and replicability of low-cost approaches to urban development, and
strengthen the institutions concerned through the experience gained during its
implementation. By introducing a system of cost recovery for urban improve-
ments, the project will also contribute to a more efficient and equitable
allocation of investment resources.
58.       Economic rates of return were calculated for upgraded, and sites
and service areas, using expected increases in property values as a result
of improvement, as the measure of project benefits. Property values are
an imperfect measure of project benefits because they do not fully reflect
the value to individuals and to society of an improved and healthier physical
environment. However, lack of data precluded the quantification of the more
intangible, yet perhaps most important, impacts of the project, such as re-
duced morbidity and mortality, and the associated increases in productivity.
Therefore, the rates of return based on property value increases provide only
an indicative and partial estimate of the economic merit of the project.
59.       Based on the benefits and costs described above, economic rates
of return found for upgraded and sites and services areas in the two pro-
ject cities were the following:
Ouagadougou
Cissin Upgrading                  -  40%
Zogona Upgrading                  -  24%
Bobo-Dioulasso
Sonsuribugu Upgrading           -  31%
Sites and Services              -  37%
60.       Sensitivity analysis indicated that these rates of return were
relatively insensitive to a 20 percent increase in costs and somewhat more
sensitive to a 20 percent reduction in benefits, but it is unlikely that
property values would be reduced by more than 20 percent.
61.       The high rates of return reflect a great demand for an extremely
limited supply of low-cost serviced land, resulting in a very high private
willingness to pay, which may itself underestimate the total economic worth
of the project. However, this project will significantly increase the supply
of serviced land, thereby slowing the long-term rise of land values.
Benefits of the Water Supply Component
62.       A separate economic rate of return was also calculated for the
water supply distribution system to be provided in three other neighborhoods
of Ouagadougou that will not be fully upgraded. The quantified benefits in



- 18 -
this analysis were expressed as consumer cost savings due to the large dif-
ference in price between water sold by water vendors (their present source
of supply) and water bought directly at the standpipe (the "with project"
situation).
63.       The economic rate of return obtained using the above benefits and
costs was 37 percent. Sensitivity analysis was carried out and showed that
neither a 20 percent increase in costs nor a 20 percent decrease in benefits
lowered the rate of return below 31 percent.
Aggregate Rate of Return
64.       An aggregate rate of return covering approximately 75% of total
project costs was calculated and found to be 34%. Sensitivity analysis was
carried out, with both a 20% increase in costs and a 20% decrease in bene-
fits, and the rate of return did not drop below 21%.
Risks
65.       Formidable personnel and resource constraints, coupled with the
weakness of executing agencies, emphasize the high risk nature of this proj-
ect. Despite the limited success of the Cissin project, its pilot nature
and lack of sound financial arrangements have to be transformed into a
large-scale, replicable urban development program. This challenge of repli-
cability from a pilot project involving under 1,000 families to one affecting
the lives of over 12,000 families, or 100,000 persons, will require sustained
attention from Government and a high degree of coordination between the Min-
istry of Public Works, Transport, and Town Planning, and the Municipalities
of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. Throughout project preparation, Govern-
ment has expressed considerable interest in the project.
66.       Specific risks, which should be acknowledged from the beginning of
project implementation, focus on cost recovery and tax collection. As noted
earlier, the project will introduce a system of collection of charges for
urban improvements for the first time in Upper Volta. There is no precedent
for this system, particularly among low-income residents who rarely pay
municipal and national taxes. The regulation of land tenure and improved
services resulting from project improvements are expected to lead to an
increased willingness of the community to pay their taxes but the success of
the project will depend on Government's ability to enlist the support of local
community leaders. It will be extremely important that the Municipal Housing
Offices in both cities operate effectively at the neighborhood level. Failure
to collect charges for improvement will compromise the financial viability of
these operations for the future. Tax collection must also be improved if the
municipalities are to have the financial resources needed to perform their
legal resonsibilities in the provision and maintenance of services. The
active interest of the Prefect-Mayors of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso will
thus be essential to strengthen the long-term role of municipal institutions
in the implementation of the Government's national urban development policy.



- 19 -
PART V:  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Upper Volta and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Articles V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately.
68.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness of
the IDA credit is the authorization, ratification and signing of the Financing
Agreements between the Government and the Municipalities of Ouagadougou and
Bobo Dioulasso, FONASEN and ONE. (Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the Draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 17, 1978






ANMEJ I
TABLE 3A                                     Page 1 of 4 pages
UPPER VOL.A         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                                  UPPER VOLTA                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      274.2                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      191.3                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE           MALI           MAURITANIA    SENEGAL***
______________      - ---  ---- -__--_ _ _-___ -_ _ _ _  ---------- --  _ _ _ _ _ _ _- ____
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      50.0*      70.0*     110.0/a*           70.0*      210.0*      270.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
-----------------------------__
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            4.3        5,4         6.2/a             5.1         1.2         4.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       16.0       20.0        23.0/a             4.0         1.0        22.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        23.0       28,0        32.07i            12.0         3.0        39.0
VITAL STATISIICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.6       49,6       48.5               49.6        44.9        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          32.7       28.9       25.8               27.8        24.7        24.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       192.0         ..         ..              120.0          .        156.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (tRS)       32.2       35.5       38.0               37.2        41.0        40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 i        3.2        3.2                3.3         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.6**      2.2        1. **              2.2         1.9         2.6
URBAN                                            4.5        4.6/b              4.3         5.1         6.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            4.5       6.6        8.3               12.1        45.3        29.0
A-.E STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.6       43.0       43.0               49.1        41.8        41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55 1       54.0      54.0                49.3        55.1        54.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3          3  3.0     3.0                1.6         3.1         3.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        o.9        0.9                1.0         0.8         0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATID               0.8/a      o.sf/a      ..                0.9/a       1.4/a       1.2/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                      ..             ..          .     .
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..                       ..          ..             ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2500.0    3000.0          .              2300.0       360.0      1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         92.0       ag.o         .                91.0        95.0        73.0
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)             ..       3.0/b       ..                  ..         ..         7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                         ..             ..          ..             ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                   ..         ..          ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         .          ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
____________ _________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS
OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..   92760.0  59570.0              41490.0    17060.0    16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        4370.0/bc 4230.0   4250.0                3960.0      4280.0      2680.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1810.07S 1670.0/C  1170.0/c              1390.0/b   2760.0/b    810.0/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)         85.0       78.0       78.0               92.0        99.0        97.o
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              69.0       6.0O       59.0/d             89.0        75.0        64.o
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       22.0/d       ..               23.0/C      44.0/C      28.0/c
DEATH RATE (/THOU: AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        9.0       1.      .0                    20.0        18.0        38.0/d
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      0.5        1.o      12 8                 3.0         2.0 eO 67, e
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0       13.0               12.0        13.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(K OF SECONDARY)                     21.0       10.0       17.0               40.0          .          9.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                  7.0 o    15                               . o       10.0        10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..        ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (5)
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           1.0       10.0       17.0               12.0        47.0        69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU PoP)            0.4        1.0        1.5                1.0         4.0         9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             2.0       0.0         9.0               11.0        63.0        73.o
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 .                .      .. 1                          .         0.o
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AN=D I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to anty year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estiarat between
1973 and 1975.
lGNP per capita data ere based on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 baeie).
00 Due to amigration population growth rate is lower than the rate of natural increase;
0*0 senegal has been selected as sn objective country for Upper Volta since its 1970 GNP is about four time that of Upper Volts's; thsy both are in
the seeo  geographical ares (Sahelian region), share a sinilar monetary system and have the   em aconom ic growth rate in the period  1960-70, and
have che sasle literacy rate of 5-10 percent.
LIPPER VOLTA     1960    /a  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and oner to total labor force;    /b  1963;    Ic  Including asistant nuraea;
Id  Gov-rnment hospital establishento.
1970     Ia  Rioto of population under 15 and 65 ard over to total labor force;               /b  In urban areac about 20 percent;    /c  Government
ho-pital establishmants;    /d  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1976;    /b  1970-73;    /c  Governmmot hospital eatabliaslh-nts, 1971;    /d  1969-71 average.
MALI             1970     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total  labor force;    !b  Government hospital establislnhots;    /c  1964-66.
MAURITANIA       1970    /I  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                 /b  Government hospital esatablshmsnts;    /c  1964-66.
SENEGAL          1970    /a  Ratio of population under- 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Government hospital establishments;    Ic  1964-66;
/d  Unadjuated;    /a  Lower aecondery level.
R6, JanuAry  i8, 1978
UDRINTIONS OP SOC7AL  DiDICATORS
Land Area (thou k.r2)                                                                          Population par nursina  person - Population divided by nomber of practicing
Total - Total aurface area conprising land area  nd inland waters,                               els and fiale graduate nurses, "trained" or 'csrtifi ed" nurss, and
Agric.   Hoot rrcenot estimate of agricultoral ares used tenporarily or Perma-                   auoiliary personal with training or *eperine..
nantly for crope, p-atures, market & kitehen gardens or to lie fallow.                       Population opr hoasital bed - Population divided by  tbeer of hospital beds
available in public and private general and speciellaed hbapital snd
GNP ner capita (US$) - GNP par capita estimatas at currnt mrket prices,                          rehabilitation centersn;  xclude  nursing hob s and establiahnts  for
colculated by same conversior  uthod as World bank Atlas (1973-75 beais);                      cuatodial and prsnvotive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 date.                                                                   Per caPit- suPPIy of calories (' of rnuirments) - Conputed fre enrgy
equivalent of net food eupplies -vailabls in co-try per capita par day;
popalation end oltal statistic!                                                                  available  upplies crprise dueatic production, imports less eparts, and
Population (mid-year million)   uA of July first:  if not available, average                     changes in  tock; not upplies exclude sninal feed, ceeds, quantities used
of two end-year estimatea; 1)60, 1970  nd 1975 data,                                           in food processing and losses in distribution; roqreirnts wre etimated
by FAD based on physiological needs for norml activity and health consid-
population density - pcr square ko  - Mid-year ppulation per square kilometer                    ering  nviromental tmperatur-, body wights, age  nd sex distributione of
(100 he-terse) of total are.                                                                   population,  nd allowing 10% for waste at ho.-.hold levl.
Population density -  er square kb  of agric. land - Cmputed as above for                      Per Capita supply of  rotein (eras pnr day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                        -t supply of food per day; nt supply of food iL  dfined as above; require-
mnts for all countrins established by USDA Econamic Reaaerch Service.
Vital statistics                                                                                 provide for a nini   allowane of 60 grut  of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate par thousand. verage - Annual liv  birtb. per tbousexd of                       20 gres of animal and pale protin, of  hbioh 10 grms should be animl
oid-ysar population; ten-year erithtic  verage  ending in 1960 and 1970,                       protein; thae  stenderd  ar  lower them those of 75 gra  of total protein
and five-year -ver-ge  nding in 1975 for et recant *atit.                                     and 23 gras  of ao1-l proteina   em n  verage for the world, proposed by PAO
Crude death rate oer thousand  a*vrace - Annual dethe per thousand of aid-year                   in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year eritlasatic averages  nding in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Per Capita protein supply fro  animl and oulee - Protin supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for wost reent estimate                                            derived fron anils and pulses  in gras par dy.
Infant mortality rate (/thou) - Anu.al deaths of infant  under one yar of age                  Deth rate (/thou5) ags  1-4 - Annl dastha per thouaand in age group 1-4
per thoueand live birthe.                                                                      yoers, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life eupvut.ncy at birth fyrs) - Av-rage conr of years of life remaining at                      mlnutrition.
birth; usually five-ysar average ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for develop-
ing countriea.                                                                               Education
Grosa reproduction rate - iverage neber of live daughters a wn will bear                       Adjusted snroll_nt  ratio - Primar school - Enrol7mnt of all eges as par-
in her norml reproductive period if she *xpriences present age-scific                          c ntge of primacy echool-eg  population; includes Children aged 6-11 years
fertility retse; uaully five-year  verages, ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      but adjusted for different lsngthe of primary  ducation; for countries with
for doveloping countries                                                                       universal education, enrollmnt my   seead 100% aie  sam  pupils  re ablos
Population growth rate (%) - total - Cmpound annual growth rates of mid-yoar                     or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 end 1970-75.                                                 Adwuted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Cosauted as above; econdery
Population orowth rate (27  - urban - Coputed like growth rate of total                          education requires at least four year  of approved primry instruction;
population; different definitions of urban  rsree amy affect comparability of                  provide  generl, vocational or teacher training inctructiona for pupils
data among otttrie.                                                                            of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coures amr generally excluded.
Urban poulation (M of total) - Ratio of urban to total popultion; different                    Years of chwlig orovidd (first  ndsecond leels) - Total years of
definition  of urban  *rea  may affect ceperability of data  Cont  ountriee.                   shling; at eondary level, vocational inAtruction my be partially or
Ceopletely exluded.
Ae structure (porcent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                     Vocational enrollment iX of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
aond retired  (65 years and over) .s percentages of mid-year popultion.                        t-hacoel, indu trial or other progras   hihe operate independently or as
Age dependeocy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to thoes                      departments of aecondary in titutionw.
of ages  15 through 64.                                                                      Adult literacy rate CY) - Literate  dults (able to read and write) as per-
Ectnonic depeondecy ratio - Ratio or population under 15 and 65 end over to                       centag, of total adult population aged 15  eas   and over.
the Iabor force in age group of 15-64 years.
FPily plammica - acceptors (umJultive. thou) - Cmultive nu-ber of ae optors                    bous JLA
of birth-control devicee under auspices of notional fenily planning progr_                   Person per roe  (urban) - Average number of perons per roe in occupied
since inception.                                                                               conventional duslinog  in urban ares; dellig  exclude non-permanent
F_ily plnning - usero (M of married wean) - Pere.ntages of married amen of                        structures  nd unoccupied parts
child-b-ering  ge (15-44 years) who w-  birth-nontrel device. to a11 mrricd                  Ocudid d-Illnma  without Piped wter it) - Oc-upied conventional dllings
wean in see age group.                                                                          in urban  nd rural areas without inide or outaids piped water failities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
EplIOV_nt                                                                                      Aces to electricity i% of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellingp  with
Total labor force  (thousand) - Econoically acive person, including armed                         el-etrinity in living quarters as perrent of total dellings in urban  nd
forces and uemployed but  ecluding houaewives, students, etc.; definition                       rural areas.
in various countrie  are  not ceprable.                                                      Rural d"llinm   nonseeted to *l ctrncitry  t) - Cmpuntd  s abov  for rural
Labor fore in  oricIulture  C) - Agricultural labor force (in forming, forestry,                  dwlliega only.
hunting and fishing) s percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (2 of labor ferns) - Unemployed ar  usually defined a person who                     Cqsu mption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, rmained out                  Radio reeiers  (per thou sOp) - All type  of rceivers, far radio broadcasts
of a Job, and seeking work for a speciflsd elnims, period not *xceeding on                      to general public per thousnd of population; excludes unliceaued receivers
week; my not be eparpble between Countries due to different definitions                         in Countries and in yers when  regitration of redin acts e_  in effect;
of unmployed  nd source  of dats, e.g.,   ploymnt offin  statitis, ample                        data for reenat year my not be eparable since mot countriea abolished
surveys, topuleory unemployment i-urnce.                                                        liceins lg.
Pass   er  e   ar theu spo) - FPssenger cors  cpries eotor car  seeting
Incoe  distribution - Percentage of private incos (both in Cesh and kind)                         lees than eght persons; enclades ambulantes, harse  and military
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and porest 40% of houae-                      vehicles.
holds.                                                                                        Electricity (kb/r ser cap) - Annul covusption of industrial, comarcial,
public and privste electricity in kilowatt hours per ceapite, generally
Distribution of land oanrsh:p - Percentags  of land owned by welthiest 10%                        based en prnduetion data, without a1lawnes   for lones  in grids but allow-
and poorest 10% of lend owners.                                                                 ing for imports  nd eqorte of electricity.
gewprint (kf/vr Per cea) - Per capita annual conmueption in kilogras
Health and Nutrition                                                                              eatetit4d fre  domestic production plu  net imports of nprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by mu.br of practicing
physicians qualified fron a medical school at university lel..



Annex 1
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA                                                Page 3 of 4 pages
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976: US$110
GROSS NATIONAL  PRODUCT IN 1975                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X. CONSTANT 1968 PRICES)
US$ million          _                       1960-1973               1973-1975
GNP at Market Prices                    629.9           100.00                         2.2                  3.2
Gross Domestic Investment               117.0            18.6                          2.6                 -2.0
Gross National Savings                   33.7             5.4
Current Account Balance                 105.6           -16.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                    81.7             13.0                         2.6                  7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS                   240.3            38.2                          3.5                 -6.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added (Factor Costs)          Jabor Force*
US$ million      %                  (  0O)R 
Agriculture                                    260.5       44.5                 2,830       95.5
Industry                                       110.7       18.9                   45        1.5
Services                                       214.5       36.6                    89       3.0
Total                                          585.7      100.0                2,964      100.0
GOVERNM1 T FINANCE
General Government
of GDP
1974     1975         1974   1975
Current Revenues                               15.1     19.6          12.7   14.0
Current Expenditures                           11.8     20.6          9.9   14.8
Current Surplus or Deficit                      3.3     -1.0           2.8   -0.8
Capital Expenditures                            1.3      2.0           1.1    1.4
External Assistance                             0.9      1.7          0.8    1.2
Overall Balance                                 2.9     -1.3           Z.5   -9.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1971      1972       1973       1974       1975
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                          9.93       9.96      14.62     17.53      21.71
Bank credit to Public Sector                  -4.45     -5.14      -6.13      -9.27      -4.90
Bank credit to Private Sector                  6.61       7.31      9.16      15.38      20.49
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP             10.8       10.1       14.6     15.7       15.6
General Price Index (1963 = 100)            119.0      123.0      130.3    148.3       187.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                             .         3.4      10.7       8.8       26.2
Bank  credit to Public Sector                   .      -15.5      -19.3    -51.2       +47.2
Bank credit to Private Sector                   .       19.6       25.3      67.9       33.2
* Staff estimates
Not available
Not applicable                                                                         November 30, 1977



COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS                            Annex 1
(in millions bf current US$)                          Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                  1973       1974*     1975*          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Exports of Goods, NFS                57.0       67.7      81.7           (Average of 1972-75)
Imports of Goods, IES               145.5     166.2      240.3
Resource Gap (deficit   -)   -66.5            -98.5    -158.6            Livestock        17.2              39.3
Cotton            8.1              18.5
Interest Payments (net)               1.7       1.8        2.0          Groundnuts         6.7              15.3
Workers' Remittances                 30.5       33.6      39.7           All other         11.8             26.9
Other Factor Payments (net)          -4.6       -4.7      -6.0            Total           43.8            -100.0
Net Transfers                        13.5       10.4      17.3
Balance on Current Accounts         -47.4     -57.4    -105.6           EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31,1976
Direct Foreign Investment (net)       2.6       5.0        5.0          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    247.5
Official Capital Grants              50.9      53.2       84.2          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt        _
Net MLT Borrowings                    9.1       14.1      18.9           Total outstanding and disbursed   84.4
Disbursements                   (12.1)    (16.7)    (22.5)          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976
Repayment                       (-3.0)    (.2.6).   (-3.6)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Other items 1/                        2.3       -6.7     -10.5           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Change in Reserves (end year)       -18.0      -8.7       +7.0           Total outstanding and disbursed   6.4%
Foreign Reserves (end year)          53.3      74.2       67.5
Fuel and Related Materials                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING, NOVEMBER  30, 1977
Imports:                                                           Outstanding and Disbursed          30.4
Undisbursed                       59.0
of which: Petroleum             5.4       9.1       12.6          Outstanding incl. undisbursed    89.4
Exports:
of which: Petroleum
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1971:   US$1.00 = CFAF  277.03
1972:   US$1.00 = CFAF  252.21
1973:   US$1.00 = CFAF  222;70
1974:   US$1.00 = CFAF  240.50
1975:   US$1.00 = CFAF  214.32
1976:   US$1.00 = CFAF  245.00
1/ Including errors and omissions
* Staff estimate
Not available
Not applicable                                                                         November 30, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of November 30, 1977)
(US$ million)
Amount    (less cancellations)
Number    Year     Borrower          Purpose              IDA            Undisbursed
Three Credits fully disbursed                              5.8                -
225-UV    1970     Republic of       West Volta Cotton    6.2                0.1
Upper Volta
430-UV    1973     Republic of       Education             2.9               1.3
Upper Volta
431-UV    1973     Republic of       Telecommunications   4.5                0.6
Upper Volta
442-UV    1973     Republic of       DroughL Relief        2.0               0.0*
Upper Volta
316-2-UV  1974     Republic of       Roads                 1.3               0.7
Upper Volta
496-UV    1974     Republic of       Bougouriba Agricul-  8.0                4.6
Upper Volta      tural Development
557-UV    1975     Republic of       Livestock Develop-   9.0                8.3
Upper Volta      ment Project
579-UV    1975     Republic of       Rural Roads           7.5               6.5
Upper Volta
640-UV    1976     Republic of       Rural Development    9.4                8.6
Upper Volta      Fund II
653-UV    1976     Republic of       Roads III            20.0              15.5
Upper Volta
706-UV    1977     Republic of       Agricultural          3.6               5.2
Upper Volta      Development
744-UV 2/ 1977     Republic of       Railway               5.2               5.2
Upper Volta
-UV 2/ 1977     Republic of       Small & Medium
Upper Volta      Scale Enterprise       4.0               4.0
TOTAL                                               89.4              59.0
of which has been repaid
TOTAL now held by IDA 1/                            89.4
TOTAL undisbursed                                                     59.0
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment of US$0.2 million
2/   Not yet effective
W    US$33,201.53 undisbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1977)
NIL
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 225:    West Volta Cotton Project.  US$6.2 Million Credit of December 30,
1970; Effective Date:  May 1, 1971; Closing Date:  December 31,
1976 - Extended to December 31, 1977
The project is part of a cotton production development program
in West Volta, which originally started with FAC financing in 1963. It
consists of expansion of cotton cultivation, improvement of yields, credit and
extension services, and provision of better communications and processing
facilities. The project also includes funds for detailed engineering of
secondary roads and preparation of the Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project, both of which have been completed. The total area under cotton in
1976/77 will be 32,000 ha more than in 1970/71, about in line with appraisal
estimates. However, seed cotton output in 1976/77 is expected to be 38,500
tons higher than that of 1970/71 thus exceeding appraisal estimates of incre-
mental production by 17%. Due to lagging cotton production during early pro-
ject years which were drought years, no additional ginnery was constructed at
Hounde. Good progress was made in the improvement and maintenance of the
feeder road network in the project area. This project has been completed.
Credit 316:    Road Project.  US$4.L5 Million Credit of June 26, 1972 (As
amended on March 25, 1974); Effective Date:  December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project originally comprised: (a) the reconstruction of
the Solenzo-Koudougou (70 km) and Hounde-Bereba (27 km) roads, and (b) feasi-
bility studies for about 400 km of primary roads, and engineering of those
sections found to have the highest priority. Construction of the Solenzo-
Koudougou road began in March 1974 and is now completed. Construction of the
Hounde-Bereba road was deleted from the project as cotton production did
not merit the construction of a ginnery at Hounde and without the ginnery
there was no justification for the road. These funds were transferred to a
drainage works construction component bids for which are expected end
December, 1977. Regarding part (b) out of four proposed roads only two, from
Banfora to Bobo-Dioulasso and from Bobo-Dioulasso to Hounde (a total of 190
km) were selected for feasibility studies as these were the only roads which
showed a preliminary satisfactory rate of return. Construction began on
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which
are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project executiorn.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
the road component of the Third Highway project (Cr. 653-UV) on the basis of
these completed engineering and feasibility studies in March 1977. Due to
currency realignment and to cost overruns on the road construction part of the
project, the dollar cost of the project increased. Consequently, to enable
project completion, on March 25, 1974 the Association approved an increase in
the amount of the credit from US$2.8 million to US$4.15 million.
Credit 430:    Education Project.  US$2.85 Million Credit of September 28, 1973;
Effective Date: June 27, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project was designed to improve the quality and enlarge the
scope of rural education in the ORDs of Dedougou, Koudougou, and Kaya. The
project originally provided for: (a) the construction and equipping of 40
centers, and the equipping of 80 existing centers for the training of young
farmers (CFJAs), (b) the organization, equipping, and servicing of 150 post-
school cooperative groups for young farmers over 18 years of age; (c) the
creation of three rural development training centers; (d) the provision of
science laboratories for 21 secondary schools; and (e) related and supporting
technical assistance for project implementation. The three rural development
training centers were originally provided under the project to train graduates
of rural education centers as rural development agents. However, as project
implementation has been delayed, it is unlikely that graduates will be ready
for further training as rural development agents during the project period.
Therefore the component was deleted from the project, and the funds released
will be used to provide additional support facilities and materials for the
training of rural education instructors and agricultural agents for the group
cooperatives. Physical implementation of the project is about 15 months
behind the appraisal forecast. Construction of the science laboratories is
scheduled for completion by February 1978, with equipment delivery expected
by end January, 1978. Progress on the rural component has been delayed by
the remoteness of and great distances between sites and by shortages of
critical materials; corrective action under way is expected to enable this
component to be completed by the spring of 1978. Despite the delays the
project is expected to be completed within the budget; no revision of the
closing date is foreseen. This is an innovative project with good local
participation.
Credit 431:    Second Telecommunications Project.  US$4.5 Million Credit of
September 28, 1973; Effective Date: May 23, 1974;
.Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Credit was approved on June 21, 1973, signed on September 28,
1973, and became effective on May 23, 1974. This Credit, the second made to
Upper Volta for telecommunications, finances the major part of Upper Volta's
1974-77 telecommunications expansion program. The project comprises provision
of automatic and trunk switching equipment, local distribution networks and
subscribers' apparatus, microwave links, auxiliary construction and equip-
ment, consultants' services and training of personnel. The executing agency
for the project is the "Office des Postes et Telecommunications de Haute-
Volta" (OPT), a semi-autonomous public entity. The project execution is on



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
schedule. All contracts were awarded by the end of 1975, and the project
costs have increased only slightly, mainly for local costs, and the IDA
credit is judged sufficient to cover the project's foreign exchange require-
ments. The financial results for the year ending December 31, 1974 were
satisfactory; however, OPT's financial situation for the years 1975-77 is
projected to deteriorate. OPT has received a loan from Government to help it
restore its cash flow position and finance building costs.
Credit 442:    Drought Relief Project.  US$2.0 Million Credit of December 7,
1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1976 - Extended to March 31, 1978
This is one of six credits made available to the Sahelian
countries to help people in drought affected areas re-establish food self-
sufficiency. In Upper Volta the project is executed by the Rural Development
Fund established under Credit 317-UV. The project originally envisaged four
sub-projects; (i) construction and equipment of 150 tube-wells; (ii) con-
struction of three earth dams; (iii) purchase of road equipment for repair of
feeder roads; (iv) construction of six seed storage warehouses. Procurement
has been completed, but the execution of the tube-well drilling program, the
most important component of the project, began just a year ago. The delay of
almost one year is due to default by suppliers of vehicle parts and drilling
pipes. Project completion was extended by one year and a half to allow for
completion of tubewell drilling program.
Credit 496:    Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of July 19, 1974;  Effective Date:  July 18, 1975;
Closing Date: May 31, 1979
The project, to be carried out over a four year period, is
the first major effort to develop the natural and human resources of the
Bougouriba ORD. The project has been ongoing for over two years and, to
date, results have been mixed: while infrastructure improvements (roads,
wells) have shown good progress, agricultural production is lagging and the
project is in need of reorganization of its extension services. Increased
attention must also be given the training and supervision of extension workers.
A follow-up project for the area is presently under consideration.
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.  US$9.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project, to be carried out over five years, is a broadly
based program to assist cattle production in the Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso
ORDs through group ranch development, the impravement of veterinary services,
livestock marketing, meat processing and the provision of technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
The project is running behind schedule; only the investment programs for the
Project Unit and the animal health component are proceeding as originally
projected; however, planning for the Group Ranch Center, the rehabilitation of
the Bobo-Dioulasso abattoir and the livestock marketing component is suffi-
ciently advanced, that no future slippages are expected to occur with regard
to these three components. Group ranch development has proceeded very slowly;
nevertheless, the site for the first 18,000 ha group ranch has been selected,
and Government has issued the group ranch statute. Bids for construction of
the group ranch center have been sent out and Government has issued the group
ranch statute but the first group ranch has yet to start up. Progress has
been further hampered by the accidental death of the Group Ranch General
Manager. A supervision mission which returned in late December has recom-
mended that an in-depth review of the Group Ranch component be made during
the first quarter of 1978.
Credit 579:    Rural Roads Project.  US$7.5 Million Credit of August 13, 1975;
Effective Date: February 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
The project, to be carried out over four years, provides for
the improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 1,200 km of rural roads,
and maintenance of about 2,100 km of existing roads, the strengthening of the
Service d'Entretien des Routes Secondaires (SERS) through technical assistance
to the Ministry of Public Works, and the implementation of the above road
program and procurement of highway equipment. All equipment should be
delivered on schedule. Recruitment of local personnel is advancing well.
Terms of reference for an evaluation and impact study have been discussed with
the Government.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.  US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21,_1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project will be carried out over five years (1976/77
through 1979/80), and will provide a line of credit to the Rural Development
Fund (Fonds de Developpement Rural - FDR) for investment in small-scale rural
projects, the main purpose of which would be to increase crop production and
improve village water supplies. Program activities will include: bottomland
development (2,700 ha); erosion control works (9,200 ha); small scale irriga-
tion and improved bottomland development (500 ha); construction of 520 wells,
180 tube-wells, 400 village warehouses and 20 village centers; provision of
medium term credit for agricultural equipment, US$0.5 million equivalent; and
provision for unidentified projects. In addition, studies for economic dev-
elopment of areas freed from onchocerciasis will also be financed under the
project. Staff recruitment and the procurement of vehicles and equipment is
almost complete. The project was slow in getting started due to the shortage
of funds caused by delayed project effectiveness and limited pre-financing
available from Government. These problems have now been overcome and work
targets for the 1976-77 season have on the whole been reached.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Credit 653:    Third Highway Project.  US$20 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date: December 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of:  (a) reconstruction of the Banfora-
Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde road (183 km); (b) procurement of vehicle weight control
and traffic counting equipment; (c) road maintenance study; (d) preinvestment
study of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori road; (e) technical assistance to the
Department of Transport (DOT); and (f) technical assistance to the domestic
contracting industry. Two contracts for the construction of the project
road were awarded in January 1977. The Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde section is
currently under contruction and should be completed by June 1978. The Bobo-
Dioulasso Banfora section began in October and should be completed in the
spring of 1979. Offers for vehicle weight control and traffic counting equip-
ment are being evaluated. The technical assistance to the DOT has been
in place since January 1977. Offers for the maintenance study have been
evaluated by Government and we are expecting them shortly. Arrangements for
providing technical assistance to domestic contractors have not been finalized.
offers for the preinvestment study are due in January, 1978.
Credit 706:    West Volta Agricultural Development Project.  US$3.6 million
Credit of May 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982.
The project will strengthen the ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and
Dedougou through provision of technical assistance and equipment; establish a
Financial and Administrative Unit for project monitoring and accounting;
finance a ginnery and training facilities for projection extension workers;
support an annual extension program; provide agricultural inputs to farmers;
develop low cost irrigation schemes; implement a pilot settlement project and
a pilot women's project.
Credit 744:    Regional Railway Project in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 million Credit of Nov. 14, 1977; Effective Date:
; Closing Date: Dec. 31, 1980
This credit is not yet effective.
Credit 759:    Artisan, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.
US$4.0 million of January 12, 1978; Effective
Date:                       ; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981.
The Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Section I: - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  one year.
(b)  Agencies that prepared the project:  SCET International
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association: November, 1975;
date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: February,
1976
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:  February, 1977.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  September 16, 1977.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  April 31, 1978.
Section II:   -  Special IDA Implementation Actions
Given the lack of precedent for cost recovery and the poor collec-
tion record of the municipalities, cost recovery arrangements will have to be
monitored very closely during project implementation. The mission has esti-
mated that 150 person weeks will be required over the project implementation
period 50 of which will be during the first year.
Section III:   -  Special Conditions
(a)  final engineering designs and implementation arrangements
for the squatter upgrading, sites and services and water
distribution components would be satisfactory to the
Association (para. 38);
(b)  Municipal Housing Offices headed by qualified personnel
and adequately staffed are to be established with the
existing Land Offices of the Municipalities of Ouagadougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso (para. 39);
(c)  an Interministerial Committee headed by the Minister
with responsibility for town planning will be created
(para. 41)
(d)  a review of municipal financial management would begin
no later than June 1978 and be completed by June 1979
(para 42);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of consultants hired under the project
shall be satisfactory to the Association (para. 43);
(f) arrangement for legalizing land tenure for residents
in the upgraded neighborhoods (para. 44);
(g) principles and amounts to be applied to housing con-
struction loans (para. 46);
(h) principles to be applied to recovery of investment
costs (para. 48); and
(i) use by the municipalities of the balances in the Housing
Development Funds (para 49).



'   -  REPL8BUC wOF UPPER                                                   2                               -     -       <    
-URBAN  DEVtPMENT PROJET)--- .i
DkA Pretct ;,                                                     AHE                          .q
,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A  H  F                                              G                               'A Ft , -5 -, A   
15 V O R ~~~~~~~~~~Y   -.COA ST E N  G  A



