CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 766 UV
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 16, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 766 UV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 16, 1978, between the REPUBLIC OF
UPPER VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by letters addressed by the Association to the Minister
of Finance of the Borrower on July 9, 1976 and July 7, 1977 the
Association grantec advances to the Borrower totalling $330,000
for the preparation of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(C) pursuant to the terms of said advances the aggregate
amount thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
(D) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Ministry" means the Ministry of the Borrower respon-
sible for Public Works, Transporc and Town Planning;
(b) "ONE" means the National Water Office, a public estab-
lishment of the Borrower established and operating under Decree
No. 77-140 PRES.DR. of the Borrower dated April 26, 1977;
(c) "Municipalities" means the Municipalities of Ouagadougou
and of Bobo-Dioulasso;
(d) "FONASEN" means the National Fund for Land Reclamation
and Maintenance, a public enterprise of the Borrower established
and operating under Decree No. 77-369/PRES/MF. dated September,
1977, as modified by Decree No. 78-017/PRES/DR of January 17,
1978;
(e) "Financing Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Municipalities, ONE
and FONASEN pursuant to Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
Schedules to such Agreements;
(f) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(g) "BND" means the National Development Bank of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million two hundred thousand dollars ($8,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a Special Account in its Treasury on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Disbursements from the Special
Account shall be made exclusively to finance the costs of goods
and services required to carry out the Project.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the cur-
rency of the Borrower not exceeding $400,000 equivalent and shall
thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, further withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to reimburse the Borrower for payments made
out of the Special Account for expenditures for the Project eligi-
ble for financing under the Development Credit Agreement, but only
to the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with
any amount already on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $400,000.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment out of the Special Account such documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of
goods or services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure
not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Credit Account;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to
paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association and prior to any further deposit in
the Special Account by the Association, deposit in the Special
Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
when the Association shall have determined that all further with-
drawals can be made under paragraph (a) of this Section or when
the total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have
reached the equivalent of $7,800,000, whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal of the remaining amount of the Credit shall follow
procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-4-
(g) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amounts of the advances referred to in the preamble to this
Agreement withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any
unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of such advances shall automatically be cancelled on the
same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
required for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1988, and ending September
15, 2027, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, E
(ii), (iii), (iv) and G of the Project through the Ministry, Part


﻿- 5 -
D through the BND and shall cause: (i) the Municipalities of
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso each to carry out their respective
portions of Parts E (i) and (v), F and H of the Project; (ii) ONE
to carry out Part C of the Project and (iii) FONASEN to carry out
Part I thereof, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, architec-
tural and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed such consultants
and technical assistants as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association and whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.03. In order to oversee the implementation of the
Project, other than for Parts C, E (i) and (v), F and H of the
Borrower shall: (i) establish a Project Unit within the Department
of Town Planning and Architecture of the Ministry, headed by a
qualified and experienced Project Director and consisting of a
civil engineer, a socio-economist, an accountant, an urban plan-
ner, and an expert in savings and loans cooperatives and (ii)
ensure that qualified counterparts are assigned to said unit.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part F of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause each of the Municipalities to establish and
maintain Municipal Housing Offices within their existing Bureaux
Domaniaux and ensure that said Offices are headed by qualified and
experienced persons acceptable to the Association and that they
are adequately staffed.
Section 3.05. For the purpose of overall coordination and
supervision in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
establish an interministerial coordination committee under the
chairmanship of the Minister responsible for Town Planning and
consisting of: the Minister of Finance or his representative,
(Vice Chairman), the Director-General of the Interior, the Prefect
of Ouagadougou, the Sub-Prefect of Bobo-Dioulasso, the Director of
Town Planning, the Director-General of the National Water Office,
the head of the Housing Offices of the Municipalities, the Direc-
tor of the Department of Lands, the Director-General of the BND
and the Director-General of FONASEN, as permanent members; which
committee shall enlist the participation as appropriate of:


﻿-6-
the Director of the Centre National de Perfectionnement des
Artisans Ruraux, the Director of the Office de Promotion de
1'Entreprise Voltaique, the Prefect of Gaoua and a representative
of the team responsible for monitoring and evaluating the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i) relend to the Municipalities of Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso the equivalent of the amounts of the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account under the Categories in which funds have
been allocated to such Municipalities, respec-
tively, with the exception of Categories 1 (B), 1
(D), 1 (E) (2) and (4), 2 (A) and 3 (A), as set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under
Financing Agreements acceptable to the Association
which shall provide inter alia that the sub-loans
shall mature in seventeen years and bear interest
of six percent (6%) per annum, with five years
period of grace during which no interest will
accrue;
(ii) relend to ONE the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn under Categories 1 (B), and 3 (C)
(3) set forth in such Schedule, under a Financing
Agreement acceptable to the Association which shall
provide inter alia that the sub-loan shall mature
in twenty years and bear interest of six percent
(6%) per annum, with three years period of grace
during which no interest will accrue; and
(iii) relend to FONASEN the Proceeds of the Credit with-
drawn under Category 1 (D) and 3 (C) (4) set forth
in such Schedule under a Financing Agreement
acceptable to the Association which shall provide
inter alia, that the sub-loan shall mature in
twenty years and bear interest of six percent
(6%) per annum, with three years of grace during
which no interest will accrue.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financ-
ing Agreements referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,


﻿- 7 -
nor amend, abrogate or waive any of such Agreements or any pro-
vision contained therein.
(c) The Borrower shall, in addition to the proceeds of the
Credit referred to in paragraph (a) (i) above, make available as
grants to the Municipalities of Ouagadougou and of Bobo-Dioulasso
additional proceeds of the Credit equivalent to the amounts with-
drawn under Categories 1 (E) (2) and (4), 2 (A) and 3 (A), respec-
tively, set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall cause the Municipalities to deposit
the funds recovered as described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
into interest-bearing accounts at the BND, to be known as Housing
Development Funds and which shall be administered according to
procedures satisfactory to the Association and utilized as speci-
fied in paragraph 4 of such Schedule.
Section 3.07. In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall:
(a) ensure that final engineering designs and implementation
arrangements are satisfactory to IDA;
(b) make all necessary arrangements to grant legal title in
the form of an Urban Occupancy Permit to beneficiaries under Parts
A and B of the Project;
(c) ensure that land under customary tenure arrangements
be incorporated in the jurisdictions of the Municipalities once
developed; and
(d) ensure that the selection of households participating in
the Project and plot allocations, including terms and conditions
of plot transfers, are done in accordance with the guidelines set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall make appropriate arrange-
ments in consultation with the Association for the establishment
of cost recovery mechanisms, as specified in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that the financial
management expert employed pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment shall commence implementation of Part H of the Project not
later than June 1978 and shall furnish his recommendations for the
Association to comment thereon not later than June 1979.


﻿-8-
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause the infrastructure
and community facilities included in Parts A, B, C, E (i), (ii),
(iii) and (iv) and I of the Project to be maintained, operated,
and staffed in conformity with appropriate administrative, engi-
neering, public utility, public health and educational practices,
as the case may be, and shall provide or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for this purpose.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and the Munici-
palities to prepare quarterly reports on the progress of the
Project for delivery and approval by the interministerial commit-
tee referred to in Section 3.05 to this Agreement, and shall
furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-9-
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ONE, FONASEN and
the Municipalities as well as the Department of Town Planning and
other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project to maintain separate records
and accounts in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ONE, FONASEN and the Munici-
palities to: (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such accounts and the audits thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall employ qualified and expe-
rienced consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to monitor and evaluate the progress made in the
execution of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Financing Agreements have been
signed by the parties thereto.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association, namely that each of the Financing
Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of each of the parties thereto and is
legally binding upon each such party in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date June 30, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFINANCE                        MIFICOM
Ouagadougou                        5256


﻿- 11 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be f;igned in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By Is/ Telesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
1.   Civil Works for:
A.   On-site Works                            80%
(Upgrading and
Sites and Ser-
vices):
(1) Ouagadougou          491,000
(2) Bobo-Diou-
lasso               314,000
(3) Gaoua                 16,000
B.   Water Supply:                           80%
(1) Ouagadougou          341,000
(2) Bobo-Diou-
lasso                65,000
C.   Off Site Works:                          80%
(1) Ouagadougou           21,000
(2) Bobo-Diou-
lasso               127,000
D.   Zogona Gulley            694,000         80%
E.   Community Facili-                        80%
ties:
(1) Ouagadougou
Markets and Com-
munity Centers       20,000


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(2) Schools and
Clinics Reha-
bilitation           60,000
(3) Bobo-Dioulasso
Markets and
Community
Centers              10,000
(4) Schools and
Clinics Reha-
bilitation           40,000
F.   Ouagadougou Depot         24,000         80%
2.   Vehicles and Equipment
for:
A.   Community Facili-                        100% of foreign
ties:                                    expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
Ouagadougou
(1) Public Hygiene
and Disinfec-
tion                 40,000
(2) Community
Development
Fund                 60,000
Bobo-Dioulasso
(3) Public Hygiene
and Disin-
fection              40,000
(4) Community
Development
Fund                 40,000


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
B.   Municipal                                100% of foreign
Assistance:                              expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
(1) Ouagadougou          240,000
(2) Bobo-Diou-
lasso                60,000
C.   Project Unit              11,000         100% of foreign
expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
3.   Consultant Services
for:
A.   Municipalities:                          100%
(1) Ouagadougou          440,000
(2) Bobo-Diou-
lasso               400,000
B.   Project Unit:            825,000         100%
C.   Final Engineering                        100%
and Supervision:
(1) Ouagadougou            4,000
(2) Bobo-Diou-
lasso               120,000
(3) ONE                  109,000
(4) FONASEN               32,000
D.   Monitoring/Eval-
uation                   111,000         90%


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
4.   Operating Expenses:                           75%
A.   Garbage Service
Start-Up Costs
(Municipality
Ouagadougou)              40,000
B.   Municipal Housing
Office:                                  75%
(1) Ouagadougou           75,000
(2) Bobo-Diou-
lasso                75,000
C.   Project Unit              95,000         75%
5.   Home Construction
and Improvement Loans:
A.   Ouagadougou              415,000         100%
B.   Bobo-Dioulasso           415,000
6.   Refunding of Project          330,000         amount out-
Preparation Advances                          standing at
Effective Date
7.   Unallocated                 2,003,000
TOTAL        8,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than


﻿- 16 -
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such cur-
rency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or


﻿- 17 -
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for urban
development and consists of the following Parts:
A.   Construction of drainage systems, roads and preparation of
surveyed plots in the existing neighborhoods of Cissin
(about 200 hectares) and Zogona (about 100 hectares) in
Ouagadougou, and Sonsuribugu (about 132 hectares) in Bobo-
Dioulasso, amounting to a total of about 9,400 plots.
B.   Development of (i) about 1,126 new plots covering an area of
approximately 50 hectares in Bobo-Dioulasso and (ii) a pilot
sites and services area for about 100 families in Gaoua.
C.   Extension of existing water distribution system to neighbor-
hoods referred to in Parts A and B above as well as to the
neighborhoods of Tampouy, Tanghin - Sambin and Hambdallaye in
Ouagadougou.
D.   Provision by BND on behalf of the Borrower of loans for
housing improvements and start up construction in the areas
serviced under Parts A and B (i) of the Project.
E.   Provision of social services and community facilities con-
sisting of the following components:
(i) Repair and rehabilitation, including fencing and the
construction of latrines, of about forty schools and ten
dispensaries in Ouagadougou and twenty-five schools and
seven dispensaries in Bobo-Dioulasso;
(ii) Construction and furnishing and equipping of a total of
nineteen community centers in the areas included in
Parts A and B (i) of the Project;
(iii) Construction of four markets in Ouagadougou and two mar-
kets in Bobo-Dioulasso each covered and with a surface
of about 350 square meters and containing 100 box
stalls;


﻿- 19 -
(iv) Carrying out of pilot projects in community development
including small-scale operations in community educa-
tion, public health, and women's activities, which will
be identified during Project implementation; and
(v) Procurement of insecticides, spraying pumps and a light
truck for each of the Municipalities.
F*   Procurement of equipment, supplies and vehicles for the
Municipalities to improve their sanitation and maintenance
services, revenue collection, and implementation of housing
operations, utilizing the services of technical assistants;
repair and expansion of the municipal garage and depot of
Ouagadougou.
G.   Training of staff in the Town-Planning Department of the
Ministry and in the Municipalities.
H.   A review by consultants of procedures for revenue collection
and of actual and potential sources of revenue in the Muni-
cipalities.
i.   Reconstruction of the Zogona drainage gulley, including the
reinforcement of three bridges.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B and C hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods, equipment and civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for goods and civil works shall, wherever possible,
be grouped in packages of at least $50,000 equivalent each.
3.   Bidders for civil works other than those described in para-
graph B.2 and C below will be prequalified as described in para-
graph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts for construction of workshops, offices
and drainage and water supply facilities and for plot surveys
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent and which cannot be
grouped as per provision in paragraph A. 2 above may be let after
competitive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's procurement
procedures.
2.   All contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than
$5,000 equivalent and which cannot be grouped may be let by
comparative shopping and negotiations in acrordance with the
Borrower's procurement procedures.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
All works for secondary drainage and road construction
under the Project may be executed by use of force account by the
Ministry, or by following the procedures set forth in paragraph
B.1 above.


﻿- 21 -
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category 1 of the Table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit
Agreement and to be procured in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification apply-
ing also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including details
of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, accord-
ing to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in
the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part D.1 above and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such


﻿- 22 -
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and to all
contracts for civil works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award of the said consultants and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 23 -
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Plot Allocation
1.   Information concerning availability of plots, terms of occu-
pancy and obligations of plot holders will be disseminated through
mass media and other appropriate means by the Municipal Housing
Offices of the Municipalities.
2.   Residents of neighborhoods included in the Project wishing
to acquire plots as well as candidates for new plots created by
densification and in the site and service area will furnish
applications to the Municipal Housing Offices according to pro-
cedures established and made public by these Offices.
3.   Allocation criteria for new plots will be established by the
Project Unit created in the Ministry and the Municipal Housing
Offices, using the allocation criteria applied in the Cissin proj-
ect and the following as guidelines:
(i) average monthly household income ceiling will be
CFAF 40,000;
(ii) applicants should not have an Urban Occupancy
Permit in the respective Municipalities;
(iii) priority for allocation will be given to resi-
dents displaced because of upgrading operations;
and
(iv) the number of plots held by residents who do
not hold customary land tenure should represent at
least 90% of the plots in a project neighborhood.
4.   These criteria will be modified as deemed appropriate in
consultation with the Association, according to the results
of the socio-economic surveys to be carried out in the Project
neighborhoods. Allottees deemed eligible according to the estab-
lished criteria will be allocated specific lots through a public
lottery system.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Principles to be Applied for Recovery of
Investment Costs of Project Components
1.   On-Site Infrastructure. A system of recovery of the costs of
the Project based on the allocation of costs set forth below will
be applied by the Municipal Housing Offices to all households
living in the neighborhoods to be upgraded and in the sites and
services areas. These charges will include the following:
(a) plot development costs, including contingencies, engi-
neering, construction supervision, and relocation
costs for displaced residents;
(b) land acouisition charges, according to previous tenure
status, with residents having customary tenure (origi-
naires) paying CFAF 10/m2, and all the other residents
paying CFAF 100/m2;
(c) management charges of CFAF 100 per plot per month;
and
(d) default provisions, at 20% of the total monthly charge.
2.   Total development costs for each site as outlined in 1 (a)
above (with the exception of water-supply costs, treated in
paragraph 6 below) will be divided by the net residential area
to obtain a unit cost per square meter. Development cost per
plot will then be established by multiplying the unit cost per
square meter by the size of plot, which will be either 240,
300 or 360m2, with the overall average plot size fixed at 300m2.
Plot development costs, together with land acquisition charges,
will constitute a total plot cost, which will be repaid through a
downpayment of CFAF 15,000, with the reiainder paid in install-
ments over 10 years with a rate of interest of 8.5% per annum with
no penalty for early repayment. These installments will also
include management and default surcharges, as described in 1 (c)
and 1 (d) above.
3.   The only exception to the above will be made for residents
having customary tenure (originaires), who will make only a one-
time payment of CFAF 15,000. The difference between total plot
costs for such residents and their payments of CFAF 15,000, will


﻿- 26 -
be added to the plot costs for other residents on a proportionate
basis by size of plot. The actual frequency of installments and
the method of payment may vary according to the source of income
of the plot holder. Charges for salaried plot holders will be
deducted from salaries at the source.
4.   The administration of the recovery system described in the
preceding paragraphs will be subject to consultation with the
Association. All payments will be made to the Municipal Housing
Offices and will be deposited in the Housing Development Funds
to be used to cover their administrative costs, defaults of up
to 20% of the amounts receivable and debt-servicing of loans
contracted for on-site investments.
5.   Off-Site Infrastructure. The cost of off-site infrastructure,
with the exceptions of water supply and off-site drainage works
in the Zogona gulley, will be recovered through the general tax
revenues of the Municipalities, which will be responsible for
servicing the debt contracted for these investments. This system
will cover the full cost of off-site infrastructure, including
detailed engineering and construction supervision.
6.   Water Supply. The cost of investments in the water supply
distribution systems of the Municipalities will be recovered by
ONE through the collection of water charges.
7.   Drainage of the Zogona Gulley. One quarter of the costs of
investments in the drainage of the Zogona Gulley will be consid-
ered non-recoverable as a public sanitation measure. Three quar-
ters will be recovered as follows: Half of the total investment
costs will be recovered through tax revenue accruing to the
FONASEN from sources agreed upon by the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, and one-fourth of the total investment costs will be
recovered directly from beneficiaries living on the 500 hectares
in the Zogona flood plain.
8.   Housing Construction and Improvements Loans. Loans for the
purchase of building materials will be granted to the plotholders
occupying plots under this Project. Existing residents will be
eligible to borrow up to CFAF 30,000, while new residents will be
eligible to borrow up to CFAF 65,000. Households which have been
displaced as a result of upgrading operations and relocated on
nearby plots will be eligible to receive CFAF 65,000 but will
repay only CFAF 30,000, with the remaining CFAF 35,000 considered
as compensation for relocation.


﻿- 27 -
9.   Repayments of housing construction and improvement loans will
be made to the Municipal Housing Offices at the same time as plot
development charges and on the same terms and conditions. The
Municipalities will deposit the revenue from repayments in the
Housing Development Funds referred to Section 3.06 (d) of this
agreement.
10. Community Facilities:
(a) Markets. The cost of construction of new markets will be
recovered through the Municipal tax on concessionaires
and this tax will be increased as necessary to cover
maintenance and operating expenditures;
(b) Pilot Community Development Project. A portion of the
costs of the pilot community development project, Part
E (iv) (f the Project, will be recovered from benefi-
ciaries, according to the nature of the pilot activities
identified during the execution of the Project.
11. Municipal Assistance. The costs of Part F of the Project,
with the exception of the cost of technical assistance, will be
recovered through the general revenues of the Municipalities.


