Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE  Cun
Report No. 1906-MA
MALAYS IA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 30, 1978
East Asia and Pacific
Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed  without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = M$2.40
M$1.00 = US$0.42
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 pound      =       0.453 kg
1 pikul              133.3 lb
1 long ton           16.8 pikuls
1 gallon     =       4.546 liters
1 liter      =       0.22 gal
1 acre       =       0.404 hectare (ha)
1 hectare    =       2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
AI              -        Artificial insemination
BPM             -        Bank Pertanian Malaysia
CP              -        FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
CCPC            -        Coconut Collection and Processing Center
CPC-            -        Crop Production Center
CRC             -        Cattle Raising Center
CR/RS           -        Coconut Replanting/Rehabilitation Scheme (1963-75)
CSDS            -        Coconut Smallholder Development Scheme
(prior to the Bank project)
DID             -        Federal Draining and Irrigation Department
DOA             -         Federal Department of Agriculture
DVS             -         Federal Department of Veterinary Services
EPU             -        Economic Planning Unit
FAMA            -        Federal Agriculture Marketing Authority
FDC             -        Farmers' Development Center
FMP             -        First Malaysia Plan
FOA             -        Farmers' Organization Authority
IH              -        Institut Haiwan in Kluang
LID             -        Local Indian Dairy (cattle)
MARDI           -        Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute
MCC             -        Milk Collection Center
MD              -        Malaysian Dwarf (coconut)
MOA             -        Ministry of Agriculture
MT              -        Malaysian Tall (coconut)
PWD             -        Public Works Department
SDOA            -         State Department of Agriculture
SG              -        Specific gravity
SMP             -        Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75)
TMP             -        Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80)
UHT             -        Ultra high temperature (processed milk)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPM4N' PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
The Sector in the Economy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
Agricultural Resource Base  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2
2.  THE COCONUT SUBSECTOR .                   . . . . . . .  . .    2
Coconut Resource Base ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  2
Coconut Production  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  4
Smallholder Income  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  4
Coconut Smallholder Development Strategy  . . . . . . . .    5
The Role of Intercropping and Cash Cropping . . . . . . .    5
Integrated Livestock Development  . . . . . . . . . . . .    '6-
3.  INSTITUTIONS SERVING COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS . . . . . . . . .    6
Ministry of Agriculture ....  .  .  .  .  .    ...   .         6
Department of Agriculture (DOA) . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7
Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) . . . . . . . . .    7
Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA)    . .         7
Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID)  . . . . . . . .    7
Malaysian Agriculture Research and Development
Institute (MARDI)  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .  .  .  .  .  .  . . .    7
Farmers Organization Authority (FOA)  . . . . . . . . . .    7
Credit Institutions ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....   8
Implementing Agency, Alternatives and Future
Development Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Strengths and Weaknesses of Implementing Agencies  . . .       9
4. PROJECT CONCEPTS AND COMPOSITION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Introduction  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  9
Project Description Summary .      .     . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Criteria and Conditions for Participation in CSDP   .  .      11
Detailed Features . . .....  .  .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .   .    12
Subsidy Policy  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    12
Crop Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Smallholder On-Farm Development . . . . . . ... . . .    14
Government Facilities Development . . . . . . . . . .    15
Integrated Dairy and Beef Component . . . . . . . . . .    16
Smallholder On-Farm Development . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Government Facilities Development . . . . . . . . . .    18
Training and Technical Assistance Component . . . . . .    19
Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
4 -  
Page No.
5.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Project  Costs    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..23 
6.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICING POLICY . . . . . . . . .    23
Production   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .    .   .  .  .  23
Marketing and Markets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
Pricing Policy and Prices  . . . . . o ..   . . . . . .     24
7.  TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS . . . . .     .      25
Crop  Component   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
Integrated Dairy/Beef Component  . .  .  .        . . . .   27
Farm Model Summary. ..          . ..  .  .  .  .     .      28
8.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .T.I...................  .  .     .    29
Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
Implementation Procedure . . . . . ..30
Crop and Dairy/Beef Components . .  .   .  . . . . . . . .  30
Disbursements     .  *  *  *  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   32
Accounts and Audits                                       33
Procurement  . ............... . .                        33
Project Phasing..   . . . . . ..                   .        34
9.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS . .o. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
Farm Model Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
Other Components' Rate of Return . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
10. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS        ..........36
11. RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
Risks                                                       37
Environmental Effects    .                                  37
12. RECOMMENDATIONS. . . .     .  .  .  .  . . .     . . . .      37
SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS
Table No.:
1 Coconut Acreage and Production in Peninsular Malaysia
2 Statistics Smallholder Sector Acreage Distribution (1975)



-3-
3 Calculation of Annual Income Levels of Coconut Smallholders
Who Have Yet to Benefit from the Project
4 Comparative Development Expenditure of CR/RS with DOA
5 Subsidized Rates per Acre - Historical Justification
6  Progress of Rehabilitation and Replanting under CR/RS
From 1963-1975
7 Acreage of Intercropping Since Inception of CR/RS (1963)
8  Phasing of Replanting and Rehabilitation Program
9 Physical Phasing of Project Activities
10 Yield Assumptions
11 Farm Model Summary
12 Farm Incomes Preproject and Full Development
13 Total Staffing Distribution
14 Project Cash Flow (1977 M$'000)
15 Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
16. Major Agricultural Production, Exports and Imports
CHARTS AND MAPS
Map - IBRD 13277: Coconut Area and DID Drainage Schemes in
Peninsular Malaysia
Chart - WB 18526: CSDP Proposed Organization
ANNEXES - Selected information, physical implementation, and cost details
are available in the Project File.
Annex 1 - Crop Component
Annex 2 - Processing/Marketing Component
Annex 3 - Integrated Dairy and Beef Component
Annex 4 - Recapitulative Financial and Economic Analysis Tables
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Malaysia
in October 1977, comprising Messrs. Downing, Delsalle, and Ms. Graves (Bank)
and McEvoy (Consultant).






MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Sector in the Economy
1.01      Malaysia's agricultural sector is largely oriented to export
markets and occupies a predominant position in international trade for
natural rubber, oil palm, hardwoods and pepper. Agricultural production
has grown at about 6% p.a. during 1970-75 and should continue to grow at
the same rate during 1976-80. The major part of this growth has been and
will continue to be based on investments in rubber and oil palm. However,
the major change between the second and third development plans has been
the increased emphasis on development of established agriculture while
continuing new land development. Particular attention will be given to
smallholder crops such as rubber, coconut, padi, rainfed agriculture crops,
and to crop diversification and intercropping. Although this investment
will not have as rapid an impact on production as new land development, it
is essential to meet the objective of the elimination of poverty and
achieve Malaysian agriculture's full growth potential in the longer term.
More than 60% of all families live in rural areas, agriculture provides
employment for about 50% of the labor force and 50% of rural families are
classified as poor. The majority of smallholders living in poverty are
padi, rubber and coconut farmers.
1.02      Padi production has been increased through the provision of
irrigation, high-yielding varieties and double cropping, and Malaysia is
now reaching self-sufficiency in rice. Malaysia, as a major exporter of
pineapple, is finding it increasingly difficult to maintain its share of
the market. Other crops such as coconut, fruits and vegetables are grown
mainly for domestic consumption.
1.03      A large investment was made in new land development during the
Second Malaysia Plan (SMP) and is continuing under the Third Malaysia Plan
(TMP), 1976-80. Land development provides a large proportion of jobs
created in the agricultural sector and will account for one third of
incremental production during the present decade. The Government has also
made a large investment in irrigation infrastructure, and controlled water
supply has facilitated higher yields of padi and made double cropping of
more than half a million acres possible. Although these irrigation facili-
ties have greatly increased yields and farmer incomes, there are few further
opportunities for large-scale irrigation.
1.04      The TMP's emphasis on existing agriculture is fundamental
to achieving the social objective of alleviating poverty throughout Malaysia.
The development targets for achieving this objective include: (a) a 20%
increase in double cropping of padi from 590,000 to 690,000 acres; (b) new
and improved drainage on 559,000 acres (a large percentage in coconut
producing areas of the west coast) which would facilitate coffee and cocoa
intercropping under coconut; (c) replanting and new planting of 500,000 acres



- 2 -
of rubber; (d) replanting and rehabilitation of 100,000 acres of coconut
(including 22,800 acres to be intercropped and the introduction of livestock
under coconut); (e) crop diversification of rainfed agriculture; and
(f) general strengthening of agricultural services, particularly extension.
Agricultural Resource Base
1.05      The principal crops and areas cultivated in Peninsular Malaysia are
rubber 4,300,000 acres, oil palm 1,300,000 acres, coconut 575,000 acres, padi
1,000,000 acres, pineapple 65,000 acres, cocoa 90,000 acres, tapioca
32,000 acres, sugar 25,000 acres, coffee 30,000 acres, groundnuts 20,000 acres,
tobacco 20,000 acres, and miscellaneous fruits, vegetables, seed grains and
other crops a total of over 8,000,000 acres, or over 9,000,000 acres
including double cropping and intercropping. Tree crops account for
two thirds of the agricultural area. Apart from about 40% of rubber and
50% of oil palm in estates, all peninsular agricultural production is in the
hands of over 900,000 smallholders. Major agricultural production, exports
and imports are shown in Table 16.
2. THE COCONUT SUBSECTOR
Coconut Resource Base
2.01      In Peninsular Malaysia coconut is predominantly a smallholders crop
and provides an important rural occupation. The crop meets many basic food
requirements of the rural population and, traditionally, is closely associated
with the smallholders' way of life. It is estimated that 13% /1 of the
coconut acreage is in scattered plantings around the home and along roadways
and drainageways, The nuts harvested from these palms are utilized for
domestic subsistence requirements and the surplus, if any, is sold locally, as
fresh nuts.
2.02      In the estate sector, the economic status and importance of
coconut have declined gradually, mainly because coconut areas were replanted
with oil palm, which under estate management has become a higher income
crop than coconut. During 1971-75 estate acreage declined from 53,488 to
42,844 acres, with copra production also dropping from 23,307 to 19,830 tons;
however, in the smallholder sector, this crop has increased in importance.
This is reflected in the fairly substantial increase in planted acreage,
from 470,300 acres in 1971 to 533,200 acres in 1975 (i.e. 90% of the total
planted area of 576,044 acres), with a corresponding increase in copra
production from 137,200 tons to more than 162,000 tons. It is estimated
that more than 80,000 households (450,000 persons) are dependent wholly or
/1 Malaysia: Coconut Statistics submitted to Asian Coconut Community,
November 1972.



- 3 -
partly on coconut as their primary source of income, while only 4,100 per-
sons were employed on 40 coconut estates./I Official estimates of acreages
and production are shown in Table 1.
2.03      Coconut smallholdings are concentrated in the west coast states
of Johore, Selangor, Perak and Penang which account for about two thirds of
Peninsular Malaysia's acreage. Table 2 gives the distribution of coconut
areas by district, while Map 1 shows the coconut growing areas of the
country.
2.04      The average size of smallholdings /2 varies from state to state as
shown by the following figures:
Perak                             11.6 acres
Selangor                          11.6 acres
Johore                             9.5 acres
Kelantan                           2.7 acres
Other states                       5.7 acres
Average Peninsular Malaysia        6.5 acres
Smallholder management of coconut plantings is not based on modern agronomic
techniques that contribute to high levels of production. There is a tendency
to overplant at irregular intervals depending on the availability of planting
materials, the price of nuts and family food requirements; a high density of
palms per acre is generally found in Johore, Selangor, Perak and Penang/
Province Wellesley.
2.05      Without intercropping the labor input per annum per acre of
coconut is estimated at about 20 man-days in Selangor/Perak and 6 man-days
in Kelantan./3 With low levels of labor and other production inputs,
smallholdings are often overgrown with weeds, especially lallang (Imperata
cylindrica), the young palms stunted with yellow fronds, and the old palms
with pencil tops due to lack of fertilizers and/or inadequate on-farm
drainage in low-lying areas. Poorly maintained holdings are also susceptible
to damage by pests.
/1 Source: Oil Palm, Coconut and Tea Statistics, 1973, Department of
Statistics.
/2 Source: Agriculture in Peninsular Malaysia, 1977, by S. Selvadurai,
Ministry of Agriculture.
/3 Socio-Economic Survey of Coconut Smallholdings, 1965, Ministry of Agri-
culture.



-4-
Coconut Production
2.06      Yields on smallholdings are generally low and there is much scope
for improvement through better husbandry, drainage improvement and
replanting. There are great variations in yields not only between estates
and smallholdings but also between states and even districts. Overall yields
of smallholdings average less than 0.3 tons of copra per acre compared
with an average estate yield of 0.5 tons per acre. In a survey of
coconut smallholdings, carried out in 1963 /1 when the Coconut Replanting
and Rehabilitation Scheme (CR/RS) was implemented, the highest smallholder
yields were recorded in the Sabak Bernam district of Selangor with 0.5 tons
of copra per acre, while in Johore and Kelantan the average was 0.2 tons.
Low yields are obtained from smallholding palms in Peninsular Malaysia
(over 70% of which are in the bearing stage) because of:
(a) flooding or persistent waterlogging due to poor drainage or
breakdown of drainage systems in some of the west coast areas;
(b) the high percentage of old palms;
(c) low fertility, especially in the bris soil areas of the east
coast; and
(d) damage by crop pests.
2.07      An evaluation survey of the CR/RS areas of Lower Perak, carried out
by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in 1971, found that yields from rehabili-
tated holdings averaged 0.6 tons of copra per acre (double the national average).
This indicates that smallholder yields can be increased with good husbandry
and provision of adequate production inputs. Replanting/rehabilitation
schemes have been implemented for this purpose and would be strengthened and
expanded under this project.
Smallholder's Income
2.08      Average yields of 0.3 tons (1,150 nuts) per acre at current prices
(of M$0.16 per husked nut) result in a gross income of about M$1,200 (US$500)
per farm unit (average 6.5 acres).  The low income from coconut forces small
farmers to supplement their income from other food and cash intercrops and
off-farm employment.  Average total net income from coconut smallholders
(6 acres or less) is estimated at about M$2,400 (50% from coconuts) as shown
in Table 3.  Even including income from off-farm employment, the majority of
coconut smallholders still have incomes below the Economic Planning Unit
(EPU) poverty line (M$3,600/US$1,500).
2.09      Considering the low average yields, there is ample opportunity for
improvement through better husbandry, increased inputs, drainage and replanting.
Intercropping with coffee, cocoa, fruits and pastures for livestock offers
/1 Survey of Coconut Smallholdings by S. Selvadurai, Ministry of Agriculture.



good potential for increasing smallholder incomes above the poverty level.
Rehabilitation of Malaysian Tall (MT) coconuts can increase income by 50% and
replanting with MAWA hybrid varieties can produce a 300% increase in income
per acre, or even more with intercropping. Internal consumption of copra and
coconut oil is presently increasing faster than production; also, in view of
the relatively small coconut production base, it is expected prices and
demand would continue to be favorable.
2.10      The opportunity for off-farm employment for coconut smallholders
is good in the industrialized areas such as Selangor and adjacent to
urban centers. However, the majority of coconut growers are located in the
coastal fringe area where opportunities for off-farm employment are scarce
and consist of low paying, casual jobs such as padi transplanting and
harvesting, and rubber tapping. On the east coast where coconut yields are
lower than average, off-farm employment is even more limited, and fishing is
one of the primary means of supplementing subsistence and income. Earnings
from off-farm employment range from about M$750 p.a. on the smallest farms
to M$400 on larger, 10-12 acre farms which generally have little excess
family labor.
Coconut Smallholder Development Strategy
2.11      The need to assist the smallholder sector of the coconut industry
has been recognized by the Government for many years and in 1963 the
CR/RS began as a pilot 4,000-acre operation in southwest Johore. This
became an important part of the Government's smallholder development program
under the First and Second Malaysia Plans and has been expanded under the TMP
(see Table 4). In the 14 years of CR/RS operations, more than 120,000 acres
have been rehabilitated and replanted. The program has been renamed the
Coconut Smallholders Development Scheme (CSDS) and has the following basic
objectives:
(a) replanting and/or rehabilitation of coconut palms;
(b) crop diversification; and
(c) provision of extension services.
The Role of Intercropping and Cash Cropping
2.12      Encouraged by high prices of agricultural products and the opportunity
to substantially increase the income of coconut smallholders, the Department
of Agriculture (DOA) is promoting intercropping of rehabilitated coconuts
with cocoa, coffee, fruits and temporary cash crops. Cocoa is the most
important intercrop; the area planted has more than doubled between 1971
(40,000 acres) and 1976 (more than 90,000 acres) and should exceed 150,000
acres by the end of the TMP. About 70% of this cocoa acreage is in Peninsular
Malaysia; it is divided between estates and smallholdings where it is primarily
grown as a coconut intercrop. Cocoa production reached 22,000 tons in 1976
and should exceed 30,000 tons by 1980. Technical knowledge and management
ability should not be a constraint to achieving projected cocoa acreage and
production increases; research and extension services are adequate to support



- 6 -
this development. The main problem of the cocoa industry is the high acidity
of the beans which reduces the demand for and the price and quality of
Malaysian cocoa. Research in this area is making some progress.
2.13      Many coconut smallholders produce subsistence crops such as
vegetables, bananas, tapioca, maize and groundnuts which also supplement
incomes for the three to four years before maturation of new coconut plantings.
These food crops can later be replaced with permanent intercrops of cocoa,
coffee and fruits when shading of palms makes production of feed and food
crops uneconomical. On the less productive sandy soils of the east coast,
food crops can be grown in the immature period; later intercropping would be
limited to tobacco, chili peppers, mangoes, bananas and cashew nuts, or the
pastures used for livestock production.
2.14      The tendency for more farmers to process their own produce is also
creating problems. Their lack of knowledge about processing copra, coffee
and cocoa adversely affects the quality of the products. For example, many
cocoa smallholders have inadequate experience and knowledge to process their
cocoa and use a low level of technology; their procedures result in moldy and
tainted beans that give an off-taste chocolate product. These problems can
be overcome by: (a) establishing standards and licensing processors, and (b)
farmer training in processing of copra, cocoa and coffee. The latter is
essential to maximize the return to the farmer.
Integrated Livestock Development
2.15      Small-scale livestock production, especially dairying, is a relatively
new enterprise for coconut smallholders. Dairying is particularly attractive
for the small farmers as it provides the best opportunity to raise total
farm income above the poverty level, provides a regular cash income, and can
often be achieved without eliminating intercropping. Some farmers can provide
adequate roughage to maintain two or three dairy animals from drainageway
and roadside cuttings; the roughage can be supplemented with concentrates to
obtain satisfactory levels of milk production. The opportunity for dairying
is, however, limited to the more affluent, densely populated areas of the west
coast states. Smallholder production of pasture and beef could be adapted
for the remote areas and the poorer soils of the east coast where the market
for fresh milk is limited.
3.   INSTITUTIONS SERVING COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS
Ministry of Agriculture
3.01      Responsibility for the Government's coconut smallholder development
programs rests with the MOA. Under the MOA, the DOA supported by the Depart-
ment of Veterinary Services (DVS) and the Federal Agricultural Marketing
Authority (FAMA), would be the principal executing agencies (see Chart
No. 1). Program activities must also be coordinated with other MOA agencies.



7-
Department of Agriculture
3.02      The federal DOA and the State Departments of Agriculture (SDOAs)
are the main agancies supporting coconut growers. The CSDS is a subbranch
of the DOA that has the specific task of coconut replanting and rehabili-
tation. CSDS is supported by the federal and state extension services, as
well as the technical branches of the federal DOA (soils, crop protection,
crop production, farm mechanization, education and training).  The DOA also
provides seeds and planting materials through its Crop Production Centers (CSPs).
Department of Veterinary Services
3.03      The DVS has overall responsibility for animal health and also
carries out livestock development projects for the small farmers. In 1973,
the DVS started a dairy development program in coconut areas which included
the provision of dairy animals, dairy extension services and concentrates, as
well as the collection of milk.
The Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA)
3.04      FAMA has been assigned the task of assisting coconut smallholders
in the collection, processing and marketing of coconut and copra, as well as
cocoa and coffee. This assistance consists of establishing marketing
and processing centers, and training farmers (in cooperation with the DOA
extension services) in copra, cocoa and coffee processing techniques. FAMA
also carries out the function of market intervention to cushion price
declines.
Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID)
3.05      Much of the coconut along the west coast is grown on poorly
drained soils, but more than 250,000 acres have already been provided with
adequate drainage infrastructure (see Map 1). The Northwest Selangor Rural
Development Project will provide drainage for an additional 131,000 acres,
which will complete the drainage requirements for 90% of the coconut areas
needing such rehabilitation. The on-farm drainage channels and connecting
drains will be completed by the farmers with the advice and assistance of
the DOA and DID.
Malaysian Agriculture Research and Development Institute (MARDI)
3.06      Coconut and related intercrop research is a relatively new activity
for MARDI, but the institute is beginning to produce results from its specia-
lized coconut research station at Telok Anson in Hilir Perak. Other MARDI
activities related to coconut farming include cocoa and coffee research,
animal production research, food crop research, pasture research and
specialized bris (sandy) soils research on the east coast.
Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA)
3.07      FOA provides input, credit, marketing and machinery services
through the Farmers' Cooperatives. Although the initial emphasis when



- 8 -
establishing Farmers' Cooperatives has been in the padi and other high
production agricultural areas, a special effort is now being made to extend
these services to all farmers including coconut smallholders.
Credit Institutions
3.08      Two institutions have been providing credit to coconut farmers:
(a) Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM); lending to coconut growers is a new
activity and loans in the past four years totaled about M$160,000; and (b)
the Planters' Loan Board has made loans of about M$3,000,000 to coconut
growers during the past four years; however, most of this credit is provided
to farmers who have not benefited from the CR/RS. Credit institutions will
need to play a larger role in providing operating and development capital
after completion of the CSDS replanting and rehabilitation phase for all
coconut producers. BPM credit would be administered by FOA.
Implementing Agency, Alternatives and Future Development Institutions
3.09      Considering the various components of the CSDS, the Government has
decided that the DOA with its various technical branches (training, farm
mechanization, soils, crop protection, crop production, development, and
extension) is the most suitable department to have primary responsibility
for implementation of the scheme. The DOA has all the technical staff
and subject matter services to support the broad crop production aspects of
the project. The DOA would be supported by FAMA to provide a reliable and
fair marketing system for coconut growers' produce. The DVS would provide
technical support for the relatively small (by number of beneficiaries)
livestock component.
3.10      An alternative to the DOA as the primary executing agency would
be the establishment of a smallholder coconut development institute or agency.
This alternative was rejected because:
(a)  coconut rehabilitation and replanting has already been carried out
for 14 years by a special subunit of the DOA; and
(b) at the present and projected rates of development, smallholder
coconut replanting and rehabilitation may be completed in the next
decade.
3.11      The MAWA hybrid variety coconut has been demonstrated and proven in
the estate sector and will be introduced in the smallholder sector under the
project. The full potential of MAWA hybrids for new planting and replanting
in the smallholder sector will not be known for several years and could create
the need for a permanent coconut development program. This aspect would be
reviewed and considered during the project. MAWA may develop as a competitive
alternative to oil palm and rubber and could become a viable primary crop
for commercial smallholder land settlement projects in the future.



Strengths and Weaknesses of the Implementing Agencies
3.12      The primary implementing agency, DOA, has 14 years of experience
in coconut rehabilitation and replanting and controls all the supporting
technical services for agricultural development. Likewise, the DVS and FAMA
have many years of relevant experience for their respective roles in the project,
dairy development and marketing. CSDS, as a subunit of the DOA, has had some
difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified staff because it was looked
upon as a temporary program and unit. Many staff members were seconded
from SDOAs or temporarily employed on a fixed-term basis. There has also
been a tendency to recall seconded staff to their parent agency. In 1976,
all temporary staff were made part of the DOA-CSDS permanent establishment.
3.13      The proposed project is designed to overcome some of these problems.
The implementation of a five-year, Bank-financed project would add permanence
to the organization and ensure adequate resources to make the unit more
attractive in terms of career development and as a place of employment in the
DOA. The appointment of a Project Coordinator and two project component
leaders (coconut replanting and rehabilitation, and livestock development)
will also strengthen the organization. The establishment of a project
implementation secretariat would relieve technical and management staff of
routine administrative duties and strengthen the unit's agricultural develop-
ment capacity.
4. PROJECT CONCEPTS AND COMPOSITION
Introduction
4.01      The Government has asked the Bank to provide financial assistance
for expansion and strengthening of its coconut smallholder development
program over the five-year period 1979-83. The primary objective of the
project would be to raise the production and income of more than 19,000
coconut smallholders. The project would be a continuation of the CR/RS that
began in 1963 and was carried out under the First and Second Malaysia Plans
and is continuing during the TMP; more than 120,000 acres have been rehabili-
tated or replanted since the program began in 1963. The project would
provide staff, facilities and equipment for the CSDS (a subunit of the
DOA) and the DVS.
4.02      The project would assist the Government to achieve its main
development policy objective, the alleviation of rural poverty. The project
would strengthen the organization of the CSDS within the DOA and provide
training for staff and farmers. The project would focus on the smallest and
poorest coconut growers by setting the limit for participation to 10 acres,
establishing an income ceiling for eligibility for participation, of about
M$3,600 (US$1,500) and limiting the total development grant per beneficiary
to about M$6,600 (US$2,750). The project would result in a 50% increase in
acreage developed, increase the rate of replanting by 100%, and increase the
number of beneficiaries by 75% during the five-year project period. Incremental



- 10 -
annual income would be increased by about M$850 on the smallest 2 acre model
and about M$3,500 on the 8 acre model with rehabilitation and/or replanting
and intercropping (see Table 11).
4.03      The project would assist the Government to support a five-year
time slice of an ongoing, long-term development program designed to assist
the majority of the approximately 80,000 coconut smallholders, particularly
the 35,000 smallholders classified as being in poverty. By the end of the
proposed five-year project, cumulative figures of about 34% of the area
(180,000 acres) and 50% of the smallholders (45,000) would have received some
kind of assistance by the end of the project period.
4.04      The project would utilize an integrated agricultural development
approach, with the following objectives:
(a)  replanting of part of the area with high-yielding hybrids
in association with temporary cash cropping; and
(b)  rehabilitation of existing MT coconut area including either
permanent intercropping and/or livestock production.
Project Description Summary
4.05      The project would consist of the following components:
Crop Component
(a) Smallholder on-farm development would include:
(i) the replanting of about 17,000 acres with high-yielding MAWA
hybrids on about 16,700 smallholdings;
(ii) the rehabilitation of about 40,500 acres (plus 3,700 acres under
the integrated dairy/beef component below) of traditional MTs on
about 18,000 smallholdings and their diversification into
various intercrops estimated as follows: about 22,000 acres
of cocoa, 8,500 acres of coffee, 8,500 acres of fruits and
cashews, 3,700 acres of pasture for livestock and other crops.
(b) Government facilities development would include:
(i) the improvement and extension of regional infrastructure and
the creation of two additional (total of eight) nurseries;
(ii) the establishment of two coconut seed gardens totaling
150 acres to supply the long-term replanting program with
hybrid seed nuts.



- 11 -
Integrated Dairy and Beef Component
(a) Smallholder on-farm development would include:
(i) the provision of about 2,150 crossbred pregnant heifers to
about 1,075 coconut smallholders, and the establishment of
about 3,500 acres of pasture and forage under the traditional
MT coconuts being rehabilitated;
(ii) the provision of about 4,250 pregnant heifers to about 2,125
smallholders who have benefited from the crop component and
have sufficient grass available locally to raise livestock
without specific pasture and forage development;
(iii) the distribution of about 280 animals to about 140 smallholders
(average 3 acres with 1.5 acres of coconut) and the development
of 210 acres of pasture and forage for beef production under
rehabilitated MT coconuts;
(b) Government facilities development would include:
(i) provision for the importation of about 6,600 head of crossbred
heifers to be raised and inseminated in government cattle
raising centers (CRCs);
(ii) establishment of sufficient additional pasture (about
3,000 acres) on two cattle raising centers;
(iii) establishment of nine additional milk collection centers (MCCs)
to ensure efficient milk collection, provide veterinary and
animal husbandry services, and assure a satisfactory rate of
return to project beneficiaries.
4.06      The project would thus continue the process of converting more
than 530,000 acres of marginal coconut lands into highly productive mixed
farming operations. Between 1963 and 1977 about 120,000 acres have been
developed on a similar basis since the CR/RS began, and 61,000 additional
acres would be developed under the five-year project.
Criteria and Conditions for Participation in the Project
4.07      Participation in the project's replanting and rehabilitation
program would be on a voluntary basis in all 11 peninsular states. In line
with the Government's objective of alleviating poverty it was agreed that
the following criteria and conditions for selection of
participants would generally be applied:
The Holding:
(a) would be classified as coconut land by the borrower and would
exclude areas already classified as nonagricultural in existing
town plans;



- 12 -
(b) would be less than 10 acres in aggregate;
(c) would qualify for replanting grants only if the stand is less
than 10 productive palms per acre.
The Smallholder:
(c)  would have a net income below the Borrower's prevailing poverty
level;
(d)  could not receive a total grant exceeding $2,750 (M$6,600) or such
other amount as may be agreed between the Government and the Bank;
(e)  when taking part in coconut replanting and/or rehabilitation shall
also carry out recommended cash cropping and/or permanent inter-
cropping; and
(f)  when taking part in rehabilitation and livestock production may also
receive assistance for pasture development.
Detailed Features
4.08      Subsidy Policy.  During the development phase, project beneficiaries
would receive 100% of on-farm, nonlabor inputs in the form of grants in
kind, i.e. planting materials, chemicals and fertilizers (see Table 5), as
well as limited cash grants for hired labor primarily for the construction of
farm drains. The Government considers these grants necessary because of the
poverty status of the coconut smallholders (present net family incomes from
coconut range from M$350 to M$1,200) and the long maturation period of the
development. The use of grants with no direct cost recovery is consistent
with the Government's income redistribution policy and such grants are
systematically available for other tree crop and cash crop production in the
smallholder sector. These-grants would serve to (a) demonstrate the benefits
of new and improved inputs and agricultural practices, and (b) reduce the
risks associated with long-term development for farmers who have neither the
knowledge nor the resources to introduce them.
4.09      Table 5 indicates the proposed changes in subsidies and grants for
the transition from the CR/RS to the project, as well as the proposed
reallocations and extension of fertilizer grants beyond the present period.
The yield estimates are therefore based on the assumption that the fertilizer
grants will be extended beyond the present period for coconut, and permanent
and temporary intercrops. The original grants of M$500 per acre for replant-
ing coconut with food crops and M$300 per acre for rehabilitation with
permanent intercropping have recently been increased by the Government to
M$900 and M$600 respectively. Grants and subsidies (see Table 5) would be
allocated as follows:



- 13 -
(a) MAWA replanting: M$675/acre, over a five-year period
- Associated cash crop garden: M$225/acre intercropped,
over a three-year period.   Total  M$900/acre
(b) MT rehabilitation: M$300/acre, over a three-year period
- Permanent intercropping: M$300/acre, over a three-year
period all in kind. Total M$600/acre
(c)  Pasture and forage development:  Dairy - M$160/acre, over a
three-year period; and Beef - M$280/acre over a three-year period;
(d) Livestock production development:
Dairy: M$560 per beneficiary for facilities, plus at least 25% of
the purchase cost of two heifers (presently assumed to be M$1,400).
Beef: M$410 per beneficiary for facilities, plus M$600 for
the purchase of two animals.
4.10      Because of the long implementation period, the five-year immaturity
for MAWA hybrid palms and the 12 years necessary to reach peak production on
the one hand, and the slow response of existing MTs to increased inputs on
the other, the full benefits from coconut rehabilitation and/or replanting
would not be attained by beneficiaries until several years after disbursements
on the project have been completed. Even the major intercrops, cocoa and
coffee, would not begin to realize a net return until about the seventh year
after planting. To ensure that the smallholders would continue to use
inputs (particularly fertilizers), the Government has taken action to extend the
fertilizer subsidy from the present three years for rehabilitation and five
years for replanting by an additional four years at a progressively decreasing
rate, as indicated in Table 5. The additional grant in kind available for
fertilizers and herbicides, if required, would be as follows:
(a) MAWA replanting: total additional subsidy of M$160/acre applied
decreasingly from year 6 to year 9;
(b) MT rehabilitation: total additional subsidy of M$90/acre applied
decreasingly from year 4 to year 7;
(c) permanent intercrops: total additional subsidy of M$140/acre
applied decreasingly from year 4 to year 7; and
(d) pasture and forage: for dairy and beef M$70 and M$50 respectively
applied decreasingly from years 4 through 7.



- 14 -
Crop Component - Smallholder On-farm Development
4.11      MAWA Replanting and Associated Temporary Cash Crop Garden.
Replanting during the project period would concentrate on the high-yielding
MAWA hybrids (Y and R) resulting from crossing Malaysian Dwarfs (Yellow and
Red) as mother parent and West African Talls as father parent. These
hybrids grow to a height of less than one half of the MT and begin to
bear in year 4 or 5, reaching, in the estate sector, an average yield of
150-160 nuts (75 lb of copra) per tree per year, from year 11 onwards.
4.12      Considering the limited availability of MAWA seed nuts, farmers'
unfamiliarity with these new varieties and voluntary participation, it is
expected that only an average of I acre per holding would be replanted with
dwarf varieties, making a total of about 17,000 acres over the project
period.
4.13      Development would normally take place over a two-year period during
which 0.5 to 2.0 acres of unproductive palms would be clear-felled, on-farm
drains constructed, and land weeded and prepared for replanting at a rate of
65 palms per acre; participants would plant 0.5 to 1.0 acre per year.
4.14      MTs can be permanently intercropped effectively and economically;
however, further experience is required for intercropping under MAWA hybrids.
During the MAWA palms' immaturity period, participants would receive a grant
for three years to plant food crops such as cassava (in a separate cash crop
garden), maize, groundnuts, vegetables, et al.
4.15      MT Rehabilitation - Permanent Intercropping.  Under the criteria
for participation in the project and with the new limit of 10 acres or less
of coconut, it is assumed that an average of 2.25 acres per holding would be
rehabilitated, giving a total of about 40,500 acres over the project period.
4.16      Except for the smallest farm model, on-farm development would be
phased equally over two years. In accordance with the typical farm models,
a portion of the uneconomic palms on 1-6 acres would be felled, the old
trees destroyed, an on-farm drainage network installed where required,
noxious weeds eradicated and the land prepared for permanent intercropping.
Additional selected MT polybagged /1 palms would be planted in the gaps to
achieve an average density of 55 palms per acre.
4.17      Permanent intercropping of rehabilitated MTs would consist
primarily of:
(a) cocoa (Upper Amazone hybrid) on 22,000 acres on the west coast;
(b) coffee (Liberica), on 8,350 acres mainly on the west coast; and
(c) fruit trees and cashews on 8,545 acres mainly on the east coast.
/1 Maximum usage of polybagged planting materials would be encouraged.



- 15 -
4.18      Cocoa and coffee have already been successfully intercropped at
the rate of 250-300 plants per acre and would be established simultaneously
with the rehabilitation of the MT coconuts. Upper Amazone hybrid cocoa
begins bearing after three to four years with a pay back period of about
seven years. Traditional Liberica coffee begins bearing four to five years
after planting and gives a net return seven to eight years after planting.
Crop Component - Government Facilities Development
4.19      Physical Infrastructure.  Under the project, the crop component
would be peninsula-wide and have a larger annual acreage and number of
beneficiaries than the existing CR/RS. To introduce a higher level of
technology, additional staff and facilities would be required, including new
central, regional and suboffices to replace the existing temporary structures.
Thus two regional offices (in Batu Pahat and Klang), five central offices,
and two suboffices would be constructed during the project period.
4.20      The management of nurseries and distribution of planting material
would remain the responsibility of the CSDS crop component staff. In addition
to the six existing nurseries (five are on the west coast), two new nurseries
would be created under the project at the suboffices, one at Mersing in
Johore, and one at Rhu Tapei in Trengganu. Physical facilities would also
provide for the expansion of the existing nurseries which, over the last three
years (1974-76), have produced about 780,000 MT coconut seedlings, 1.4 million
cocoa seedlings, and 260,000 coffee seedlings.
4.21      Seed Supply.  Since DOA's Crop Production Branch cannot supply
MAWA seednuts during the project period, all the replanting material required
would be purchased from the estate sector (United Plantations and Barlow
Boustead Estates Agency). To meet project requirements, the DOA has arranged
to purchase MAWA seed nuts from these two estate suppliers at an agreed
price of M$1.90 per nongerminated MAWA nut, or MS$2.43 per germinated
selected nut. After visiting United Plantations' seed gardens, the mission
concluded that the skill of hybridization by the seed producer and the
quality of MAWA germinated nuts are adequate. The estates have given their
assurance of a continued supply of seed nuts and the mission is satisfied
that arrangements are adequate.
4.22      CPC Seed Gardens.  The annual average requirement of replanting
materials under the project would reach about 410,000 MAWA hybrid palms in
year 5 for distribution to participants; about 480,000 germinated nuts would
be required to supply the project nurseries. Two CPCs designed for the
production of hybrid seed nuts would be established under the project.
4.23      During the five-year period, the project would provide the necessary
facilities for the establishment of two coconut seed gardens on a total of
150 acres, at two locations in Perak (100 acres at Lekir) and Johore (50
acres at Mukim Jorak), for the production of hybrid seed nuts (the CSDS would
begin supplying hybrid seed nuts fron its own seed gardens six years after



- 16 -
planting). These facilities would also provide for the establishment of
additional cocoa and coffee seed gardens. Planting of the parental palms
would be completed in year 3 as follows:
- 120 acres of Malaysian Yellow/Red Dwarfs, as female parent,
- 30 acres of West African Talls, or other suitable Tall male
parents (not to exceed 30%)
MAWA hybrid seed production using pollen imported from the Ivory Coast would
begin in year 7 and at full development (year 10) would produce about
800,000 hybrid nuts, sufficient to plant about 7,000 acres per year.
Integrated Dairy and Beef Component
4.24      General.  Holstein cows primarily crossbred with LID animals were
introduced to Malaysia in the late 1960s on an experimental basis; Peninsular
Malaysia now has about 10,000 of these crossbred dairy animals. Milk production
from these animals varies from 1,000 to 8,000 lb per lactation: although
with good management crossbred animals can produce 8,000 lb per lactation,
the average would be about 4,500 lb. Crossbred animals are tolerant of the
tropical climate and local management conditions, and they are more resistant
to ticks and tick-borne diseases. Based on this experience the DVS embarked
on an artificial insemination program to upgrade dairy animals and increase
milk production among smallholder farmers. Although the program has been
moderately successful, increasing the number of crossbred dairy animals and
milk production is a slow process. To meet the immediate demand for quality
dairy animals, the DVS has initiated an accelerated program to import heifers.
Because of the large number of animals required and the time constraints in
developing local breeding stations, the project would continue to rely on the
supply of imported heifers. It is envisaged that long-term dairy development
would be based on local breeding and raising programs (see para. 4.34).
4.25      In 1975, the DVS. established two MCCs to provide a convenient and
regular market for fresh milk. These centers have been very successful and
now collect about 30,000 gallons of fresh milk each month which is sold to
the Nestles' Dairy Plant in Kuala Lumpur. While most of the smallholder
dairy production is sold and consumed locally as fresh milk, most of that
collected by the MCCs is processed and packaged as ultra high temperature
(UHT) milk which can be stored without refrigeration for three months or
more.
4.26      The success of this program and the rapidly increasing demand for
fresh milk by the more affluent section of Malaysian society have been
recognized as an opportunity to increase the small farmer's income as well
as to decrease dependence on imported milk products. At present only 5% of
the milk products consumed in Malaysia are domestically produced by Malaysian
farmers.
4.27      The Government also recognizes the present constraint of a limited
supply of feedstuff and proposes to utilize by-products of agricultural



- 17 -
production (currently amounting to more than six million tons, most of which
is waste) and convert these into animal feedstuffs (i.e. broken rice, rice
bran, palm kernel cake, oil palm sludge, copra cake, cassava refuse, pineapple
waste, sugarcane waste, rubber seed meal and many others). In aLdition
research is being undertaken for local production of traditional animal
feeds such as maize, sorghum, soybeans, cassava meal and chips, and sugarcane.
4.28      The dairy component of the project would focus on the smallest
coconut holdings and would have two primary objectives: to provide regular
cash income and to raise the smallest farmer's income above the poverty
level.
Smallholder On-farm Developments
4.29      The integrated coconut-dairy/beef diversification program would
cover about 10,000 acres of coconut under the project.
4.30      MT Coconut Rehabilitation with Cultivated Pasture for Dairy
Development. One thousand and seventy five smallholders owning a total of
3,500 acres on the west coast would participate in dairy development under
the five-year project. The selected participants would be trained in dairy
husbandry for a period of 15 days at the Kluang Cattle Raising Center.
After completing their training, farmers would begin establishing pastures
sufficient to maintain their animals under the rehabilitated MTs, build a
cattle shed and develop dairy facilities. In addition to the MT rehabilitation
subsidy, beneficiaries would be eligible for a grant of M$160/acre for three
years to develop cultivated pasture, followed by an additional, progressively
decreasing fertilizer grant amounting to M$70/acre over a four-year period.
Each farmer would be provided initially with two 6-month pregnant heifers at
an estimated cost of M$2,200 to the farmer (this includes M$200 for insurance),
and receive, over the first three years, a grant of M$560 for a cattle shed,
water facilities and feed storage. Sixty percent, or such other amount that
may be agreed upon, of the cost of each heifer (M$2,200 out of the total cost
of M$3,600) would be made available on credit arranged by the DVS and financed
by local commercial banks. The credit system includes risk insurance arranged
by the DVS to protect the farmer and the lending institution.
4.31      MT Rehabilitation with Dairy Development Without Cultivated Pasture.
It is envisaged that cultivated pasture would initially play a minor role in
dairy development and that the main source of feeds would be natural grasses
on and about the farm. Forage and grasses would be supplemented by concen-
trates available to the farmers on a commercial basis. Thus it has been
assumed that about 2,125 smallholders with an average of 3 acres of coconut
(about 6,400 acres) would each be provided with an estimated grant of M$1,400
(up to 40% of the cost of the animals) and the remainder on credit for the
purchase of two 6-months pregnant heifers after completing their training and
construction of dairy facilities.
4.32      MT Rehabilitation with Pilot Beef Development.  This pilot beef
subcomponent would be established on the east coast where lack of demand for



- 18 -
fresh milk makes dairying impractical. Two hundred and eighty feeder
animals (primarily culls from the dairy imports) would be provided as a
grant to 140 beneficiaries with an average of 1.5 acres of coconut. Partici-
pants selected with the assistance of the SDOA, MARDI and the local DVS
office would be trained in planting and management of grass/legume forage
and livestock husbandry at the Kota Bahru DVS station. After completing
their training they would prepare land, plant grass under rehabilitated MTs
and fence their holding. Each would be provided with two 12-14 month old
feeders (as a grant) and receive grants of M$410 for cattlesheds and fencing
and M$280 per acre for pasture development over a three-year period. An
additional decreasing grant amounting to M$50 per acre, would be available
over the next four years for fertilizer.
Government Facilities Development
4.33      Importation of Crossbred Heifer Calves.  It is assumed that only
450 good crossbred dairy heifers would be available locally for distribution
in year 2. The balance needed to meet project requirements would thus be
imported. Over a five-year period, the project would provide for the
importation of six thousand six hundred 5-9 month old crossbred heifers to
be raised on DVS's CRCs up to the sixth month of pregnancy, i.e. about
30 months of age. With losses due to mortality, culls and infertility assumed
at about 10%, 6,400 pregnant dairy heifers and 280 cull feeder animals would
be distributed to about 3,300 coconut smallholders under the project. All
the dairy heifers would be inseminated at about 18-24 months with semen from
crossbred bulls.
4.34      Cattle Raising Centers.  The raising of heifers would be undertaken
at DVS's existing cattle center of Kluang (Institut Haiwan, IH). Additional
raising capacity would be required for the dairy heifers imported and distri-
buted under the project. Under the project the holding areas would be
expanded by the development of an additional 3,000 acres in Johore during
years 1 and 2. The finance for developing these CRCs to a full capacity of
about 3,900 animals would be provided under the project. The Department of
Veterinary Services has agreed that the long-term interest of Malaysia may be
better served through providing local facilities for reproduction of dairy
animals. Thus DVS would study the feasibility of, and prepare a plan for the
possible conversion of CRCs to cattle breeding and raising centers so as to
gradually eliminate the need to import dairy heifers; production of dairy
animals by the private sector would also be encouraged. The results of the
study and the plans for future production of dairy animals would be submitted
to the Bank by December 1981.
4.35      Milk Collection Centers.  The area of the dairy diversification
program would be spread along the west coast. The project would cover nine
localities, each area being an independent unit with all the necessary facili-
ties and infrastructure for dairy services and milk collection. Initially
about 500 beneficiaries with a total of 1,000 dairy cows would be selected



- 19 -
around each MCC. The MCC would have facilities to test, cool and store milk
in addition to facilities for administration. The first of the nine MCCs
under the project are planned to be constructed in year 1 to begin operation
in year 2. Because participation in the coconut rehabilitation and integrated
dairy scheme is on a voluntary basis it would be necessary to continuously
review the selection of sites for construction of MCCs. It is estimated
that at least two years of experience would be required before final selection
of all sites can reasonably be determined. The Department of Veterinary
Services would review its plans, including site locations, and phasing of
construction of the proposed 9 MCCs and furnish an updated plan and program
to the Bank for comment by January 31, 1981.
Training and Technical Assistance Component
(a) Extension Services
4.36      Farmer training would be one of the most important aspects of the
project and would reach all 19,000 project beneficiaries. Most farmer
training would be in the form of regular extension service education (training,
visits and demonstrations) carried out on the farm through village leaders,
farmer groups and individual farmers. This service would be provided by
special agricultural technicians assigned by the DOA to the crop component
staff, supported by Subject Matter Specialists (soils, crop protection, crop
production) and state agricultural extension services now being strengthened
under the Bank-financed National Extension Project, Loan 1493-MA.
4.37      In addition to the regular crop production extension services the
farmers would receive specialized training and assistance in modern methods
for on-farm processing and handling of copra, cocoa, and coffee. The project
would provide for 7 training officers assigned to the Department of Agricul-
ture working under the direction of the Crop Component Leader in coordination
with the FAMA Coconut Collection and Processing Centers (CCPCs); the 4 already
established and the 14 CCPC proposed to be established in the Project area
would become the focal point for their training activities (the CCPC would be
financed and managed separate from the project). The training officers
provided under the project would be assisted by the copra, cocoa and coffee
processing specialist provided under the project (para. 4.42). Vehicles and
equipment would be provided under the project for the training officers.
4.38      The DVS, responsible for conducting initial animal husbandry
training courses for dairy beneficiaries at the IH in Kluang, would provide
a follow-up dairy extension service through the MCCs, including animal
disease control, fodder production, animal husbandry, artificial insemina-
tion, and other extension advisory services. About half of the staff costs
involved would be charged to the project. Veterinary and animal husbandry
extension officers based at the MCCs would serve all farmers and livestock
in the area.
4.39      All technical agricultural services provided by DOA and the DVS
for project implementation would be under the authority of Crop Component
and Dairy Component leaders, respectively (see Organization Chart 1).
Agriculture extension would be provided in the context of the National



- 20 -
Extension Project. The Ministry of Agriculture and project authorities are
well aware of the problems of and need for coordination of agricultural
services and will continue to promote and facilitate coordination of
activities at all levels.
(b) Fellowships
4.40      Training of staff for the crop (DOA), and dairy (DVS) components of
the project would also play an important role in strengthening the supporting
agencies. A fellowship program would be prepared and submitted to the Bank
and would be implemented according to arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
The project would provide 23 man-years of fellowships distributed approx-
imately as follows:
Year 1    2    3    4    5   Total five-year project
Crop component/DOA's Crop
Production Branch Staff         -      4    4    2    -         10 man-years
Processing and Marketing
DOA/FAMA Staff                  -      2    2    -    -          4 man-years
Dairy component/DVS staff         -      2    3    4    -          9 man-years
Total                       -       8    9    6    -         23 man-years
(c) Technical Assistance
4.41      For the CPC seed gardens, the project would provide 12 man-months
of technical assistance at the rate of 3 man-months from year 2 through year 5.
The Government also has agreed that an additional 4 man-months of technical
assistance would be provided in years 6 and 7, to advise and assist the Crop
Component Leader and his staff in the design, establishment and management of
the two seed gardens as well as in the formulation and implementation of
courses for hybrid seed and crop production. Technical assistance could be
provided locally by private estates in coordination with MARDI.
4.42      For processing, a copra, cocoa and coffee processing and marketing
specialist would be engaged for three years to advise and assist the DOA and
FkMA in modern techniques for processing, storage and marketing of produce.
The project authorities have agreed to employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment are acceptable to the
Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.43      The DOA and DVS would continue to regularize and strengthen their
monitoring and evaluation systems being developed under the National Exten-
sion Project and assisted by consultants from the UNDP/IBRD State Rural
Development Project. In particular, this would include production control



- 21 -
through the MCCs and CCPCs, monitoring of development subsidies and grants to
ensure that they are properly used, and evaluation of the benefits of these
subsidies and grants. In addition, the DVS would strengthen its monitoring
of the artificial insemination (AI) program. The monitoring and evaluation
systems being developed under the National Extension Project would also be
applied to the project; in addition special monitoring and evaluation systems
would be for the DVS's artificial insemination program; technicians would
also receive regular, in-service training.
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
5.01      Total project costs in 1978 dollars are estimated at US$44.2 million,
of which US$19.5 million would be foreign exchange. Project costs have been
calculated on the basis that the implementing agencies would be tax exempt;
however, it is assumed that some taxes would be paid for civil works and
off-the-shelf procurement and to that extent taxes are included in project
costs. Physical contingencies, set at 15% for civil works and 10% for
vehicles and equipment, are included and amount to 2% of project costs.
Price contingencies, totaling 24% of project costs, are based on a projected
annual inflation rate between 1978 and mid-1980 of 7.5% for equipment and
vehicles and 9% for all other items. After mid-1980, annual inflation is
assumed to be 7% for equipment and vehicles and 8% for all other items.
5.02      Project costs for the 9 MCCs include sufficient working capital to
enable the enterprises to finance raw material purchases without having to
delay payments to suppliers. All the regular operating and staff costs of
these processing facilities would be covered by sales revenue and hence are
not included in project costs.
5.03      Details of project costs are provided in the project file and
summarized below:



- 22 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Baseline costs in constant 1978 dollars)
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
(M$ million)              (US$ million)           (%)
Crop Component
Civil works /a                        1.49    0.98    2.47        0.62    0.41    1.03        40
Vehicles                                 -    0.50    0.50           -    0.21    0.21    100
Equipment                                -    0.58    0.58           -    0.24    0.24    100
On-farm grants                      20.27   12.90   33.17         8.44    5.38   13.82        39
Other operating costs                 1.20    0.66      1.86      0.50    0.28    0.78        35
Staff                                8.04         -    8.04      3.35         -    3.35        0
Total Crop Component           31.00   15.63   46.62    12.91    6.52   19.43           34
Livestock Component
Civil works                          4.47    2.97    7.44         1.86    1.24    3.10        40
Vehicles                                 -    0.96    0.96           -    0.40    0.40    100
Equipment                                -    1.70    1.70           -    0.71    0.71    100
Animal procurement                       -    7.13    7.13           -    2.97    2.97    100
On-farm grants                        2.70    0.53    3.23        1.13    0.22    1.35        17
Other operating costs                 2.75    4.20    6.95        1.15    1.75    2.90        60
Staff                                 1.90       -     1.90      0.79         -    0.79        0
Working capital                       0.75       -     0.75       0.31        -    0.31        0
Total Livestock Component   12.56   17.49   30.06           5.24    7.29   12.53        60
Training & Technical Asssstance
Fellowships                            -    0.60    0.60          -    0.25    0.25    100
Consultants /a                     0.12    0.84    0.96        0.05    0.35    0.40        85
Vehicles                               -    0.14    0.14          -    0.06    0.06    100
Operating costs                    0.05    0.21    0.26        0.02    0.09    0.11        80
Total Training &
Technical Assistance          0.17    1.79    1.96        0.07    0.75    0.82       79
Total Base Costs               43.73   34.91   78.64    18.22   14.56   32.78           45
Contingencies
Physical                              0.86    0.99    1.85       0.35    0.40    0.75        54
Price                               14.91   10.94   25.85        6.05    4.60   10.65        42
Total Contingencies            15.77   11.93   27.70        6.40    5.00   11.40        43
Total Project Cost             59.50   46.84  106.34    24.62   19.56   44.18           44
/a Including architect and engineering services.
Note:  Any difference between M$ (Ringit) and US$ due to conversion and rounding.



- 23 -
Financing
5.04      A Bank loan of US$19.5 million is proposed to assist with the
project as follows:
Government                 IBRD
US$   % of item's       US$   % of item's
million  total cost    million  total cost        Total
Civil works                  2.48        60           1.65        40           4.13
Vehicles and equipment          -         -           1.62       100           1.62
On-farm inputs               9.57        63           5.60        37          15.17
Operating costs
(Services and supplies)  2.00         50           2.11        50           4.11
Staff                        4.14       100              -         -           4.14
Animal procurement              -         -           2.97       100           2.97
Technical assistance and
engineering services /a  0.05          15          0.35        85           0.40
Fellowships                     -         -           0.25       100           0.25
Contingencies                6.40        55           5.00        45          11.40
Total *               24.50        56          19.50        44          44.00
* Note: Figures have been rounded.
/a Architect and Engineering Services estimated at 2.5% of cost of civil
works.
6. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICING POLICY
Production
6.01      At full development the incremental on-farm production generated by
the project would be:



- 24 -
Incremental
Incremental at                 Total           as % of 1975
Item                 full development            1975 production       production
Coconuts       116.7 million nuts               1,210 million nuts         10%
Cocoa          5,800 tons dry beans             17,600 tons                33%
Coffee         1,800 tons dry beans            6,000 tons                  30%
Raw milk       12,360 tons                     n.a.                        n.a.
In addition, about 800,000 ungerminated hybrid seed nuts would be produced,
and 25,500 tons of raw milk (includes milk produced by farmers who would not
be direct beneficiaries) collected and processed.
Marketing and Markets
6.02      Marketing of incremental production would present no problems.  Not
only is the private sector active in the area of coconut, cocoa and coffee
marketing, but FAMA has also started to involve itself in the collecting,
processing and selling of all three products. All milk would be marketed
through the MCCs except for small quantities sold to local shops.
6.03      In addition, the location of markets should present no difficulties.
Traditionally, Malaysia has been a net exporter of coconuts, coconut oil and
cocoa. The exportation of cocoa to the German Federal Republic, Singapore,
the US and the Netherlands is expected to continue. Domestic consumption of
coconut products is expected to increase at a rate that would substantially
reduce exports in the 1980s. Although many Malaysians prefer to drink
imported Robusta and Arabica coffee, domestic consumption of Liberica coffee,
is expected to increase, while Singapore is a potential export market for
Liberica coffee. The demand for fresh milk is difficult to predict given the
traditional emphasis on canned and powdered milk. However, as personal
incomes increase rapidly and tastes change, as children become accustomed to
fresh milk through school programs and as the price of fresh milk falls, so
demand would increase. Nestles have indicated that they would continue to
buy all fresh milk offered for sale by MCCs, most of which would be processed
as UHT milk. Adequate markets for UHT milk exist in Malaysia and Singapore.
Pricing Policy and Prices
6.04      The prices of coconuts, copra, cocoa, coffee and livestock are
determined through the interplay of both domestic and international market
forces. Aside from FAMA's market intervention, government intervention in



- 25 -
the pricing process is limited to a small export duty on copra to discourage
the export of an intermediate product and import duties on chocolate products
to encourage domestic processing.
6.05      FAMA's CCPCs are committed to using "fair prices" in the purchase
of coconuts from smallholders. The fair price is based on the prevailing
f.o.b. price of coconut oil minus appropriate deductions for processing and
handling. Thus unlike private middlemen, CCPCs do not adjust prices in
accordance with anticipated international price shifts, and consequently
during speculative price declines, smallholders can obtain higher prices at
CCPCs.
6.06      The prices at which MCCs buy and sell fresh milk are and will
remain fixed by the Government. Because much of the growing middle class
cannot afford fresh milk, the DVS is committed to a gradual lowering of
prices. A decrease in the ex-farm price from M$2.60 per gallon to
M$2.30 per gallon by 1980 is assumed in this report.
6.07      Output prices used in this report are based on projected 1980
prices expressed in constant 1977 M$. With the exception of milk, for which
domestic markets are virtually unaffected by international price levels, the
1980 economic and financial prices for each product are identical.
7. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
Crop Component
7.01      Physical Background.  Climatic conditions in Malaysia are considered
excellent for coconut production. Most coconuts are grown on high potential,
coastal alluvial soils which generally give good yields when provided with
adequate drainage. Completion of basic drainage infrastructure, including
on-farm drains, is a prerequisite for participation in the project, and is
being carried out in close coordination with the DID. Construction of
drainage systems in part of the project area is being financed and implemented
under the Western Johore Agricultural Development Project and Northwest
Selangor Agricultural Development Project.
7.02      The Soils and Analytical Branch of the DOA would continue to give
priority to the project areas in conducting semidetailed and detailed soil
surveys. Soil information would not only be essential for economic MAWA hybrid
development and production but would also be the key to successful permanent
intercropping with cocoa, coffee or fruit trees under MT coconuts.
7.03      Coconut varieties grown in Peninsular Malaysia belong to two main
types - the Talls (MTs) and the Dwarfs (MDs). Domestic production of fresh



- 26 -
nuts and copra is derived predominantly from the MTs which grow and produce
better than the MDs under a wide range of soil conditions. Almost all
smallholdings are still planted with unselected MTs averaging a yearly yield
of 1,150 nuts/acre or 20 nuts/tree. Better yielding tall varieties selected
from the estate sector became available to the smallholders with the introduc-
tion of the CR/RS in 1963. On well-managed estates the MT varieties may produce
up to one ton of copra per acre, per year. The introduction of MAWA hybrids
(Y and R) would facilitate production of up to two tons of copra an acre under
estate management conditions. Production potential in terms of oil equivalent
to commercial levels of palm oil production and offers new possibilities for
the coconut industry and the smallholder sector.
7.04      MAWA Replanting.  The decision to use MAWA hybrids (Y and R) under
the project requires the introduction of a new technology to the coconut
smallholders. To obtain the full economic benefit of hybrids, field planting
and management have to be supervised to ensure that the following practices
are implemented:
(a) old palms - complete disposal by burning the trunk and stumps as a
basic pest control measure;
(b)  on-farm drains - improvement and maintenance;
(c)  noxious weeds - complete eradication;
(d)  triangular spacing of polybagged palms (optimum 65 palms to an acre);
(e)  fertilizing program - regular application;
(f)  phytosanitary control - regular spacing; and
(g)  intercropping - careful management
With improved field management, MAWA hybrids introduced under the project
are assumed to come into bearing in year 5 and reach an average yield of
6,525 nuts (3,000 lb of copra) per acre, i.e. 3 tons of copra per hectare,
see Table 9.
7.05      MT Rehabilitation.  Clean land cultivation, disposal of uneconomic
and excess palms, improvement and maintenance of on-farm drains and regular
fertilizing would produce a minimum increase in yield of 30% (from 1,150
nuts to 1,500 nuts/acre) five years after rehabilitation (Table 9).
7.06      MT Permanent Intercropping.  The most popular permanent intercrops
cultivated under MTs would be cocoa, coffee, bananas and fruits. To date,
intercropping of cocoa has been concentrated in Selangor, Perak and Johore.
Under the project, cocoa would be planted as an intercrop in all west coast
states, where soils are suitable and adequately drained. Coffee would be
planted as an alternative on less fertile soils, and cashew and fruits would
be the main intercrops on the east coast sandy soils.



- 27 -
7.07      With appropriate planting density, good maintenance and regular
fertilizing programs, the following production would be expected:
(a) UA hybrid cocoa: yields in year 4 would be about 100 lb/acre
(dry beans), reaching 600 lb dry beans in year 10;
(b) Liberica coffee: yields in year 6 would be about 100 lb/acre
(dry beans) reaching 460 lb in year 9.
7.08      Nurseries.  The nurseries under the project would normally use
polybags and provide the participants with: (a) 6-7 month old MAWA hybrid
palms or selected MT palms (when additional stands are required on a rehabili-
tated area); (b) 3 month old UA cocoa polybagged seedlings; and (c) 6-8 month
old Liberica coffee polybagged seedlings.
7.09      CPC Seed Gardens.  Due to the economic impact expected from
MAWA, the establishment of two MAWA hybrid seed gardens would be a component
of the project. Separate parental plantings would be recommended, which
would require further assisted pollination. High standards of field husbandry
would be required and necessary inputs have been provided for in the cost
estimates. The following yields would be expected from the present area
(120 acres) of the MD coconuts:
year 6:          40 MAWA hybrid nuts/palm, i.e. 2,920 nuts/acre MD
(Y or R)
year 7:          80 MAWA hybrid nuts/palm, i.e. 5,840 nuts/acre MD
(Y or R)
year 8 onwards: 90 MAWA hybrid nuts/palm, i.e. 6,570 nuts/acre MD
(Y or R)
Integrated Dairy/Beef Component
7.10      Background.  Cattle rearing is practiced by many smallholders in
Peninsular Malaysia. The project would assist the DVS in converting the
traditional system of cattle husbandry into more efficient dairy and beef
operations. Emphasis would be given under the project to pasture/forage
development under coconuts, provision of crossbred dairy animals and improved
animal husbandry.
7.11      Pasture/Forage Development.  Natural grasses are abundant on the
west coast soils and are adequate when supplemented with concentrates;
however some farms would need to develop cultivated pastures. Thus,
with seeds made available from DVS stations, Panicum, Brachiaria, and
Setaria species would be introduced under the project in areas intended
for grazing, whereas Panicum and Pinnesitum species would be planted where
the cut-and-carry system would be used. With supplementary concentrates,
the carrying capacity in the farm model is assumed to average 1.3 AU/acre
of cultivated pasture/forage.



- 28 -
7.12      Choice of Animals and Assumed Performance.  For technical and
economic reasons, only pregnant crossbred heifers rather than purebred dairy
heifers would be distributed to participants under the project. These
heifers, imported when 6 to 9 months old, would be raised and artifici-
ally inseminated at the two CRCs financed under the project. The culling
rate, including mortality and infertility, is assumed to be 10%, of which
30%-40% would be recoverable for fattening and distributed free as 12-14
month feeders to the beef pilot project participants on the east coast.
These crossbred animals tolerate local climatic conditions very well,
are more resistant to tick infestation than the purebred cattle and do not
appear to be much affected by tick fever. Their assumed performance with
improved husbandry practice is as follows:
Year 5
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 onwards
(a) 2-3 year crossbred heifers
Calving rate (%)                      80       60      65       70       75
On-farm mortality rate (%)             5        3       3        2        2
Total milk production (gal/cow)    260        320     380      400      400
Net milk production (gal/cow)        200      260     320      340      340
(b) 12-14 month feeders
On-farm mortality rate (%)             2        2       2        2        2
Weight gain               1 to 1.1 lb/day; i.e. about 550 lb in 18 months
7.13      On-farm Animal Husbandry.  Malaysia enjoys freedom from the major
epizootic diseases; however, Haemorrhagic Septicemia, which is still a
problem, would be combated by prophylactic vaccinations in endemic areas.
To improve the present results of AI (approximately 40-45% conception rate),
more emphasis would be placed during participants' training on heat detection
and similar basic management techniques.
7.14      Milk Collection Centers.  The MCCs would follow existing procedures
and organize the collection of milk twice a day. All milk from individual
suppliers would be tested for specific gravity (SG); if satisfactory, the
milk would be accepted and the quantity weighed and recorded. All milk would
reach the MCC between 6:30 and 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 and 7:00 p.m. After being
tested for SG and dirt, it would be chilled to 5-8 degrees and stored in cold
rooms at 0 degrees C. The milk would be transported from the MCC to the
factory either daily or once in two to three days, depending on the quantity
collected.
Farm Model Summary
7.15      Farm models, grants, production, costs and benefits are summarized in
Table 11. There are four models (1-4) dealing exclusively with the crop compo-
nent, and 3 models (5-7) that contain integrated crop and livestock components.
Detailed individual farm models are contained in the project file for reference.
The development grants for each farm model are shown in the Summary Table 11 and
vary from M$1,360 (US$550) in model 1 to M$5,440 (US$2,200) in model 3. This
includes the provision to extend the fertilizer grant (in kind) for an
additional four years (see item 22 of Table 11).



- 29 -
7.16      Item 35, Table 11 shows that the total grant under the project
would be equivalent to approximately two years of incremental annual income or
benefit (with family labor included as a cost) earned at full development,
except for models 6 and 7 which would not include intercropping or replanting
with MAWA. The various financial rates of return for the respective models
are shown in items 41 and 42, Table 11, and are discussed in Chapter 9.
7.17      Farm Model Incomes.  As a consequence of the project (as shown in
Table 12), farm incomes would be increased by about 70% for the east coast
pilot project, between 70% and 80% for the smallest participants on the west
coast and to over 140% for some of the larger west coast participants.
These substantial increases, which would raise all farmers with more than
2.5 acres above the poverty line through a combination of rehabilitation and
intercropping, would increase per acre income from M$200 to M$750 for cocoa
and to M$600 for coffee; replanting with MAWA would raise per acre income
from M$200 to M$1,100; and the introduction of dairying would raise per farm
income by over M$2,000, less any income loss due to reduced off-farm employment.
8. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
8.01      Project Coordinator.  It is proposed that a Project Coordinator
would, under general policy guidance from MOA, be in charge of planning,
coordinating and administering the project's two component activities; he
would be a competent, senior level officer. He would be reporting to, and be
guided by, a National Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Secretary
General of the MOA or his representative, on which the following agencies
would be represented: EPU, DOA, DVS, FAMA, Majuternak, DID and FOA. The
National Coordinating Committee would meet at least twice a year. Eleven
state coordinating committees would also guide the three project component
leaders at the state level (most states already have agricultural advisory
committees that would also serve the project). Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that a Project Coordinator and the two project component
leaders would be appointed as a condition of loan effectiveness; adequate
supporting staff would also be made available.
8.02      Projects Secretariat.  It is recognized by the MOA and DOA that in
any Bank-assisted project there exist at least two basic components: (a) the
technical component, i.e., the technical and physical program per se as
embodied in the project; and (b) the administrative component, which encom-
passes all routine administration for servicing and implementing the project.
8.03      There is a need to provide the Project Coordinator with an imple-
menting secretariat and supporting professional and clerical personnel. The
DOA already has the responsibility for implementing two Bank-assisted projects:
the Extension Liaison Unit (ELU) under Loan 1115-MA and the National Extension
Project under Loan 1493-MA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a



- 30 -
project implementation secretariat with adequate staff and facilities would
be established to deal with the administrative functions of all DOA projects
under implementation.
8.04      This secretariat would coordinate all administrative functions and
activities of Bank-financed agricultural projects executed under DOA. The
projects secretariat would be located in the DOA in Kuala Lumpur and be
organized into four functional units (or in accordance with other agreed
arrangements) as follows: (a) Project Programming and Budgets, Monitoring and
Evaluation; (b) Procurement, Finance and Accounts; (c) Technical Assistance/
Fellowships Administration; and (d) administrative support.
8.05      Project Component Leaders.  The proposed organizational structure
of the project is illustrated in Chart WB15526. Under the Project Coordinator,
two Project Component Leaders would be responsible for the implementation
of their component activities. The Component Leaders would continue to be
technically answerable to the Directors General of their departments (DOA
and DVS), but their development activities would be within the provisions and
terms of the project. The Component Leaders and all their subordinate staff
assigned to the project would remain under their department from the point of
view of staff regulations and administration.
8.06      The creation of a specialized agency to implement any expanded
nationwide MAWA hybrid coconut development, should be considered before the
end of the project implementation period. A suitable institution could be
evolved from the proposed project organization.
Implementation Procedure
Crop and Dairy Beef Components
8.07      Selection of Participants.  Participants would be selected by crop
and/or dairy component staff. Eligibility for participation in the project
would be in accordance with the Government 's existing regulations for the
CSDS. Once a farmer is determined to be eligible and has declared how and
with what area of his holding he intends to participate, he would carry out
the following prescribed work:
(a) Replanting MAWA Hybrids. In year 1 the participant would fell and
dispose of all designated coconut palms; cultivate the land and
eradicate noxious weeds; dig, deepen and maintain 3' x 3' x 2' farm
drains between each two rows of coconut (where required); put up
fencing where specified; and prepare holes and plant 65 polybagged
MAWA palms per acre according to materials and plans supplied by the
project staff. In year 2 and thereafter he would regularly apply
fertilizers at recommended rates, carry out an approved level of
weeding and maintain farm drains.
(b) Rehabilitation with Permanent Intercropping. In year 1 the
participant would fell and dispose of all palms over 55 per acre



- 31 -
and fell and dispose of all uneconomic palms regardless of stand;
prepare holes and plant approved additional palms to a maximum
density of 55 per acre; eradicate all noxious weeds; dig, deepen
and maintain 3' x 3' x 2' farm drains between every two rows of
palms (where required); cultivate land and plant approved intercrops;
and put up fencing where required. In year 2 and thereafter he
would regularly apply fertilizer at the recommended rates, carry
out weeding and phytosanitary treatment, maintain farm drains, and
if fair prices are obtained, sell his production to the CCPCs.
(c) Rehabilitation with Cultivated Pasture. Same as (b) above except
land preparation would be for pasture; regular recommended fertilizer
applications for pasture would apply.
(d) Dairy and Beef. As a prerequisite to receiving any grants the
beneficiary or a member of his family would have attended an
approved animal husbandry course. In year 1 pasture would have
been established, and livestock housing and fencing constructed
where required. Upon certification that adequate arrangements have
been made for feed, housing and water, the beneficiary would
receive his animal(s).
These conditions are prerequisites for receiving the next stage of inputs.
All on-farm developments would be strictly supervised by project component
staff, and the participants' eligibility for continuing government grants
would require certification (by field staff) of satisfactory execution of
the prescribed works.
8.08      Development Grants.  The replanting, rehabilitation and diversifica-
tion grants would be administered by project headquarters in Kuala Lumpur.
Requests would be completed by project component regional staff on behalf of
the participants and submitted to project headquarters with their endorsement.
Payments in kind and cash would then be authorized through project head-
quarters. The crop component regional centers would also forecast require-
ments for planting materials, fertilizers and pesticides. Planting materials
would be ordered from the nurseries in the case of polybagged plants, or
from DOA's CPCs and DVS in the case of seeds. Fertilizers and pesticides
would be purchased in bulk by project authorities and distributed to the
farmers. Utilization of planting materials, fertilizer, chemicals and
materials would be closely supervised by project staff.
8.09      Production of Planting Materials.  Crop component nurseries would
obtain the supplies of seeds from DOA's CPCs and private estates. The
polybagged plants would be raised in strategically located nurseries where
selection would ensure that only healthy and true-to-type MAWA hybrid
seedlings are distributed to farmers.
8.10      Credit for Dairy Animals.  MCC staff, under the authority of the
Dairy Component Leader would continue the present practice of arranging



- 32 -
credit through private and public banks to finance the purchase of dairy
animals by project beneficiaries.
8.11      Civil Works.  Site selection and development of facilities for the
crop component would be carried out in a timely manner. MCCs would be
located to serve the needs of the dairy farmer participants and would
utilize existing sites such as FDCs, or existing DVS sites for the purposes
of economy and efficiency. Site development, architectural designs and
construction would be carried out by the Public Works Department (PWD) or
private contractors in accordance with approved procedures.
8.12      Equipment, Materials and Supplies.  Equipment, materials and
supplies would be purchased in accordance with arrangements agreed upon by
each project component department or authority and approved by the Project
Coordinator. Administration of procurement, including phasing, preparation
of documentation and control, would be handled by the projects secretariat.
8.13      Livestock.  All dairy animals would be purchased by approved
breeding contracts and would be the female offspring of approved dams,
artificially inseminated with BOS INDICUS semen. Five to seven month old
heifer calves would be imported, raised at holding stations, bred at 18 to
24 months and distributed to beneficiaries as 6-month pregnant heifers. The
DVS would provide evidence that adequate holding and raising capacity would
be available before breeding contracts are let. Upon arrival in Malaysia,
the DVS would inspect the heifer calves for general health and condition.
Selected animals (6 to 24 months of age) that do not meet the requirements
for dairying would be distributed as feeder animals under the pilot beef
component.
8.14      Cattle Raising Centers.  Importation of dairy animals would be
dependent upon development and maintenance of adequate cattle raising and
holding facilities. This would require the cultivation and seeding, in a
timely manner, of 3,000 additional acres of pasture in Johore. CRC pasture
would be cultivated, seeded and maintained by the DVS. The DOA and DVS would
keep the Bank advised of the rate of development of CRC pastures and provide
evidence that adequate holding capacity would be available prior to letting
each contract for procurement of dairy animals (see para. 8.20).
8.15      CPC Seed Gardens.  It is intended that land preparation, including
mechanical felling and clearing, legume cover establishment, on-farm drains
and roads construction, be done by private contractors after competitive
bidding. The projects secretariat, technically assisted by the DOA's Crop
Production Branch, would be responsible for the procurement of seeds and
particularly for the import of West African Tall selected seed nuts and pollen
from the Ivory Coast and others.
Disbursements
8.16      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against foreign
exchange expenditures for directly imported equipment, vehicles, chemicals,



- 33 -
fertilizers, livestock, materials and supplies; 100% of ex-factory cost of
items manufactured locally, and 90% of the total cost of imported but
locally procured items. Disbursements would be 85% of the total expenditure
for consultants including engineering services and 100% of the foreign
expenditures for fellowships. Disbursements for civil works would be 40% of
the total expenditure. The loan amount includes $100,000 of retroactive
financing for civil works associated with the coconut seed gardens for
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1978. These works have been initiated
so that seed production could commence before the end of the project period.
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Annual                Cumulative
Bank FY         disbursement             disbursements
79                 0.3                      0.3
80                 2.4                      2.7
81                 4.7                      7.4
82                 5.8                     13.2
83                 3.8                     17.0
84                 2.5                     19.5
Accounts and Audits
8.17      The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
government control and audit procedures as follows:
(a) all agencies involved in project implementation would maintain
separate accounts for the project;
(b) all project accounts would be collated by the Project Coordinator;
(c) the Government's Auditor General or other auditors satisfactory
to the Bank would audit these accounts; and
(d) the Project Coordinator would send the audited project accounts,
together with the auditor's comments, to the Bank within nine
months of the close of each financial year.
Procurement
8.18      The Project Coordinator would have overall responsibility for
procurement of goods and services initiated by the two project component
leaders under the project. The Project Coordinator would utilize the projects
secretariat to carry out the mechanics of administration, monitoring and
control of all aspects of procurement (see para. 8.04). Procurement require-
ments would normally be scheduled and budgeted annually in accordance with a
plan coordinated and approved by the Project Coordinator.
8.19      Contracts for construction of civil works (including site develop-
ment), totaling about US$5.2 million (including contingencies), would



- 34 -
generally be small (averaging less than US$100,000), dispersed in time and
place, and could not be grouped for simultaneous tendering. All civil works
contracts would be awarded following local procedures which are satisfactory
to the Bank. All other contracts of $100,000 or more would be carried out
under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Vehicles, equipment, fertilizers, goods and chemicals (totaling about US$20.0
million including contingencies) would be procured under international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. A 15% preference
margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers. Small, off-the-shelf items, such as office supplies and
equipment, consumable laboratory supplies and chemicals, not exceeding
US$1.25 million, would be procured through normal government procedures for
prudent shopping.
8.20      For animal health reasons, livestock purchases (totaling about
US$3.7 million including contingencies) would be from countries meeting the
DVS's requirements, and invitations to bid would be submitted to the Bank for
approval. The Bank would finance all animals actually imported during the
project period, provided the selection of countries and procurement documen-
tation have been cleared by the Bank (15 to 18 months lead time is required
for breeding contracts to be let for supply of heifers to the project).
8.21      The project would provide 4 man-years of consultants at an estimated
cost of US$6,000 per man-month for foreign consultants and US$3,000 per man-
month for national consultants, the average cost of consultants including
architect and engineering services is estimated to be $4,000 per month. The
project would also provide 23 man-years of fellowships. Terms and conditions
of employment of specialists and arrangements for fellowships would be
managed under arrangements acceptable to the Bank at a total cost of about
US$0.75 million including contingencies.
Project Phasing
8.22      Phasing of physical implementation is detailed in Tables 8 and 9,
and the project cash flow is shown in Table 14.
9.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Farm Model Rate of Return
9.01      The financial rates of return to the project for the seven farm
models range from 14% to 20% for the crop models and 17% to 22% for the
livestock models. Separate financial rates of return to the farmer, as
opposed to the project, have also been calculated based on the actual costs
incurred by the farmer (i.e. excluding development grants in kind) and on
actual benefits received (i.e. including cash subsidies). These rates of
return range from 22%-38% for the crop models and from 24% to over 100% for
the livestock models. Given the fact that the models are based on 1980
prices expressed in constant 1977 prices and that after 1985 these prices
are projected to change substantially, the financial rate of return to the



- 35 -
farmer has also been estimated in long-run, post-1985 prices. The use of
long-run prices reduces the range of financial rates of return for the crop
models to 10%-28%, but raises it to 29%-100%+ for the livestock models.
These three sets of rates of return, to the project, to the farmer, and to
the farmer in long-run prices, indicate respectively that the project would
be financially attractive to the Government when instituted as well as
financially attractive to the farmers when proposed, and that in fact, the
farmer would earn a respectable rate of return from his participation in the
project. As the Malaysian economy is highly commercial, both family labor
and home consumption have been included in the financial analysis.
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN - CROP MODELS
(Coconut with intercrop)
Cocoa                                   Coffee
Model     To        To     To farmer in           To       To      To farmer in
No.    project  farmer  long-run prices        project  farmer  long-run prices
------------------------------  - (% ) - ----------------------------
1      20.2     36.4         28.2              16.8     31.2         26.4
2      20.4     37.6         28.0              16.8     32.0         26.4
3      20.4     37.8         28.2              16.8     32.2         26.6
4      18.8     28.8         15.6              13.8     22.4          9.8
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN - LIVESTOCK MODELS
Model No.        To project        To farmer        To farmer in long-run prices
5 dairy           21.8             34.8                      30.4
6 dairy           18.0             24.4                      29.0
7 beef            21.8            100.0 +                   100.0
Other Components' Rate of Return
9.02      Financial rates of return for two other project components have
also been calculated. The rates of return for the MCCs and seed gardens
(when ungerminated nuts are sold at M$0.75 per nut) are clearly satisfactory
at 11.6%, and 11.0% respectively.



- 36 -
10. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
10.01     Through the rehabilitation of coconut areas, the replanting with
MAWA hybrids and the introduction of improved cultivation practices, coconut
yields and total production should increase substantially on over 60,000 acres
of coconut land owned by more than 19,000 farm families. The production of
cocoa, coffee and other crops should also increase due to their introduction
or expansion as intercrops on 40,500 acres of coconut land. In addition,
about 3,200 coconut smallholders would diversify into commercial dairying, an
activity which would represent a major source of alternative income for
these smallholders. At full development, the project would generate more
than M$20 million or US$8.5 million of foreign exchange earnings through the
export of cocoa and coffee, and about M$40 million or US$16.7 million of
foreign exchange savings through the reduction in dairy imports.
10.02     The project at full development would result in the production
of 25 million coconuts per year. The pricing policy followed by the CCPCs,
would result in a cushioning of smallholders' incomes during a price decline
and would be an advantage in stabilizing the smallholder income. In addition,
the extension services provided at the CCPCs would enable farmers to increase
their value added on-farm through improved processing.
10.03     The off-farm dairy components would help to form the basis for
expansion of the domestic dairy industry in a country where growing income
levels would greatly increase the demand for fresh milk. As MCCs and dairy
beneficiaries are spread over much of the west coast, the interest in
commercial dairying and the focus on appropriate and sound husbandry
practices should expand to encompass a far larger number of smallholders
than just project beneficiaries.
10.04     At full development, the project would generate 10,000 man-years
of additional on-farm employment. In addition, about 22,000 man-years, much
of which should be hired labor, would be required for such development work
as the felling of palms, eradication of noxious weeds and improvement of
drains. Staff requirements in the DOA would increase by 143 positions,
and in the DVS by 168 positions (see Table 13).
10.05     As can be seen from Table 12, the average per family income of
project beneficiaries would increase from M$1,892 to M$4,164.  This 118%
increase would raise the average coconut smallholder family substantially
above the World Bank poverty line of M$2,950 per family. Indeed of the more
than 100,000 project beneficiaries, almost all of whom are now living
in poverty, only 20% should remain below the poverty line after the project.
10.06     The economic rate of return would be 18% for the project, including
CSDS and DVS support activities. The shadow price of foreign exchange is
assumed equal to the official exchange rate, while labor is shadow priced at
70% of the market wage rate. Adjustments for taxes and/or subsidies are
only necessary in the case of civil works, vehicles and equipment, where the
average tax rate borne by the project is estimated to be 10%. As the



- 37 -
Singapore market appears willing to buy increasing amounts of fresh milk
from Malaysia, fresh milk is priced in accordance with the level that is
expected to prevail in the Singapore market after 1980. The prices of
coconut, copra, coffee and cocoa are assumed to fluctuate in accordance with
the cyclical fluctuations forecast by the IBRD's Economic Analysis and
Projections Department in October 1977. Owing to the lack of sufficient
information, no cyclical fluctuations are assumed for the other output prices.
10.07     The rates of return are moderately sensitive to the price of labor
and value of benefits. When labor is costed at its full market wage, the
rate of return decreases to 14%, while a 10% reduction in benefits reduces
the rate of return to the project to 15% A decrease in benefits greater than
10% is highly unlikely, given the use of conservative yields for coconut,
cocoa, and coffee. Sensitivity to changes in investment costs is slight. A
10% increase maintains the overall rate to 17.5%.
11. RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS
Risks
11.01     Implementation of the project would require a high level of
organizational effectiveness and coordination between the DOA, DVS and FAMA
as well as between federal and state agricultural service agencies and
public institutions in Malaysia. The major risks involved would be farmers'
acceptance of replanting and rehabilitation and dairying; farmers' acceptance
of regular and continuous use of a higher level of inputs; development of
the market for cocoa and coffee; and delays in implementation (including
availability of qualified staff, funds, equipment, planting materials and
dairy animals).
11.02     The MOA and the implementing agencies are well aware of the
organizational and administrative requirements of the project and are
confident that adequate coordination and cooperation can be achieved to
overcome these potential constraints. This confidence is justified.
Environmental Effects
11.03   The project would not adversely affect the environment as it would
only complete the on-farm portion of drainage projects and intensify water
control. The lands now subject to periodic flooding would be made more
productive for agriculture. On-farm drainage would also reduce the habitat
for mosquitoes and other insect pests. The project would result in a more
intensive use of fertilizers and chemicals, but the amount of run-off would
not be significant.
12.   RECOMMENDATIONS
12.01     At negotiations it was agreed that a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan would be that a Project Implementation Secretariat with



- 38 -
adequate supporting staff would be established in the Department of Agriculture.
It was also agreed that as a condition of effectiveness the borrower shall
have authorized the following post and designated the appointments:
(a) Project Coordinator;
(b) Project Component Leader - Integrated Dairy Beef Component; and
(c) Project Component Leader - Crop Component.
12.02     Satisfactory assurances having been received on all major points,
the proposed project is recommended for a Bank loan of US$19.5 million with a
17 year term and a grace period of 4 years. The Borrower would be the
Federation of Malaysia.



Table 1
Basic Data
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
STATISTICS
Coconut Acreage and Production in Peninsular Malaysia
Acreage                    Copra production (in tons)
Small-                                 Small-
Year            Estate (1)   holding (2)   Total    Estate (1)   holding (2)   Total
1971            53,488        470,290       523,678   23,307         137,190       160,497
1972            51,182        470,910       522,092   22,878         138,760       161,638
1973            46,481        491,210       537,691   20,836         146,210       167,046
1974            44,393        493,770       537,763   21,095         149,020       170,115
1975            42,844        533,196       576,040   19,830         162,160 (3)  181,990
1975 Coconut Acreage and Production by States
Acreage                    Copra production (in tons)
Small-                                 Small-
State           Estate (1)   holding (2)   Total    Estate (1)   holding (2)   Total
Kedah/Perlis       230         31,760        31,990       103          7,550         7,653
Penang/P.W.      1,509         36,748        38,257        78         13,140        13,218
Perak           28,352         83,626       111,978   16,918          34,840        51,758
Selangor         9,485        106,207       115,692    2,706          44,260        46,966
N. Sembilan          -          7,440         7,440         -          2,230         2,230
Malacca              -         13,041        13,041         -          3,900         3,900
Johore             260        164,632       164,892         -         39,200        39,200
Pahang               -         17,013        17,013         -          4,050         4,050
Trengganu        3,008         28,234        31,242        25          5,040         5,065
Kelantan             -         44,495        44,495         -          7,950         7,950
Total       42,844        533,196       576,040   19,830         162,160       181,990
Average yield
(ton copra/acre)    -                             -       463            304           316
Sources: (1) Department of Statistics, Malaysia.
(2) Planning and Development Division, Ministry of Agriculture.
(3) 1975 Production figures are provisional.



TABLE 2
Basic Data
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
Statistics - Smallholder Sector Acreage Distribution (1975)
Total                                          Total
State/district              acreage        State/district                   acreage
(1975)                                         (1975)
1.  Perlis                     3,420       7.  Malacca
Alor GaJah (*)               2,034
2.  Kedah                                        Malacca Tengah (*)            3,405
Kubang Pasu (*)         2,329              Jasin (*)                    7,602
Kota Setar (*)          7,795
Langkavi (*)            6,390          Total Malacca                   13,041
Yen (*)                 1,946
Kuala Muda (*)          4,236       8.  Johore
Baling                  1,046              Muar (*)                    22,882
Bandar Bahru              111              Batu Pahat (*)              88,621
Kulim                   1,810              Pontian (*)                 40,981
Padang Terap              470              Johor Bahru (*)              1,833
Sik                     2,270              Kota Tinggi (*)              4,300
Mersing (*)                  4,819
Total Kedah               28.340              Kluan                           220
Segamat                        976
3. Penang/P.W.
Penang N.E. (*)         1,872           Total Johore                  164.632
Penang S.W. (*)         4,699
P.W. North (*)         13,807       9.  Pahang
P.W. Central (*)        8,305              Pekan (*)                    5,326
P.W. South (*)          8,065              Kuantan (*)                  4,851
Bantong                        592
Total Penang/P.W.         36,748              Jerantut                        279
Lipis                        1,319
4.  Perak                                         Raub                         1,070
Krian (*)               5,422              Rompin                       2,190
Larut/Matang (*)        6,783              Temerloh                     1,386
Dinding (*)             6,880
Hilir Perak (*)        59,866           Total Pahang                   17,013
Batang Padang             303
Kinta                   1,190      10.  Trengannu
Perak Tengah            2,105              Kemaman (*)                  2,951
Selama                    527              Dungun (*)                   1,759
Perak Ulu                 550              Marang (*)                   1,497
K. Trengannu (*)            10,169
Total Perak               83.626              Bewt (*)                     9,520
Ulu Treng                    2,338
5. Selangor
Sabak Bernam (*)       49,868           Total Trengannu                28,234
Kuala Selangor (*)   22,155
Kelang (*)             15,165      11.  Kelantan
Kuala Langat (*)       17,830              Pasir Putih (*)             10,776
Gombak                    139              Bachok (*)                  12,673
Ulu Langat                  70             Kota Bahru (*)               9,049
Ulu Selangor              200              Tumpat (*)                   6,429
Sepang                    780              Pasir Mas (*)                2,754
Machang                        391
Total Selangor           106.207              Tanang Merah                    730
Ulu Kelantan                 1,693
6. Negeri Sembilan
P. Dickson (*)            959          Total Kelantan                  44,495
Jelebu                    962
Kuala Bilah             2,744          Total Peninsular Malaysia  533,196
Rimbau                    750
Seremban                1,287
Tempin                     737
Total N. Sembilan           7.440
Note: (*) coastal districts.



MALAYSIA
COCOTUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
CALCULATION OF ANNUAL INCOME LEVELS OF COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS WHO HAVE YET TO BENEFIT FROM PROJECT
(in 1977 M$)
Total    Area in   Gross income   Farm expenses attri-   Net additional   Income from off-    Total net                % of total   Z of total
holdings  coconuts  from coconuts   buted to coconuts           farm income       farm employment        income        income from       coconut
(1)          (2)                (3)                    (4)                  (5)               (6)           coconut    smallholders
(acres)   (acres)   -------------------------------- (M$)  ----------------------------   [(2)-(3)+(4)+(5)
2.0          1.5             276               9                   215                731               1,213             22           12
4.0          3.0             552              18                   430                731               1,695             32           13
6.0          4.0             920             24                    860                547               2,303             39          18
8.0          6.0           1,104             81                    860                547               2,430             42          24
10.0          8.0           1,472            183                    860                365               2,514             51          17
12.0         10.0           1,840            330                    860                365               2,735             55            9
14.0         11.0           2,024            225                  1,230                  -               3,029             59            5
16.0        12.0            2,208            387                  1,600                  -              3,421              53            2
Assumptions:
1. Gross income from coconuts is equal to $184/acre.
2. Farm expenses equal to $6/acre for land taxes and drainage charges plus M$45/acre to harvest coconuts for each acre of
coconuts above 5 acres.
3. Net additional farm income equals M$250 per farm for I acre of household garden (vegetables, poultry, rice, tapioca,
fruit); plus M$60/acre for coconut intercrops for the first 4 acres under coconut; plus $370/acre for rubber for
each acre not in coconuts or household gardens.
4. Income from off-farm employment is based on the fact that the average smaller smallholder can only find 112.5 man-days
of off-farm employment at M$6.5/man-days; between 5-8 acres, the smallholder works only 84 man-days off-farm; between
9-12 acres, off-farm employment is limited to 56 man-days and above 12 acres, no off-farm employment is sought.
Average income pre-project: M$2,257.
Hr
F-
H
(A



Table 4
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
Comparative Development Expenditure of CR/RS with DOA
(1) First Malaysia Plan
Total DOA           CR/RS           % of CR/RS
allocation        allocation          of DOA          Acreage
(M$'000)          (M$'000)         allocation        achieved
1965-70          74,000            11,200             15.1            40,772
(2) Second Malaysia Plan
% of CR/RS of
Total DOA (M$'000)  CR/RS (M$'000)        DOA total
Alloca-     Expen-  Alloca-  Expen-  Alloca-  Expen-  Acreage
tion       diture   tion    diture   tion    diture  achieved
1971        7,650        6,543   3,135    1,711   40.9        26.1     5,219
1972       11,778        9,309   3,218    2,985   27.3        32.1    10,129
1973       13,580       11,153   3,132    2,649   23.1        23.7    12,948
1974       15,406       10,765   4,126    3,397   26.8        31.6    12,167
1975       12,476       12,363   3,723    3,745   29.8        30.3    14,833
Total  60,890       50,133  17,334   14,487   28.5       28.9    55,296
(3) Third Malaysia Plan
Total DOA           CR/RS           % of CR/RS          CSDS
allocation        allocation          of DOA          acreage
(M$'000)          (M$'000)         allocation        achieved
1976-80         268,516            62,303             23.2            70,860



HALAYSIA
CCOlNUiT SMALL0ILDESIS DEVELOPMSNT PSItOJCT
CROP COKPONENT
Subsidized RtsPen Acre - Histtoical Jaetif-tcauto
Pr-crojers ne-id undue CR/RS                             Pr-nu-ei-  perid auden CODS (sod 19775                                        Period uoder CSO) P-anrPres-1uatinn
Total                                                                 Total                                                              Tote1
Tro IYd             Yea) -or 3 TYo-     Years 1-4         5us. I      Sear2   lYer         Toad-       Years  Yean-S 15          YearS    Y..ar2  Y...r3    Yeor4  YeseS   Years 15-                  -   Tea-Ten    TY-e 8 Year9    TuraI
.5 on.-fr   drs)101.501,0                                                                                             -          -                     -       SlITS/a
Noioused   rdicatius  Ciocloding  3204.01/a _-                                    204.OOt                                                                                105.0O~/s  35.00/a   S0/    l0/                  175.00/a                                                     175.OOL.
terbirtdes)    I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                              -          -           -~0.0j  -           30.00/a
Plauniug materials
CocntPR.pls51.01 0                                                                       50.10        175.50          -         -                               7.0           245.00                             -             245.00                 -2--5 lSi
Iu,nIcrps/cn   crpsgrdn,,,0                              -                             30.00          1S.Si          -                                          10              .0       .1       SS                           15.00                 ----                                   15.00
CucO.on                                     10.00       b3.00   480.0    22.00          149.00         33.00        30.00    Sill0        30.00      30.00     153.0          .17.00    10.00   5 0.S      SYSi0       73.00  233.SS             64.00       480.S      32.00      16.00   395.00
lutu....sps/u..oh imps  gendeo                          17.00    22.11      20.00       67.00          330          7.0       7.S         70.0       70.00    3 13.000         40.0i    40.00   4Si             -               2.0----                                                     120.00
Penticiden            -          -         -         -            -           37~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~                  ~ ~       ~~.00  21.10  21010  lS 20.00  11.0 3.0 3.0  30.   10.00        7.0  10.00                   ---- 10.00
Tonal                                300.00       Oi.Si    20.l0i      10.0       500.00        420.00       120.00    120.00      120.00   125.iO       900.00         445.00   151.11   140.00    85SiS        80.110  900.00            b4.Sl       480.      32.00      14.00 1,060.00
P-errolet period  -oder CR/OS                                rrere        _prctod ador CR8DS_                                                              Po-iod osd-r COO Project Etens.ion
Tuta1                                                        Total                                                                 To...l
TerotS    YearS2  Yean3  TLrot  1-3                       YearS       T ear 2   Tean3   Yeensl-3                                 YearS  IYee2  Yaar 3   Years 1-3  Snarl4 )lean    YasrA   Teen..                      Total
M5.T. Rebbilinanion
Pelting s..c.u.mi. pAins; isp-o..s.ot)
of on-er   drain                         )  94.00/a       -         -       94.00/a                    9S.0ift        -          -        95.5/                               70.00/s 20.00/a  20i0S/a   lti.0S/a                                                  110.ooft
Nosious seed  readicatios                                                                                30.Of -0                   -        30.00SA
Plautiu   maneials
Coconut P.8  . pom                          50.00         -         -       50.00                      fISO           -                    ICi0                               1S.SS         -                 S.fS-                      -                           15.S0
Roneecrapa                      ~~~~~~        ~~45.00  -  -      405.00                     45.00          -          -        415Sf                               50.00         -         -      50.00             -         -        -         -       50.00
C-r..un                                     360.       36.00   36.00    [lOiS0                        50.00        40.00      40.00     130.00                               45.00    45.00      45.00      135.00        36.00    2700l   18.00        9.00       225.00
Cuner.ro..                                  20.00       14.00    14.00      40.00                      94.Si        57.01      6iOS      211.0:0                             4A5.0S    55.11      75.SS      175.00        56O00   42.00    28-00    14.00         315.00
Pr-ricide   C~ionldtg applicanion)               -          -         -         -                        32.00        23 .11     20.00       71.00                              45.ii    35.00      35.00      11 5.05            -        -         -         -            -
Total                                200.00       Si0i0   50.Si   300.00                        360iSO       120.00   120.00    6005.00                                270.00  195.00    175.00        000.00        92.00    69.00   46.00    23.00          830.00
/a. Subsidy in naub.
/b  Propose.d estassioss.   decassing tepe  of sbsidy applied to feetilinpra.
RIAWA Rseplastla: ftea   peer.  6 to pear 0 (nanat M81018.00/eca)                 RThebabit.lttat :  fro   year.  4 to peon  7 (total 0090.00/ace)C...a. toffee. Pruit tressi                                 cro:  feom  year 4nn  year 7 (ntel. P$140.00/a-re)
Yea  6:  80% of M$80.00/spre, i.e. 8064.00/anee.                                     Year 4:  002 oP M145 .00/ac-,  t.  t10$36.O0/ac-                                                                Year 4:  80% of P578.00/acr, i.e. N1)56.00 acr..
Year 7:  60% of MP080.00/acr,  i.e. M848.00/aurp.                                    Yea  5:  60% of M$504.00/a-r, i.e. P520.00/acre.                                                                Yea   5:  60% of P$70.0i/acro, i.e. M1542.0O/accn.
Tsa  8:  408  of MOB0.00/-,rr   i.r. 8032.00/acre.                                   Tsar 6:  40% nO P045.00/acr., i.e. M$I8.00/scre.                                                               TY-  6.  401 of Mt$70.00/eure, itn. M128.00/-cr..
Te-  9:  20% sO M$08.0O/acrn, t.-. !016.0/.OO/         .                             Yese 7:  20% of 8)43.00/acer, i.e. 809.00/area



Table 6
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
Progress of Rehabilitation and Replanting Under CR/RS From 1963 to 1975
Cumulative  Replanting (M.T.)   Rehabilitation
target     No. of               No. of                Total       Total
State              acreage    holdings  Acreage  holdings  Acreage  (2) + (4)  (3) + (5)
(1)         (2)       (3)       (4)        (5)        (6)         (7)
Penang/P. Well.    9,200           348      1,248      1,297    6,339      1,645        7,587
Perak              30,000          175        363     6,594   25,700       6,769       26,063
Selangor           lo,300      2,166      5,292      4,245   12,320       6,411       17,612
Malacca              3,350         494        826      1,033    1,948      1,527         2,774
Johore             38,850        2,332     6,548      7,935   27,050       1,645        7,587
Trengganu            1,100         219        317        198      303        417           620
Kelantan            16,900       3,579      6,589     4,403    6,265       7,982       12,854
Total        117,700       9,313    21,183    25,705   79,925    35,018          101,108
Source: DOA 1977.



MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
Acreage of Intercropping Since Inception of CR/RS (1963)
Mixed                                              Other
Year             Maize      Pineapple    vegetables    Banana         Coffee    Cashew nut    fruits    Cocoa    Total
1963                40           32             6           -             -            -           -          -         78
1964               218          180             15          -             -            -           -          -        413
1965                59          108            55           -            -             -           -          -        222
Total         317          320            76           -            -            -            -          -        713
1966               145        1,406            40         220           150            -           -          -      1,961
1967                 -        1,060             -          31          365             -           -          -      1,456
1968                 -          262             -           -          648             -           -          -        910
1969                 -            -             -          42        1,191             -           -         35      1,268
1970                 -            3             -           -          572             -           -        578      1,153
Total         145        2,731            40         293        2,926            -            -        613     6,748
1971                 -           15             -           -          279             -           -      1,792      2,086
1972                 -            -             -           -          352           267           -     3,155       3,774
1973                 -          n.a.            -           -          746             -           -      4,086      4,832
1974                 -          371             -           -          274             -          20      1,149      1,814
1975                 -            -             -           -          169            20          10      1,102      1,301
Total           -          386             -           -        1,820          287           30    11,284    13,807
Source:  DOA 1977.                                                                                                            m



Table 8
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SPALLEOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
Phasing of Replanting and Rehabilitation Program
(In acres, including dairy development)
Preproj ect
(under CR/RS)                        Project year                    Total
State                1963-76      1977         1         2         3        4         5    project
(1) - Replanting (MAWA hybrids)
Perlis                        -         25          15       25        25        23        35       125
Kedah                         -         50          35       75        75        75       215      475
P. Pinang/S.P. Wel.       1,348        100         100      200       200       250       450    1,200
Perak                       589        200         175      350       350       350       725    1,950
Selangor                  5,878       750         325       650       650       750    1,275    3,650
N. Senbilan                   -         50         50       100       100       100       250      600
Malacca                     990        100         100      200       200       250       450    1,200
Johore                   6, 845       400         300       600       600       700    1,200    3,400
Pahang                        -        50          50       100       100       150       200      600
Trengganu                   557       350         150       300       300       400       550    1,700
Kelantan                  7,112        600        200       400       400       450       650    2,100
Total acreage (1)  23,319 /a  2,661 /a   1,500    3.000    3,000    3.500    6.000   17.000
No. of new holdings           -                 2,184    2,504    2,504    3,227    6,238   16,657
Total no. of holdings  10,522        (n.a.)     2,184    4,368    4,368    5,091    9,431            -
Average acreage
per holding             2.22      (n.a.)       0.69      0.69      0.69     0.69      0.65      1.02
(2) - M.T. Rehabilitation with intercropping (with cocoa,
coffee, fruit trees and other intercrops)
Perlis                        -         25         25        25        25        50        50      175
Kedah                         -        100          50      125       200       300       350    1,025
P. Pinang/S.P. Wel.      6,680        600         100       200       200       210      470    1,180
Perak                   28, 450     2,300         950    1,850    1,850    2,020    3,585   10, 295
Selangor                15,178      2,500         975    2,000    2,000    2,220    3,625   10,820
N. Senbilan                   -        100          50      250       250       400       400    1,350
Malacca                   1,976        200         150      350       380       400       560    1,460
Johore                  28,973      2,000          700    1,300    1,300    1,560    3,760    8,620
Pahang                        -        100          70      200       225       305       500    1,275
Trengganu                   527        300         200      350       350       400       450    1,750
Kelantan                  6,611        600        300       495       390       475       550    2,210
Total acreage (2)  88.395       8,825       3,570    7.145    7,145    8.340   14.300   40,500
No. of new holdings           -          -      2,375    2,695    2,695    3,482    6,749   17,996
Total no. of holdings  29,887       (n.a.)      2.375    4,559    4,559    5,282   19,686            -
Average acreage
per holding              2.95     (n.a.)       1.50      1.57      1.57      1.57     1.50      2.25
(3) - Rehabilitation (M.T.) with pasture development
Dairy acreage                 -          -           -      150       550    1,200    1,600    3,500
Beef acreage (Kelantan)       -          -           -       30        60        60        60      210
Total acreage (3)        -          -           -       180      610    1,260    1.660    3,710
No. of new holdings           -          -           -       95       240       440       440    1,215
Total no. of holdings         -          -           -       95       315       640      840         -
Average acreage
per holding                 -         -           -      1.90      1.94      1.98     1.98      3.05
PROJECT SUMMASY
Average acreage rehabi-
Acreage   No. of holdings         litated per holding
(1)  NAWA ReplantinR                         17,000         16,657                     1.02
(2)  M.T. Rehabilitating with
Intercropping                        40,500          17,996 /b                  2.25
- Cocoa: 22,000 acres
- Coffee: 8,350 acres
- Pruit trees & other: 8,545 acres
- Unallocated: 1,605 acres
(3) 5._. Rehabilitation with
Pasture                                3,710          1,215                     3.05
Total                           61,210         19,211                     3.19
/a  Replanted with Malaysian Talls until October 1977.
/b  Inoluding 16,657 holdings with MIAWA replanting.



Table 9
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Physical Phasing Project Activities
Total
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5           Yrs 1-5
A. CROP COMPONENT (Annex 1)
1. On-farm Developments (ac)
11 Replanting with MAWA                      1,5U0   3,000   3,000   3,500    6,000            17,000
12 Associated cash crops garden              2,628   3,000   3,000   3,876    4,496            17,000
13 M.T. Rehab./Intercropping
- cocoa                                   2,285   3,910   4,260   4,710    6,835           22,000
- coffee                                    400   1,500   1,700   1,800    2,950             8,350
- fruit trees, cashew &
others                                   315   1,365   1,170   1,730    3,965            8,545
- unallocated                               570      370        15     100       550         1,605
Subtotal 13                             3,570   7,145   7,145   8,340   14,300           40,500
2. Off-farm Developments
21 Additional regional infrastructure (no.)
211-Regional offices                          1         1       -        -          -            2
212-Main offices                             2         2         1       -         -             5
213-Suboffices w/nursery                     1          1       -        -         -             2
Subtotal 21                                4         4        1        -         -             9
22 CPC Seed Gardens (ac)
221-Lekir seed garden                        -        50       50        -          -          100
222-Mukim Jorak seed garden                  -        50        -        -          -           50
Subtotal 22                                -       100       50        -         -           150
B. INTEGRATED DAIRY/BEEF COMPONENT (Annex 3)
1. On-farm developments
11 MT Rehab. w/cultiv. pasture & dairy
development
111-Pasture acreage                          -       150      550   1,200    1,600          3,500
112-No. of pregnant heifers sup.             -       150      400      800       800        2,150
12 MT Rehab. w/dairy development
121-Pasture acreage                          -         -        -        -         -             -
122-No. of pregnant heifers sup.             -       300   1,810   1,120    1,020           4,250
13 MT Rehab. w/beef development
131-Pasture acreage                          -        30       60       60        60           210
132-No. of animals supplied                  -        40       80       80        80           280
2. Off-farm Developments (no.)
21 Import of cross-bred heifers              2,460    2,120   2,020           -         -        6,600
22 Supply of animals to the particip.             -       450/a 2,250   2,000       1,900        6,600
23 Expansion of Johore CRCs
(acre pasture)                          1,500    1,500         -        -         -        3,000
24 Add'tl milk collection ctrs (MCCs)
(construction)                              1         2        3        3         -             9
C.  TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
1.  Training (add'tl staff)                         -         1        1        2         2             6 /b
2.  Technical Assistance (man-months)               -        15       15       15         3            48
3.  Fellowships (man-years)                         -         8        9        6         -           23
/a 2,250 animal units purchased prior to the project.
Lb Seven processing extension agents in Year 6.



BASIC DATA
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
Yield Assumptions
I            ~~~~Coconut Replanting                   Coconut Rehabilitated  I    Coo   oecoPfl                   ofeitrcopn                   ahwnu   necopn
IM.T. (10% of rehab. area)       MAWA replanting           Average 45 palms/acre    Average 300 stands/acre         Average 30  standscre           Averag  70 stnd s/cre
Picul                     Picul                        Picul               Lbs wet  Lbs dry               Picul   Lbs dry    Kg      I Piculs raw  Lbs raw
I Nuts/  copra/    Kg       I Nuts/ copra/    Kg          Nuts!  copra/    Kg         beans!   beans!  Kg dry    berries!  beans   coffee!a      kernels!   kernels
Year        I acre    acre  copra/ha  | acre   acre  copra/ha  | acre    acre  copra/ha  |   acre            acre  beans/ha    acre       acre       ha          acre        acr     kg/ha
_ _   _  _ I  _ _    _     _    _     _ I  _ _    _     _    _          _     _     _          I. __           _     _     _   I  _ _ _ ___        __
I (planting)I        -      -        -          -      -       -    j  1,150    4.5       670            -       -        -    I       _       _        _    I
2             I      -      -        -    I    -       -        -    I 1,150    4.5       670    I       -        -       -    I       -        -       -    I
3             I      _      _        _    I    _       _       _    I 1,265    5.0        745            - _        _     _                             - _  _  _
I(+10%)
4                    -      -        -    I    -       -        -    I 1,380    5.4       810    I    235       94      105    I  6.75        90      100    I       -           -          -
I(+20%)
5             I      -      -        -    j  300   1.0        145    I  1,495    5.9      875    I    580      232      260    I  13.5       180      200    I       -           -          -
I(+30%)
6             I    75    0.3        45    I 1,800   6.0      895        1,495    5.9      875    I    830      332      370    I 20.3        270      305          2.7         360        405
7             I   585    2.3       345    I 3,000  10.0   1,495    I  1,495    5.9        875    I  1,100      440      495    I 27.0        360      405    I    3.5          465        525
8             I 1,150    4.5       670      4,200  14.0   2,090         1,495    5.9      875    I 1,250        500     560    I 30.4         405     455     I    4.6         615        685
9             I 1,838    7.2   1,075    I 5,400  18.0   2,690    I 1,495    5.9           875    I  1,375       580     650    I 34.0         455     505    I    6.0          800        895
10             I 2,170    8.5   1,270    I 6,000  20.0   2,990    | 1,495    5.9           875    I 1,450        580     650    | 34.0         455     505    I    7.7        1,025      1,150
1  onward   onward   onward  Ionward    onvard    onward
11             I 2,320    9.1   1,360    I 6,525  21.75  3,250        I 1,495    5.9       875    I 1,450        580     650    I
12 o              2,320    9.1   1,360    | 6,525  21.75  3,250    I 1,495    5.9          875    I  1,450       580     650
13 o0w.        I2,320    9.1   1,360         6,525  21.75  3,250    I1,495    5.9          875    I1,450         580     650     I
Note:  - 1 picul - 133.3 lb = 60.45 kg
- 1 picul of copra = 300 MAWA nuts
= 255 M.T. nuts
- Ratio weight of dry cocoa to weight of wet beans = .40.
- Ratio weight of dry beans to weight of coffee berries = .10.
t7I-,
0



Table 11
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALtLH0DERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model Sumeary
F  a r       Mo d e l s
1         2          3          4          5          6          7/
1. Physisal Features
11 - Rolding size (ac)                                    2.0        4.0        8.0        8.0        4.0        6.0        2.0
a                                     12 - Coconut acreage                                       1.5        3.0       6.0        6.0        3.0        4.0        1.5
13 - Assumed .u.ber of participants                     3,600      5,215     5,715       1.340     2,125      1,075        140
14 - IAWA replanting acreage                              0.5        1.0        2.0          -        1.0         -          -
- Yearly phased replanted acreage                    0.5        0.5        1.0         -        0.5
15 - Associated c..h-crops garden equiv-lent
yearly acreage                                    0.25       0.5         1.0         -        0.5
16 - h'.T. rehabilitated acreage                          1.0        2.0        4.0        6.0        2.0       4.0        1.5
- Yearly pha.ed rehabilitated acreaSe                1.0        1.0       2.0         3.0       1.0        2.0        1.5
17 - H.T. permanently intercropped acreage                1.0        2.0        4.0        6.0        2.0         -          -
- Yearly phased intercropped acreage                 1.0        1.0        2.0       3.0        1.0          -          -
18 - M.T. divers/pasture acreage                            -          -          -          -         -        4.0        1.5
- Yearly phased pasture acreage                        -          -          -         -          -        2.0        1.5
19 - Number of dairy heifers supplied                       -          -          -          -          2          2         -
- Number of 12-14 m feeders supplied                     -          -          -         -          -          -          2
2. Development Grants (M$/holdinR)
21 - Mia  grants received for:
- MAWA replanting                                337.50    675.00  1,350.00            -    675.00           -          -
- Ass. seed-garden                               112.50    225.00    450.00            -    225.00           -          -
- M.T. rehabilitation                            300.00    600.00  1,200.00  1,800.00    600.00  1,200.00    450.00
- M.T. permanent intercropping                    300.00    600.00  1,200.00  1,800.00    600.00             -          -
- Cultivated pasture under M.T.                        -          -          -         -          -    640.00    420.00
- Dairy/beef development                                                               -    560.00    560.00    410.00
- Animal grant                                         -          -          -         -  1,400.00  1,400.00    600.00
Subtotal 21                          1,050.00  2,100.00  4.200.00  3,600.00  4 _060.00  3.B00.00  1.880.00
22 - Additional grants received for:
- MAWA replanting                                  80.00    160.00    320.00           -    160.00           -          -
- M.T. rehabilitation                              90.00    180.00    360.00    540.00    180.00    360.00    135.00
- N.T. pernaneot intercropping                    140.00    280.00    560.00    840.00    280.00             -          -
- Cultivated pasture under M.T.                        -          -          -         -          -    280.00       75.00
Subtotal 22                             310.00    620.00  1,240.00  1,380.00    620.00    645.00    210.00
Total 2                               1_360.00  2_720.00  5.440.00  4,980.00  4.680.00  4 _440.00  2,090.00
3. BEne.tis at Full Development (m$/holdinR/year)
31 - Production Value (sales + home consumption)
- Coconut                                         798.00  1,596.00  3,192.00  1,656.00  1,596.00  1,104.00    399.00
- Cocoa                                          913.00  1,827.00  3,654.00  5,481.00  1,827.00              -          -
- Coffee                                          721.00  1,443.00  2,086.00  4,329.00  1,443.00             -
- Milk                                                 -          -          -         -  1,955.00  1,955.00            -
- Live-tock                                            _          -          _         -    971.00    971.00    915.00
Subtotal 31 - v/o intercropping          _              -          -         -          -  4.030.00  1,303.00
- .1th cocoa             1,711.00  3.423.00  6,846.00  7,137.00  6.349.00
- with coffee           1,519.00  3,039.00  6,078.00  5,985-00  5,965.00
32 - Production Costs (MO)
- PaFily labor                                   435.00    873.00  1,726.00  1,849.00  1,780.00  1,130.00    123.00
- Fertilizero                                     155.00    310.00    620.00    690.00    310.00    320.00    105.00
- Chemicals                                        35.00      70.00    140.00    180.00       70.00      80.00          -
- Concentrate feeds                                    -          -          -         -    630.00    522.00            -
- Aninal health                                        -          -          -         -      42.00      42.00      10.00
- Animal purchase                                      -          -          -          -         -           -    400.00
- Others                                           35.00      71.00    142.00    153.00    167.00    171.00         23.00
Subtotal 32                             600.00  1.324.00  2,628.00  2,872.00  2,999.00  2,265.00    661.00
33 - Yearly Benefits (M5/holding)
- Without permanent intercropping              --                           - --  1 765.00    642.00
- With cocoa                                   1.051.00  2.099.00  4.218.00  4,265.00  3,350.00
- With coffee                                    859.00  1,715.00  3,450.00  3,113.00  2.966.00
34 - Preprolect Benefits (M$)                          202.00    401.00    798.00    802.00    401.00    506.00    188.00
35 - Incremental Annual Benefits
to the Farmer (M$)
- Without permanent intercropping                      -          -          -          -          -  1.259.00    454.00 /a
- With cocoa                                      849.00  1,698.00  3.420.00  3.463.00  2.959.00
- With coffee                                     657.00  1,314.00  2_652.00  2.311.00  2_565.00
36 - Ratio - Total Grant/Incre. Annual Benefit
- Without permanent intercropping                      -          -          -          -          -        3.5        4.6
- With cocoa                                         1.6        1.6        1.6        1.4        1.6          -          -
- With coffee                                        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.2        1.8          -         -
4. Financial Rate of Return (over 25 vears)
41 - To the Farmer
- Without pernanent intercropping                      -          -          -          -          -     24.351  over 100.00%
- With cocoa                                       36.35%    37.55%    37.752       28.85X    31.45%          -         -
- With coffee                                      31.15%    32.05%    32.25%    22.45%    29.35%             -         -
42 - To the Pro1ect
- Without permanent intercropping                      -          -          -          -          -      18.00%    21.75%
- With cocoa                                       20.25%    20.35%    20.451    18.85%    20.15%             -          -
- With -offee                                      16.75%    16.75%    16.75%       13.75%    18.45%          -          -
La  Incremental financial benefits to the farser amounting to M$280.00 in Year 2.



Table 12
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
Farm Incomes Preproject and Full Development
Model 1         Model 2          Model 3          Model 4      Model 5  Model 6  Model 7
Cocoa  Coffee  Cocoa  Coffee  Cocoa  Coffee  Cocoa  Coffee
Size of coconut area (ac)                   1.5      1.5    3.0       3.0    6.0      6.0    6.0       6.0      3.0       4.0        1.5
Total size of holding (ac)                2.0      2.0    4.0       4.0    8.0      8.0    8.0       8.0      4.0       6.0       2.0
Pre-project net income from
coconut area (M$) _a                      357      357    714       714  1,263   1,263  1,263   1,263         714       952       207
Other pre-project net income (M$)           856      856    981       981  1,167   1,167  1,167   1,167         981    1,167         575
Total pre-project net income (M$)   1,213   1,213  1,695   1,695  2,430   2,430  2,430   2,430   1,695    2.119                   782
Post-project net income from coconut
area excluding livestock (M$)           1,317   1,197  2,635   1,396  5,266   4,788  4,511   3,793   2,635    1,025               349
Post-project net income from
livestock (M$)                              -        -       -        -      -        -       -        -   2,158    2,077         490
Other post-project net income (M$)          856      856    981       981    620       620    620      620      250        985       485
Total post-project net income (M$)  2.173   2,053  3,616   3,377  5,886   5,408  5,131   4,413   5.043    4.087    1,324
Net increase in income (M$)                 960      840  1,921   1,682  3,456   2,978  2,701   1,983   3,348    1,968               542
Increase in income (M)                       79       69    113        99    142       123    111       82      198        93         69
/a Using 1980 prices in constant 1977 M$.
/b Using post-1985 prices in constant 1977 M$.
Average pre-project income of beneficiaries:   M$1,892.
Average post-project income of beneficiaries: M$4,164.



Table 13
MAkLAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Staffing Distribution
Present project
situation                                                           Total      Total
(CSDS - 1977)    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    5-year   general
A. CROP COMPONENT
1. HQ and Regional
Infrastructure
- Managerial and profess. group                 2             3         -          4         -         -          7          9
- Executive and subprofess. group               8             6         4          -         -         -         10         18
- Clerical and technical group                109            16        10          9         6         6         47        156
- Industrial and manual                        62            10        27          5         8         5         55        117
Subtotal 1                               181             35        41        18        14        11        119         300
2.  CPCs - Seed Gardens
- Hanagerial and profess. group                 -             -          2        -          -         -          2          2
- Executive and subprofess. group               -              1        -         -          -         -          1          1
- Clerical and technical group                  -             2         9          1         -         -         12         12
- Industrial and manual                         -             -         8          1         -                    9          9
Subtotal 2                                 -              3        19         2         -         -         24          24
Total AP                                 181             38        60        20        14        11         143        324
B. DAIRY COMPONENT
1. Cattle Molding/Raising Center (CRC)
- Managerial and profess. group              n.a.             4         -          -         -         -          4          4
- Executive and subprofess. group            n.a.             -         -          -         -         -          -          -
- Clerical and technical group               n.a.            26         6          -         -         -         32         32
- Industrial and manual                      n.a.            13        10          -         -         -         23         23
Subtotal 1                                15             43        16         -         -         -         59          59
2.  Additional MCCs
- Managerial and profess. group                 -             -          1         3         3         3         10         10
- Executive and subprofess. group               -             -          1         2         3         3          9          9
- Clerical and technical group                  -             -          5        12        19        21         57         57
- Industrial and manual                         -             -          2         3        10         9         24         24
- General supporting staff                                    2          3         2         2                    9          9
Subtotal 2                                 -              2        12        22        37        36        109 /d    109 /d
Total B                                    _             45        28        22        37        36         168        168
Total A + B                              196             83        88        42        51        47        311         311
C. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
1.  Processing Extension Services                   -              -         1         1         2         2           6 /b       6 /b
2.  Technical Assistance (man-months)
- CPCs - seed gardens                           -             -         3          3         3         3         12 /c      12 /c
- FAMA's CCPCs                                  -             -        12        12         12         -         36         36
Subtotal 2                                _              _         15        15        15         3         48          48
3. Fellowships (man-years)
- Crop component staff                          -             -         4          4         2         -         10         10
- Dairy component staff                         -             -         2         3          4         -          9          9
- FAMA's CCPCs                                  -             -         2          2         -         -          4          4
Subtotal 3                                _                         8         9         6                   23          23
/a  Additional 9 staff and laborers in Year 6, bringing the total up to 118.
/b One additional extension agent in Year 6, bringing the total up to 7.
/c Additional 2 man-months in Years 6 and 7.



Table 14
MALAYSEA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENt PROJECT
Project Cash Flow (1977 M4-00O)
Year 1              Year 2               Year 3              Year 4               Year 5                Total
Total       F.E.     Total    F.E.        Total    F.E.        Total    F.E.       Total F.E.           Total    F.E.
Crop Compcoent
Civil werks                                   835.6    334.2   1,199.6    479.9         259.1      103.6          -        -          -          -    2,294.3       917.7
Vehicles                                       92.0      92.0      106.0    106.0       92.0       92.0       92.0      92.0       92.0       92.0       474.0      474.0
Equipment (includes office furniture)         116.2    103.2       212.2    192.2        87.0      83.0       79.4      79.4       76.0       76.0       570.8      533.8
On-farn grants                              1,633.0    432.1   4,044.0  1,317.4   5,658.1   2,284.3   7,493.1  3,240.3  11,888.3   4,667.2   30,716.5  11,941.3
Other operating costs                          155.7     38.9      330.1    118.8       403.7      149.4     405.1    149.9       428.6      158.6    1,723.2       615.6
Staff /a                                      433.3         -   1,150.8          -   1,746.7           -   1,954.7         -   2,158.5           -    7,444.0           -
Total crop composont                   3.265.8  1,000.4   7,042.7  2.214.3   8,246.6   2,712.3  10,024.3  3,561.6  14.643.4   4.993.8   43.222.8  14,482.4
Livestock Component
Civil works                                 2,296.0    918.4   2,175.0    870.0   1,266.0         506.4   1, 140.0    456.0           -          -    6,877.0   2,750.8
Vehicles                                      294.0    294.0       174.0    174.0       119.2      119.2      145.4    145.4      153.6      153.6       886.2      886.2
Equipment                                     321.0    321.0       390.3    390.3       390.3     412.6      412.6    420.9        24.9       24.9    1,569.7   1,569.7
Aoinal procoremest                          2,640.0  2 460.0   2,130.0  2,130.0   2,020.0   2,020.0               -        -          -          -    6,610.0   6,610.0
On-facr  grants /b                                 -        -      170.0      11.9      762.0       53.3     925.0    157.2   1,142.0        274.0    2.999.0       496.4
Other operating costs                         707.0    495.0   1,145.9    802.1   1,402.7          981.9   1,533.4  1,073.4   1,650.8   1,155.6    6,439.8   4,508.0
Staff /a                                           -        -      181.6         -      376.1          -     504.5         -      642.2          -    1,704.4           -
Working capital                                    -        -       50.0         -      130.0          -     230.0         -      280.0          -       690.0          -
Total livestock com-onent              6,078.0  4,48S.4   6,416.8  4,378.3   6,488.6   4,093.4   4,899.2  2,252.9   3,093.5   16_08.1   27,776.1  16,821.1
Praislo/t.A. Component
Estension Services/Processio
Vehicles                                        -         -       22.0      22.0      22.0       22.0       44.0      44.0       44.0       44.0       132.0      132.0
Operating costs                                  -        -        6.0       3.0       12.0       6.0       24.0      12.0       36.0       18.0        78.0       39.0
Staff /a                                        -         -        3.5         -       7.0          -       14.0         -       21.0          -        45.5          -
Fellovships                                        -        -      280.0    224.0       210.0      168.0      70.0      56.0          -          -       560.0      448.0
Technical Assistance
Vehicles                                        -         -       12.0      12.0          -         -          -         -          -          -        12.0       12.0
Operating costs                                 _         -      194.4    168.5      194.4      148.5      194.4    168.5        21.6          -       604.8      505.5
Total Traininp/T.A. Component               _        _       517.9    429.5       445.4      364.5      345.4    280.5      122.6       62.0    1,432.3   1,136.5
Total Base Costs                       9_343.8  _5,488.8  11977.4  7_022.1  15,180.6   7,170.2  15,269.9  6.095.0  18,659.5   66_63.9   72,431.2  32,440.0
C_ntingencies
Physical                                      552.0    268.8       597.9    292.2       305.0     164.0      248.0    175.9        39.1       39.1    1,742.3       940.0
Pri-e                                         957.9    548.6   2,962.7  1,461.8   4,034.0   2,223.0   6,502.7  2,575.2  10,166.4   3,608.4   24,623.7  10,417.0
Total Continsencies                    1,509.9    817.4   3,560.6  1,754.0   4,339.0   2,367.0   6,750.7  2,751.1  10,205.5   3,647.5   26,366.0  11,357.0
Total Project  Costs /c               10,853.7  6,306.2  17,538.0  8,776.5  19,519.6   9.557.2  22.020.9  8,846.1  28,865.0  10,311.4   98,797.2  43,797.0
,/  Exclodes staff nerit increases.
/b Includes coconut rehabilitation grants when coconut rehabilitation is associated with pasture development.
/c When these estimates of total project cost are incressed by 7Z of on average inflation msitiplier, they are equivalent to the Project Cost Table
in the sain toot (1978 Constant U0$).



Table 15
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP COMPONENT
Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
IBRD fiscal year                                 Accumulated disbursements
and quarter                                 US$ x 1,000 equivalents (1978)
1978/79
1st, September 30, 1978
2nd, December 31, 1978                                      -
3rd, March 31, 1979                                       100
4th. June 30, 1979                                        300
1979/80
Ist, September 30, 1979                                   600
2nd, December 31, 1979                                  1,000
3rd, March 31, 1980                                     1,800
4th, June 30, 1980                                      2,700
1980/81
1st, September 30, 1980                                3,700
2nd, December 31, 1980                                 4,800
3rd, March 31, 1981                                    6,000
4th, June 30, 1981                                      7,400
1981/82
1st, September 30, 1981                                9,000
2nd, December 31, 1981                                 10,500
3rd, March 31, 1982                                    12,000
4th, June 30, 1982                                    13,200
1982/83
1st, September 30, 1982                               14,000
2nd, December 31, 1982                                 15,000
3rd, March 31, 1983                                    16,000
4th, June 30, 1983                                    17,000
1983184
1st, September 30, 1983                               18,000
2nd, December 31, 1983                                19,000
3rd, March 31, 1984                                    19,500



Table 16
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Agricultural Production, Exports and Imports (1975)
Malaysia - Agricultural Production. 1975 /a
Crops             Acres                 Production
Rubber         4,300,000             1,500,000 tons
Oil palm       1,300,000             1,250,000 tons
Padi           1,500,000             2,000,000 tons
Coconut          800,000               223,000 tons copra and oil
Cocoa             79,000 /b              17,600 tons /c
Coffee            20,000                  6,000 tons
Tobacco           30,500                  9,000 tons
Fruit            142,000                735,000 tons /d
Tapioca           32,000               100,000 tons
Oxen             400,000 animal           9,000 tons (fresh milk
units /e                     marketed)
Major Agricultural Exports, 1975
Value
Product                Volume (tons)        (M$ million)
Rubber                   1,417,000             2,016.0
Palm oil                1,026,000              1,268.0
Palm kernel oil            104,000               107.0
Pepper                      32,000               109.0
Pineapple                   45,000                52.0
Copra and nuts               1,200                 1.5
Coconut oil                 34,000                40.0
Cocoa beans & powder        14,000                20.0
Coffee                       1,800                 4.0
Major Agricultural Imports, 1975
Value
Product                  Volume (tons)    (M$ million)
Copra nuts and
copra cake /f             7,600                0.9
Coconut oil /f                 670               1.0
Cocoa & cocoa products       2,400               3.75
Coffee                       2,650               4.5
Dairy products /g           53,000             118.0
Maize                      201,500              37.0 /h
Rice bran                   62,000               6.2 lh
Soybeans                   21,000                5.8 /h
Other feedstuff           100,000               13.5 lh
/a  1974 and 1975 statistics.  Source: TMP, Statistical Digest,
Malaysia Coconut Statistics, et al.
/b  Two thirds intercropped with coconut.
/c  Low yield is the result of an increase in planted acreage of
19,000 in 1970 to 79,000 in 1975; thus production can be
expected to increase dramatically with maturity.
/d  Over 50% bananas.
/e  320,000 Kedah/Kelantan cattle, 70,000 local Indian dairy
animals (LID), and 10,000 crossbred dairy animals.
/f  Malaysia:  Coconut Statistics submitted to Asian Coconut
Community, November 1972.
/g  Consists primarily of powdered, condensed and evaporated
milk, and would be equivalent to several times this volume in
fresh milk.
/h  Estimated value.
Source: TMP, Statistical Digest, et al.



IBRD 13277
:  .  st \ l02t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-    t0$JANUARY 1978
MALAYSIA           W'JNAt  7
Coconut Smatlholder Development Pro*ect
COCONUT GROWING AREAS & DRAfNAGE SCHEME
; Coconut growin areas
PEA'LIS,                                                              - V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0. dirainage areas
>                              \                                       .      .      '. - - - Rivers
AlorSetor                   -                                                         Raifwoys
K E DA  H                                                                              boundas--= terr bries
>         ,' >           2f                     -;            - -  onterrationa  bouniclaries
.    X   \ ,      (ipin         .).                                   
~~~                  0~~~~   20  40   60  50  tOO
Ptworlh   I0                                                                                 20       50 j
I  Kualaregn
f                I~~~~~~A    I A                 T A
1Ly   A   K   t        E A         A 
C                     ~~~~~~~TAENGGA NU 
oh~~~~~                                           ~o               t
;   (urn~~~   S          t )           1\8i, oKual Lipis |           11     
2 ~       ~~ n<n                  --)    P      A    Ht A   VN    G                 Kunran
Th~~t~~r.Ya ~ vkt.,m                      _ ,.KUALAMLUMPUR
45lT\ tAA rO@'V                                       t>               A.IACCA1                                           9           h
INGAPOS~ANG
0  N  s,h5               cn; s                      ,.atZ  2'                   ) -
i40_uL&V>tS-To~~~~~~~~~A_~ L                         3 M R






MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF CSDP
|MinistrY of Agriculture|
National Coordnating            - -
|   Committee          |                    
C oordinator ~                                                               F   nance/Accounts
Coo  r                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Procurement
State Coordinating       - -                                                                 Projects Secretariat              Administration
j    Committees                                                                                                                 Fellowship - Technical
Assistance
I         Committees                         _               k                     .                                      |          Clerical Typist Pool
D.O.A.-O- - - - - | -      Crop Component           --_FAMA                                                                                                        Dairy Component               --    DVS
D.l.D. ------ -                Lede                                                                                                                                     Leader              ------  Majuternak
State DOA_-.       Supervisor         Supervisor         Supervisor        Supervisor         Supervisor
Southern           Central           Northern           Eastern            CPC-
State DID                        ~RgGSS1
State DID    J  Hegion-a/        Region-IJ          Region-J           Rteg zn_j        Seed- raens                                                                                               Ae   rjtMngr
I  I  j  I                  I                                                                                                    Area Projec~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Managers
Johore     _         Selangor         Perlis                                                                                                                           i Kelantan _Lekir  Fit          - 1 S. P. Tengsh
Malacca                               Kedah     _        Trengganu_            Jorak                                                                                  Rainsing                         m 2 S. P. Selatan
N. Sembilon                           Penang/PW_         Pahang                                                                                                       Centre                             3 Bagan Datok
Perak                                                                                                                          Second                              4 Sabak Bernam
Raising                            5 Alor Gajah
Centre                             6 MerlCmau
7 Muar
8 Batu Pahat
9 Pontian
10 East Coast Beef
Pilot Project
Note: 41 Include CSDP nurseries
_     Functional /Responsibility Line
.*-_~- Coordination Line
World Bank - 18526



