Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2370-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR A
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 21, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 - M$2.40
M$1.00 - US$0.42
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 pound      -        0.453 kg
1 pikul      -        133.3 lb
1 long ton   -        16.8 pikuls
1 gallon     3        4.546 liters
1 liter      '        0.22 gal
1 acre       -        0.404 hectare (ha)
I hectare    -        2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
CCPC            -         Coconut Collection and Processing Center
CSDS            -         Coconut Smallholder Development Scheme
DOA             -         Federal Department of Agriculture
DVS              -        Federal Department of Veterinary Services
ICA             -         Industrial Coordination Act
MOA              -        Ministry of Agriculture
MT               -        Malaysian Tall (coconut)
SMP             -         Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75)
TMP             -         Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Malaysia
Beneficiaries:   Smallholder coconut farmers
Amount:           US$19.5 million
Terms:            17 years, including 4 years' grace, at 7.9% p.a.
Project
Description:   The project would consist of on-farm development for coconut
smallholders, and strengthening of supporting services and
facilities. About 19,200 coconut smallholders would benefit
from the project and receive development assistance in the
form of training, planting materials, fertilizers, chemicals,
livestock and livestock production facilities. The project
area of 61,200 acres would consist of rehabilitation of
44,200 acres and replanting of 17,000 acres of coconut; the
rehabilitated coconut would be intercropped with about 22,000
acres of cocoa, 8,500 acres of coffee, 3,700-acres of pasture,
and other crops. The project would also provide 6,400 cross-
bred dairy heifers and 280 feeder animals for the establish-
ment of about 3,340 integrated dairy and beef operations
under coconut.
In order to achieve the major objective of on-farm develop-
ment and alleviation of poverty among coconut smallholders,
the project would also strengthen supporting services and
facilities and would include:
(a)  training of farmers in modern techniques. for processing
of copra, cocoa, and coffee;
(b) animal husbandry and animal health training for farmers;
(c) coconut seed gardens and nurseries for the production of
planting materials;
(d) milk collection centers for collection and marketing of
fresh milk;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(e) fellowships to upgrade Agriculture and Veterinary
Department staff; and
(f) consultants to advise and assist project staff.
Project risks would be related to farmer acceptance of
coconut replanting and rehabilitation, effective integration
of agriculture supporting services, and prices of farm
produce. In general, risks would be acceptable, given the
Department of Agriculture's 14 years of experience in coconut
replanting and rehabilitation.
Estimated Cost:                             Local       Foreign        Total
-------- US$ million ---------
Civil works                 2.48         1.65          4.13
Vehicles and equipment    0.00           1.62          1.62
On-farm grants              9.57         5.60         15.17
Livestock procurement       0.00         2.97          2.97
Operating expenditures    2.00           2.11          4.10
Technical assistance        0.05         0.35          0.40
Fellowships                    -         0.25          0.25
Staff                       4.14            -          4.14
Total Base Costs       18.22        14.55         32.78
Physical contingencies    0.35           0.40          0.75
Price contingencies         6.05         4.60         10.65
Total Project Cost    24.62         19.55         44.18
Financing
Plan:          Government         US$24.5 million  (56%)
Bank               US$19.5 million  (44%)
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY   1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
---------------- US$ million ---------------
Annual       0.3     2.4      4.7     5.8      3.8     2.5
Cumulative  0.3      2.7      7.4    13.2    17.0    19.5
Rate of Return:    18%
Appraisal Report No: 1906-MA



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MALAYSIA
FOR A COCONUT SMALLHOLDERS' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendaton on a proposed loan
to Malaysia for the equivalent of $19.5 million to help finance a coconut
smallholders' development project. The loan would have a term of 17 years
including 4 years grace, with interest at 7.9% per year.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA), is dated October 14, 1977. Detailed data
on Malaysia's economy are shown in Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past
and, in particular, during the Second Malaysia Plan (SMP, 1971-75). The per
capita income of $860 (in 1976) is among the highest in Southeast Asia.
Public and private investment activity was stepped up and, as a result,
GNP growth, which during the 1960s averaged 6% a year, increased during
the SMP to 7%. Moreover, the declining trend in the terms of trade during the
1960s was reversed during the 1970s, and as a result there was an acceleration
in per capita income growth on a trend basis from 2% during the 1960s to about
5% during the Second Malaysia Plan period. Progress has also been made in
reducing the economy's dependence on rubber, and the manufacturing sector
has performed well in terms of output, employment, and exports. With a high
export component in GNP, the country is very vulnerable to external fluctua-
tions, which were significant during the SMP. In spite of the increased
investment activity and resulting current account deficits in the balance of
payments, Malaysia managed to maintain a strong external position during the
SMP with relatively low debt service payments and growing international
reserves.
4.        Notwithstanding this good performance, existing racial inequalities
in income and employment, and considerable poverty, especially in the country-
side, persist. The inferior income position of the Malays is related to the
concentration of Malays in traditional smallholder agriculture and their
meager ownership of corporate assets; furthermore, Malays are poorly repre-
sented in the modern industrial sector, especially in managerial, profes-
sional, supervisory, and clerical occupations. The inequalities threatened
the stability of the country and, in 1971, prompted the Government to intro-
duce a New Economic Policy, which is designed to achieve national unity
through the two-pronged objective of eradicating poverty and restructuring
society to eliminate the identification of race with economic function.
/1 Parts I and II are essentially the same as those contained in the
President's Report (No. P-2356-MA, dated June 15, 1978) for the Second
Population and Family Health Project which was approved on July 6, 1978.



5.         More specifically, the policy proposes to reduce in a 20-year
period (1970-90) the sharp income differences between Malays and non-Malays
by reducing disparities in the ownership and control of wealth in the cor-
porate sector, and by reducing the concentration of Malay employment in
traditional low-income rural activities, while increasing Malay presence
in the relatively high-income urban sectors. Since poverty is largely
concentrated among Malays, a redressal of poverty would contribute signifi-
cantly to a reduction of the racial inequalities of income.
6.         The principal means proposed to achieve these objectives is rapid
growth of the industrial and service sectors. This growth will not only
increase average incomes but will also serve the objective of racial restruc-
turing of the labor force. In addition to pursuing a rapid growth strategy,
the Government also proposes to achieve its goals through more direct means:
on the poverty side, mainly through public investment programs directed
towards the poor and, on the racial restructuring side, through controls and
quotas.
7.         In mid-1976, the Government initiated the Third Malaysia Plan (TMP,
1976-80) reconfirming the goals of the New Economic Policy. The major
objectives of the TMP are: (a) to reduce the overall incidence of poverty
(from 44% in 1975 to 34% by 1980, which would mean reducing poverty in the
agricultural sector from 63% to 49%); (b) to increase Malay employment in the
modern sectors of the economy (from the 1975 Malay share of 32% towards the
1990 goal of 50%); and (c) to increase the share of Malays in the equity
ownership of the corporate sector (from the 1975 Malay share of 8% to 16%
in 1980).
8.         The TMP goals are set out in a framework of substantial economic
growth.  The target growth rate for GDP is set at 8.5% per annum.  Private
investment is targeted to grow about 10% a year and public investment about
6%, resulting in an investment of M$44 billion in current prices over
the TMP period. Public development expenditures were set at M$18.6 billion,
with a higher level of M$20 billion targeted if additional resources became
available.
9.         In addition to following a rapid growth strategy, the Government
proposes to reduce poverty through direct programs that will raise agricul-
tural productivity and production. In the Third Plan, one quarter (M$4.7 bil-
lion) of total public development expenditures is allocated to this sector
(compared with 22% or M$2.1 billion in the SMP). Of this, more than one
third will be spent on increasing productivity in existing agricultural
areas. In addition, one million acres of new land are scheduled for develop-
ment. As a means of reducing poverty, the TMP also provides for improved
housing and other essential services for the poor in both rural and urban
areas. The TMP also stresses that greater attention will be given to
improving the less developed states.
10.        Improved economic information for 1975 and 1976, however, has
significantly altered the macro framework of the Third Plan. First, there
was a larger recovery than expected in traditional exports and in the terms
of trade in 1976, as well as higher present and prospective levels of oil
production. Second, it now appears that the rate of private investment fell
considerably in 1975 and declined further in 1976.



- 3 -
11.       During 1976, significant increases in exports, both in prices and
volumes, particularly of oil exports, combined with moderate import increases,
resulted in a current account surplus equivalent to 6.2% of GDP. Despite a
reduction in market borrowing by the Government, reserves increased by US$900
million. At the end of 1976, gross official reserves were the equivalent of
about seven months of imports.
12.       Current projections of oil exports and of export prices in general
are higher than those used as a basis for the TMP. Therefore, the resource
outlook for Malaysia is now brighter than was forecast in the Third Plan.
Overall export earnings during the Plan period should be about US$5 billion
more than was forecast in the TMP. largely as a result of this increase,
public sector revenues are also expected to be higher by about US$3 billion.
The likelihood of these additional resources has prompted the Government to
choose the higher TMP target for development expenditures of M$20 billion
(see para. 8 above) and, if implementation constraints are overcome, an even
higher target could be set.
13.       While the availability of resources is thus expected to be consi-
derably improved, there is some uncertainty about achieving the Plan's pri-
vate investment targets. As a result of the decline in the rate of private
investment in 1975 and 1976, private investment would now have to grow sub-
stantially faster than the projected 10% rate during the remaining years of
the Plan in order to achieve the Plan targets. While there are a number of
possible factors involved in this downturn in the rate of private investment,
and particularly manufacturing investment, it is difficult to determine with
any certainty their relative importance. First, there was the world reces-
sion in 1974-75 which, no doubt, had some negative impact on investment
activity in Malaysia. Second, 1974 was a peak period for private investment
in Malaysia so that some cyclical decline in the rate of private investment
in 1975 would probably have been experienced in any event. Third, there was
considerable uncertainty in the private sector regarding the impact of the
Industrial Co-ordination Act (ICA), passed by Parliament in 1975, which
enforces racial restructuring targets for equity and employment through a
system of licensing of existing and new firms above a certain minimum size.
The Government acknowledged the uneasiness in the business community and
amended the Act in 1976. An important change approved was the establishment
of an appeals procedure.  It is still too early, however, to judge the
reaction of the private sector to the amendments.
14.       Assuming a moderate long-term recovery in private investment,
Malaysia's balance of payments should be in substantial surplus. During the
next five years, the cumulative current account surplus could amount to over
5% of GDP compared to a negligible current surplus in the previous five
years. Since such a current account surplus would be sufficient to provide
for an adequate level of reserves, capital inflows may moderate in the future.
At present, about 19% of public debt outstanding and disbursed is from the
Bank; this percentage may increase somewhat by the early 1980s. Reserves
are also expected to continue to increase slowly, while the debt service
on public obligations is likely to remain at its present level of 4-5%
of export earnings. The Bank's share of debt service is currently about
11% and may increase to 12-14% by the early 1980s.



- 4 -
15.       In general, over the next few years, it is likely that the Govern-
ment will need less external capital than previously forecast, largely because
of strong commodity prices and oil earnings. At the same time, Malaysia has
a serious income distribution and poverty problem. The country needs techni-
cal assistance and expertise to help develop poverty alleviation programs and
to assist in designing and packaging projects that reach out directly to low
income families. The Malaysians believe strongly that project borrowing, par-
ticularly from development institutions such as the World Bank, is necessary
to assist them to mount an effective attack on poverty. Bank lending is
therefore focused on strengthening Government efforts to reduce poverty
directly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
16.       The Bank has made 42 loans to Malaysia for projects in education,
population, agriculture, forestry, industrial finance, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban transport.
17.       Although in many cases disbursements have been slower than expected,
the execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been satisfactory.
As of July 31, 1978, the loans to Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to
$788.9 million. Seventeen loans have been fully disbursed. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of July 31, 1978.
18.       While currently Malaysia is a resource surplus country, the openness
of the economy (exports are 45% of the GDP) and the volatility of the prices
of Malaysia's main exports (rubber, palm oil, and tin) make the continuance of
large surpluses uncertain. To cushion against fluctuation in exports, large
reserves are needed. With regard to Bank lending, however, the primary
consideration is not resource transfer; rather, it is institution-building
and helping Malaysia to expand its capacity to implement programs to combat
the deep-rooted problems of poverty and unemployment, particularly in
the rural areas.
19.       Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has strength-
ened significantly in the past few years. The Bank can justifiably take
some measure of credit for its efforts to help Malaysia identify and prepare
projects geared toward the rural poor. In view of Malaysia's otherwise weak
preparation capability, the number of rural development projects recently
financed and in the current pipeline is impressive. The bulk of these
projects has been financed by the Bank. Recently, in order to reach a
greater number of low-income households, the Government and the Bank have
been emphasizing in situ agriculture projects, such as those for small-scale
irrigation, integrated rural area development, and agricultural support
services.
20.       While these recent projects are by themselves impressive, they are
not truly representative of the Government's general capacity to develop
projects; this capacity remains very weak, largely because of a shortage of
trained staff. With the help of the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed State



- 5 -
and Rural Development Project, which provides technical assistance in
selected federal agencies (departments) and states, the Bank is helping the
Government to develop further its programs and projects for reducing poverty.
21.       The country needs assistance to help develop future poverty programs
and projects that would reach out directly to low-income families in the
rural and urban areas. Bank loans are assisting those in absolute poverty by
strengthening research and extension, by providing on-farm development
including irrigation and drainage facilities, and other facilities such as
farm-to-market roads. At the same time, the Bank will continue to assist
landless laborers by helping in the development of larger areas of new land
for agriculture. The proposed project would assist one of the poorest groups
of farmers, the coconut smallholders, by rehabilitating and replanting coconut
areas in order to raise farmers' incomes. The proposed project would also
provide on-farm drainage which would build on drainage facilities started
under other Bank-financed projects (Loan Nos. 973-MA, 1974, and 1522-MA,
1978) and would thus permit realization of the full production potential of
coconut lands. The Bank lending program will also help improve support
services by expanding extension services, by increasing agricultural and
small-scale industrial credit, and by producing higher quality seeds. The
Bank plans to mount a concentrated effort to help such institutions as RISDA
(Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority), FELCRA (Federal Land
Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority), and the Agricultural Credit
Bank. It also plans to help the Government expand social services, particu-
larly for low-income groups, through assistance for formal and informal skill
training and to the expansion of family planning services. Assistance to
infrastructure development would be very selective, concentrating on second-
ary rural road links and extending electricity into the rural areas.
22.       IFC has been active in Malaysia since 1963 and has made six invest-
ments totaling $8.69 million. The total commitments under the investments
held by IFC as of July 31, 1978, amounted to $1.34 million (Annex II).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       The agricultural sector holds a preeminent position in Malaysia's
economy, contributing about one third of GDP, and more than half of the employ-
ment and foreign exchange earnings. Agricultural production has grown at
about 6% p.a. since 1970, and this trend is expected to continue in the near
future. Over one half of agricultural and forestry production is exported;
about 60% of these exports are based on rubber and oil palm products in which
Malaysia occupies a predominant position in the world market. In addition,
the scope for economically justified import-substitution in grains, dairy
products, and meats, which represent the bulk of agricultural imports, is
relatively limited. Therefore, continued agricultural growth will depend
heavily on increased exports. Based upon Malaysia's physical advantages,
the high degree of competitiveness in traditional exports developed over
many years, and satisfactory market conditions, prospects for such growth
appear favorable.
24.       Of the 8 million cultivated acres in Peninsular Malaysia, rubber
occupies 4.3 million, oil palms 1.3 million, and coconuts 0.5 million,



- 6 -
accounting for a total of more than 6 million acres under permanent tree
crops, of which almost two thirds are in smallholdings. The only other
major crop is padi, with one million acres. Other crops (all below
100,000 acres each) are pineapple, cocoa, tapioca, sugarcane, tobacco,
coffee, and groundnuts. Smallholdings and rural poverty are largely concen-
trated in rubber, padi, and coconut areas.
25.       Objectives.  Over a quarter of the TMP development expenditures
will go to agriculture, more than to any other sector. The main objectives
of the agricultural development policy are:
(a) redressal of rural poverty and regional income disparities;
(b) creation of new employment opportunities;
(c) increased stability in rural incomes and foreign exchange earnings
through promotion of new export crops and import substitution: and
(d) maintenance of growth of export earnings.
26.       Strategy.  The Government is making an all-out effort to pursue
these objectives through a variety of programs which have two major elements:
(a) increasing emphasis on raising productivity in existing smallholder
agricultures in order to reduce poverty and regional inequalities;
and
(b) new land development in order to generate employment at adequate
income levels.
27.       Field operations of agricultural programs in existing smallholder
areas are vested in the State Departments of Agriculture and a number of Federal
agencies, e.g. FELDA, RISDA, FELCRA, Livestock Development Authority (Majuternak),
and the Fisheries Development Authority (Majuikan). The major emphasis is
being placed on improving coordination among these various entities and
increasing their individual capacity for effective implementation.
28.       Land Development.  In Peninsular Malaysia alone, during the last 20
years, about 1 million acres of virgin land have been opened up to agricultural
settlement and a further 3 million acres suitable for agricultural production
remain undeveloped. The current annual rate of land development by all
agencies in Peninsular Malaysia is about 160,000 acres, adequate to settle
18,000-20,000 families, while maintaining an adequate standard of living. This
represents approximately 20% of the annual growth of the national labor force.
Almost two thirds of this development are being undertaken by the Federal Land
Development Authority (FELDA) assisted to date by six Bank loans.
29.       In-Situ Development.  The TMP's emphasis on existing agriculture is
fundamental to achieving the social objective of alleviating poverty throughout
Malaysia. Development targets include a 20% increase in double cropping of
padi from 590,000 to 690,000 acres; providing new and improved drainage to
559,000 acres in the west coast (a high percentage in the coconut areas that
would facilitate coffee and cocoa intercropping with coconut): replanting



- 7 -
and new planting of 500,000 acres of rubber; replanting and rehabilitation
of 100,000 acres of coconut, including 22,800 acres to be intercropped; and
the introduction of livestock under coconut, crop diversification of rainfed
agriculture, and general strengthening of agricultural services, particularly
extension, for all farmers.
The Coconut Subsector
30.       In Peninsular Malaysia, coconut production is predominantly a
smallholder activity and an important rural occupation. The crop supplies
many of the basic food requirements of the rural population and, traditionally,
is closely associated with the smallholders' way of life. It is estimated
that 13% of the coconut acreage is in scattered plantings around the home, and
along drainageways and roadways. The nuts harvested from these palms are
utilized for domestic subsistence requirements and the surplus sold locally as
fresh nuts.
31.       In the estate sector, the economic status and importance of coconuts
have declined gradually over the years, mainly as a result of replanting of
coconut areas with oil palm, which, with estate management and resources,
has been a higher-income crop than coconut. However, in the smallholder
sector, the acreage has increased from 470,300 acres in 1971 to 533,200 acres
in 1975. Of the 576,000 acres existing in 1975, 90% is smallholdings, with
about 450,000 persons (80,000 households) being wholly or partly dependent on
coconut as their primary source of livelihood, while only 4,000 persons
were employed on the 40 coconut estates. About two thirds of Peninsular
Malaysia's coconut smallholdings are concentrated in the west coast
states of Johore, Selangor, Perak, and Penang. Most of the smallholdings are
planted according to tradition, rather than sound agronomic practices, with a
tendency to overplant resulting in nigh density of poorly managed palms.
32.       With low levels of management, labor and other production inputs,
smallholdings are often overgrown with weeds, especially lallang (Imperata
cylindrica). Young palms are stunted with yellow fronds, and old palms
grow with pencil tops due to lack of fertilizer and/or inadequate on-farm
drainage in low-lying areas. These poorly maintained and neglected holdings
are susceptible to damage by pests and diseases and give low yields.
Coconut Production
33.       There are great variations in coconut yields not only between
estates and smallholdings, but also between states and even districts. Yields
of smallholdings average less than 650 lbs of copra per acre as compared
with average estate yields of 1,200 lbs. The highest smallholder yields of
1,300 lbs of copra were recorded in the Sabak Bernam district of Selangor,
while in Kelantan the average is less than 300 lbs. Although over 70% of the
smallholder palms in Peninsular Malaysia are in the bearing stage, yields are
low for the following reasons:
(a) flooding or persistent waterlogging because of poor drainage or
breakdown of drainage system in some of the west coast areas;



- 8-
(b)  high percentage of old palms;
(c)  low fertility, especially of the bris soils in Kelantan and
Trengganu; and
(d)  pests.
34.       Considering the average low yields, there is ample opportunity for
improvement through better husbandry, increased inputs, drainage, and replant-
ing. Intercrops such as coffee, cocoa, fruits, and pastures for livestock
also offer good potential for raising coconut smallholder incomes above the
poverty level.  Rehabilitation could increase by 50% the income from existing
coconut lands.  Replanting with new MAWA hybrid varieties could raise income
from coconut by more than 300%.  Intercropping could further increase income
by an amount at least equivalent to the income derived from coconuts, thus
reducing or eliminating the need for off-farm employment.
35.       The opportunity for off-farm employment by coconut smallholders is
good in the industrialized areas, such as Selangor and adjacent urban centers.
However, most coconut growers are located in the coastal fringe area where
opportunities for off-farm employment are scarce and consist of low-paying,
casual labor jobs such as padi transplanting, padi harvesting and rubber tapping.
On the east coast, where coconut yields are lower than the average, off-farm
employment is especially limited, and fishing is often the only means of supple-
menting income. National average off-farm income of coconut producers ranges
from about $300 p.a. on the smallest farms to $150 p.a. on the 10-12 acre farms.
Larger farm units generally have little excess family labor.
Coconut Smallholder Development Strategy and Objectives
36.       The need to assist the smallholder sector of the coconut industry
has been recognized by the Government for many years and, in 1963, the Coconut
Replanting and Rehabilitation Scheme began as a pilot 4,000-acre operation in
southwest Johore. This operation became an important part of the Government's
smallholder development programs under the First and Second Malaysia Plans and
has been expanded under the TMP. The program has now been renamed the Coconut
Smallholders' Development Scheme (CSDS) and established as a subunit within
the Department of Agriculture (DOA) with the basic objective of increasing
the real income of coconut smallholders through:
(a) rehabilitation or replanting of coconut palms;
(b) cash cropping and intercropping;
(c) integrated livestock development; and
(d) training.
Since 1963, the program has assisted in replanting and/or rehabilitating
about 120,000 acres, benefiting about 25,000 smallholders. Program manage-
ment requires considerable strengthening. Many of its officers are fairly
young and inexperienced. In addition, the absence of long-term budgetary



- 9 -
commitment has meant that most positions are temporary and thus do not attract
staff of the highest possible caliber. An additional difficulty with the
program has been that, because there have been no restrictions on participa-
tion in the past, in some instances participants have included farmers with
substantial landholdings (up to 100 acres) or with substantial noncoconut
income. The proposed project would address both of these circumstances.
Rehabilitation and Replanting
37.       Existing stands of Malaysian Talls (MTs) are either being rehabili-
tated or, if in very poor condition, replanted with the new higher-yielding
dwarf hybrid varieties (MAWAs). In addition, substantial scope exists for
increasing farmers' incomes with appropriate intercropping, although at
present less is known about intercropping with MAWA stands. For this reason,
under the proposed project intercropping and livestock development would be
limited to MT holdings, pending more experience and knowledge about inter-
cropping with MAWA.
38.       Coconut would be rehabilitated by removing uneconomic palms,
replacing them with new Malaysian tall planting materials, and establishing
the stand of coconut palms at recommended levels. Farmers would improve
on-farm drains, follow recommended weeding practices, and use fertilizer to
increase the yield and income from coconuts as well as the intercrops.
Cash Cropping and Intercropping
39.       Encouraged by high world market prices of cocoa and coffee and the
opportunity afforded to increase substantially the income of coconut small-
holders, the DOA is promoting intercropping of rehabilitated coconuts with
cocoa, coffee, and fruits. Cocoa is the most important intercrop and the
area planted to cocoa has more than doubled between 1971 (40,000 acres) and
1976 (more than 90,000 acres), and is expected to exceed 150,000 acres by
the end of the TMP. About 70% of this cocoa is in Peninsular Malaysia and is
equally divided between smallholders and estates: most smallholder cocoa is
grown as a coconut intercrop.  Cocoa production was 22,000 tons in 1976 and
should exceed 30,000 tons by 1980. Adequate technical knowledge and manage-
ment ability are available and, thus, should not be constraints to achieving
the projected domestic cocoa acreage and production increases. Research and
extension services are adequate to support this development. A major problem
for the cocoa industry is the high acidity of the beans, which reduces
Malaysian cocoa quality, price, and demand. Research on this problem is
making some progress.
40.       With new plantings of coconut, smallholders would produce subsistence
crops such as vegetables, bananas, tapioca, maize, and groundnuts. Under new
coconut stands, these crops would only supplement incomes for three to four
years in the immature stage.  These food crops would need to be replaced with
permanent intercrops of cocoa, coffee, and fruits, when shading of palms makes
feed and food crops unproductive.  On the less productive sandy soils of the
east coast, the intercrops that can be grown under shade are tobacco, chili
peppers, mangoes, bananas, and cashew nuts, or cultivated pasture for beef
production which would yield a lower return than cocoa and coffee.



- 10 -
Integrated Livestock Development
41.       Small-scale livestock production, particularly dairy farming, is a
relatively new enterprise for coconut smallholders. Dairying is particularly
attractive for smaller farmers as it provides the best opportunity to
raise total farm income above the poverty level; provides regular cash income;
and could productively use family labor that otherwise would be unemployed.
Some farmers could provide adequate roughage from drainageway and roadside
cuttings to maintain two or three dairy animal units. If necessary, this
roughage could be supplemented with concentrates to obtain satisfactory levels
of milk production. The opportunity for dairying is, however, limited to more
affluent, densely populated areas of the west coast states where a market
exists for dairy products. Smallholder production of pasture and beef is
considered to be adaptable to the remote areas and to poor soils of the east
coast, where the market for fresh milk is limited.
Training
42.       Training and education of farmers through regular extension services
as well as assistance provided under the project would be essential to
achieving the production goals for coconut as well as the intercrops. The
increasing tendency for farmers to process their own produce is resulting in
low quality copra, cocoa, and coffee. The farmers' lack of knowledge about
processing cocoa produces low quality beans and adversely affects the reputa-
tion of Malaysian products, since the traditional processing method now being
used results in moldy and tainted beans that give an off-taste chocolate
product. These problems could be overcome in two ways: (a) establishing
standards and licensing processors; and (b) farmer training in processing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project would assist the Malaysian Government in the implementa-
tion of a five-year time slice of one of its existing programs, designed for
improvement of coconut smallholding to alleviate rural poverty. This project
would strengthen the CSDS organization and the DOA supporting services (exten-
sion, training, and crop production), and supporting services of the Federal
Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) (extension, training, animal health,
animal husbandry, and milk marketing). The project would also provide for
training of staff and training of farmers in all on-farm aspects of crop and
dairy production, and processing. The project would focus on the smallest and
poorest coconut growers by limiting the size of farm holdings eligible for
participation to 10 acres, establishing an income ceiling of $1,500, and limit-
ing the total development grant per beneficiary to about $2,750. This project
would assist in strengthening and accelerating the program and would help to
achieve a 50% increase in. acreage developed in a five-year period; increase
the rate of replanting by 100%; and significantly increase the number of bene-
ficiaries during the project period. Net farm incomes of beneficiaries
would be increased from an average of $800 per unit from coconut to $1,700 per
unit from coconut with intercrops.



- 11 -
44.       The project would finance, over five years (1979-83), the cost of
replanting and rehabilitation of 61,200 acres of coconut, benefiting 19,200
smaliholders in Peninsular Malaysia. This would represent a 50% increase in
the acreage of coconut land which has been developed by the program and a 75%
increase in the number of smallholders who have been assisted reflecting the
application of criteria which would restrict participation to the poorest
coconut smallholders. The project would also finance the strengthening of
supporting services for crop, dairy, and beef production; the establishment
of milk collection and cattle raising facilities; and the coconut seed
garden and planting materials for nursery facilities. Training of farmers
and agricultural service staff would be an important feature of the project.
Although training of farmers and in-service training of staff would be a
regular feature of the project, 23 man-years of fellowships would also
provide for intensive specialized training of selected key staff. The
project would provide four man-years of technical assistance to advise and
assist DOA staff.
Project Objectives
45.       The project would adopt an integrated agricultural development
approach with the following specific objectives:
(a) replanting of part of the area with high-yielding MAWA hybrids
in association with temporary cash cropping, followed by permanent
intercropping;
(b) rehabilitation of existing traditional Malaysian Talls (MTs) coconut
areas, including permanent intercropping and/or pasture development,
to diversify into integrated dairy/beef production; and
(c) technical assistance for improved processing of copra, cocoa, and
coffee in order to derive the highest quality and price for the
project beneficiaries.
Project Components
46.       The project would consist of the following components:
I. Crop Production Component
(a) Smallholder On-farm Development
(i) the replanting of 17,000 acres with high-yielding MAWA hybrids
on about 16,700 smallholdings;
(ii) the rehabilitation of 40,500 acres (plus 3,700 acres indicated
below under Integrated Dairy and Beef) of MTs on about 18,000
smallholdings and their diversification into various permanent
intercrops, such as cocoa, coffee, fruits, and cashews;
(b) Government Facilities Development
(i) the improvement and extension of regional infrastructure and
the establishment of two additional nurseries;



- 12 -
(ii) the establishment of 150 acres of coconut seed gardens to
supply the long-term replanting program with MAWA hybrid
seednuts.
II. Integrated Dairv and Beef Component
(a) Smallholder On-farm Development
(i)  the provision of 2,150 crossbred pregnant heifers to 1,075 coco-
nut smallholders, and the establishment of 3,500 acres of
pasture and forage under rehabilitated traditional MT coconuts;
(ii) the provision of 4,250 pregnant heifers to 2,125 smallholders
who have benefited from the crop component, and have sufficient
grass in their area to raise livestock without regular pasture
and forage development;
(iii) the distribution of 280 feeder animals to 140 smallholders
(average 3 acres with 1.5 acres of coconut), and the development
of 210 acres of pasture and forage for beef production under
coconut (rehabilitated MTs);
(b) Government Facilities Development
(i) provision of facilities and pastures for the importation and
maintenance of 6,600 head of crossbred heifers to be raised and
inseminated in government cattle raising centers. The borrower
would ensure that adequate holding capacity is available prior to
the procurement of the animals (see Loan Agreement, Section 3.11);
(ii) the establishment of 3,000 additional acres of pasture on two
cattle raising centers;
(iii) the establishment of nine additional milk collection centers
to ensure efficient milk collection, adequate animal husbandry
services, and equitable return to the participants.
III. Technical Assistance and Fellowships Component
(a) the provision of 4 man-years of technical assistance of which
3 man-years would be for copra, cocoa and coffee processing,
and 1 man-year for development of seed gardens; and
(b) the provision of 23 man-years of short-term and long-term
fellowships for all components.
Criteria and Conditions for Participation in the Project
47.       Participation in the replanting and rehabilitation program under the
project would be on a voluntary basis in all 11 peninsular states. In order
to meet the Government's objective of alleviating poverty, assurances were



- 13 -
provided (see Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 and Schedule 5) that the following
criteria would be used to select participants:
The Holding:
(a) would be classified as coconut land by the borrower and would
excli'de areas already classified as nonagricultural in existing
town dlans;
(b) would be less than 10 acres in aggregate;
(c) would qualify for replanting grants only if it had less
than 10 productive palms per acre.
The Smallholder:
(a) would have to have a net income below the country's official
prevailing poverty level;
(b) could not receive a total grant exceeding $2,750 (or such other
mmount as may be agreed between the Government and the Bank);
(c) when taking part in replanting and/or rehabilitation, shall also
carry out recommended cash cropping and/or permanent intercropping;
and
(d) when taking part in rehabilitation shall also carry out recommended
permanent intercropping and/or livestock rearing.
Given the voluntary nature of participation and the new focus on very poor
farmers, the program may begin to encounter some difficulties in the later
years of the project in recruiting adequate numbers of new participants.
Very poor farmers, with little or no noncoconut income, may be reluctant to
remove their existing palms, thus decreasing their income during the rela-
tively long period while the new coconuts mature. Subsistence crops such as
vegetables, bananas, tapioca, maize and groundnuts could supplement incomes
for the first three to four years, to be replaced by permanent intercrops
such as cocoa, coffee, and fruits when the palms' shading makes cultivation
of food and feed crops uneconomical. Nevertheless, farmers' incomes would be
reduced during the gestation period and an effective cadre of extension offi-
cers would be required to convince the farmer of the long-term benefits of
participating in the program.
Marketing and Markets
48.       Marketing of incremental production would present no problems.  The
private sector is active in the area of coconut, cocoa and coffee marketing,
and the Federal Agriculture Marketing Authority has also started marketing
these products. Milk would be marketed largely through government-supported
milk production centers. In addition, Malaysia is expected to continue to
export cocoa. Domestic consumption of coconut products is expected to



- 14 -
increase at a rate that would substantially reduce exports in the 1980s; and
domestic consumption of Liberica coffee is expected to increase, while
Singapore is a potential export market. The demand for fresh milk is diffi-
cult to predict given the traditional emphasis on canned and powdered milk.
However, as personal incomes increase and tastes change, as children become
accustomed to fresh milk through school programs and as the price of fresh
milk falls, demand is expected to increase.
Project Implementation
49.        The project would be managed by the Department of Agriculture
(DOA), assisted by the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS). The DOA,
through its relevant subunit which is presently charged with implementing the
CSDS, would be the primary implementing agency. In view of the present
weakness in the program's management, a new organizational structure is
proposed. A national Smallholder Coconut Development Project Coordinator,
under policy guidance from the Ministry of Agriculture, would be responsible
for coordinating and administering the two component activities of the
project. The Project Coordinator would be assisted on the technical side by
two project component leaders for crops and livestock, respectively, and by a
Project Implementation Secretariat with appropriate supporting staff, to be
responsible for routine project administration. Appointments to these key
posts and the establishment of the Secretariat would be conditions of effec-
tiveness (see Loan Agreement, Sections 3.03 and 5.01).
50.        DOA would be directly responsible for the development and operation
of the coconut seed garden and nurseries. During the project period a con-
sultant would provide advice on modern techniques for design and operation
of the coconut seed garden. Due to the long gestation period of coconuts,
consultants' services for the seed garden would be required beyond the
project period.  Satisfactory assurances to this effect have been obtained
(see Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). The DVS would continue to expand the
integrated smallholder dairy development program which it has successfully
operated since 1973. DVS would provide technical services including exten-
sion, training, animal husbandry, animal health, and artificial insemination.
Assurances were provided (see Loan Agreement, Section 3.05) that extension
services to be provided under the project would be coordinated with the
State's normal extension activities. In addition, the DVS would operate milk
collection centers to provide a ready outlet for milk produced by project
beneficiaries. By January 1981, midway through the construction period of the
milk collection centers, plans for locating and constructing the remaining
milk collection centers would be reviewed and submitted to the Bank for
comment (see Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). The Federal Agricultural Marketing
Authority, through its existing system of Coconut Collection and Processing
Centers (CCPCs), provides marketing services to coconut producers. The
technical assistance under the project for training farmers in modern techniques
of processing copra, cocoa, and coffee would be provided through the CCPCs.
51.      The present system of on-farm development grants provides fertilizer
for three years for coconut rehabilitation and, for four years, for coconut
replanting. In order to encourage the continued use of fertilizer, it is



- 15 -
essential that fertilizer grants be extended for an additional four years at
a progressively decreasing rate until such time that farmers begin receiving
a return from coconut development and are sufficiently convinced that an
increased level of inputs would produce a satisfactory return. The Government
had taken the necessary steps prior to negotiations to ensure that such
subsidies would be continued.
52.       The DOA and DVS would continue to regularize and strengthen their
monitoring and evaluation system to be developed under the National Exten-
sion Project, Loan 1493-MA, assisted by the consultants of the UNDP/IBRD State
Rural Development Project. In particular, this would include monitoring
of development subsidies and grants to assess their benefits and ensure that
they are properly used. In addition, the DVS would strengthen its monitoring
of the artificial insemination program and would submit to the Bank for comment
by December 1981 a study of the feasibility of converting cattle raising
centers into cattle breeding centers (see Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Project Costs and Financing
53.        Total project costs in 1978 dollars are estimated at $44.2'million
(inclusive of taxes and duties), of which $19.5 million would be foreign
exchange. The crop component accounts for about 65% and the integrated
dairy/beef component accounts for 35% of the total project cost. Physical
contingencies, set at 15% for civil works and 10% for vehicles and equipment,
are included and amount to 2% of project costs. Price contingencies, totaling
24% of project costs, are based on a projected annual inflation rate of 7-3/4%
between 1977 and mid-1980 and a 7% rate from mid-1980 through 1983.
54.       The proposed Bank loan of $19.5 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost of the project (44% of total costs), exclusive of taxes
and duties. The cost of the crop component ($19.4 million, excluding contin-
gencies) would be met 33% from the Bank loan and 67% by the Government. The
cost of the livestock component ($12.5 million, excluding contingencies) would
be met 58% from the Bank loan and 42% from Government sources, and technical
assistance 92% from the Bank loan and 8% from Government funds. All operational
expenditures, except chemicals, fertilizers and similar consumable farm devel-
opment supplies, would be financed by the Federal Government budget. The loan
amount includes $100,000 of retroactive financing for civil works associated
with the coconut seed garden for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1978.
These works were initiated in January 1978, to permit the first seeds produc-
tion to be included in the project period. The loan would finance 48 man-months
of consultants' services at an average cost of about $4,000 per man-month.
Cost Recovery
55.       The project would focus on the poorest of the coconut smallholders
and would not seek to recover on-farm development grants. This is consistent
with the 14-year history of Malaysian coconut replanting and rehabilitation
schemes and the Government's policy, which provides grants for food and cash
crop production to smallholders in poverty groups. This procedure would also
be consistent with Bank practice in view of the extreme poverty level of



- 16 -
project beneficiaries.  Coconut and the primary intercrops of cocoa and coffee
have a long maturation period and, generally, would not provide a net return
until year 7; new coconut plantings would not reach full production potential
for at least 12 years. Considering the poverty of the beneficiaries and the
long maturation period, coconut development would not take place without a
system of on-farm development grants. A coconut oil export levy was consi-
dered as a means of cost recovery. However, an evaluation of coconut oil
export data indicates a declining trend, which would reach or approach zero in
the 1980s.   Therefore, an export levy could generate only very minimal revenue.
56.        On-farm development grants per acre would be allocated on the basis
of $280 for replanting of coconut palms plus $90 for intercropping, and $125
for coconut rehabilitation plus $125 for intercropping. Farmers participating
in coconut rehabilitation and livestock production would be eligible for the
rehabilitation grants plus $100 per acre for pasture development, $230 for
livestock housing, water supply and feed storage, and up to 40% of the purchase
cost of two foundation animals; the remaining cost of the animals would be
provided on credit. The maximum grant available to any single beneficiary
would be $2,750.  These grants would be provided under the project only
during the development period.
Procurement
57.        The Project Coordinator would have overall responsibility for
procurement of goods and services, to be initiated by the two project component
leaders. The Project Coordinator would utilize the Project Implementation
Secretariat to administer, monitor, and control all aspects of procurement.
Procurement requirements would normally be scheduled and budgeted on an annual
basis in accordance with a plan coordinated and approved by the Project
Coordinator.
58.        Contracts for construction of civil works (including site develop-
ment) would be small (averaging less than $100,000), dispersed in time and
place, and could not.be grouped for simultaneous tendering. Thus, all civil
works contracts would be awarded following local procedures which are satisfac-
tory to the Bank. All other contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more would be carried out under international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Small, off-the-shelf items, such as farm
supplies and equipment, consumable laboratory and office supplies, up to an
aggregate of $1.25 million, could be procured through normal government proce-
dures, satisfactory to the Bank (see Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph B2).
59.        Livestock imports (about $3.7 million including contingencies),
for animal health reasons, would be purchased from countries approved by the
Malaysian Veterinary Department whose procedures are satisfactory to the
Bank (see Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph A3).
Disbursements
60.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
expenditures on all directly imported equipment, vehicles, office and laboratory
supplies, fertilizers, chemicals and animals; 100% of ex-factory cost of items



- 17 -
manufactured locally, and 90% of the total cost of imported but locally procured
items. Disbursements for all civil works (including site preparation and archi-
tectural services) would be at 40% of the total cost. For fellowships, reim-
bursement would be on the basis of 100% of foreign cost and 85% of the total
cost of technical assistance including architectural and engineering services.
It is expected that the proposed loan would be disbursed by March 31, 1984.
Accounts and Audits
61.        The Project Coordinator and DOA would maintain a joint project account
for the three participating agencies. The agencies involved in the project
are all subject to normal government control and audit procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank.
Justification and Benefits
62.       The project would provide the agricultural services and inputs for
the development of coconut, coconut intercropping and integrated dairy/beef
production to increase the average income of project beneficiaries from about
$800 to over $1,700 at full development. The absolute poverty threshold
in Malaysia is estimated by the Government to be $1,500 per average family.
Thus, the increase in income would bring the average coconut smallholder
family's income above the poverty line.
63.        The project would promote basic national development objectives by
improving the productivity and incomes of one of the poorest segments of
Malaysian society. The project's rate of return is estimated at 18%.
64.        At full development, the project would result in an increase of
foreign exchange availability of $35.0 million through the export of $7.9 mil-
lion of incremental cocoa production, the export and/or reduced import of
$10.8 million of coffee and coconut products, and the reduced import of
$16.7 million of dairy products.
Risks
65.        Implementation of the project would require a high level of organi-
zational effectiveness and coordination among the DOA, FAMA, and DVS, as well
as coordination between the federal and state agricultural service agencies
and public institutions in Malaysia. The risks of inadequate farmer accep-
tance of replanting and rehabilitation of coconuts have already been discussed
(see para. 47); it is anticipated that this would begin to pose a constraint
in the later years of the project, but could pose a more serious problem
after the completion of the proposed project. Other risks associated with
the project are insufficient farmers' response to the dairying component;
failure of farmers to use regularly and continuously higher levels of inputs;
changes in the world market for cocoa and coffee; and delays in implementa-
tion (including availability of qualified staff, funds, equipment, planting
materials, and dairy animals).



- 18 -
66.        The Ministry of Agriculture and the implementing agencies are well
aware of the organizational and administrative requirements of the project, and
are confident that adequate coordination and cooperation can be achieved to
overcome these potential constraints. The Bank believes this confidence to be
justified.
Environmental Effects
67.        The project would not adversely affect the environment as it would
only complete the on-farm portion of drainage projects already completed or
under implementation, and intensify water control. The lands now subject to
periodic flooding would be made more productive for agriculture. On-farm
drainage would also reduce the habitat for mosquitoes and other insect pests.
The project would result in a more intensive use of fertilizers and chemicals,
but the amount of run-off would not be significant.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.        The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
69.        Features of special interest in the Loan Agreement are described in
Section III, Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness are the
establishment of the Project Implementation Secretariat with adequate support-
ing staff, the appointment of a Project Coordinator and two project component
leaders.
70.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
August 21, 1978
Washington, D.C.



TABLE 3A                                      ANNEX  I
MA,AYSIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                    Page  1 of  4
LAND AREA (THOU KH2'                 -------------------------------------------------
MALAfSIA                            RFFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      329.7                                       MOST RECEN'
AGRIC.      60.4                       1960       1970   ESTIMA[r           PERU           PORTUGAL       MEXICO *2
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    380.0      440.0     930.0              50 .0       970.(       t60.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
____ __________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            8.1       io.a      13.0               13.4          9.1        50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       24.0       33.0      39.0                10.0        99.0       26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       152.0      1B5.0     215.0                45.0       211.0       52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         45.6       36.5      31.7                42.9        21.1       43.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          17.8        7.8       6.7                14.7        10.4        10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       62 0        40.8/a   33.2/a               6s.1/a      58.0       6B.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       51.7       56.7      59.4                58.0        66.1       62.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               .-.         ..       2.2/a               2.9         1.5         3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.t        2.9       2.7                 2.6          . i/a     3.4
URBAN                                 5.5        3.0        4.8                4.7         1.B         4.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          25.9       26.9       30.2               52.5        26.9        58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.a    44,71a   42.1/a                  45.0        28.5       46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53 41a b 52.17a   54.47a                 51 91       61.8       50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.8/a,b  3.27-a    3.57a                 3.1 -       9.7         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0o9/a b   0.9/a       0.9/a               o.9/a       0.6         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1 :42jaj   1.67Ta        7T 37W          1..57a1b    1.1/b       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..      222.2/a  597.0/a                 ..          ..       ss.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ,.        B-0/a   34.07a                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND),       2300.0/a  3600.0    4200.0                4300.0      3300 0    13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%.)        56.07 a    49.5      45.2                45:O/E      29:.2 &     45.0
i.NEMDl.Oer', (% OF LABOR FORCE)        2.0 7i,c  7.0         7.2                5.0/c       2.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       28.3         ..                 ..          ..       27.9
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      56.0         ..                 ..          ..       58.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEIOLDS              ..        3.5        ..                  ..                    3.4
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       11.2        *-                                       10 5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              .         ,.         ..                  ..         ..        37.1
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             6500.0Ld       ..   5600.0/a c           1920.0      1120.0/d   14BO.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        2600.0               1400 0              3200.0      1090. Dte   1620.0/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           290.0L4   270 0/a   2700.O#              470.0       170.0       960.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        109.0/a  112.0/b   115.0/a                98.0       118.0      114.0/b
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              53.77a    49.07b   a56.                  62.0        85.0       65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.81W    20.0tm    NH- S._               24.0        40.0       28.0/C
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..       4.4        4.0/a                          3.4         9.8
EDUCATION
AODJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      96.0       91.0       93.0               114.0        98.0      104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     19.0       34.0      41.0                36.0        57.0        22.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      13.0                12.0        13.0       12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      5.0       3.2        3.2                19.0/d      32.0       24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                48.o/a,b  55.0        60.0/d               *                     76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..       2.3/a       *-                            0.B/f       2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..       65.0/a                                       5         1.o/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                                       -
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ,        43.0/a                                    64.2       59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..       30.0/a                                      .-       28.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RE.^EIVERS (PER THOU POP)        37.0       41.0         ..              134.0       142.0       276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          13.0       27.o         ,                17.0       61.0         24.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          200.0      382.0      541.6/a            415.0       824.0       S67.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.8        4.1        3.67-i             3.7         5.1         3.2
--------- ------------------------------------------------ -----___-------------------------- -  ---------------- - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted  (e.g. GNP per capita and population), data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 beeteen 1969 and 1971,
and for Most Recent Ettimate between 1973 and 1977.
*    Meuico has set a rapid path of industrial eapansion and since Malaysia's industrial bean  iu relatively  snail and the country  haa  the capacity
and plan. to expand its industrial production rapidly in the future, Mexico has been selected ae the objective country.
MALAYSIA       1960     /a  peniular Malay.ua;             /b  1957;      /c   1962, registered applicants  for work;             /d  Federation of Malaye.
1970     ia   Peninsular Malayuis;          /b  1964-66;       /c  Piped water inside.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:          I8   Peninsular Malaysia;         lb  Ratio of population  under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                    /c  Govern-
nent Personnel only;         /d   1972.
PERU          1970      /a  Excluding  Indian  iungle population;            /b  Ratio of population  -nder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                    /c  Urban
only;      Id   Including evening schools.
PORTUGAL      1970      /a  Due to emigration popolation growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;                        /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65
and over to total labor force;           /c  Excluding anesployed;           /d  Registered, incloding physicians practicing  de-tistry;
/e   Including assistant nurses;    7f  Total, urban and rural.
MEXICO         1970     /a   Including assistant nurses;           /b  1969-71 average;          Ic   1964-66;      Id  Unside only.
R14, August 14. 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Loand  rea (thos k.2)                                                                              Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of practicirg
Total - Total s-rfac-  area vonprising land area a-d inland waters.                                  male sad fenale gradsate nusres, "trained" or "certified" nurses, a-d
Agri.. - Most recant estinace of agricultural  area used temporarily or perat -                      auxiliary personnel with training or epeienco.
neotly far crops, pastures, market & kitcbhn garde-s or to lie falloa.                           Population per houpital bed - Po.?lation divided by nesber of hospital beds
oa-iloble in public and private general and upecialieed hoepital and
GNP per capita  (US5) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                           rehabilitation centers; encludes nursing hones and establishments for
calculated by sane conversion method as World lask Atlas (1975-77 basis);                          custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1977 data.                                                                       Per capita supply of calsries (%. of requireCenes) - tompuced fram energy
equivalent of net fond supplies available in country per capita per day;
Popsatis and vital statistics                                                                        available supplies comprise d-mestic prod-ction, inports less esports, and
Populatia (mid-year million) - is of July first:  if not available. average                          changes in stock; net supplies exclude anioal feed, seeds, quantities used
of tcO  -nd-yeav easimates; 1960, 1970 and 1977 drat.                                              in fond processiog and iosses is disteibutio-; requirements were  ectliated
by FAO based us physiological seeds far normal activity and health con,id-
Population density - par square as - Mid-year population per square kilometer                        ering enwiroenental tenperature, body weights, age and sea distributions of
(100 bec-ares) of total area.                                                                     population, and allowing 107  for waste at hbusehold level.
Population density - per square ki  of agri. land - Computed as above for                          Per .apita supply of protein  (grace per dav) - Protein contest of per -apica
agriculitral land asly.                                                                            net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined an above; require-
,netn  for all countries established by USDA Ecoonoic Research Srvin
Vitul statistics                                                                                     provide for a  nimume ailowance of 60 grams of tor-l pro-ein per day, and
Crude birth  aret  per th ad, .aerage  - Annual live births per thousand of                          20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grans should be animal
old-year populotio-; tea-year aritfaetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                         protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein
and five-yepn  average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                                    and 23 grams of animal protein as an averoge for the world, proposed by FAO
Crsde death rate per thousand, average - Anesal deaths per thousand of oid-year                      in the Third World Food Survey.
population; tan-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                       Per capita protein supply frin  animal sad pulse - Proteic supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for cost recant estimate.                                              derived from  animals and pslses in grsac  per day.
Infant nortailtv rate (fthou) - an.ulI deaths of infants under one year of age                     Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thoousnd in age grocp 1-4
per thossand live births.                                                                          years, to children in this age group; suggested as on indicator of
Lifa expectancy at birth  (y) - Average number of years of life remainig at                          malnutrition.
hirth; -nsally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 far develop-
isg c-uctrios.                                                                                  Education
Grons reoduc-tio  rate - urage number of live daughters a wonan will bear                          Adiusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enro1llent of all ages es per-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                          centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usnally iive-yasr averages ending in 1960, 1910 and 1975                          but adijsted for diftnrent lengthu of primery education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                          universal education, enrollment may ascend 100-. sinnse soe pupils are below
Population growth rate (. ) - total - Ctonpound annual growth rates of aid-year                      or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                     Adiusted enrollment ratio - secondary nehooi - Ctpeted as sbove; secondary
Population growth rate (X) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                              education requires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
populotion; differont definitions of urban areas  may affect comparability of                      provides geunral, vocational or teacher training instructians for pupils
data anong countries.                                                                              of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally .ecluded.
Urban populatton  (U of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                     Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
defiuitions of urban areas nay affect comparability of data  monog o-untries.                      schooling; at secondary level, vocational instructinn may be partially or
-upletely excluded.
Sxn  trutur  (pecan)  -Children (0-14 years), w-rking-age (15-64 years)                    VocationalI enrolment(.fseoday   - Voca.tional institutions  i-clade
nd -tured (65 peers and oer) es percentages of aid-year ppulti-n                                               indusrls  L or other pr-gras which operate indepdentl  or
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                         departments of secondary institutions.
of ages  A through hi.                                                                          Adult litunranvratn (U/) - Literate adults  (able to rend and wrIte)aspr
iconmic  epedenc  rato -Ratio of Population under 15 and hA and over to                      centage of total adult  .poplation agnd 15 yasrand over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Family planning - acceptors (cumulative, then) - Camulative number of acceptors                   Housing
oi birth-coctrol deoices under .sepites of national facily planning program                     Persons per ream (urban) - Average number of parsons per roam in occupied
since incption                                                                                     convenciocal dwellings in urban areas ; dwellings seclude non-p-.-net4
Famil  pLanning -users (X of married samen) - Percentages of  arried wamen of                        structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing uge (15-44 years) vho use birth-control devices to all carried                    occupied dwellings withnut pioed water (%) - Onupied camoentlanal deellings
samno in sane age group.                                                                   in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
EMplam-en t                                                                                        sunes  to electricity (7, of al  delins   - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor forte (th-ssoad) - Econumically active persons, including armed                          electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in  rban and
forces and uneoployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                       rural areas.n
in various countries are not comparable.                                                        Rural dwelings conneced to electricity              - Coputed as above for rural
Labor force in agric1ture (     - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                    SIa.ligg        only.
husting and fishing) as percentage of total labor farce.
Unemployed (7. of labor farce) - Unemplayed are usually defined as persons who                    Consumption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, remained out                   Radio reciers  p              o)           types of receivers for cadge broadats
of a )ob, auld sealing work for a specified minimum period nut exceeding one                      to generl public per thond of population; esoludes unlicensed receivens
weak; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                        isncontries and in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of uoneplopyd and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, uample                      data for recent rears may nt be comparable uisu   ost countrie   bolished
survrys, compulsory unemployment insurance,                                                        licensing.
Passenger oars (per thou pop) - Passenger cars camprise motor cars seating
Incama discribuia-  - yarc-tage of private iscon   (both in cash and hind)                           bnta  eight parsons; escludenablacs  hearses and military
receiied by richest 5,T richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                       vehicles.
holds                                                                                           Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial. nommrciaI,
public and private electricity in kilatr hours   er a   Brpita, generay
Diutriati-n of land  -socrhipo- Pn-ean g- of loud ownd by wealthiest 107.                            basd on production data, without allowance for losses in grids but allo-
and co-ret 10%. of land owners.                                                                   ing for imp.es  end enparta of  iec-truitiy.
Newsprint (kg/yr par cap) - Per capita annoal conaumption in kilogrems
Health and Nutrition                                                                                esticated  rc  donetic production plus net imparts of newsprint.
Popuiatios per physician - Population divided bh  sumbe- of practicing
physicia.. qualified Cram a medical school at university level.



ANNI7X I
P:,e 3>t-   ' 1 ,  4 t
COU'NTRY lDATA - MALAYSIA
AREA                               POPULATION (1976)                          DENSITY
330 thousand sq km                            12.? million                          37 per sq km
POPULATION CHARACrERISTICS (1970-75 average)                              HEALTHf
Birth rate                   - 31.5                    Population per physician (1973)    - 4,040 /a
Deat: rate                    -  6.3                   Population per hospital bed (1973) -   270 /a
Population growth rate        -  2.7
EDUCATION (1972)                                                ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1970)
Adult literacy rate           - 60%                    All dwellings   - 43% /a
Primary schoul enrollment - 92% /a                     Rural dwellings - 30% Ia
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976:  US$860 /b
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976:                       ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTH (% in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln         %          1960-65       1965-70       1970-75       1976
GNP at Market Prices           10,561        100.0           6.9           5.6           7.0        11.3
Gross Domestic Investment   2,111             20.0           9.4           7.7           6.2         6.6
Gross National Saving           2,794         26.5          11.8           7.9          10.8        11.5
Current Account Balance           683          6.5
Exports of Goods, NFS           5,555         52.6           4.1           6.5           5.8        20.1
Imports of Goods, NFS           4,409        41.7            3.3          5.7           4.0         10.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUICTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                    Labor Force                      V.A. Per Worker
US$  fln          %              Mln.         %                     US$             Z
Agriculture        2,367           29.1              1.9       45.2                    1,246         59.7
Industry           2,224           27.3              0.6       14.3                   3,707         177.5
Services           3,553           43.6              1.4       33.3                   2,538         121.6
Unemployed             .              .              0.3        7.2
Total/Average 8,144            100.0             4.2       100.0                   2,088         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
11$ Mlin            % of GDP
1976         1976        1973-75
Current Receipts               7,032          25.6        24.9
Current Expenditures           6,490          23.6        22.9
Public Authorities Surplus    193              0.7         0.6
Current Surplus                  735           2.7          2.7
Development Expenditures    2,965             10.8         10.7
Foreign Borrewing (net)          371           1.3         2.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1969   1970    1971    1972   1973   1974         1975     1976
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money                   3,724  4,131  4,666  5,770  7,574  8,729  10,001   12,769
Bank Credit to Public Sector              909    833  1,045   1,186   1,375  1,746    2,148    3,036
Bank Credit to Private Sector           1,841   2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278   6,084    7,471
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Monev and Quasi-Mfonev as I of GDP   33.1   33.3   36.0   40.4   40.0   37.8    45.1    46.4
Consumer Price Index (1967 = 100)   99.4  101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8   144.0   147.7
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                     -0.4     1.9     1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4         4.5      2.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector              6.4   -8.4    25.5   13.5   15.9   27.0    14.6    41.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector             9.0   21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1    15.3    22.8
/a Peninsular lalaysia.
lb World Bank Atlas.
not applicable
NnTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975   1976                                 US$ Mln      %
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods, NFS        4,420  4,076  5,555
Imports of Goods, NFS        4,424  3,965  4,409         Rubber                   1,087       24.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -4    111  1,146            Tin                       577       13.2
Interest Payments (net)        -50    -57   -115          Timber                    677       15.4
Other Factor Payments (net) -199   -172   -291            Palm Oil                  441       10.0
Net Transfers                  -58   - 52    -57          Petroleum                 441       10.0
Balance on Current Account  -311   -170    683           All Other Commodities 1,160          26.6
Total             4,384      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment    373    229    130
Net MLT Borrowing /a                                      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Disbursements             182    589    390
Amortization               52      75    105                                          US$ Mln
Subtotal                  130    514    285
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   1,619
Other Capital (net)              -5  (-502  (-185         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt 
Other items n.e.i.                   (       (_           Total Outstanding & Disbursed   1,619
Increase in Reserves (-)    -187    -71   -913
Net Official Reserves                                     DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /b
(end year)                   1,615  1,695  2,504                                              %
Fuel and Related Materials                                Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed    4.3
Imports                      416    425    519         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt          ..
of which:  Petroleum       215      ..     ..        Total Outstanding & Disbursed    4.3
Exports                      345    402    744
of which:  Petroleum       281    355    688
IBRD/IDA LENDING (January 31, 1978)
(US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                              IBRD
Average rate during period:                               Outstanding & Disbursed            309.3
M$ per US$      US$ per M$         Undisbursed                        426.5
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   735.8
1971          3.05            0.33
1972          2.82            0.35
1973          2.44            0.41
1974          2.41            0.41
1975          2.40            0.42
1976          2.54            0.39
/a  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and
are not comparable with balance of payments estimates.
/b Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
.. not available



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF JULY 31, 1978)
Amount in
US$ million
Loan                                                                        (Less Cancellations)
Number   Year        Borrower                     Purpose                   Bank     Undisbursed
Seventeen loans fully disbursed                                             301.5
774     1971      Sabah Ports Authority   Ports                            16.1          0.4
810     1972      Malaysia                   Education (II)               15.5           6.9
880     1973      Malaysia                   Population                    5.0           3.6
885     1973      Malaysia                   Land Settlement              25.0           9.1
908     1973      Malaysia                   Water Supply (II)            13.5           2.1
931     1973      Malaysia                   Highway (II)                 19.5           5.5
967     1974      Malaysia                   Land Settlement              40.0          21.5
973     1974      Malaysia                   Agricultural Development   45.0            38.9
974     1974      Malaysia                   Education (III)              19.0          15.4
1031      1974     National Electricity
Board                   Power (VI)                   43.3          15.1
1044      1974     Malaysia                   Land Settlement               36.0         28.4
1115      1975     Malaysia                   Agricultural Research
and Extension              28.5         26.9
1178      1975     National Electricity
Board                   Power (VII)                  35.0          30.9
1213      1976     Malaysia                   Sewerage                      21.5         21.0
1214      1976     Malaysia                   Urban Transport (II)         26.0          23.5
1294      1976     Malaysia                   Rural Development             21.0         20.7
1329      1976     Malaysia                   Education (IV)                35.0         34.7
1376      1977     Malaysia                   Highway (III)                 35.0         33.1
1443     1977      National Electricity
Board                   Power (VIII)                 22.0          21.6
1444      1977     Malaysia                   Irrigation                   39.0          38.7
1493      1978     Malaysia                   National Extension /a         19.0         19.0
1522      1978     Malaysia                   Rural Development             26.0         26.0
1608      1978     Malaysia                   Population (II) Family
Health /a                  17.0         17.0
Total                                                        904.4/b
of which has been repaid                                    88.7
Total now outstanding                                        815.7
Amount sold                                40.2
of which has been repaid                 13.4               26.8
Total now held by Bank                                       788.9
Total undisbursed                                                         460.0
/a  Not yet effective.
/b  The following loans do not appear in the above table:  $13 million for the Second
Sabah Ports Project, approved on May 25, 1978, but not yet signed; $28 million
for FELDA VI Land Settlement Project, approved on June 6, 1978, and signed on
August 11, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF JULY 31,1978)
Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                 Business          Loan      Equity      Total
1964   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance          Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                  Financing            -        1.31        1.31
1966   Tasek Cement Ltd.            Cement             1.28       0.28        1.56
1968   Malayawata Steel Ltd.        Steel              2.45       1.01        3.46
1969   Malayawata Steel Ltd.        Steel                 -       0.23        0.23
1970   India-Malaysia
Textiles Ltd.                Textiles          1.25        0.25        1.50
1974   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance          Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                  Financing            -        0.63        0.63
Total gross commitment                         4.98        3.71        8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs            3.89        3.46        7.35
Total commitments now held by IFC              1.09        0.25        1.34
Total undisbursed                              _          _           _



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 774   Sabah Ports Project; US$16.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: August 24, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
Work has been satisfactorily completed on the new berths at Kota
Kinabalu and Sandakan. Slow progress in completing the access road to
Sandakan delayed full use of the latter facilities until mid-1977. The new
headquarters building has been occupied. Delay in mobilization, procurement
of materials and difficulties in retaining suitable consultant engineers,
compounded with the world-wide inflation, resulted in a cost overrun of about
50%. Settlement of an outstanding claim by the contractors will delay the
final account and the closing date of the loan has been extended for six
months to December 31, 1978.
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
Overall, the project is about 85% completed. Two of the three
contract sections constituting the new Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Expressway have
been completed and the third section which is nearing completion has been
partially taken over. Except for a two mile section at the northern end, the
Expressway was opened for traffic in October 1976. The improvement works to
the existing Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Road are substantially completed, while
the widening and improvement works of the Kuala Lumpur-Batang Kali Road,
which were started in November 1976, will take still one and a half to two
years to complete. Consulting services for various studies and detailed
engineering have been completed. Construction costs have escalated sharply
because of rapid inflation, and the total project cost is now estimated
to be US$46 million, compared to an appraisal estimate of US$37 million.
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency
of the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primarily
concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approaches to
residential development for low-income families. The main components are:
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
(a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and new radial roads; (b) trasnport policy measures including intro-
duction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-occupancy vehicles
and area road pricing; (c) new serviced plots for about 1,400 households and
150 businesses and improvement of infrastructure services for about 2,100
existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support traffic manage-
ment and transport planning, to prepare an urban development project for
Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs. Progress on
the transport components has been quite satisfactory although delays have been
experienced. Execution of the residential components has been less satisfac-
tory due to administrative and policy problems.
Loan No. 1376 Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main objective of the project is to improve the highway network
in the East Malaysian State of Sabah through the reconstruction and upgrading
of priority links and the development of the Public Work Department's
maintenance capacity.  A further objective is to protect road investments in
Peninsular Malaysia through a pilot road maintenance and pavement strengthen-
ing program in three states. The project also includes an urban study of Kota
Kinabalu in Sabah and a transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia.
Construction work on the East and West Coast Roads in Sabah started in and
upgrading program in Sabah has not yet been started due to a delay of
about one year in appointing consultants to assist PWD. While satisfactory
progress has been made in the preparatory work for the construction in
Peninsular Malaysia, the reorganization of maintenance sections in the three
pilot states is behind schedule due to staff shortages. The consulting
services for the studies are slightly behind schedule and will be completed
during the first half of 1978.
Loan No. 1031  Sixth Power Project; US$45.0 Million Loan of July 25, 1974;
Effective Date: October 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date:  January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The 275 kV transmission lines from Temengor to Papan and from Port
Dickson to Malacca financed under the Sixth Power Project have been completed.
The Seventh Power Project (the Prai Power Station extension, 3 x 120 MW) and
the Eighth Power Project (the Pasir Gudan Power Station, 2 x 120 MW) are
still in the early stages of construction; the progress is generally satis-
factory. Based on the Bank's recommendation, the Government has agreed to



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
apply fuel surcharges to commercial and industrial consumers since mid-1975
and to provide NEB with equity of about US$200 million during the period
FY77-81 on a year by year basis to bridge NEB's financial gap. Maximum
demand and energy sales for FY77 were 975-MW and 5,297 GWH respectively (16%
above FY76 levels). The co-financing arrangement for the Eighth Power
Project (commercial bank loan of US$30 million) was completed on October 4,
1977.
Loan No. 908   Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of the expansion of water supply facilities
to meet increasing demands in Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley area. The
first part of the project, comprising ordinary water works, was completed
in 1976, practically on schedule and within the cost estimates, and is
operational. The construction of the Langat Dam, the last and major work of
the project, is progressing satisfactorily and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1979. Completion will be two years behind schedule. Cost of the
dam is likely to be about 25% more than originally estimated, resulting in
an increase in the total project cost of about 15%. No difficulties are
foreseen in raising the additional funds required. The Selangor State Water
Department, which is responsible for the project, performs well in spite of
staffing problems. Its financial management still needs some strengthening.
The closing date has been extended for two years to June 30, 1980.
Loan 1213-MA   Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year master plan
for the sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur Metropolitan area. It
includes the extension of sewers (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral sewers)
and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000 in the
Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage Depart-
ment within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall, with its own accounting system and
finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training; and
the preparation of sewerage and pollution control measures for the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Bidding for two out of the three major contracts (sewers)
has also been completed. However, land acquisition and resettlement of
present occupants are creating serious problems which are delaying the project.
The establishment of a separate accounting system for the Sewerage Department
(Kuala Lumpur City Hall) is progressing well. Action to levy the sewerage
surcharge on water bills has been undertaken after long delays. Compliance
with covenants regarding long-term sewerage and urban planning in Selangor
State is lagging.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Loan No. 885   Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$25.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective
Date: June 22, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Planting operations have been completed but due to the severe
droughts in 1976 and 1977 a heavy supplying program especially on the rubber
schemes is being carried out, which is due to be completed by the end of
1978. About 23,500 acres of oil palm and 16,400 acres of rubber have been
planted. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory. Only scheme 15
is in production. So far, 1,467 houses have been constructed and 1,347
settlers have moved in. Schools and clinics are under construction but will
only be completed about one year after settler entry. Due to delays in
settler house construction, settler entry will be delayed by two to two and a
half years on various schemes. JKR capacity is a major constraint in speeding
up house construction. Coordination between JKR and FELDA has improved
considerably and FELDA expects that the backlog will not increase. Oil palm
mill construction on scheme 18 is on schedule and will be completed by April
1979. Water to schemes 16 to 18 is temporarily supplied from Jengka II due
to delays in intake construction on scheme 19. Due to excessive transfers in
middle management field staff, there is lack of leadership which affects
continuity of work.
Loan No. 967   Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Clearing and planting proper are satisfactorily on schedule, except
for phase III of the Ulu Dengar scheme due to late logging.  Planting and
maintenance standards are satisfactory. Oil palm production started on four
schemes in 1977. However, due to the severe droughts in 1976 and 1977, early
yields are disappointing. Attacks of elephants and wild boar resulted in a
loss of 25% of the total oil palm stand. FELDA has embarked on a massive
trenching program around the scheme boundaries and indications are that this
program may be effective. FELDA is now preparing for a gigantic supplying
program. So far, 828 houses have been constructed and 710 settlers have
moved in. Due to delays in settler house construction, delays of one to
three years in settler entry are to be expected on various schemes. Lack of
capacity in JKR.
Loan No. 973   Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project civil works are still substantially behind schedule, and
acceleration of work has proven difficult due to unusually severe rainfall
and flooding, refinements in design requiring construction of numerous
small water control structures, and the persistent problems of land acqui-
sition in a settled smallholder area. However, work is progressing on all
drainage basin contracts, at costs considerably below appraisal estimates.
The project has recently been expanded to include the construction of



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
drainage works and agricultural installations in the Phase II area of
Western Johore and construction of a network of secondary roads in the
original Phase I area.
Loan No. 1044  Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Clearing and planting operations on schemes 8 and 9 are delayed by
about 9 to 12 months due to late logging. Scheme 2 is in production.
Production on scheme 3 has been postponed due to labor shortages. Schemes 4
and 5 are expected to come in production by late 1978, but this may also
have to be postponed. Despite the labor shortage, maintenance standards are
satisfactory. Attacks by elephants and wild boar resulted in a loss of 12%
of the total oil palm stand. FELDA will start a trenching program whereafter
a supplying program will be initiated. Following the decision to reduce the
holding size from 14 to 10 acres, settlers of schemes 1 through 5 will be
housed in Town 22, while separate townships will be constructed for schemes 6
through 9. So far, 411 houses have been completed and 283 settlers moved in.
The relationship between DARA and FELDA has improved considerably following
the changes in DARA top management, and FELDA expects that the backlog in
settler entry will not increase. Efforts will be made to clear this backlog.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$28.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is now about two years behind the appraisal
estimates. A new Director General was appointed in mid-1977 and a new
Deputy Director for Administration was appointed in January 1978, but the
post of Deputy Director for Research is still vacant. Some progress has
been made on international recruitment of scientist and research program
reviewers. Six scientists are now on board and a total of 15 man-years has
been committed representing 15% of the total scheduled under the project.
An additional one man-year has been utilized for consultants to conduct nine
program reviews. Civil works and fellowships are the only components of the
project that have been proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The extension
component of the project is also about two years behind schedule and has had
similar management constraints with a change in Directors occurring in March
1978.  The next six months should be adequate to indicate whether the new
management will be able to get the project moving.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes the Lemal Irrigation component which will
provide drainage and flood protection to 30,000 gross ha of farmland and
intensive irrigation to 12,000 net ha of paddy; construction of 190 km of
rural roads throughout North Kelantan; 15 small irrigation schemes serving



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
1,300 ha of paddy; construction, rehabilitation and equipping of 25 Farmers
Development Centers (FDCs); and establishment of an effective agricultural
extension service for Kelantan. The project start-up period has seen rapid
implementation of the FDC component, good progress on the agricultural
extension component with planning, staffing and preparation of equipment
specifications proceeding on schedule, and a welcome degree of cooperation
between the Farmers Organization Authority and the Kelantan Department of
Agriculture in joint planning of agricultural service buildings and field
operations. Some delay in engineering of roads and irrigation works has
occurred due to delays in approval of staff, but this problem appears to have
been largely resolved.
Loan No. 1444 National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million Loan
of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25. 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan became effective on October 25, 1977 and the project works
have just been started.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of February 23, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is providing improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensified agricultural supporting ser-
vices; it is also improving the regional drainage systems.
Loan No. 810   Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project is financing the establishment of a curriculum develop-
ment center, science schools for the University of Penang, vocational schools,
and an educational television system. With the exception of parts of the
University and one vocational school, project institutions are practically
completed and operating. Earlier delays incurred in the implementation of
these two items necessitated a postponement of the closing date by one year.
The delays are reflected in slow disbursements, but the problem is currently
being addressed by the Bank and the Government. Project cost overruns (20%)
are expected to be financed by the Government.
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date:  June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government to develop technical training,
pre-service teacher training, and an East Malaysia educational television
system. Implementation has improved since a year ago when less than 50% of
project civil works had been tendered. Contracts have now been awarded for 11



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
out of 13 project institutions. Construction began in early 1976 and most of
the project institutes are scheduled for completion in late 1978. The Project
Unit is functioning satisfactorily, despite current problems with bid evaluation.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is designed to improve the quality of primary schooling
and to redress existing imbalances in the provision of primary education
by providing additional classrooms in poverty areas, facilities for teacher
training and one teacher training college in Sarawak. The project includes
three new Industrial Training Centers and expansion of two existing ones. It
includes also a study on community education in preparation of government
investment in nonformal education. Project implementation appears to be
satisfactory. Problems in the processing of disbursements have been
resolved. Shortage of staff in the Project Unit has been remedied by the
Government. Disbursements began a half year behind schedule during the
second half of FY78.
Loan No. 880   Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
After initial delays and difficulties, the project has picked up
momentum in recent months. Out of a total of 571 buildings, 232 have been
completed, another 80 are under construction, and a further 148 are at tender
stage. An IBM minicomputer has already been procured and put in operation.
Computerization of management information is under way. A review of the
total program (including the project) has been carried out by an external
team of experts. Program performance in 1977 was even better than in 1976
and the number of annual new acceptors was the highest since the inception of
the program. Project-assisted extension of integrated health and family
planning services recorded the highest increase in performance. Due to
delays in acquisition of sites, frequent changes in building locations and
architects' briefs, and inadequate coordination of civil works, the project
fell behind schedule by about 15 months. Despite recent intensification of
efforts, earlier delays in disbursement could not be made up. Up until
September 1976, only 10% of the loan was disbursed; by June 30, 1978, this
had increased to 28%. The NFPB is continuing with intensified monitoring of
the program of civil works to clear this backlog.



ANNEX III
MALAYSIA
COCONUT SMALLHOLDER'S DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 1 year
(b) Project prepared by Department of Agriculture
assisted by the FAO/CP
(c)  First presented to the Bank:             August 1977
(d)  Appraised:                               October 1977
(e)  Completion of negotiations:              June 1978
(f)  Planned loan effectiveness:              October 1978
Section II - Special Implementation Actions Required of the Bank
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) adequate holding capacity for imported animals (para. 46);
(b) selection criteria for smallholders (para. 47);
(c) appointment of project coordinator, two project component leaders
and establishment of project secretariat as conditions of effec-
tiveness (para. 48);
(d) coordination of extension services under project with normal State
extension activities (para. 49);
(e) progress review of milk collection centers (para. 49);
(f) extension of employment of seed garden specialists (para. 49);
(g) study of feasibility of converting cattle raising centers to cattle
breeding centers (para. 51);
(h) livestock procurement from approved sources, other procurement
arrangements (paras. 57 and 58).



IBRD 13277
i02-                                                           104-  JANUARY 1978
MALAYSIA
Coconut Smaliholder Development Project
COCONUT GROWING AREAS & DRAINAGE SCHEME
, !Saw r ~~~~T H Al  F. A, N D   
i8~T             tLANM  Da  Coconut growing areas
P(PL/SJ /5t      * e            r             -.                                              _      DID. drainage areas
Rivers
Roads
Alor Setar                                                                        ----'-':  ----.-- Railways
KED AH/ H                                                                    --State boundaries
. \i   13\  *   2                   -  -  - International boundaries
0     20   40   60   80   100
'S)  I e    J                                        i,                                             Ki I.-  Kiloeter,
i1 \utterwc,h                                              't4                                 0        20       40       60
u J tl ) v- z \ < M;ies
PENANGi    r   ;T;   f   t   >   f  Kuolo Treng3
Ji                           F P   R   A  I A N  T
%   9   )      r                  /           '  A ~~~~~~~~T R E N G G A Al U                       |
aiping                                                -
Port                              &
i' Jf Np~oh.  
il~~~~~~~ LS            \ S      ,                
. ,         n1      L lIpa.,h                                   -       (                                 1-, 
Lumu\                      t             <  Kuala Lipis                  r'-
Lumut , ))z1
.4.                                           *-
\<'t  A    /I  PA       Kv          A          uontan
6           v~~~ANGOR                                                         ,'   
Tt$AILAtO  'UALA LUMPU
Port Ki              ,,
por
X                                   *o   .......... Na4.r CA N  erJ 
fS   ftS*K flt6e>~d~WolE Pt6HtLPIE                                            AR &>                lu/r   Sng
_       =                                    o S>t Doksotre                         I                                    XhoreBharu
NS~ ~ ~~~-    fopK/SINGAPOPRE
S   . O    N&S I , v u -   A                /                               A                          \



