 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14762

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/11/2015

              Country: Tunisia
            Project ID: P075809                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Higher Education             Project Costs (US$M):                      95.2                 55.2
                        Reform Support Ii
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       76.0                 47.9
      Sector Board:       Education                  Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                           06/15/2006
                                                                Closing Date:           11/30/2011     06/15/2014
         Sector(s):       Tertiary education (55%); Central government administration (45%)
         Theme(s):        Education for the knowledge economy (33%); Law reform (17%); Decentralization (17%);
                          Administrative and civil service reform (17%); Improving labor markets (16%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Pia Schneider             Judyth L. Twigg        Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Loan Agreement (2006), the Project Development Objective (PDO) was: "to assist the Borrower
    in the implementation of its Program aiming at developing its higher education system by increasing the capacity
    in expanding access to said system, strengthening the efficiency and institutional performance of said system
    and improving the quality of higher education."

    The PDO as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (2006) is slightly different: "to support the implementation
    of the Government’s Program for Development of Higher Education and Quality Support (PDESAQ) program to
    develop the higher education system by increasing the capacity and efficiency in expanding access and
    improving the quality of education and institutional performance."

    This Review is based on the development objectives as stated in the Loan Agreement.

    The PDO was not revised during project restructuring. Key associated outcome targets included activities
    supported by the project that were adjusted during both restructurings. This Review will therefore not apply a split
    rating, as outcome targets were related to project inputs and outputs rather than actual outcomes.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

    The project financed the following activities. The appraised amounts exclude contingencies. An IBRD front-end
    fee is not included. During the two restructurings, the IBRD Loan amount was adjusted under each component.
   1. Expand access to the public higher education system (Appraisal: US$ 76.3 million total, of which Bank
   financing US$ 62.0 million. Revised Bank (2011): US$ 42.6 million. Revised Bank (2013): US$ 38.1 million.
   Actual Bank: US$ 29.0 million). This component was to finance university infrastructure to accommodate a
   growing number of students. This included construction and equipment for eight specialized higher education
   institutions, as well as one university restaurant and one student residence. It also was to finance technical
   assistance to reinforce the capacity of the Department of Civil Works and Equipment (DBE) and the Department
   of University Reform (DGRU) to prepare impact studies, carry out studies for civil works, and implement
   procurement.

   2: Modernize the higher education system by strengthening quality assurance mechanisms , institutional
   autonomy and financial sustainability (Appraisal: US$ 4.4 million total, of which Bank financing US $ 4.4 million.
   Revised Bank (2011): US$ 11.7 million. Revised Bank (2013): US$ 5.1 million. Actual Bank: US$ 3.2 million).
   This component was to build capacity for the higher education system by: (i) assisting the National Evaluation
   Committee (NEC) in developing an effective quality assurance system and developing a National Authority for
   Evaluation and Quality Promotion (ZNEPQ); (ii) revising the higher education curricula to match international
   norms and become more relevant to labor market needs; and (iii) developing the technical and managerial
   capacity of the Ministry of Higher Education (MoHE) to lead reforms needed to move towards greater autonomy
   for universities. It was to finance related technical assistance, study tours, training activities, equipment, and
   materials for five sub-components: 1. Developing and strengthening the higher education NEC into an effective
   quality assurance system; 2. Revising higher education curricula to match international norms and become more
   relevant to labor market needs; 3. Strengthening governance of higher education reform; 4. Strengthening the
   technical and management capacity of higher education institutions; and 5. Strengthening management capacity
   of MoHE units.

   3. Grants to improve academic quality and institutional performance (Appraisal: US$ 14.3 million total, of which
   Bank financing US$ 9.6 million. Revised Bank (2011): US$ 21.7 million. Revised Bank (2013): US$ 17.0 million.
   Actual Bank: US$ 15.5 million). This component was to finance (i) competitive block grants to universities for
   quality improvement in teaching and learning; and (ii) management capacity grants to universities to finance
   technical assistance, training, management material, information systems and IT infrastructure; financial
   management; procurement; human resource management; and non-tuition revenue generation.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost, Financing and Borrower Contribution :
     Total project cost was lower than the appraised amount due to loan cancellation and lower borrower
        contributions.
     This Investment Loan Project was financed by an IBRD Loan of EUR 61.3 million (US$ 76 million), of which
        EUR 38.16 million (US$ 47.9 million) was disbursed (63%). The undisbursed amount of EUR 23.14 million
        was cancelled.
     Actual borrower contribution was US$ 7.27 million, reflecting 38% of the original amount of US$ 19.2 million.

   Dates: The project was amended twice.
     November 2011: To reduce civil works from 8 to 4 higher education institutions and reallocate funds from
       civil works (component 1) to quality improvements (components 2 and 3) in response to higher construction
       costs. To expand existing activities under five sub-components (component 2). To extend closing date by
       two years to November 30, 2013. The PDO indicators and target values were changed to adjust for the
       reduction from 8 to 4 higher education institutions. Although enrollment had been declining since 2009, this
       was not identified as a reason for restructuring.
     December 2013: To cancel EUR 15 million of original loan amount as a result of reduced civil works,
       equipment, and consultant services. The closing date was extended by another 6.5 months to June 15,
       2014. PDO indicators and targets were adjusted, and the PDO indicator on increased university autonomy
       was dropped.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Modest
   The objective of developing higher education by increasing capacity to strengthen efficiency and institutional
   performance, and improve quality of higher education was relevant at project appraisal and remained relevant at
   closing. The objective was substantially relevant with the Government priority to increase enrollment in higher
   education to address equity issues in underserved areas. The objective is aligned with the goals of the
   government's higher education reform agenda for 2006-14 “Programme de Développement de l’Enseignement
   Supérieur et d’Appui à la Qualité” (PDESAQ), which sought to improve access, cost-efficiency, and relevance,
   and to enhance the employability of graduates as well as the overall financial sustainability of the system.

   The objective was partly aligned with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) FY05-08, which aimed to
   enhance the skills and employability of graduates towards the realization of a knowledge economy through
   improving the quality, relevance, and financial sustainability of the education sector. The objective contributes to
   the Bank's Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for FY13-14, which focused on structural reforms and employment. The
   objectives of improved quality, efficiency and institutional performance remained relevant in the local context. At
   closing the focus on developing higher education was still relevant.

   The Bank team further clarified that the objective of improved quality of higher education would provide students
   with skills relevant to the labor market, which is substantially relevant in the context of enhanced employability of
   graduates as highlighted in PDESAQ. By 2005 unemployment was 12 percent among individuals with tertiary
   education. It was expected to increase even further among the growing number of University graduates (60,900
   new graduates in 2006). On average, 46 percent of higher education graduates took at least 18 months to find
   formal employment, raising concerns about the misalignment between skills learned and those demanded by the
   economy. In 2012, most unemployed were low-skilled (67 percent of all unemployed), but as a group, university
   graduates have the highest unemployment rate (33 percent in 2012). University graduates are significantly less
   likely to be neither in employment nor in education than those with less education. Also research on the returns to
   education indicates that obtaining a tertiary education in Tunisia is worth the investment (OECD 2015).

   However, the rationale for capacity expansion was questionable, and this project objective became less relevant
   over time in a changing context. The demographic transition has led to fewer students, and the number of
   distance learning courses has increased. As a result, less capacity was actually needed in higher education.
   Also, the project objectives of improved quality and efficiency proved to be too ambitious within the project
   timeframe.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial
   The project design was relevant to the country context, where the Government has committed to higher
   education reform. The first component involving construction work was logically linked to the objective of
   expanding access, capacity, and quality. However, new construction was less relevant in a context of decreasing
   enrollment, as it would lead to idle capacity and ultimately had to be restructured. The project design supported
   higher education in humanities and technical education programs; however, graduates of these faculties report
   the highest unemployment rates compared with other areas.

   The project design was only later informed by a study on the employability of graduates and the skill needs of
   employers. The Bank team further informed that the project design included interventions to restructure the
   curriculum to adapt to international standards (LMD), and to improve the quality and relevance of academic
   programs through a competitive grant scheme (“PAQ”)) which included programs jointly developed by higher
   education institutions and employers. Based on the findings of a study on the employability of graduates
   commissioned by the Ministry in 2010, the revised design included a set of activities to train trainers in various
   fields relevant to the labor market such as foreign languages, IT, project management, etc. (training of certified
   trainers (PRIFF) program) and a certification program to bring training to international standards (PRICE).

   Activities to strengthen quality assurance, institutional autonomy, and financial sustainability complemented each
   other and were logically and plausibly linked to the related project objectives. The third component with
   competitive grants was a new approach for Tunisia to pilot innovation. These grants were to complement efforts
   to increase university autonomy, including resource management, to meet evolving needs and improve quality of
   education.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   During its extension time from 2011 until 2014, the project was implemented during extraordinary times including
   the 2011 revolution and four years of political instability before the first democratic presidential elections in 2015.

   The project had four specific objectives:

   Objective 1: Increasing the capacity in expanding access to higher education system - Modest
Outputs
 Construction was completed for 4 institutes in underserved and poor regions, meeting the revised target of 4
institutes. The original target was 8 institutes.
       1. Institut Supérieur des Arts et Métiers de Gabes,
       2. Foyer Universitaire de Tatouine and Restaurant Universitaire de Tataouine,
       3. Institut Supérieur des Arts et Métiers de Tataouine and Institut Supérieur des Etudes Technologiques
            de Tataouine,
       4. Institut Supérieur des Études Appliquée en Humanités de Zaghouan.
 Furniture and equipment was provided to 11 higher education institutes and faculties.
 Science and engineering equipment was provided to 14 higher education institutes and faculties. The
facilities constructed are better equipped with up-to-date teaching and learning materials and laboratory facilities
than are most existing higher education institutions. This was a key aspect of practice-related learning and a
measure to increase students’ preparation and competitiveness.

Outcomes
 6,500 new places were created in 4 of the newly constructed higher education institutions (one each in
Gabes and Zaghouan, and two in Tataouine), meeting the revised target. (The original target was 13,300 new
education places and 8 higher education institutions). However, these numbers reflect project outputs and not
outcomes.
 Through this new construction, the project contributed to idle capacity. Only 24% of the new capacity was
used in the four higher education institutions supported by the project, as enrollment declined to 1,568 in 2014.
The Bank further explained that enrollments in the new institutions supported under the project are below
projected enrollments, and enrollments declined in the 2013/14 academic year. This decline was in line with a
national trend, as enrollment in higher education decreased nationwide from 326,200 in 2007 to 305,783 in 2014.
 The Borrower ICR (p. 5) states that three institutions were not fully operational when the ICR was written,
The Bank expects enrollment to increase once the institutions are fully equipped and operational.


Objective 2: Strengthening the efficiency of higher education system - Modest

Outputs
 The number of institutions with contract-based budgeting increased from 0 to 13 in 2014, meeting the target.
But this form of budgeting has not been implemented.

Outcomes
 No information is provided on the efficiency impact of contract-based budgeting to higher education in the
ICR. The Bank team shared a recent study (Westerheijden 2015) which finds that more than 100 contracts were
signed between the Ministry and 13 universities and 1 ISET in 2010. However, implementation came to a
standstill because of the revolution in January 2011. The Ministry is considering reviving this funding mechanism
under the new Bank education project currently under preparation.
 Only 24% of access capacity built under the project is being used.

Objective 3: Strengthening institutional performance of higher education system - Substantial

Outputs
 A new higher education law was passed in 2008, granting greater autonomy to institutions of higher
education. This indicator was dropped during the 2013 restructuring as the legal change was already in place
without the project (ICR p. 10).
 The project financed an extensive training program for managers and staff involved in the decentralized
institutions.

Outcomes
 The percentage of universities with Licence/Maitrise/Doctorat (LMD system) increased from 20% in 2006 to
100% in 2014, meeting the target.
 The average duration for attainment of a bachelors (licence fondamentale) degree declined from 4.2 years
when the new degree was introduced in 2010 to 3.9 in 2012. For the masters (maîtrise) degree, average duration
of studies declined from a total (including bachelors-level studies) of 7.4 years in 2006 to 5.3 years in 2009, then
    rose again to 6.4 years in 2011 and 2012. For short-cycle (cycle court) programs, average duration declined from
    3.9 years in 2006 to 3.3 years in 2011 and 2012. Average duration of studies for science and technology (ISET,
    licence appliquée) initially declined, then rose, before returning in 2011 and 2012 to the level of 2006. Unit-cost
    data to translate these changes into budget savings were not available (ICR p. 41).
     The Bank team further explained that the Introduction of the LMD degree structure contributed to budget
    savings by lowering the average unit cost of university graduates at the bachelors and master’s degree levels
    (ICR p. 23). However, no cost and budget information is provided.


    Objective 4: Improving the quality of higher education - Modest

    Outputs
     The project funded laboratory equipment and teacher training materials which led to a significant upgrading
    of the teaching and learning environment in these institutions.
     A new Law establishing the Agency for Evaluation, Quality and Accreditation was passed in February 2008.
    A Quality Promotion Fund (PAQ) is fully operational, meeting the target. Institutions improved their grant
    submissions and succeeded in receiving grants under the project. Three rounds of competitive block grants have
    been implemented, surpassing the target of one. Overall, 93 grants were awarded, surpassing the target of 50.
    IEG's Country Evaluation (2014) found that the program includes a good monitoring system, implemented by the
    Ministry of Higher Education, to assess the use of the grants. Grant funds were earmarked for specific activities
    and used to purchase equipment and practical learning facilities for students.
     Quality Units were created within universities, but IEG's Country Evaluation (2014) found that they are not
    sufficiently involved in quality management.

    Outcomes
     A Director General for the Agency for Evaluation, Quality and Accreditation and key staff have been
    appointed in 2014. However, the priorities for the Agency still need to be clarified. The ICR (p. viii) questions
    whether the Agency is likely to achieve its mission.
     The ICR provides no evidence that quality of higher education has improved as a result of the new Law and
    Authority, and of the competitive block grants. IEG's Country Evaluation (2014) found that most of the relevant
    decrees were not implemented. The Bank team further clarified, that improvement in quality is a much longer
    goal for which the project would not have been able to show evidence.
     According to a draft evaluation conducted in 2015 by European quality assurance experts, there are
    improvements in pedagogical practices in classrooms and teachers’ competencies thanks to the purchase of
    modern equipment and materials for lab work, especially for faculties of science and engineering schools. The
    2015 evaluation also found the development of an entrepreneurial culture and the creation of micro enterprises in
    training and certification. The report further mentions that “the development of certification programs in many
    places contributed to reinforcing the employability of graduates and encouraged some pedagogical teams to
    reform some curricula”.

5. Efficiency:

    Modest

    No information is provided on the Net Present Value and discount rate. Nonetheless, at appraisal an 11% rate of
    return for higher education was estimated based on assumptions that: (i) youth unemployment rates among
    graduates would decrease from an estimated 10% in 2004 to 5% in 2010; (ii) real salaries would increase by 3%
    during the first 15 years for graduates; (iii) on-time graduation would increase from 77% to 85%; and (iv) unit
    costs of TND 2,100 for higher education. In addition, sector level benefits were anticipated in form of (i) efficiency
    gains from organizational reforms and rationalization of transfer payments, and (ii) diversification of financing and
    better cost recovery. However, these estimates did not materialize at closure.

    The ICR does not include an economic analysis, but it reports on some of the above assumptions and expected
    benefits. The ICR finds that the number of graduates has declined rather than increased as assumed.
    Unemployment rates for graduates increased to 32% in 2012. While the average duration for attainment of a
    Bachelors degree declined from 4.2 years in 2010 to 3.9 years in 2012, average duration to earn Masters
    degrees increased. Cost effectiveness was not presented for construction work and for the grants paid to the
    different institutions.

    The project was extended by two and a half years to implement activities. Several activities had to be cancelled
   due to challenges in management and delays in procurement. The project contributed to unused capacity in four
   higher education institutions.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                              Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of the project objective is rated Modest and that of design Substantial. The first, second and fourth
   objectives (capacity expansion, efficiency and quality of higher education) are rated Modest. The third objective
   (institutional performance) is rated Substantial. Efficiency is rated Modest. These shortcomings in the project
   objectives, design, the operation's achievement of its objectives, and in efficiency lead to a Moderately
   Unsatisfactory Outcome rating.
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The new Government is highly committed to the higher education reforms supported under the project, as
   evidenced by the draft higher education strategy which was recently submitted to the Bank for review. There has
   been no attempt at policy reversal with regards to quality and efficiency improvements and institutional
   performance. The Bank and other international partners continue to support the Government in implementing
   these reforms. Changes in demographic trends and enrollment have been recognized, which will support the
   efficient allocation of funds in higher education. The ICR does not comment on financial sustainability issues,
   operational costs, and fiscal implications for higher education and whether these would affect outcome risks. In
   2012, the government spent a declining share (13%) of its overall budget on education (compared to 21.6% in
   2006). Slow progress in implementing institutional reforms to increase autonomy, inefficiency in financing, and
   concerns about the sustainability of financing to higher education pose a significant risk to the development
   outcomes supported under the project. The Bank team continues to support the government on sustainability
   constraints through the policy dialogue and future lending, by specifically focusing on reforms to higher education
   financing, autonomy, and the involvement of private sector employers in training to improve the employability of
   graduates.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank team used a participatory approach to develop the project in close collaboration with the
   Government and local institutions. It drew lessons from previous operations, and it incorporated
   recommendations made by the Quality Enhancement Review (QER) in the project design. The Bank took a
   long time to prepare the project (more than four years from Concept Review to Approval). Despite this long
   time period, the team did not adequately consider information and trends in demographics, shrinking school
   cohorts, and labor markets to inform the project design, which later caused the project to be restructured. An
   analysis on demographic projections and uncertainties in the labor market could have better informed the
   view of the Ministry of Finance in its discussion with the Ministry of Higher Education (see Section 9.a). There
   were weaknesses in the M&E framework (see Section 10).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
   Supervision missions took place regularly. Bank supervision performance was uneven. There were three
   project team leaders. The second team leader was based in Marseille and covered the project for longer than
   the other team leaders, but could not build a mutual trust relationship with the government (ICR p. 14). The
   project was restructured twice towards the end. However, the Bank missed several opportunities despite the
   fact that they were amply staffed during supervision (up to 8 specialists plus management), indicating
   inefficiencies. Supervision was not realistic. Only 5% of the Bank Loan had been disbursed at mid-term, but
   the supervision team reported that the project was on track to achieve its objectives and rated progress as
   Moderately Satisfactory. Despite slow progress, the first restructuring was only processed five years into the
   project. The Bank took nine months to respond to the Government's request for restructuring, which it
   received in March 2011. The Bank did not recognize demographic changes and declining enrollment in the
   2011 restructuring, and it is thus not clear how the findings from the Government's task force on the
   employability of graduates were used in the project restructuring. Although capacity expansion became
   obsolete as an objective, the project objective was not updated. Supervision also missed an opportunity to
   streamline the M&E framework until the 2013 restructuring, which was relatively late (six months before
   closure). Bank supervision intensified during the last 18 months and became proactive. Beginning in May
   2013, the Bank adequately downgraded progress towards objectives to Moderately Unsatisfactory.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Project preparation was slowed down by disagreement within the Government on the project's focus. High
   turnover at the Ministry of Higher Education (MES) led to processing delays and slowed down
   implementation. There were 6 Ministers and 6 consecutive chairmen for the Steering Committee during the
   implementation phase. During the mid-term review, the Government was proactive. It recognized the
   demographic change and accordingly proposed cancellation of construction of the Music Institute in Sfax and
   Sports Institute in Sousse, and later also the Institutes of Science in Kasserine and Manouba that were to be
   supported under the first component. In 2009, in response to high youth unemployment, the Government
   mandated a task force to conduct a study on the employability of graduates to inform project restructuring.
   The Bank team further informed that the 2009 restructuring decision was delayed as the Government waited
   for results from the employability study to inform the restructuring. In addition, various changes that occurred
   at the levels of MES and project coordination unit further delayed restructuring.

   The 2010/11 Revolution and resulting change in Government positively affected project implementation. The
   new Government was committed to reforms supported under the project and in March 2011 submitted an
   official request for the first project restructuring. An experienced project coordinator was appointed, and a new
   study on employability of graduates was ordered to better calibrate project activities. Tightened control of
   procurement following the Revolution and insufficient procurement review capacity at the Commission de
   Marche substantially slowed down procurement and led to the cancellation of procurement packages and
   project funds.


  Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project coordination unit at the Ministry of Higher Education was the project implementing agency.
   Several procurement tasks were delegated to the Central Coordination Unit. Weak implementing agency
   performance led to delays in procurement and implementation. There were four consecutive project
   coordinators. The situation only improved under the new Government. In March 2011 the team leader who
   had successfully managed the third component became the PCU director. This change positively affected
   implementation performance. Over the last years of the project, the PCU was the driving force that enabled
   the project to progress despite significant challenges e.g. with regard to the State Procurement Commission.
    Monitoring and evaluation was weak (see Section 10).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The project's M&E design was weak. Outcome indicators assessed activities that were, in fact, inputs (number of
   civil works or number of competitive block grants). No true outcome indicators were identified for three of the four
   PDOs: efficiency, quality, and institutional performance. Several indicators were not realistic, as the required data
   was not regularly collected. No financing was put in place to conduct planned surveys. Baseline data was
   missing. The Borrower's ICR highlights that because of the weak M&E design, the actual results that have been
   achieved under the project cannot be identified (ICR p. 53).

b. M&E Implementation:

   Project M&E was inadequate during implementation. Several indicators were impossible to monitor and became
   obsolete. The M&E design was updated during the restructurings to delete indicators that measured activities not
   supported under the project, and to adjust the M&E design to the changed project design. However,
   observatories were not created to collect data. Supervision missions relied on published data from other sources.
   Separate evaluations were carried out for grants awarded under the project; however, the ICR does not report
   their findings or how grants were used in the project. The Comite Nationale d"Evaluation conducted an evaluation
   of 101 higher education and research institutions, but the ICR does not report on these findings.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The M&E approach was mechanical, as data was not used to adjust the program. For example, supervision
   reports showed declining enrollment as of 2009, but the 2011 restructuring does not mention declining enrollment
   as a reason to halve capacity expansion supported by the project. There is no evidence that the project
   contributed to M&E capacity that is now being used in policy making about higher education.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project's environmental status was rated as Category B. Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) was the only
   safeguard policy triggered. Environmental impact studies were carried out at the planned construction sites. No
   land acquisition was required. The ICR contains no statement on compliance with OP 4.01. The project team
   later confirmed that environmental adherence was assessed during the mid-term review as in compliance with
   Bank rules.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management : The ICR does not comment on financial management performance and the quality of
   audit reports. The project team later confirmed that financial management was sometimes slow but in line with
   Bank rules, and audits were conducted. No information is provided on the audits' outcomes.

   Procurement was transparent and conformed with rules. Audits were conducted by the "Control General des
   Finances." The Bank provided procurement training sessions to address procurement-related issues.
   Decentralized procurement to the individual higher education institutions was considered; however, because of
   insufficient procurement capacity in these institutions, the Coordination Unit remained in charge of procurement.
    Since the Revolution, stricter procurement rules have been implemented by the government which slowed down
    the procurement process.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately          Shortcomings in the project objectives,
                               Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory      design, the operation's achievement of
                                                                                its objectives, and in efficiency lead to a
                                                                                Moderately Unsatisfactory Outcome
                                                                                rating.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Negligible to Low   Risk to development outcome is
                     Outcome:                                                   negligible as project efficacy is rated
                                                                                modest.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The most important lessons drawn from the ICR and this ICR Review are:

    Analysis on demographic projections should inform expansion of education capacity . In this case, project
    investment in capacity expansion - without taking into account shrinking cohorts - led to idle capacity.

    Monitoring and evaluation is only useful if used in decision making . The project tracked declining enrollment
    numbers but took a long time to react and reduce the amount of construction work.

    In countries with high youth unemployment , the Bank would need to take a comprehensive approach , from
    the demand and supply side . This project had a supply-side focus and did not adequately take into account the
    skills needs requested by the labor market. Although higher education graduates have the highest
    unemployment rate in Tunisia, the project did not include any interventions to support school-to-work transition
    or track the employment status of graduates.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:
    The ICR is satisfactory in its presentation of evidence, but marginally so. The ICR is often repetitive. The
    analysis and discussion could at times be more critical. There is no clear statement of compliance with safeguard
    policies and financial management. The ICR does not assess the use and effect of the grant amounts disbursed
    under the project. The weak M&E design of the project limited the evidence presented in the ICR. The Bank team
    provided additional information that has been incorporated in this ICR Review.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
